26-01-2022||India||Iran foreign minister Abdollahian to visit India next week||NEW DELHI: Iranian foreign minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian is set to visit India next week for discussions that are expected to focus on the situation in West Asia and Afghanistan and regional connectivity, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. A planned trip to India by Abdollahian last November was put off for various reasons and this will be his first visit to India since he assumed office last year. He is expected to hold talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar on January 31 before travelling to Sri Lanka. Ahead of the visit, Abdollahian greeted Jaishankar and the people of India on India’s Republic Day and said in a tweet that Iran will “continue to work towards further expansion of all-out relations, bilaterally, regionally and at international fora”. Jaishankar responded by tweeting that he was looking forward to his Iranian counterpart’s visit. Two key issues that are expected to figure in Abdollahian’s interactions in New Delhi are the situation in Afghanistan, especially the urgent need for humanitarian assistance, and measures to boost the development and use of Iran’s Chabahar port, the people cited above said. The Indian side has been considering the option of using Chabahar to ship wheat and other essential items to Afghanistan in light of Pakistan’s reluctance to allow the use of land routes passing through its territory for transporting humanitarian aid. Though India proposed using the Wagah land border crossing to send 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan in October last year, shipments via this route are yet to start. During a phone conversation with Jaishankar on January 8, Abdollahian said Iran will cooperate with India in shipping humanitarian aid, including wheat and medicines, to Afghanistan, and also stressed the need for an inclusive government in Kabul. Jaishankar also said in a tweet that he and Abdollahian had discussed the difficulties the challenges in Afghanistan and “prospects of Chabahar”. Iran’s top national security official participated in the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan hosted by India last November, reflecting the growing convergence between the two countries on the situation in Afghanistan. Abdollahian is also expected to discuss the Iranian nuclear issue while in New Delhi. Iran and the US have held indirect talks on the issue for almost two months amid hopes of a breakthrough despite persisting differences. The US and European allies said last week there were just weeks to salvage the 2015 Iran nuclear deal or the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Iran is also engaged in direct talks on the nuclear issue with the “P4+1”, or Germany and permanent UN Security Council members France, China, the UK and Russia. India has consistently backed a negotiated settlement of the issue. India has been pressed to strike a balance between Iran and other key players in West Asia such as the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, especially in the wake of drone and missile attacks by Yemen’s Houthi rebels on Abu Dhabi. Two Indians were killed in a recent attack, which Jaishankar condemned as a terrorist incident. Seven Indian crew members of a merchant vessel seized by the rebels are currently in the custody of the Houthis. Several reports have suggested that the drones and missiles used by the Houthis were supplied by Iran. 
26-01-2022||India||HT This Day: January 27, 2001 -- Independent India’s worst quake kills at least 1,500||RESCUERS, many of them with bare hands, cleared rubble under floodlights this evening in a desperate race to reach buried survivors of a massive earthquake that killed at least 1,500 people. It was the most intense quake in the history of Independent India, dwarfing Latur (6 on the Richter in 1993) and Uttarkashi (6.6 on the Richter in 1999). The tremor, measuring between 6.9 and 7.9 on the Richter scale, hit many parts of Gujarat at 8.46 am and was felt across India as well as neighbouring Pakistan and Nepal. The devastation in Ahmedabad was widespread, with hundreds of buildings that had simply folded in on themselves when the quake struck. The Army and the Air Force joined the civil administration in relief work. Some 4,000 CISF personnel too were drafted for rescue operations.Ahmedabad was the worst hit. More than 12 hours after the first rumblings were heard, thousands of people were camping in the open, fearing aftershocks.In the concrete jungle of western Ahmedabad, multi-storeyed buildings that have come up in the last few years were clearly hit the hardest. In Ahmedabad city alone, nearly 80 buildings are reported to have collapsed, including about a dozen multi-storey buildings and also some buildings still under construction. Seismologists recorded more than 80 aftershocks, one of which measured 5.6 on the Richter scale. The epicentre of the quake was 20 km north-east of Bhuj in Kutch district. Around 150 people were killed in a single building collapse in Bhuj. Tremors were felt across a vast swathe of central and northern India, in New Delhi and Mumbai, as well as Chennai and Pondicherry and in Calcutta. In Pakistan at least four people were killed as the quake rocked four major cities - Lahore, Karachi, Peshawar and Hyderabad. Describing the earthquake as “a calamity of national magnitude”, Prime Minister Vajpayee, appealed to voluntary organisations to help the government in rescue, relief and rehabilitation operations. Oil production in ONGC wells in Gujarat was disrupted for four hours and some ONGC buildings developed cracks, but major installations and equipment were intact, officials said. While some buildings in the Essar steel complex at Hazira were damaged due to the tremors, a spokesman said the quake did not cause any disruption in operations and production at the steel manufacturing facility. The Reliance petrochemical complex at Hazira and the 27 million tonne refinery in Jamnagar did not suffer due to the quake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthis-day-january-27-2001-independent-india-s-worst-quake-kills-at-least-1500-101643216087095.html
26-01-2022||India||India’s democracy must be glorified like ancient Ganarajyas: RSS chief||AGARTALA: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Wednesday said that India’s democracy should be glorified with the sense of democratic system of India’s ancient Ganarajyas like, Baishali and Lichhavi.Vaishali used to be the capital and homeland of Lichhavis, who were a clan of Northern India. It was also the capital of the Vajji mahajanapada that was later occupied by King Bimbisara’s son Ajatashatru.“True sense of democracy used to be depicted in the then people’s life and philosophy during India’s ancient Ganarajyas. Today’s Indian democracy must be glorified with the sense of democratic system of India’s ancient Ganarajyas like, Baishali, Lichhabi etc. The sangh is committed to set up democracy in true sense through dignified behaviour and by applying the practiced philosophy of ancient Ganarajyas, like Baishali and Lichhabi, “ Bhagwat said during his address at Seva Dham, an RSS ashrama at Khayerpur, a few kilometres away from Agartala, where he hoisted the national tricolour.Bhagwat has been staying at the ashrama since Monday to review organizational activities.While explaining importance of the tricolour, Bhagwat said that the saffron colour symbolises courage, zeal and sacrifice which could be visible in the life of ancient Indian Kings and freedom fighters.The green colour symbolises progress while the dharmachakra in the middle of the flag symbolises socio-cultural philosophy practiced by people of the country, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-democracy-must-be-glorified-like-ancient-ganarajyas-rss-chief-101643211646846.html
26-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: World leaders greet India on Republic Day, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina were among the world leaders who greeted the Indian government on Republic Day and pledged to strengthen bilateral ties and cooperation in diverse areas. Read moreFormer Karnataka president and leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has said some functionaries of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Janata Dal-Secular (JD-S) are in touch with him, while adding that he would not reveal the names at the moment. Read moreFormer India coach Ravi Shastri has spoken about the greatness of two of Indian cricket's biggest stars – Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma – and how they are different from each other. Kohli, the former India captain and Rohit, currently in charge of the ODI and T20I teams, are the two most popular batting superstars in the team, but while it may be tough to pick one over the other on the basis of their batting prowess, the two individuals are a stark contrast to each other off the field. Read moreAre you struggling to concentrate on a task, forgetting things, unable to comprehend fully what others are saying post your Covid recovery? You are not alone. Many post Covid patients are reporting memory issues which has left them distressed. Read moreNamita Thapar shared a funny montage of her complimenting various Shark Tank India contestants on their outfits and Aman Gupta mimicking her. “The original memer, my bro @boatxaman…what memories…missing you in this panel!” she captioned her Instagram post. Read morePakistan has raised a staggering $1BN loan with a 7-year Sukuk (Islamic Bond) at a record interest rate. The 7.95% interest rate is the highest return that Pakistan has ever paid on an Islamic Bond. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-world-leaders-greet-india-on-republic-day-and-all-the-latest-news-101643209347398.html
26-01-2022||India||World leaders greet India on Republic Day, pledge to strengthen ties||NEW DELHI: Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina were among the world leaders who greeted the Indian government on Republic Day and pledged to strengthen bilateral ties and cooperation in diverse areas. In a brief video message, Morrison noted that India’s Republic Day celebrations coincided with Australia Day and said that the journeys of the two nations have been very different but “we do share much in common, in particular, a common road ahead”. He said the two sides have a shared vision for “an open and resilient and free Indo-Pacific region”, and are partners on many fronts, working together to “secure peace and freedom for our world and our region”. Morrison added: “We share a wonderful friendship between the Australian and Indian peoples. We join with you in celebrating democracy today, India’s and ours too, in celebrating the fantastic contribution of people with Indian heritage right here in Australia and all around the world.” Johnson said in a special message that the UK and India are “tied by deep bonds that span through the generations and across some of the greatest modern day challenges we have faced”. While sending his best wishes to the people of India and to all British Indians in the UK, Johnson spoke of the UK’s plans to forge stronger ties in future. He said: “As two diverse democracies, I am proud of our strong friendship, demonstrated by the launch of free trade negotiations this month and our partnership manufacturing the Oxford-Astra Zeneca vaccine. I look forward to fortifying those bonds as we bring our ambitions, people and economies together to prosper for the next 75 years and beyond.” In a message sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Hasina referred to the special relationship between India and Bangladesh and said: “The unique ties of close friendship, cooperation and trust between our two countries have flourished and grown from strength to strength in recent years. Many new frontiers of cooperation alongside all traditional areas have been identified, particularly during the Covid-l9 pandemic.” Extending her warmest wishes and heartiest felicitations to the people of India, Hasina said 2021 was a historic year for bilateral relations as it was marked by celebrations of “epochal events” and engagements at the highest levels. She recalled Modi’s visit to Dhaka in March 2021 to join celebrations marking the golden jubilee of Bangladesh’s independence, the birth centenary of the father of the nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and 50 years of diplomatic ties. “I take the opportunity to recall with gratitude the support rendered by the Government and the People of India during our Liberation War in 1971 that set the foundation of our unique relationship. The joint celebration of ‘Moitri Dibosh’ across the globe, held on 6th December, the day when India recognised Bangladesh as a sovereign and independent state in 1971, projected this special relationship,” she added. Bangladesh looks forward to working with India “in the next fifty years and beyond towards realising the shared vision of building a peaceful and prosperous region”, Hasina said. Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid also sent a message of greetings to his Indian counterpart Ram Nath Kovind, saying his country’s “unique relationship with India is rooted in our shared history, culture and tradition”. In a brief video message, Maldivian foreign minister Abdulla Shahid sent his greetings to the Indian people and said: “For 73 years, the Constitution of India has provided a framework of governance and guaranteed rights to over a billion people comprising the world’s largest democracy. This monumental achievement provides inspiration and hope to countries all over the world undertaking their own democratic journeys.” The strong partnership between India and the Maldives is rooted in long-standing historical ties and has been strengthened through bilateral cooperation, and the many gestures of goodwill, humanitarian aid and friendship provided by India is a “true testament to the special partnership between the Maldives and India”, he said. Shahid added: “The government of the Maldives appreciates India’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy and we will continue to uphold an ‘India First’ policy, which has worked to the mutual benefit of both our countries.” 
26-01-2022||India||Siddaramaiah says some BJP, JD(S) leaders want to join Congress, in touch with him||Former Karnataka president and leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has said some functionaries of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Janata Dal-Secular (JD-S) are in touch with him, while adding that he would not reveal the names at the moment.Siddaramaiah said the BJP and JD(S) leaders who want to join the Congress would have to accept the party leadership and can only switch loyalties without any condition.“Some of the BJP and JD-S leaders are in touch with me, but I will not reveal the names. To join the Congress, they must have belief in our party, they must join us by accepting party leadership and they must join without any conditions,” the former chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Some of the BJP and JDS leaders are in touch with me, but I will not reveal the names. To join congress they must have belief in our party, they must join us by accepting party leadership and they must join without any condition: Former Karnataka CM and LoP Siddaramaiah pic.twitter.com/y5TZFdycIiAccording to a report in The New Indian Express, when asked about those who had defected to the ruling camp leading to the fall of the previous JD(S)-Congress government, Siddaramaiah said legislators from other parties who want to move over to the Congress have to accept the party’s leadership and ideology. “If they agree, then we will welcome them,” he said.The report also quoted the former chief minister speaking about alleged dissent among BJP legislators over expansion of the cabinet. “Such factions existed even in the BS Yediyurappa regime… Dissent in the ruling party is affecting the overall development of the state,” Siddaramaiah said.Another Congress leader Saleem Ahmed said many leaders from the ruling BJP and even JD(S) want to join the grand old party. He said the party leadership will take a call on the matter.In another development, the Congress appointed BK Hariprasad as leader of Legislative Council, Prakash Rathod as chief whip and K Govindraj as deputy leader of Legislative Council of the party in Karnataka. A statement in this regard was issued by Congress general secretary K||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-says-some-bjp-jd-s-leaders-want-to-join-congress-101643209463820.html
26-01-2022||India||Chhattisgarh CM announces scheme for first two daughters of labourers||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday launched a scheme under which first two daughters of labourers will be provided financial assistance for education and employment. Baghel, while addressing people after unfurling the national flag at Lalbagh Parade grounds in Bastar’s Jagdalpur on the occasion of 73rd Republic Day celebration, said that the aim of the scheme is to empower women. “Mukhyamantri Noni Sashaktikaran Sahayata Yojna’ (Chief Minister Girl Empowerment Assistance Scheme) will be launched in the state to support the daughters of labourer families in education, employment, self-employment and marriage,” a press release issued by Chhattisgarh’s public relation department said. The chief minister further said that under the scheme, a sum of ₹20,000 will be deposited in the bank account of each of the first two daughters of the labourers registered with the ‘Chhattisgarh Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board’. The chief minister also said a five-day week working system will be implemented in the state to increase the work efficiency and productivity of the employees, while the contribution of the state government under the employees’ Contributory Pension Scheme will be increased from 10 percent to 14 percent. Reiterating his commitment towards the safety of women, the chief minister announced the formation of ‘Women Security Cell’ in every district, the press release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-announces-scheme-for-first-two-daughters-of-labourers-101643207089143.html
26-01-2022||India||Cops thwart right-wing workers’ attempt to unfurl national flag on Jinnah Tower||HYDERABAD: The police in Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur thwarted the attempt of some right-wing activists to unfurl the national flag on Jinnah Tower, a landmark in the city, on Wednesday. Tension prevailed at Jinnah Circle, located on the busy Mahatma Gandhi Road, when about 10 activists of Hindu Vahini, raising Jai Bharat Mata slogans, came there and made an attempt to enter the premises of Jinnah Tower to unfurl the national flag on the occasion of Republic Day. However, the police, deployed at the centre in large numbers, immediately took them into custody and shifted them to the local police station. They were released later in the evening. According to a local resident Shyam Sunder, the Guntur Municipal Corporation has already erected barbed wire fencing around Jinnah Tower, after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state president Somu Veerraju announced on December 30 that Jinnah Tower would be razed to the ground and the area would be renamed after former President of India A P J Abdul Kalam or noted Dalit poet Gurram Joshua. The Jinnah Tower is a tall monument built in 1945 in the heart of Guntur town. It was constructed as a tower with six pillars with a dome-shaped structure atop and is being considered a symbol of harmony and peace. The location is also referred to as Jinnah Centre. Now, the BJP leaders started demanding that the state government remove the name “Jinnah” from the monument and the location, as it symbolised the name of a person who was responsible for the partition of India. 
26-01-2022||India||Railways' exams suspended amid violent protests: All you need to know||The railways ministry on Wednesday suspended non-technical popular categories (RRB-NTPC) and level 2 exams amid violent protests by aspirants, including setting a bogie of the Bhabua-Patna Intercity Express on fire earlier in the day, over alleged irregularities in examinations of the Railway Recruitment Board (RRB).The candidates are opposing the ministry's decision to hold the exam in two stages, claiming the second stage for final selection is tantamount to “cheating” those who appeared and cleared the first stage of the RRB-NTPC exam for a computer-based test which was released on January 15.Around 1.25 crore candidates had appeared for the exams for 35,000 posts from level 2 to level 6.Why are the aspirants protesting?According to reports, many of the protesters claimed the recruitment process is “unfair”, allowing candidates with higher qualifications to compete for jobs meant for those with relatively lower qualifications.The aspirants have also alleged discrepancies in the examination results, which reportedly showed that one candidate had been declared qualified from multiple regions when according to the official rules, one candidate is allowed to qualify from only one region.Of the total vacancies, 24,281 posts are open to graduates, 11,000 are for under-graduates. These posts are segregated into five groups based on the 7th CPC pay-scale levels (levels 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6).These include posts of train assistant, guard, junior clerk, timekeeper, and station master across various verticals in its zones.While to get a level-2 job, where the starting pay is about ₹19,000, one requires to be a Class 12 pass, for a level-6 post like that of the station master, who gets a starting pay of about ₹35,000, being a graduate is mandatory.Aspirants have alleged that during the computer-based test -1 which was held last year, candidates with higher qualifications have sat for exams meant for level-2 jobs.Extent of protestsA crowd stormed the Gaya Junction on Wednesday, raising slogans, and set fire to the Bhabhua-Patna InterCity Express, though nobody was injured.Officials said in Sitamarhi, police fired in the air to disperse demonstrators at the railway station. Protests were also reported from Patna, Nawada, Muzaffarpur, Buxar, and Bhojpur districts.On Tuesday, students who appeared for the RRB non-technical popular categories exam, 2021, held a protest at the Bihar Sharif railway station alleging discrepancies in the results. Hundreds of students had blocked the Kolkata-New Delhi main railway line at Rajendra Nagar Terminal in Patna during the agitation.The central government has said such protests on tracks and disruption of train operations will now be categorised under “unlawful activities” that may get one banned for life from obtaining railway jobs.What is the government's response?The railways ministry has said no candidate can be recruited for multiple posts, thereby ensuring that every deserving candidate gets selected."We cannot legally bar graduates from applying to posts which require 10+2 qualifications," said railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw.He said shortlisting of candidates has been done separately for each level based on options exercised and the educational qualifications of the candidates.“For the second stage computer-based test of each level, candidates have been called 20 times for the community-wise vacancies notified against each RRB,” the minister said.What next?Based on merit obtained in second stage CBT, the candidates will be shortlisted for the third stage exam in which eight times the number of vacancies will be called.The final result will contain a unique list of 35,281 notified vacancies and no candidate will be appointed against more than one post.Earlier, the shortlisting was done 10 times the vacancy. However, this time, it is 20 times the vacancy for the second stage, officials said.According to the RRB NTPC exam dates, the CBT 2 exam for which seven lakh candidates have been shortlisted, was scheduled to be conducted on February 14 and 18. They now stand suspended. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-exams-suspended-amid-violent-protests-all-you-need-to-know-101643202957235.html
26-01-2022||India||MP police recover two time bomb-like devices from National Highway-30||BHOPAL/PRAYAGRAJ: The Madhya Pradesh police on Wednesday recovered two time bomb-like devices on the walls of two under-passes at a distance of 15 kms on National Highway-30 in Rewa district, causing panic among the locals. The spots where the devices were found are close to Prayagraj border. A letter addressed to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath was found with the devices in which Prayagraj police is challenged to stop him. Police officials believe that the fake bomb attached with a clock has been placed by the same man who has been placing such devices in trans-Yamuna areas of Prayagraj earlier. SP Rewa Navneet Bhaseen said the force reached the over bridge at Mangawa in Rewa district after receiving information about the bomb-like device from locals. The traffic was diverted and Bomb Disposal Squad was called. The BDS team dismantled the device but no explosive was found in it. “The locals informed the police about the suspicious device. The bomb disposal squad (BDS) recovered the first device having circuits like a time bomb in Manganwa area on Wednesday morning. The second device was found 15 km in Gangave area of the district. A lady police inspector threw it into an agricultural land and poured water to defuse it. Both the devices have circuits but no explosive was found near it,” the SP said. He added both the devices had a letter addressed to UP CM Yogi Adityanath but the message was not very clear. In the letters, the miscreant wrote, “CM of UP (Yogiji) Ruk Sakta Hai, Baki Jankar, 8/1/2022 bottle bomb se Prayagraj police, car bus jalega (sic).” Investigations revealed that wires were wrapped in some bottles and a clock was fitted into them to make it appear like an IED (Improvised Explosive Device). A case has been registered in this connection and help of CCTV footages and mobile surveillance is being taken to identify the person who placed the device, the SP said. “It will be premature to say anything about purpose because we are still investigating the matter,” he added. A similar device was found in Sohagi area in Rewa four days back. SSP Prayagraj Ajay Kumar said the place where the fake bomb is found is under jurisdiction of Rewa police. However, SSP said that it may be the handiwork of the same man who has been placing such devices in trans-Yamuna areas earlier, SSP added. Since 2016, the person has placed over a dozen fake bombs which he has made using bottles, plastic box, wires, red tapes, clocks and has even used wooden stick and even a corn. The culprit attaches the bottles or plastic box with wires and fastens it with red tape to make it appear like an IED. In some old incidents, he has also attached clock in the fake device. Each time the culprit places the fake bomb, he attaches a letter written in poor English. In most of the letters, he has issued threats to railway officials and has demanded hefty amount of cash from them. However, in two of the letters found earlier in Naini and Minto Park, he has also issued threats to authorities of ALSTOM company in Naini area and has demanded large amount of money from them||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-bomb-like-devices-found-in-mp-with-letter-to-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-101643204386197.html
26-01-2022||India||Goa: Pratapsingh Rane keeps everyone guessing as poll date looms||PANAJI: Senior Congress leader and former Goa chief minister Pratapsingh Rane continues to keep his cards close to his chest as he weighs up whether to contest in the upcoming assembly elections. The six-time chief minister, who has famously never lost an election, will be up against his daughter-in-law Divya Rane, who has been announced as the BJP candidate for Poriem, a constituency that the senior Rane has represented since 1972 back when Goa was still a Union Territory and the constituency was called Satari. “We will see. There are still two days to file nominations,” Rane told HT when asked whether he has made up his mind on whether he is contesting elections or not. Pratapsingh Rane, a 10-term legislator, is Goa’s longest serving MLA. He also holds a record for having served as chief minister of the state for a little less than 16 years across six terms between 1980 and 2007. He was the assembly speaker between 2007 and 2012. He has been continuously elected since 1972 to the then legislative assembly of the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu. The 82-year-old Rane has made a series of flip flops on whether he will be contesting the elections. After he initially announced that he would be contesting the upcoming elections, following the ‘requests’ of his workers and supporters, the Congress promptly announced that Rane would be the party’s candidate from the Poriem constituency. His decision was met with derision by his son Vishwajit Rane, a minister in the BJP government and legislator representing the neighbouring Valpoi constituency. Vishwajit, who is nurturing dreams of his wife getting elected from the seat represented by his father, quite unkindly, suggested that his father should “retire gracefully”, and even threatened that the situation can get quite “messy”. “At 83, why does he have to continue in politics? One should gracefully retire after becoming a CM for more than six terms. A person who is my idol and someone I have so much respect for, that person should gracefully retire, not retire in the battlefield. It will be a very messy thing,” Vishwajit Rane said. Following his son’s outburst, Rane seemed to back down. “I have completed 50 years in politics. I feel I should take it easy now. I feel that way, it is a sincere feeling that I should take it easy and young people should be put forward,” the senior Rane said at the Congress foundation day function. Rane has also been quick to counter BJP leaders every time they have suggested that he was quitting the Congress or that he was retiring from politics or that he has given his ‘consent’ to the BJP to field his daughter-in-law from his seat. Reacting to comments made by BJP Goa election in-charge Devendra Fadnavis, who said that Rane was “approached” and asked to “give the seat to the BJP”, he said: “It is not right. My name is being used; it should not be done. Poriem is not my backyard. This is fake news,” Rane said. Earlier this week, Rane took everyone by surprise after he, along with his wife Vijayadevi, visited a temple in his constituency and began meeting the people there suggesting he had begun campaigning. “I meet people all the time during my visits to the constituency,” Rane said when asked whether his recent moves meant he had begun campaigning. “We have left it to his decision whether he would want to contest himself or nominate someone to contest in his stead,” senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said when asked what the Congress party’s stand is in the ongoing impasse. With two days left for nominations to close, a decision one way or the other will have to be made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-pratapsingh-rane-keeps-everyone-guessing-as-poll-date-looms-101643199345492.html
26-01-2022||India||All grievances will be resolved, but due action against vandalism: Railways minister on violence by job aspirants||Railways minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Wednesday asked job aspirants to not engage in the destruction of public property as the authorities will take due action on the basis of such acts which the government categorises as “unlawful” and are representative of the “highest levels of indiscipline”.Urging the job aspirants to desist from vandalism and arson, Vaishnaw assured them of resolving all their grievances.The Union minister's statement comes in the wake of railway job candidates going on a rampage in Bihar, Jharkhand, and Uttar Pradesh over alleged irregularities in examinations of the Railway Recruitment Board (RRB). A group of protesters in Bihar’s Gaya district set a bogie of the Bhabua-Patna Intercity Express on fire earlier in the day, police said. This was followed by police opening tear gas to disperse the mob.Also Read | ‘Unlawful’: Protesting on tracks can now bar one from railway jobs, says govt“I am telling the aspirants that this is their own property,” the minister said at a press conference. “Why are they destroying something that is their own? However, the authorities will follow due process if public property is damaged.”Vaishnaw said his ministry is in touch with chief ministers of the respective states and that the issue is being handled “sensitively”.“I urge the candidates to put forth their grievances formally,” he was quoted as saying by the PTI news agency. “Our intention is to resolve this issue quickly. A committee has been formed and it will examine representations by the candidates.”On Tuesday, students who appeared for Railway Recruitment Board's Non-Technical Popular Categories exam, 2021, had held a protest at the Bihar Sharif railway station alleging discrepancies in the results. Hundreds of students had blocked the Kolkata-New Delhi main railway line at Rajendra Nagar Terminal in Patna during the agitation.Later, the central government said such protests on tracks and disruption of train operations will now be categorised under “unlawful activities” that may get one banned for life from obtaining railway jobs.According to an official release issued by the ministry of railways, videos of such activities will be analysed by “specialised agencies” and can result in police action as well.The railways ministry said that such activities include protesting on railway tracks, disruption of train operations, damaging railway properties, and the like.The ministry also suspended on Wednesday the Non-Technical Popular Categories (RRB NTPC) and the Level 2 exams after additional reports of vandalism by job aspirants came to light from different parts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-grievances-will-be-resolved-but-due-action-against-vandalism-railway-minister-on-violence-by-job-aspirants-101643195626210.html
26-01-2022||India||Evening brief from HT: Akhilesh dismisses opinion polls on TV as ‘opium polls’, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UP elections: Akhilesh Yadav dismisses opinion polls on TV as ‘opium polls’Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday dismissed opinion polls as “opium polls” days after his party on Sunday wrote to the Election Commission of India (ECI) seeking an immediate ban on airing them on television channels. Read MoreCovaxin, Covishield likely to get cheaper after regular market nod, jabs to be priced at ₹275In a bid to make vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) affordable, prices of Covishield and Covaxin jabs are likely to be capped at ₹275 per dose, with an additional service charge of ₹150. A report in PTI said a regular market approval is awaited for both the vaccines from India's drug regulator. Read MoreOn Republic Day, paralympians share their dreams for IndiaParalympians have brought many laurels to our nation and today, on Republic Day, they share their wishes for their country while celebrating the festival that commemorates the spirit of independent and individual India. Read MoreR-Day gaffe: Kerala minister hoists national flag upside down, salutes itIn an embarrassing incident, the national flag was hoisted upside down by state port minister Ahamad Deverkoil during the Republic Day parade at the district headquarters in Kasaragod in north Kerala on Wednesday. Read More'He doesn't make very intelligent comments. You can see the agenda behind it': Manjrekar on Shastri's recent remarksFormer India batter and renowned commentator Sanjay Manjrekar is a bit taken aback by a recent comment made by his former teammate and ex-India coach Ravi Shastri. In a recent interview with Sports Tak, Shastri had stated that he felt Virat Kohli could have continued as India's Test captain for at least another couple of years, but had that happened, 'some people wouldn't have been able to digest it as the country's most successful skipper might have added more wins to his already illustrious captaincy record. Read MoreBro Daddy movie review: A lighthearted family drama about accidental pregnancy cut from the same cloth as Badhaai HoPrithviraj Sukumaran’s second directorial project, Bro Daddy, unlike his debut film Lucifer, is a lighthearted entertainer that’s long drawn but fun. Cut from the same cloth as Badhaai Ho, Mohanlal’s film is a family drama about an unplanned pregnancy, and manages to tickle the funny bone while handling the subject quite maturely. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evening-brief-from-ht-akhilesh-dismisses-opinion-polls-on-tv-as-opium-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101643196562439.html
26-01-2022||India||CVC revises rules for appointing independent external monitors in organizations||NEW DELHI: The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has revised the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for adopting and implementing the Integrity Pact, the first step in ensuring transparency in public procurements. The change in rules say that the Independent External Monitors (IEMs), who are appointed by the apex vigilance body to look into issues relating to execution of contract (s) and any irregularities, can only be considered from a panel of eminent persons/officers who have held the post of additional secretary or equivalent or higher pay scale in the government of India at the time of retirement. Existing rules, last issued in June 2021, only considered officials at the rank of secretary to Government of India, chief secretaries in the states or officials at equivalent pay scale at the time of retirement. The latest SOPs have removed the retired director generals of police from the list of eminent persons who could be considered for empanelment as IEMs. In the new rules, the CVC has removed the provision sub-section (vi) of 5.2, which earlier allowed officers who were in the apex pay scale at the time of the retirement in the central government, state government or forest service to be IEMs. For retired officers of armed officers too, now the officers equivalent to additional secretaries or higher ranks in government of India will be eligible to become IEMs. Earlier, this was allowed only for officers in apex pay scale. Persons who have held the post of CMD/MD or CEO of public sector banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions at the time of retirement will continue to be included in the list of IEMs, an advisory role considered important to examine the process of integrity in award of government contracts. The Integrity Pact (IP), mandatory for all government organisations, public sector enterprises, public sector banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions and autonomous bodies etc, essentially envisages an agreement between the prospective vendors/bidders and the buyer, committing the persons/officials of both sides not to resort to any corrupt practices in any aspect/stage of the contract. After a contract is given in a government organisation, the CVC rules say, the IEMs will have access to all the documents/records pertaining to the contract for which a complaint or issue is raised before them, except the documents having national security implications. The IEMs will examine all complaints received by them and give their recommendations to the chief executive of the organisation. In case of suspicion of serious irregularities requiring legal or administrative action, they are supposed to send a report to the Chief Vigilance Officers (CVOs), the rules state. The CVC has also stated in its SOPs, shared with all departments and ministries on Tuesday, that the proposal for nomination of IEMs in respective organisations should be sent by the concerned department responsible for ensuring implementation of Integrity Pact in the organisation, after taking approval of the competent authority. It said the proposal should be sent within 3 months of completion of tenure of existing IEMs, failing which the CVC itself will nominate IEM (s) on its own from its panel. A senior official said – “the SOPs have been changed after receiving feedback and suggestions from the CVOs of organisations and various other individuals, regarding the eligibility criteria”. Former Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) Chairman R S Sharma said adding additional secretary rank officers must have been done to have a larger pool of officers as IEMs. “IEMs play a key role in resolving issues raised by any party regarding any aspect of the tender. They are one step before anyone wants to take legal route.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cvc-revises-rules-for-appointing-independent-external-monitors-in-organizations-101643197065596.html
26-01-2022||India||Covaxin, Covishield likely to get cheaper after regular market nod, jabs to be priced at ₹275||In a bid to make vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) affordable, prices of Covishield and Covaxin jabs are likely to be capped at ₹275 per dose, with an additional service charge of ₹150.A report in PTI said a regular market approval is awaited for both the vaccines from India's drug regulator.The report, quoting official sources, said the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) has already been directed to start working towards capping the price.According to current rates, each dose of the Bharat Biotech-produced Covaxin is priced at ₹1,200, while Serum Institute’s Covishield costs ₹780 in private facilities. A service charge of 150 is included in the price."The NPPA has been asked to work towards capping the price of the vaccines. The price is likely to be capped at ₹275 per dose along with an additional service charge of ₹150," a source told PTI.On January 19, a Subject Expert Committee on Covid-19 of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation had recommended granting regular market approval to Covishield and Covaxin for use in the adult population subject to certain conditions.Also read | Govt seeks more data for full market clearance to Covishield, CovaxinPrakash Kumar Singh, the director (government and regulatory affairs) at Serum Institute of India, had submitted an application to the Drugs Controller General of India on October 25 seeking regular market approval for its Covishield vaccine.Meanwhile, V Krishna Mohan, the whole-time director at Bharat Biotech, had submitted complete information on the chemistry, manufacturing and controls, along with the pre-clinical and clinical data, while seeking regular market authorisation for Covaxin a few weeks ago.Both the vaccines have only been authorised for emergency use in the country.A full market authorisation is granted when a vaccine is deemed safe and effective for most people who are inoculated with it. Such an approval is authorised after submission and review of full data from phase 1, 2 and 3 trials of the jab, as reported by Hindustan Times earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-covishield-likely-to-get-cheaper-after-regular-market-nod-jabs-to-be-priced-at-rs-275-101643194106602.html
26-01-2022||India||‘Ironic Cong doesn’t need him’: Kapil Sibal on Ghulam Nabi Azad’s Padma Bhushan||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Kapil Sibal took a swipe at his party after the government conferred the country’s third-highest civilian award Padma Bhushan to his colleague Ghulam Nabi Azad.In a tweet, Sibal congratulated Azad and added it is ironic that Congress does not need the latter’s services when the nation recognises his contributions to public life.Sibal and Azad were among the 23 Congress leaders, who wrote to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi seeking an overhaul of the party in August 2020.Azad was omitted from the star campaigners’ list for West Bengal, Kerala, Assam, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry elections last year. His name is on the list for the February-March Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.Former Union minister Anand Sharma also congratulated Azad for what he described “well-deserved recognition of his lifelong enriching contribution to public service and Parliamentary democracy”.Shashi Tharoor, another signatory to the letter leader, said it is good to be recognised for one’s public service even by a government of the other side.Another Congress leader Jairam Ramesh took a jibe at Azad while referring to former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s refusal to accept Padma Bhushan. He said it is the right thing to do as “the communist leader (Bhattacharjee) wants to be ‘Azad not Ghulam’”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sibal-takes-swipe-at-congress-as-azad-gets-padma-bhushan-101643194785091.html
26-01-2022||India||Six die in Rae Bareli village after consuming spurious liquor||LUCKNOW: Six people died and around 20 others are undergoing treatment at the district hospital after consuming spurious liquor in Pahadpur village under Maharajganj Kotwali in Rae Bareli district late on Tuesday night, officials said. Inspector Ajay Kumar and constable Dhirendra Srivastava have been suspended with immediate effect and district excise officer Rajeshwar Maurya will be charge sheeted, said Sanjay Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary, Excise, Uttar Pradesh government. The deceased include a 40-year-old female, Sukhrani. A function was organised at Sukhrani’s residence on Tuesday night, where villagers consumed liquor, procured from a local government-approved outlet. Others who died were identified as Saroj Yadav, Pankaj Singh, Chandrapal, Ram Sumer and Banti. “Samples have been seized and FIR has been lodged against the liquor vendor and salesman. It was a government authorised liquor outlet,” said Lakshmi Singh, inspector general of police, Lucknow range. “Raids have been carried out at the contractor’s (proprietor of liquor outlet) residence. Several liquor bottles have been seized and sent for forensic examination,” Singh added. A team of doctors is camping in the village and visiting every house to examine people, she added. After consuming liquor, villagers fell ill. They were rushed to the community health centre after their condition turned serious. While doctors declared two persons as brought dead, four people died during the course of treatment. Later, some seriously ill people were rushed to the Rae Bareli district hospital. After getting information, district magistrate Vaibhav Srivastava and additional superintendent of police Vishwajeet Srivastava reached the village on Tuesday night. On Wednesday morning, other senior officials of the state government, including divisional commissioner Ranjan Kumar and inspector general of police, Lucknow range, Lakshmi Singh reached Rae Bareli. “Samples of liquor which was served have been collected and sent for forensic examination,” said Ranjan Kumar, divisional commissioner, Lucknow division. According to district magistrate of Rae Bareli Vaibhav Srivastava, an FIR has been lodged against the local vendor and a salesman from where liquor was purchased and an investigation is underway. Five years ago, around six people died in Bachhrawan town area in Rae Bareli after consuming spurious liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-die-in-rae-bareli-village-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-101643194605069.html
26-01-2022||India||R-Day gaffe: Kerala minister hoists national flag upside down, salutes it||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In an embarrassing incident, the national flag was hoisted upside down by state port minister Ahamad Deverkoil during the Republic Day parade at the district headquarters in Kasaragod in north Kerala on Wednesday. After hoisting the flag, the minister and other officials including the district superintendent of police saluted the Tricolour. Later some journalists who came to cover the event noticed the error and alerted the officials. Embarrassed district officials later lowered the flag and the minister hoisted it again. The district administration has announced a probe and opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has sought action against the minister and erring officials. Later the minister sought an explanation from district superintendent Vaibhav Saxena. “The unfortunate incident should not have taken place. I heard enough rehearsals were not done prior to the event,” said Kasaragod member of parliament (MP) Rajmohan Unnithan, who was also present at the occasion. BJP state secretary K Sreekanth said it was a big insult to the national flag and sought an independent probe. According to the Prevention of Insult to the National Flag or Constitution, whoever in any public place or in any other place within public view burns, mutilates, defaces, difiles, disfigures, destroys, tramples upon or [otherwise shows disrespect to or brings] into contempt (whether by words, either spoken or written, or by acts) the Indian National Flag or the Constitution of India or any part thereof, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both. 
26-01-2022||India||ICMR scientists say Omicron specific vaccine strategy needed. Explain why||A recent study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that antibodies generated by the Omicron of coronavirus can neutralise other strains, including most prevalent Delta variant. This is why, the study further said, there is a need for Omicron specific vaccine strategy."The individuals infected with Omicron have significant immune response which could neutralise not only the Omicron but also the other VOCs including most prevalent Delta variant," a study by ICMR has revealed."This suggests that the immune response induced by the Omicron could effectively neutralise the Delta variant making the re-infection with Delta less likely, thereby displacing the Delta as dominant strain. This emphasizes the need for the Omicron specific vaccine strategy," it further said.The ICMR studied adults from foreign countries and adolescents from India. The research has not yet been reviewed by peers.The researchers studied the response of antibodies in in people who have received two doses of Covid-19 vaccine and compared the results with those who were unvaccinated. All the individuals were infected with the Omicron variant.The new strain was discovered in samples from South Africa in November last year. The scientists were surprised to find more than 30 mutations in Omicron, more than any other strain. They claimed this made Omicron resistant to existing vaccines.Since being detected in South Africa, Omicron has spread across the globe, leading to resurgence in Covid-19 infections. The situation turned particularly bad in the United States and Europe where millions contracted the disease in a matter of few weeks.The World Health Organization (WHO) has declared Omicron has ‘variant of concern’ and called for investing more resources in studying the variant and finding vaccines for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-scientists-say-omicron-specific-vaccine-strategy-needed-explain-why-101643190126385.html
26-01-2022||India||Nine-year-old awarded PM Bal Puraskar for scaling Mount Kilimanjaro||Nine-year-old Virat Chandra Telukunta from Hyderabad was awarded Prime Minister Bal Puraskar in Sports for scaling Mount Kilimanjaro."I used to run for 6-7km every day, did sit-ups, suryanamaskar...meditation. It was very cold there, but we focussed on summit point despite body aches" Chandra told ANI.While climbing Mount Kilimanjaro, Chandra overcame the challenges like extreme cold weather, finger pain, hand pain, and leg pain caused due to chilly weather.Talking about his future expeditions, he's planning to attend the Australian Summit and climb Mount Kosciuszko once the border restrictions ease out. Hyderabad| 9-yr-old Telukunta Virat Chandra awarded with PM Bal Puraskar in Sports for scaling Mt Kilimanjaro last year"I used to run for 6-7km every day, did sit-ups, suryanamaskar...meditation. It was very cold there, but we focussed on summit point despite body aches"he said pic.twitter.com/w3T59IpBQD"We were scared initially when Virat said he wants to do mountaineering, but after discovering a good trainer and also seeing the results from Virat's training, we were confident that Virat could do mountaineering," Virat's father Sharath told ANI."I broke down when he returned to the base camp. I wanted to go along with him to the summit, but due to breathing problems, I had to stay there. It was hard for me, as I am always with him. Upon his return to base camp, his first words were, "I finished Maa, I finished! , Mountaineering at such a young age is difficult, and she wishes that all parents let their children pursue their dreams," Virat's mother Madhavi told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nineyearold-awarded-pm-bal-puraskar-for-scaling-mount-kilimanjaro-101643187550193.html
26-01-2022||India||Indian Army, PLA exchange hotline on Republic Day; ‘missing’ teen to be handed over soon: Rijiju||Union minister Kiren Rijiju on Wednesday informed that China's People's Liberation Army has given positive indication over the release of a missing teenager from Arunachal Pradesh. Miram Taron, a teenager who hails from Zido village in Upper Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh, went missing from near the Line of Actual Control on January 18 during a hunting trip.Following his disappearance, BJP MP from Arunachal-East Tapir Gao tweeted alleging Taron was abducted by PLA from the Indian side.The Indian Army immediately approached the Chinese side asking for assistance in tracing the individual and helping his return. China's PLA later confirmed that they had found a person on their side and requested further details to establish his identity. The Indian Army shared personal details and a photograph of Taron with the Chinese side.Sharing an update on the missing individual, Rijiju said the two sides exchanged a hotline on the occasion of Republic Day and the PLA suggested a place for his release. He added that the Chinese side is likely to intimate the date and time of the release soon.“Hotline exchanged on Republic Day by Indian Army with Chinese PLA. PLA responded positively indicating handing over of our national and suggested a place of release. They are likely to intimate date and time soon. Delay attributed to bad weather conditions on their side,” the minister tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-pla-exchange-hotline-on-republic-day-missing-teen-to-be-handed-over-soon-101643183227327.html
26-01-2022||India||Air India likely to be handed over to Tata Group on Thursday||The central government is expected to hand over Air India to the Tata Group on Thursday, as reported by Hindustan Times earlier this week. Though the official date has not been confirmed, but the Centre is looking to complete the disinvestment process on January 27."The disinvestment of Air India is now decided to be on the 27 January 2022. The closing balance sheet as on 20th Jan has to be provided today 24th Jan (Monday) so that it can be reviewed by Tatas and any changes can be effected on Wednesday," news agency ANI had reported on Monday, quoting from the email Vinod Hejmadi, Director Finance, Air India, sent to employees.Hejmadi hailed the “excellent work” one by the employees till now and expected cooperation in the final days before the handover.The national carrier, which began its journey under the Tatas 90 years ago before the government nationalised the sector in 1953, was sold to the autos-to-steel Tata conglomerate, which will pay ₹18,000 crore for a 100 per cent stake. The sale was announced in October by the Union government.Talace Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, will get 100% equity shares of AI and AI Express, along with the government’s 50% stake in ground-handling company Airport Services Private Limited (AISATS).Tatas had on October 8 beat the ₹15,100-crore offer by a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh and the reserve price of ₹12,906 crore set by the government for the sale of its 100 per cent stake in the loss-making carrier.The bid amount includes Tata’s taking on of about ₹15,300 crore of the national flag carrier’s ₹61,562 crore debt. The remaining will be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Limited (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle formed by the government.While this will be the first privatisation since 2003-04, Air India will be the third airline brand in the Tatas' stable - it holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-likely-to-be-handed-over-to-tata-group-on-thursday-101643183071868.html
26-01-2022||India||Republic Day: Aviation ministry tableau highlights UDAN amid push to expand it||NEW DELHI: The civil aviation ministry’s tableau at the Republic Day parade highlighted the ‘Ude Desh ka Aam Nagrik (UDAN)’ scheme amid a push for starting international flights this year under the regional connectivity programme. As many as 403 flights connect 65 underserved airports under the scheme and over eight million people have benefitted from UDAN.The government invited bids for international flights in late 2018 under the scheme but it was forced to halt the process due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which hit the aviation industry globally. The pandemic also led to the suspension of scheduled commercial international passenger flights.The process to take the UDAN scheme beyond the country’s borders has now resumed. The government has received a favourable response as well, said a civil aviation ministry official. “Earlier the tender process was halted due to Covid-19 and uncertainty of international operations. The last date for submitting bids in the current bidding process is January 28. We expect the process to be completed soon,” he said, requesting anonymity.Officials from the Airports Authority of India (AAI), the implementing agency for the scheme, said initial queries from the interested airlines have been addressed and the process was completed this week.“Airlines and states have expressed interest to connect a few international airports which have facilities but are not connected to destinations abroad,” an AAI official said, requesting anonymity.Civil aviation ministry officials said budget carriers IndiGo and SpiceJet have submitted expressions of interest and they are seeking to connect Guwahati with Bangkok, Kathmandu, Yangon, Hanoi; Imphal with Mandalay, Bangkok, Kunming; Bhubaneswar with Bangkok, Abu Dhabi, Singapore, and Agartala with Dhaka and Chittagong.The Centre in October 2018 invited proposals from operators for the international version of the scheme as it sought to enhance air connectivity from India. It finalised bids for the Guwahati-Dhaka and Guwahati-Bangkok routes before the pandemic.Assam has proposed subsidised international connectivity under the UDAN scheme from Guwahati to Singapore, Dhaka, Yangon, Kathmandu, Kuala Lumpur, and Bangkok.Mark Martin, chief executive of aviation consulting firm Martin Consulting, said the concept is like old wine in a new bottle. “We have bilateral (agreements) which allow us to fly anytime. I do not get the concept of international UDAN.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-aviation-ministry-tableau-focusses-on-udan-amid-push-to-expand-it-101643182663789.html
26-01-2022||India||Afternoon brief from HT: Special horse of President's Bodyguard retires and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Republic Day: Elite horse of President's Bodyguard Virat retiresAs the celebrations of 73rd Republic Day came to a close at the Rajpath, the President's Bodyguard (PBG) escorted President Ram Nath Kovind back to the Rashtrapati Bhavan. What made the occasion special was the presence of Virat, the special horse in the PBG. Read moreData Privacy Day: How users can protect their privacy. Check detailsData privacy has been one of the hot topics of discussion in a digitally connected world. The issue has become pertinent at the time of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, when more and more people are forced to spend time in the online world. Read moreRepublic Day: BSF, Pak Army exchange sweets, greetings at Attari-Wagah borderIn a goodwill gesture, Border Security Force (BSF) and Pakistan Army exchanged sweets and greetings at the Attari-Wagah border on India's 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday. Read moreChiranjeevi tests Covid-19 positive with mild symptoms, concerned fans say ‘get well soon’Actor Chiranjeevi on Wednesday took to Twitter to announce that he has tested positive for the novel coronavirus with mild symptoms, despite having taken all precautions. He added that he is currently quarantining at home. Read morePM Modi extends personal greetings to Jonty Rhodes, Chris Gayle on Republic Day; 'You truly are a special ambassador'Former South Africa cricketer Jonty Rhodes on Wednesday took to his official Twitter account to share a letter from Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on India's 73rd Republic Day. Read moreHappy Republic Day 2022: Harnaaz Sandhu, Nora Fatehi, Shilpa Shetty, Preity Zinta celebrate 73rd Republic DayIndia is celebrating its 73rd Republic Day today, on January 26. On this day, in 1950, the Indian Constitution came into effect. People across the country are celebrating the occasion with much pomp. Read moreMahindra XUV700 hits milestone of 14,000 deliveriesMahindra XUV700 was launched after much wait but with a lot of promise on the occasion of India's Independence Day last year. On the occasions of the country's 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday, Mahindra confirmed that it has achieved its previously stated objective of delivering 14,000 units to customers across the country. Read moreITBP constable dedicates special song to celebrate Republic Day. WatchA video of a constable from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) dedicating a song to the nation to celebrate Republic Day has won people’s hearts. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afternoon-brief-from-ht-special-horse-of-president-s-bodyguard-retires-101643181834521.html
26-01-2022||India||Republic Day 2022 parade: Vande Bharatam Nritya displays India's vibrancy in form of colours, song & dance||Showcasing a canvas of colours, song and dance, spreading across the stretch of Rajpath, dancers selected from around the country on Wednesday gave a grand performance as part of the Vande Bharatam Nritya Utsav, jointly organised by the Union ministries of defence and culture, at the Republic Day parade in Delhi.A total of 480 dancers were selected through a nationwide competition to showcase their talent during the parade at the refurbished Rajpath.The performers, in vibrant colours, were trained by the four renowned choreographers, the ministry of culture informed. These include Kathak Dancer Rani Khanam, along with Maiyetree Pahari, Tejaswini Sathe, and Santosh Nair who trained 36 teams of dancers from different states, the ministry noted.They were selected through a nationwide competition called ‘Vande Bharatam’, held at the district level with the participation of nearly 3,870 dancers in 323 groups progressed to state and zonal levels over a period of two months in November and December.This is the first time such a competition took place for Republic Day performance at Rajpath through an All India dance competition, with an aim to enhance Jan Bhagidari.In their performance, all the groups merged as a whole, yet retaining the identity of individual dance forms, in the true spirit of Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat.The music represented India's unity and diversity in its most colourful spirit and energy where traditional meets modern, folk meets contemporary, popular meets unexplored in melting pot of styles and rhythms.The artists performed four segments of dance – Classical, Folk/Tribal, Contemporary and the ‘Grand Finale’ performance. Huge props, masks, puppets and fabric added to the splendour of the symphony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2022-parade-vande-bharatam-nritya-displays-india-s-vibrancy-in-form-of-colours-song-dance-101643179830212.html
26-01-2022||India||Republic Day: Virat, elite horse of President's Bodyguard, retires||As the celebrations of 73rd Republic Day came to a close at the Rajpath, the President's Bodyguard (PBG) escorted President Ram Nath Kovind back to the Rashtrapati Bhavan. What made the occasion special was the presence of Virat, the special horse in the PBG.Republic Day 2022: Track Live UpdatesVirat was awarded the Chief of the Army Staff Commendation on the eve of Army Day on January 15. Virat is the first horse to receive the commendation for exceptional service and abilities.Watch: ITBP’s ‘Himveers’ celebrate Republic Day at 15,000 ftThe PBG announced the retirement of Virat after the conclusion of the Republic Day parade. The horse has participated successfully in the event for 13 times.Also Read | Shivangi Singh, India's first woman Rafale jet pilot, part of Air Force tableauVirat has the distinction of escorting former Presidents of India as well as current President Ram Nath Kovind with grace and dignity in ceremonial parades.Virat is considered the most trusted horse during the parade. The Hanoverian breed horse was included in the bodyguard family in 2003. He is also called the President's bodyguard's “charger”.Virat is a disciplined horse and known for his built and size. Hindustan Times’ sister publication Livehindustan quoted an officer to report that Virat performed exceptionally well despite his old age during the Republic Day parade and Beating the Retreat ceremony in 2021.The President’s Bodyguard are the most elite regiment in the Indian Army, handpicked by height and heritage from a pool of thousands and bedecked in the finest regalia befitting their status.The 200-strong cavalry unit, have for centuries been assigned to India’s uppermost VIPs, from British viceroys to modern-day heads of state.Every Republic Day, the horsemen - draped in fine red coats, golden sashes and resplendent turbans - escort the president to the stage and give the order for the national anthem to begin.The PBG personnel are also capable tankmen and paratroopers. The bodyguards are not charged with protecting the president. His security detail is provided by Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-elite-horse-of-president-s-bodyguard-virat-retires-101643180815448.html
26-01-2022||India||Republic Day: BSF, Pak Army exchange sweets, greetings at Attari-Wagah border||In a goodwill gesture, Border Security Force (BSF) and Pakistan Army exchanged sweets and greetings at the Attari-Wagah border on India's 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid homage to the fallen soldiers at the newly built National War Memorial (NWM) today morning in New Delhi, prior to participating in the 73rd Republic Day celebrations.Defense Minister Rajnath Singh, Minister of State for Defense Ajay Bhatt, Defense Secretary, Ajay Kumar, and the Chiefs of the Indian Armed Forces, i.e, Army, Air Force, and Navy, were also present on this occasion.The Inter services Guards was formed by 7 Soldiers from each service. This year, the guards were commanded by a Naval Officer, Lt Cdr Amit Kumar Rathi. The Contingent commander was Sqn Ldr Akash Gangas.When the Prime Minister laid the wreath, the Inter services guards presented 'Salami Shastra' followed by 'Shok Shastra'. Simultaneously, the buglers sounded the 'Last Post'.Later, PM Modi and other dignitaries will head to the saluting dais at Rajpath to witness the Republic Day parade.The celebrations this year are special as Republic Day falls in the 75th year of Independence, being celebrated as 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' across the country.To mark the occasion, the Ministry of Defence has conceptualized a series of new events during the main parade on Rajpath on January 26 and the 'Beating the Retreat' ceremony at Vijay Chowk on January 29.It has been decided that the Republic Day celebrations will now be week-long from January 23-30 every year. This year, the celebrations commenced on January 23, the birth anniversary of great freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, and culminate on January, 30 which is observed as Martyrs' Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-bsf-pak-army-exchange-sweets-greetings-at-attari-wagah-border-101643177679192.html
26-01-2022||India||Watch: 1st-time cockpit view of Air Force's fly-past formations on Republic Day||For the first time, viewers of the Republic Day Parade 2022 got to see breathtaking visuals of fly-past formations from the cockpit. Special arrangements were made to introduce the cockpit view and pilot view of the flypast. A total of 59 cameras and 160 personnel have been engaged for this cockpit coverage of the IAF's flypast. The special arrangement was made as this year's flypast was the ‘grandest and the largest with the participation of 75 aircraft marking the 75 years of the Independence, commemorating which India is celebrating the Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav.The flypast began with the 'Dhwaj' formation with four Mi-17 aircraft, followed by 'Rudra' and 'Rahat' formations with four and five Advanced Light Helicopters (ALH), respectively. Among the other aircraft that displayed their might at the parade are Rafale, Indian Navy's MiG29K, P-8I surveillance aircraft and Jaguar fighter jets.Full coverage of Republic Day 2022 paradeRahat formationThis formation comprises five ALH ac flying in five ac arrowhead formation.The cockpit view of #Rahat formation comprising five ALH ac flying in five ac #Arrowhead formation. The formation flying at 60m AOL over water channel North of Rajpath. #AzadiKaAmritMahotsav #RepublicDay pic.twitter.com/ImuOMv8zWPAmrit formationThis formation comprises 17 Jaguar ac making a figure of 75. This was the concluding formation of the flypast. #Amrit formation comprises of 17 Jaguar ac making a figure of 75 is led by Gp Capt Avinash Singh, Gp Capt Gourav Arjariya, Wg Cdr Sandeep Jain, Gp Capt NP Verma, Wg Cdr Prakhar, Wg Cdr Rohit Rai, Wg Cdr Siddartha, Wg Cdr Ankush Tomar & Wg Cdr Pawar. #AzadiKaAmritMahotsav pic.twitter.com/OiEtRFcLatVaruna formationThis formation comprises 1 P8i ac with 2 MiG-29K. Cockpit view of #Varuna formation comprising 1 P8i ac with 2 MiG-29K ac in echelon flying in Vic formation at 360 AOL behind Trishul formation.#AzadiKaAmritMahotsav pic.twitter.com/yDGHMooWoxBaaz formationThe Baaz formation comprises a Rafale, two Jaguar, 2 MiG-29 UPG, 2 Si-30 Mi. Cockpit view of #Baaz formation comprising 1 Rafale, 2 Jaguar, 2 MiG-29 UPG, 2 Su-30 MI ac in seven ac 'Arrowhead' formation flying at 300m AOL. #AzadiKaAmritMahotsav pic.twitter.com/53JEpxscgVWhile those who watched the broadcast on television saw those breathtaking cockpit videos on the television, for the viewers at the parade ground, these views were shown on the screens. Apart from these formations, the flypast included Tangail formation which saw one Dakota and two Dornier flying in Vic formation. This was a tribute to the Tangail airdrop operations of the 1971 War.There was also a Meghna formation of 1 Chinook and four Mi-17s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-1st-time-cockpit-view-of-air-force-s-fly-past-formations-on-republic-day-101643179977608.html
26-01-2022||India||Republic Day: No ‘At Home’ ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhavan||NEW DELHI: There will be no “At Home” ceremony at Rashtrapati Bhavan possibly for the first time since the Republic Day celebrations started. Officials said they could not say for certain that this was unprecedented but it was “likely”.“I cannot say about history but yes this is the first of its kind due to the pandemic,” said Ajay Singh, the press secretary to the President. A second official added they have not checked Rashtrapati Bhavan records but they could not recall any other such instance.President Ram Nath Kovind held the “At Home” reception for the Prime Minister, his council of ministers, and top officials after the Independence Day and Republic Day celebrations last year. But only 100 guests were invited while traditionally the guest list has gone up to 2,000 people.The ceremony has been a key feature of both Republic Day and Independence Day celebrations. This year, even a limited guest list was deemed unfeasible in view of the Omicron-driven Covid-19 wave although cases have been declining. “It has been an integral part of Republic and Independence Day celebrations,’’ said SM Khan, who was President APJ Abdul Kalam’s press secretary. “It is an opportunity for people from various walks to meet the PM (Prime Minister) and the President and to interact with each other. They all get a sense of participation in the function which the parade does not give.’’Venu Rajamony, who was the press secretary to President Pranab Mukherjee, said it is sad that “At Home” has been cancelled this year due to Covid. “I cannot recall any other year in which such cancellation has happened before though on one occasion due to winter rain, the event was shifted indoor. The reception on Republic Day has been a lovely tradition. It could be described as the largest public reception that Delhi witnesses every year and that too in the most beautiful surroundings possible,” he said. Rajamony said the Republic Day coincides with the season when the roses of the Mughal Gardens are in full bloom. “It has been an occasion for a large number of people from various walks of life coming together and meeting each other as well as the President, the foreign dignitary invited for the Republic Day...the Prime Minister, ministers, etc. I hope the event will be reinstated next year.”Similar events governors host in states have also been cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-no-at-home-ceremony-at-rashtrapati-bhavan-101643179183350.html
26-01-2022||India||R-Day: President Ram Nath Kovind receives 21-gun salute at Rajpath||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday received the 21-gun salute at the Rajpath in New Delhi on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day. The salute is also presented during Independence Day or when foreign heads of state visit India.The salute is performed by firing cannons or artillery. A total of 21 cannons are fired at an interval of 2.25 seconds to cover the 52-second long National Anthem in 3 successive rounds of 7 cannons each.In this year's Republic Day Parade, the 21-gun salute was presented to President Ram Nath Kovind by the Ceremonial Battery of 871 Field Regiment under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Jitender Singh Mehta.President Ram Nath Kovind leads the nation in celebrating the 73rd #RepublicDay The 21-Gun Salute is presented by Ceremonial Battery of 871 Field Regiment pic.twitter.com/gGBVxC2qkXBefore the beginning of the Republic Day parade this year, President Kovind, who is also the commander-in-chief of the armed forces, posthumously awarded Ashok Chakra to Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Babu Ram of the Jammu and Kashmir Police.The Republic Day parade every year showcases the country's military valour, cultural diversity and other unique initiatives taken by the government. It is being held for a second consecutive time amid the Covid-19 pandemic with participants donning a face mask as they marched on Rajpath.The parade was led by Lieutenant General Vijay Kumar Mishra, a second-generation Army officer, who has been awarded the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal.The parade saw participation from the Army, Navy and Air Force along with the para-military forces. Cadets of the National Cadet Corps (NCC), which is the country's military youth wing, also took part.The Indian Army's new combat uniform was worn by the elite Parachute Regiment as it presented its unique march at Rajpath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rday-president-ram-nath-kovind-receives-21-gun-salute-at-rajpath-101643175350643.html
26-01-2022||India||Shivangi Singh, India's first woman Rafale jet pilot, part of Air Force tableau||India's first woman pilot to fly a Rafale fighter jet, Shivangi Singh, was part of the Indian Air Force tableau at the Republic Day parade on Wednesday. Shivangi is the second female fighter jet pilot to be part of the IAF tableau, after Bhawna Kanth, who became the first female fighter jet pilot to be part of the IAF tableauCountry's first woman Rafale fighter jet pilot Flight Lieutenant Shivangi Singh is a part of the Indian Air Force tableau as the @IAF_MCC band and marching contingent marches down the Rajpath#RepublicDay #RepublicDayIndia pic.twitter.com/n35YZ0xp4FThe theme of this year's IAF tableau was Indian Air Force, transforming for the future. Following the march past in 12 rows and 8 columns, the tableau came on Rajpath showing scaled-down models of Rafale fighter jet, indigenously developed light combat helicopter (LCH) and 3D surveillance radar Aslesha MK-1. It also featured a scaled-down model of MiG-21 aircraft that played a major role in the 1971 war.Shivangi Singh joined the Indian Air Force in 2017 and was commissioned in the IAF's second batch of women fighter pilots.Before flying Rafale, Shivangi flew MiG-21 Bison aircraft.Shivangi is from Varanasi and is part of the IAF's Golden Arrows squadron based out of Ambala in Punjab.In 2020, Shivangi Singh became the first woman fighter pilot to fly Rafale after she was selected as a Rafale pilot following a stringent selection process.The first batch of Rafale fighter jets arrived on July 29, 2020, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 aircraft at a cost of ₹59,000 crore. So far, 32 Rafale jets have been delivered to the IAF and four are expected by April this year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivangi-singh-india-s-first-woman-rafale-jet-pilot-part-of-air-force-tableau-101643178250152.html
26-01-2022||India||Data Privacy Day: Disappearing messages, self-destructing chats and other measures to protect privacy||Data privacy has been one of the hot topics of discussion in a digitally connected world. The issue has become pertinent at the time of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, when more and more people are forced to spend time in the online world.Privacy is a means of ensuring online safety for all individuals and Data Privacy Day, which is celebrated on January 28, seeks to spread the awareness about the same.A failure to safeguard one’s privacy could not only result in exploitation, but also criminal offences against internet users.With the proliferation of instant messaging mobile applications, such as WhatsApp and Telegram etc, people are more concerned about protecting their data.To allay their fears, these companies have rolled out many security features like end-to-end encryption to ensure that exchange of information is not visible to anyone other than the two people involved in the particular conversation. Both WhatsApp and Telegram have this feature.However, governments across the world have been putting pressure on internet companies to allow them access to these conversations. They want tech companies to build "back doors" for law enforcement to access encrypted platforms.This, they say, will create a safer space for citizens as the government clamps down on bad actors and mischief-makers, preventing the spread of viral misinformation and also putting a stop to organised crime.Here's how you can ensure data privacy and check the spread of misinformation, using security measures made available by tech companies and mobile phone manufacturers:Two-Step verification: This helps users add an extra layer of security to their end-to-end encrypted messaging account. The process requires setting up of a PIN (a numerical code) when resetting and verifying the chat account, in the event of SIM card being stolen or phone being compromised.Touch ID or Face ID lock: Additional features available in a wide variety of phone manufactured by leading companies, like Apple, Samsung, Google etc. Some of the phones even offer under screen fingerprint sensors, which use ultrasound to build image of people’s fingers.Forward limits: Some messaging apps like WhatsApp have set a limit on forwarding messages to just five chats at once, restricting the sharing of information and taking an important step in checking the spread misinformation. Data from these companies shows that the move has reduced the number of forwarded messages in India by over 25 per cent.Additional limits for viral messages: WhatsApp has set additional limits on messages which have been sent many times. Such messages are marked with double arrows and labeled as “Forwarded many times” to indicate they did not originate from a close contact and can only be forwarded to one other chat at a time. The messaging services also allow users to block accounts and report about messages to the company.Disappearing messages: Messaging service WhatsApp launched this feature let users send messages that disappear. Once enabled, new messages sent in the individual or group chat will disappear after seven days. WhatsApp has also launched the ‘view once’ feature that makes photos and videos disappear after they’ve been opened, giving users even more control over their privacy. Telegram, meanwhile, allows self-destructing messages that leave no trace even on its servers.Admin controls: Users are empowered with controls on some end-to-end encrypted messaging services. A new setting on WhatsApp enables administrators to decide who can send messages within groups. In Telegram, secret chats are not part of its cloud and can only be accessed on the devices of origin.End-to-end encrypted backup: On WhatsApp, users can now add the same layer of end-to-end encryption to protect their chat backups on iCloud or Google Drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-privacy-day-how-users-can-protect-their-privacy-check-details-101643177841361.html
26-01-2022||India||TN girl’s suicide death: Man behind controversial video clip belongs to VHP||CHENNAI: A video clip made two days before the death of a 17-year-old tribal girl in Tamil Nadu’s Ariyalur district, sparking claims by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that she died due to forced conversion, was filmed by P Muthuvel, a member of the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), HT has found.Muthuvel, who was arrested in 2019 for attacking two Christian preachers in the district, did not report the alleged conversion to the police before the girl’s death, and shared the video clip on social media only after she died by suicide.In her dying declaration before a judicial magistrate, the girl blamed her hostel warden, who is in custody, of constantly hitting her and scolding her and did not mention conversion as the reason behind her decision to kill herself.On January 17, an FIR was lodged against the hostel warden over the girl’s suicide. Police probed the matter and learnt that the girl was facing pressure at home from her step-mother and never mentioned the issue of conversion.But the case took the conversion angle once the video clip of the girl was circulated on social media. The BJP cited the footage as what it claimed was evidence of alleged forced conversion and held protests across Tamil Nadu.In a dying declaration before judicial magistrate 1 Thanjavur three days before her death on January 16, the girl, who studied at a Christian residential school in Thanjavur district, accused her hostel warden of corporal punishment.The girl said in her declaration that the warden told her in Tamil “to go die”. She also claimed that the warden allegedly hit her and scolded her. The girl was allegedly refused leave including when she was sick and during the Christmas holidays, and made to stay back to work. “She tortured me… She is the cause behind this,” the girl told the magistrate in her declaration, a copy of which HT has accessed.An assistant physician on duty recorded that the “patient was conscious, oriented and in a fit state of mind throughout the recording of the dying declaration”.A day after the declaration was recorded, Muthuvel recorded a 45-second video clip, which purportedly shows the girl saying that the warden urged her parents to convert her to Christianity two years ago and promised to sponsor her education.“Could be,” the girl purportedly responds in the video when the person recording it asks her if the alleged harassment happened because she didn’t convert.Muthuvel, who handed over the phone that was used to record the video to the police on Tuesday for forensic analysis as per the Madras high court’s directions, was among three people arrested in February 2019 for assaulting two Christian preachers.On January 24, the high court, which is hearing a plea for a CB-CID probe into the matter, observed that the girl’s parents confirmed there was a conversion attempt.Muthuvel claimed the girl’s parents asked him to record the video when he went to meet them on January 17.The girl told the magistrate that she consumed pesticide on January 9 at the hostel, but didn’t tell anyone about it and she was being treated for vomiting. She was taken home on January 10 and then rushed to a hospital on January 15, where she died four days later.A police officer said Muthuvel waited for two days and released the video after the girl, who topped her Class 10 exams, died. “The child’s uncle has friends in the VHP, though he is not a member, and that is how Muthuvel got involved,” the officer said, requesting anonymity.The warden, 74, was arrested on January 18 on charges of harassing the girl. A preliminary police probe suggested the girl, whose mother is no more, did not have a supportive home environment. Her father, a dairy farmer, lives with her stepmother.“Several people including school students told us that she wanted to stay back in the hostel and not go home [even during holidays],” said the officer. “Since she was in the hostel most of the time, the warden would ask her to do some work. She was a bright student, so she was made to handle the accounts.”Inspector general of police S Balakrishnan said the girl may have faced pressures. “The suicide seems to have been triggered by several angles. We are investigating all of them,” he said.”
26-01-2022||India||Republic Day parade: Indian Army showcases Centurion tank, PT-76 from 1971 war||The Indian Army on Wednesday showcased at the Republic Day parade the Centurion tank, PT-76 tank, 75/24 Pack howitzer and OT-62 TOPAZ armoured personnel carrier that played a major role in defeating Pakistan in the 1971 war.India in 2021 celebrated the Swarnim Vijay Varsh (Golden victory year) to commemorate India's win over Pakistan in the 1971 war that led to the creation of Bangladesh.On Wednesday, the mechanised columns of the Army showed one PT-76 tank, one Centurion tank, two MBT Arjun MK-I tanks, one OT-62 TOPAZ armoured personnel carrier, one BMP-I infantry fighting vehicle and two BMP-II infantry fighting vehicles.One 75/24 Pack howitzer, two Dhanush howitzers, one PMS bridge-laying system, two Sarvatra bridge-laying systems, one HT-16 electronic warfare system, two Taran Shakti electronic warfare systems, one Tiger Cat missile system and two Akash missile systems were also part of the mechanised columns at the Republic Day parade.At the parade, the detachment of Centurion tank of "The Poona Horse' regiment was led by Captain Rahul Sharma.Centurion was the main stay of the Indian Army in the 1971 Indo-Pak war. At the Battle of Basantar during the war, an armoured division and a brigade of the Pakistan 1 Corps confronted two brigades of the Indian 1 Corps equipped with Centurion tanks. Casualties were heavy on the Pakistan side with 46 tanks destroyed. The PT-76 tank at the parade was led by Captain Anshuman Tiwari of 69 Armoured Regiment.The PT-76 saw action in the Indo-Pak wars of 1965 and 1971. The Battle of Bogra in the 1971 war was fought by the 69 Armour Regiment with the help of PT-76 tanks.The Battle of Garibpur of the 1971 war is another example where the Indian Army's infantry battalion with only 14 PT-76 tanks was able to maul a much larger brigade of Pakistani armour and inflict heavy casualties. During the Battle of Garibpur, many Pakistani M24 Chaffee tanks were destroyed. OT-62 Topaz armoured personnel carrier, which also played a pivotal role during the 1971 war, was led by Major Ravi Kumar of the Mechanised Infantry Regiment during Wednesday's parade.The 75/24 Pack howitzer was the first indigenously developed mountain gun. It actively participated in the 1965 Indo-Pak war and 1971 Indo-Pak war.The gun, which weighs 983 kgs and could fire up to a maximum range of 11,104 metres, was phased out in 1980s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-parade-indian-army-showcases-centurion-tank-pt-76-from-1971-war-101643175592238.html
26-01-2022||India||PM Modi wears Uttarakhand's Brahmakamal cap, Manipuri stole: Details here||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Republic Day 2022 attire presented some surprises as PM Modi ditched the tradition of wearing colourful turbans on the occasion of Republic Day. Instead, he was seen with a cap which many experts confirmed is from Uttarkhand. Brahmakamal, the official flower of poll-bound Uttarakhand, is inscribed on the cap, reports said. Minister of state for defence Ajay Bhatt was also wearing the same cap.Apart from his signature white kurta complemented with a jacket, PM Modi was seen wearing a Manipuri stole. Both Manipur and Uttarkhand are going to the polls in a few weeks.Full coverage of Republic Day 2022 paradeUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami thanked PM Modi for representing the state's heritage in front of the world. "Today, on the occasion of 73rd Republic Day, honourable Prime Minister Sri Narendra Modiji has made the culture and tradition of our state proud by wearing the cap of Devbhoomi Uttarakhand, adorned with Brahma Kamal. On behalf of the 1.25 crore people of Uttarakhand, I express my heartfelt gratitude to the Honourable Prime Minister," the chief minister tweeted.आज 73वें गणतंत्र दिवस के अवसर पर माननीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी ने ब्रह्मकमल से सुसज्जित देवभूमि उत्तराखण्ड की टोपी धारण कर हमारे राज्य की संस्कृति एवं परम्परा को गौरवान्वित किया है। #RepublicDay pic.twitter.com/9JDnZMHG7BManipur minister Biswajit Singh thanked PM Modi and revealed the details of the stole that PM Modi was seen wearing. It is called Leirum Phee, the minister said. "Moment of great pride and honour for entire #Manipur on seeing Adarniya PM @NarendraModi Ji wearing a Manipuri stole 'Leirum Phee' on the glorious occasion of 73rd Republic Day of India, showcasing the exquisite tradition of the state," the minister tweeted.Moment of great pride and honour for entire #Manipur on seeing Adarniya PM @NarendraModi Ji wearing a Manipuri stole 'Leirum Phee' on the glorious occasion of 73rd Republic Day of India, showcasing the exquisite tradition of the state. pic.twitter.com/DfltZ8TBsaHere is all you need to know about these two items:Brahmakamal: Brahmakamal is the state flower of Uttarkhand and is seen in abundance in the Himalayas. PM Modi uses this flower whenever he offers pooja at Kedarnath, reports said. The cap that he wore had this flower embossed on it.Leirum Phee: This is not the first time that PM Modi was seen wearing this stole. On several occasions, PM Modi was seen wearing this type of stoles which are generally seen as gamusa. Leirum Phee is Manipur's speciality. PM Modi is known for his taste in colourful headgears which have always been part of PM Modi's attire on Independence Day and Republic Day. Last year, on the 72nd Republic Day, PM Modi wore a red bandhej headgear which was a gift from the royal family of Jamnagar in Gujarat. In 2020, PM Modi had word a saffron bandhej headgear.In his first Independence Day address as the OM in 2014, he had worn a Jodhpuri bandhej and since then all his Independence Day and Republic Day appearances are marked by colourful turbans -- the colours ranging among yellow, orange, red and pink.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2022-pm-modi-ditches-traditional-turban-for-brahmakamal-cap-101643173552595.html
26-01-2022||India||Republic Day 2022: PM Modi pays tribute to fallen heroes at National War Memorial||Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the National War Memorial (NWM) on Wednesday morning, officially commencing the 73rd Republic Day events. At NWM, the Prime Minister paid tributes to the fallen heroes.Republic Day 2022: Track Live CoveragePM Modi observed two-minute silence in remembrance of the supreme sacrifice made by the bravehearts in protecting the nation and also signed the visitors' book at the memorial.Prime Minister Narendra Modi signs the diary at the #NationalWarMemorial on 73rd #RepublicDay. He will arrive at saluting base at Rajpath shortly#LIVE updates on #RepublicDay2022 - https://t.co/6g6mzDHT3k pic.twitter.com/aF2jUHVVRmPM Modi was joined by Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and the three service chiefs as he paid tributes at the solemn ceremony.The Prime Minister then reached Rajpath for the Republic Day parade. President Ram Nath Kovind will unfurl the National Flag followed by the National Anthem and a booming 21-gun salute. The parade commenced with President Kovind taking the salute.Jammu and Kashmir Police ASI Babu Ram was conferred Ashok Chakra posthumously for "displaying valour & exemplary raw courage" during an anti-terror operation in Srinagar in which he killed three terrorists in August 2020.His wife Rina Rani and son Manik receive the award from President Kovind before the parade began.This year’s parade is showcasing India's military might and cultural diversity and many unique initiatives have been included to mark the celebration of the 75th year of Independence as part of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'.A total of 21 tableaux - 12 of various states and Union Territories - nine of ministries are being showcased at the Republic Day parade this year.Last week, the Amar Jawan Jyoti flame at India Gate was merged with the flame at the NWM. The Amar Jawan Jyoti was constructed as a memorial for Indian soldiers who were killed in action in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, which India won, leading to the creation of Bangladesh.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on February 25, 2019, inaugurated the National War Memorial, where names of 26,466 soldiers have been inscribed in golden letters on granite tablets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2022-pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-fallen-heroes-at-national-war-memorial-101643171756634.html
26-01-2022||India||Kapil Sibal on Ghulam Nabi Azad's Padma: 'Ironic that Congress doesn't need his services'||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Wednesday congratulated Ghulam Nabi Azad who has been conferred with Padma Bhushan on the eve of the Republic Day and said it is ironic that the Congress does not need his services when the nation recognises his contributions to public life. “Ghulam Nabi Azad conferred Padam Bhushan. Congratulations bhaijan. Ironic that the Congress doesn’t need his services when the nation recognises his contributions to public life,” the G-23 leader said.  Ghulam Nabi Azad conferred Padam BhushanCongratulations bhaijan Ironic that the Congress doesn’t need his services when the nation recognises his contributions to public lifeThe infighting in the Congress which surface from time to time became evident soon after Ghulam Nabi Aazad was conferred with the Padma Bhushan. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh took a jibe at Ghulam Nabi Azad and referring to Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee's refusal to accept the Padma Bhushan, he said it is the right thing to do as the communist leader wants to be 'Azad not Ghulam', in a stinging attack to Ghulam Nabi Azad.Jairam Ramesh's attack made the internal tension of the Congress palpable and soon after rumours spread that Ghulam Nabi Azad has dropped the Congress from his Twitter bio. Azad dismissed such rumours and said that some mischievous propaganda was being circulated by some people to create confusion. Without mentioning the Congress, he said that nothing has been added to or deleted from his Twitter profile.Kapil Sibal who earlier slammed the Congress during the Punjab crisis and said that G-23 is not Ji Huzoor 23 extended support to Ghulam Nabi Azad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kapil-sibal-on-ghulam-nabi-azad-s-padma-ironic-that-congress-doesn-t-need-his-services-101643171858288.html
26-01-2022||India||On R-Day eve, drones create different formations at Rashtrapati Bhavan||Hundreds of drones made different formations on Tuesday evening at Rashtrapati Bhavan on the eve of 73rd Republic Day.A total of 1,000 Made in India drones made different formations as a part rehearsal for the Beating Retreat ceremony, at Vijay Chowk.Earlier, Defence Ministry had included the patriotic song 'Aey Mere Watan ke Logo' in the Beating Retreat ceremony in an effort to make the event more Indian.The hymn Abide With Me has been dropped from the event as per the details of the ceremony shared by Indian defence officials.The Beating Retreat Ceremony marks the culmination of the week-long celebration of Republic Day, with India being the world's largest democracy.Republic Day Parade 2022 is all set to showcase India's military might, cultural diversity and many unique initiatives to mark the celebration of the 75th year of Independence as part of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'.President Ram Nath Kovind will lead the Nation in celebrating 73rd Republic Day on January 26, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-r-day-eve-drones-create-different-formations-at-rashtrapati-bhavan-101643171359876.html
26-01-2022||India||After Padma award, Gen Rawat’s theatre commands mission need completion||The Narendra Modi government has taken the right step by bestowing Padma Vibhushan on late Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat, who died in a helicopter crash last month while still in harness. The award is well deserved for a CDS who put respect for military shoulders above all material gains and fought to restore its rightful glory.While General Rawat has passed into history, the Modi government and its national security planners must take the former CDS mission to fruition by announcing the military theatre commands in the 75th year of Indian Independence. Before Gen Rawat lost his life in Nilgiris, he had sent the final draft military theatre command structure and raising to the Army, Navy and Air Force Chiefs and had directed them to return the report by April 2022 with comments, if any, for incorporation into the final structure.It is not that the Modi government has put the much-required theatre commands on a back-burner after Gen Rawat’s unfortunate demise. The national security planners have had series of informal and formal meetings with the three chiefs to sort out structural or operational issues and the movement is positive. The government is tight-lipped about the military theatre commands but it is quite evident that in the final announcement each of the three services will spearhead India’s riposte in case of war with other two supporting it. While the Indian Army will spearhead guarding 15106.7 km of Indian land frontiers, the Navy will guard 7516.6 km of coastline and the Air Force will guard the skies and defend the country from any intrusion from either the north or the west. In the military theatre commands, all the three services will have a pin-pointed role, and no one will be reduced to a supporting arm as the Indian Air Force had feared in the past.Although the basic purpose of military theatres is integration and jointmanship of the three services, it is easier said than done as is evident from the India’s first and only tri-service theatre command at Andamans and Nicobar Islands. Despite the unified command being made operational in 2001, the three services tend to operate in silos and are lacking in much required synergy. Fact is synergy and integration only comes out in times of crisis and not naturally otherwise the colour of uniform decides the operational conduct.The national security planners and Gen Rawat had plans for integration of ANI command into the Maritime Theatre Command with huge military upgradation of India’s island territories, which sit on the mouth of Malacca Straits, the main route to South China Sea, and have considerable leverage over other ingress routes to Southeast and North Asia.While the Modi government will appoint the new CDS on merit plus seniority basis, it is quite evident that northern theatre command will be a separate unit headed by a commander from the Indian Army as the area faces threat from Pakistan on its western periphery and a belligerent China on its eastern periphery. The remaining land border will be handled by western command with Pakistan and eastern theatre command with China all the way up to Arunachal Pradesh. The air defence command, logistics command and cyber commands will be key elements of military theatre process. With Chinese Army already on the path of Sinicization of Tibet and Sinkiang, and planning joint moves with client state Pakistan, the Indian military does not have time for debates and discussion over integration of commands. It should be done as of yesterday.
26-01-2022||India||Bhattacharjee is latest among those who’ve refused Padma honours. Here’s a list||NEW DELHI: On Tuesday, former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee refused to accept the Padma Bhushan, saying he was not informed about his nomination for the country’s third-highest civilian award. Here is a list of people who have earlier refused to accept such awards over various reasons:- Author Gita Mehta refused to accept the Padma Shri conferred on her in 2019 for contributions to literature and education, citing the general election later that year. She said the timing of the award might be misconstrued, causing embarrassment both to the government and herself. Meha, who is Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s sister, said she believed the award was “a way to lure in Biju Janata Dal’s support by the Bharatiya Janata Party.”- Journalist Virendra Kapoor, who was jailed during the Emergency in the 1970s, refused to accept the Padma award in 2016, saying he has not accepted anything from any government and did not believe in taking anything from it.- Tamil writer and director Bahuleyan Jeyamohan also declined the Padma Shri in 2016 as he did not want to be labelled “a Hindutva sympathiser”.- Playback singer Sistla Janaki refused to accept the Padma Bhushan in 2013, saying the recognition was late and her family believed only a Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award, would do justice to her reputation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhattacharjee-is-latest-in-series-of-those-who-have-refused-padma-awards-101643170722513.html
26-01-2022||India||Andhra Pradesh cabinet clears creation of 13 more districts||The Andhra Pradesh government has revised the number of districts in the state, increasing it from the existing 13 to 26. Issuing a gazette notification on Tuesday, the state government gave a nod for the creation of 13 new districts, the process of which is expected to be completed by Telugu New Year in April.As many as 24 Lok Sabha constituencies are being converted into districts, including the Araku Lok Sabha constituency in Visakhapatnam which will be divided into two districts.The new districts include Manyam district, Alluri Sitharama Raju district, Anakapalli, Kakinada, Kona Seema, Eluru, NTR district, Bapatia, Palnadu, Nandyal, Sri Satyasai district, Annamayya district, Sri Balaji district.Here's the full list:Government of Andhra Pradesh issues a gazette notification, taking the total number of districts in the State from the existing 13 to 26 pic.twitter.com/czn80VkOPQThe last time a new district was formed in undivided Andhra Pradesh was in 1979, with the constitution of Vizianagram district.The cabinet decision came late Tuesday following which planning secretary GSRKR Vijaykumar handed over the recommendations to chief secretary Sameer Sharma. The notification was issued subsequently to be released in all districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-cabinet-clears-creation-of-13-more-districts-101643167143665.html
26-01-2022||India||Republic Day parade ceremony begins with PM's visit to National War Memorial | Watch Live||Several programmes and performances will grace Republic Day Parade 2022 including a grand flypast by 75 aircraft and helicopters of the Indian Air Force, cultural performances by 480 dancers, display of ten scrolls each of 75 metres prepared during the ‘Kala Kumbh’ event.The Republic Day parade at Rajpath will start at 10.30am.The ceremony will commence with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the National War Memorial where he will lead the nation in paying tributes to the fallen heroes. He will then head to the saluting dais at Rajpath to witness the parade. President Ram Nath Kovind will unfurl the National Flag followed by the National Anthem and a booming 21-gun salute. The parade will commence with Kovind taking the salute.The parade will be commanded by Parade Commander, Lieutenant General Vijay Kumar Mishra, Ati Vishisth Seva Medal, a second-generation Army officer.Follow live coverage of the 73rd Republic Day parade ceremony:This year, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will display two tableaux – titled ‘Suite of Indigenously Developed Sensors, Weapons and Electronic Warfare Systems for LCA Tejas’ and ‘Air Independent Propulsion System’ – signifying the defence technological advancements of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-republic-day-parade-ceremony-to-begin-with-pm-s-visit-to-national-war-memorial-101643167716297.html
26-01-2022||India||Railways' NTPC and Level 1 exams suspended amid protests||The Railways has suspended the NTPC and Level 1 exams amid massive protests by the aspirants, the Railways Recruitment Board spokesperson said. The Railways has formed a committee to examine the grievances of the protesting candidates, news agency PTI reported.  The protesting candidates on Wednesday morning set a passenger train on fire and pelted stones on police in Bihar's Arrah. The accused will be arrested after the investigation, police said.The results of the RRB NTPC for the CBT-1 exam was released on January 15 for shortlisting the candidates for the CBT-2. Candidates have started protesting alleging discrepancies in the results.Train services were hit at many places in Bihar on Tuesday as protesters squatted on railway tracks opposing the Railway Recruitment Board's decision to hold the exams in two parts. They said the second stage for final selection is tantamount to "cheating" those who appeared and cleared the first stage. Railway constitutes High Power Committee to look into Concerns of Candidates over NTPC CBT-1 Result.Candidates may submit their Grievances to Committee till 16th February, 2022https://t.co/6zNKijDA7q pic.twitter.com/7gAmAOUhFYMeanwhile, videos of police lathicharging protesting students have gone viral on social media drawing flak. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condemned the lathicharge and tweeted, "Double-engine government committed double tyranny for demanding their rightful employment. My India was not like this."Patna district administration said a mild force was used to contain the protests. "The protesters had gathered at the Rajendra Nagar Terminus in the afternoon. They were alleging discrepancies in the result of an exam conducted by Railway Recruitment Board, which was announced recently,” the district administration said in a release, adding that “mild” use of force was resorted to after attempts by officials, led by Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh and SSP Manavjeet Singh Dhillon to pacify the protesters failed.The railways ministry warned protesting candidates that they will be blacklisted for life from obtaining any railway job if they continue indulging in unlawful activities and vandalism. "RRB NTPC Protest videos will now be examined by the Ministry with the help of specialised agencies. Upon proper examination, those found in indulging in any of the mentioned activities will be penalised accordingly. They will be liable to both police action as well as lifetime debarment from a Railway job”, said the statement.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-ntpc-and-level-1-exams-suspended-amid-protests-101643169457762.html
26-01-2022||India||ITBP's 'Himveers' celebrate Republic Day at minus 35°C, hoist flag at 15,000 ft||India is celebrating the 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday. The soldiers of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) - called 'Himveers' - marked the occasion by unfurling the National Flag at 15,000 feet in minus 35 degree Celsius temperature at icy Ladakh borders.The force also posted special videos and pictures to commemorate the Republic Day of India. The video shows the soldiers braving the freezing temperatures unfurling the national flag not only at Ladakh but also at different heights at peaks of the Himalayas where they are posted to secure the India-China border.#WATCH | 'Himveers of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) celebrate #RepublicDay at 15000 feet altitude in -35 degree Celsius temperature at Ladakh borders.(Source: ITBP) pic.twitter.com/JvHchY99AEIn one such video, taken at Auli in Uttarakhand, the ITBP soldiers are seen skiing on a snow-clad mountain in a formation, at 11,000 feet in minus 20 degrees Celsius.The lead soldier leading the contingent is carrying the Tricolour.#WATCH Indo-Tibetan Border Police 'Himveers' celebrate the 73rd Republic Day at 11,000 feet in minus 20 degrees Celsius at Auli in Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/1nhbrOWSp3The 'Daredevil' bikers of the ITBP will also showcase 10 different types of formation at the Rajpath on the Republic Day Parade, which is scheduled to begin in some time. This is the first time that so many formations will be showcased.According to ITBP, Lotus Formation, Border Man's Salute, Fly Riding, Pawan Chakki, Horizontal Bar Exercise, Six-Man Balance, Arrow Position, Jaguar Position, Sentinels of the Himalayas and the theme-based Pyramid on 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' on the 75th Anniversary of India's independence will be showcased as formations on the moving bikes by the force's 'Himveers'.A total of 146 personnel and 33 Bullet Motorcycles of ITBP will participate in the Mission 'Daredevils'.Raised in 1962, the ITBP guards the icy frontiers of the nation in the Himalayas.It is a specialised mountain force where most officers are trained mountaineers and skiers. They guard the 3,488-km border from Ladakh's Karakoram Pass to Jachep La in Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/itbps-himveers-celebrate-republic-day-at-minus-35-c-hoist-flag-at-15-000-ft-101643168263047.html
26-01-2022||India||A year of Red Fort violence: Delhi Police using counter-drone tech this Republic Day||Over 27,000 police personnel have been deployed to watch over the national capital as India is celebrating the 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday. Deputy commissioners, assistant commissioners, inspectors and sub-inspectors. Armed Police Force personnel and commandos, officers and jawans of the Central Armed Police Forces have also been deployed on Republic Day duty. Last year, thousands of farmers protesting the three farm laws took out a tractor rally and stormed the Red Fort. Officials said this year all borders have been sealed and extra pickets have been deployed. No commercial vehicles will be allowed to enter the national capital. Only permitted vehicles and those engaged in essential services will be allowed. Non-permitted vehicles will be sent back while at some borders, traffic diversions and alternate routes are also in place," a senior police officer said.Live coverage of Republic Day 2022 paradeWith the three farm laws repealed, the protests of the farmers have been withdrawn but the Delhi Police have been preparing for the past two months for the Republic Day security arrangement as Delhi has always been a target for terrorists and anti-social elements.Multi-layers security has been put at the venue where President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be present as the R-Day parade begins at 10.30am."We are fully prepared. We have been preparing for almost two months now. Elaborate arrangements with multi-layered security have been made all around the district. Vehicle checking would start at the borders of New Delhi district and it would become more and more stringent as you move towards the venue," Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said.Only vehicles with authorised passes or control passes that have already been issued will be allowed to move towards the function area.All the high-rise buildings have been covered with rooftop arrangements and anti-drone equipment has been installed on a number of these structures.Security arrangements for the Central Vista project have also been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-of-red-fort-violence-delhi-police-using-counter-drone-tech-this-republic-day-101643167981600.html
26-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Buddhadeb wants no visit, call from officials over Padma, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee requests no visit, call from govt officials over PadmaFormer West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee requested the government officials to not call or visit him regarding the matter of Padma Bhushan, which the communist veteran, on the eve of the Republic Day, has rejected. Read more…Rafales, Jaguars: Lt Gen (R) Satish Dua on India's military might @ R-Day paradeFormer chief of integrated defence staff Lt Gen (Retd) Satish Dua said the Indian Army has taken path-breaking strides as far as defence preparedness is concerned. In an interview with Hindustan Times’ Senior Editor, Aditi Prasad, Lt Gen (Retd) Satish Dua sheds light on what can be expected from this year’s Republic Day parade. Watch the video for more.'Time for Virat to prove why he is the best batter in the world': Warne expects Kohli to 'score hundreds in all formats'Of all the similarities and comparisons drawn between Virat Kohli and Sachin Tendulkar, this one stands out. In 2007, Tendulkar, who had already racked up 78 international centuries, was struggling to get to the elusive three-figure mark. Between March of 2007 and January of 2008, Tendulkar was dismissed in the 90s seven times – thrice on 99. Read more…Ankita Lokhande says she got married to party: 'just wanted to spend that money'Ankita Lokhande has said that Archana, her popular character from Pavitra Rishta, is a changed woman in the new season of the web show that will soon be streaming on ZEE5. The actor said in a new interview with Hindustan Times that Archana is no longer a goddess sacrificing for others and she will be seen voicing her feelings in the upcoming show. Read more…Deepika Padukone is unstoppable queen of fashion in ₹90k mini blazer dress for Gehraiyaan promotionsActor Deepika Padukone's sartorial choices for Gehraiyaan promotions are a gift that keeps giving. After delighting fans with two ultra-glamorous looks in bodycon ensembles, the star is back with another monochromatic look that secures her position as the unstoppable queen of fashion. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-buddhadeb-wants-no-visit-call-from-officials-over-padma-and-all-the-latest-news-101643165439532.html
26-01-2022||India||Haryana to showcase achievements of sportspersons at Republic Day celebrations||NEW DELHI: Tableaus representing 12 states, Union Territories, and nine ministries for the Republic Day celebrations include that of Haryana highlighting achievements of its sportspersons. Haryana’s tableau will feature Olympians and Paralympians, including Bajrang Punia (wrestler), Sumit Antil (javelin thrower), and Rani Rampal (hockey captain), etc. A life-size replica of the Olympic gold medallist Neeraj Chopra, who has been awarded the Param Vishisht Seva Medal, will also be on the tableau.Meghalaya’s tableau will showcase 50 years of its statehood and be a tribute to the women-led cooperative societies and self-help groups in the state. It will feature the state’s traditional bamboo and cane handicraft and highlight the contribution of women to the state’s economy.India Post’s tableau is focused on women empowerment and foot soldiers, the postmen and women. It also highlights India Post’s evolution and features the All-Women Post Office set up in Delhi in 2013.The Union jal shakti ministry’s tableau depicts how the Jal Jeevan Mission improved the quality of living for people at an altitude of over 13,000 feet in Ladakh by providing clean tap water in temperatures dipping to minus 20 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-to-showcase-achievements-of-sportspersons-at-republic-day-celebrations-101643167545303.html
26-01-2022||India||Cold day, cold wave likely to continue for two more days in northwest India||NEW DELHI: Cold day conditions as well as a cold wave are likely to affect several parts of northwest India on Wednesday and Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned. A cold day signifies below-normal maximum temperature, usually during the day time, while a cold wave is a very low night or early-morning minimum temperature. A cold day is likely to prevail in isolated pockets of western Madhya Pradesh during the next three to four days. Cold day to severe cold day conditions are likely in many parts of Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh. Some parts of eastern Madhya Pradesh may see the same conditions till January 28, alongside central Maharashtra and Gujarat.Dense and very dense fog conditions at night and morning hours are likely in isolated pockets of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh during the next two days.A western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Uttar Pradesh while another one is lying in the Comorin area of southern Tamil Nadu.Also, a western disturbance is likely to affect the western Himalayan region from January 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-day-cold-wave-likely-to-continue-for-two-more-days-in-northwest-india-101643166042050.html
26-01-2022||India||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee requests no visit, call from govt officials over Padma Bhushan row||Former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee has requested that government officials should not call or visit him regarding the matter of Padma Bhushan, which the communist veteran, on the eve of the Republic Day, has rejected. Bengal CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Misra issued the statement on Buddha's behalf and said he can be reached via post because of his physical condition."It is difficult for Buddha da to move frequently, read or write. If we have to take some advice from him, we write it down, read it out to him and then take his consent. His brain is working better than before. On this issue, it is our responsibility to publish his reaction as is," Mishra wrote on Twitter.After his name was announced for Padma Bhushan, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, through his party colleagues, released a statement in which he said, "I don't know anything about Padma Bhusan award, none has said anything about it. If I have been given Padma Bhushan I refuse to accept it."
26-01-2022||India||'Udhar bhi sab apne hain': Shashi Tharoor's swipe at defections from Congress to BJP||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday took an apparent swipe at recent defections to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the latest being RPN Singh, a former minister in the UPA-led government. Posting a quatrain from his official Twitter handle, Tharoor suggested that the BJP now looks familiar as many members have switched over from Congress.“Everyone is leaving home, Maybe they have some other dreams, Now the other side seems familiar, Now that they are our own (Congress-Yukt BJP!)” Tharoor tweeted in Hindi, taking a jibe at BJP's ‘Congress-mukta Bharat’ campaign.छोड़कर जा रहे हैं घर अपनाशायद उनके कुछ और सपने हैंअब उधर भी सब अपना सा हैअब उधर भी तो सभी अपने हैं(काँग्रेस युक्त भाजपा!)RPN Singh joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday hours after resigning from the primary membership of the Congress party. He shared his resignation letter on Twitter stating that he will be starting a new chapter in his political journey."I hereby tender my resignation from the primary membership of the Indian National Congress with immediate effect," the letter stated. "I thank you for providing me an opportunity to serve the nation, its people and the party."Singh, who was the Congress party in-charge in Jharkhand, was named as a star campaigner by the party for the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections starting next month. Addressing a press conference at BJP headquarters, Singh said that Congress has not remained the same and he will “work as a 'karyakarta' towards fulfilling Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dreams for India.”Singh is among several Congressmen, including Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitiin Prasad, minister in the Uttar Pradesh government, to join BJP in recent years. Congress MLA from Rae Bareli, Aditi Singh also recently jumped ship saying the UP constituency is no longer a bastion of the grand old party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/udhar-bhi-sab-apne-hain-tharoor-s-swipe-at-defections-from-congress-to-bjp-101643164178718.html
26-01-2022||India||PM Modi, home minister Amit Shah, extend wishes on India's 73rd Republic Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday extended wishes to all citizens on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day.Taking to Twitter, Prime Minister Modi said, “Wishing you all a happy Republic Day. Jai Hind!”आप सभी को गणतंत्र दिवस की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। जय हिंद!Wishing you all a happy Republic Day. Jai Hind! #RepublicDayUnion home minister Amit Shah, on the other hand, paid tribute to all soldiers who dedicated their lives to keep the pride, unity and integrity of the country's republic intact.Also Read| Republic Day Parade: Nation to witness many firsts at Rajpath event“Let us all pledge today to ensure our commitment to the democratic values of freedom,” Shah tweeted.Defence minister Rajnath Singh said that Republic Day is an occasion to celebrate the country's democracy and cherish the ideas and values enshrined in the Constitution. “Praying for the continued progress and prosperity of our country,” Singh wrote on the microblogging site.Greetings and warm wishes to the citizens of India on the occasion of 73rd #RepublicDay. This is an occasion to celebrate our democracy and cherish the ideas and values enshrined in our Constitution. Praying for the continued progress and prosperity of our country.This is the second consecutive year that Republic Day celebrations are being held amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.In a few hours from now, the iconic parade will begin at the Rajpath in New Delhi. The parade will start with President Ram Nath Kovind taking the salute. This year, only 12 tableaux out of the total 21 will be shown due to the Covid-19 crisis.To give better live coverage of celebrations, multiple cameras have been installed by government broadcaster Doordarshan at strategic locations including the national stadium dome, the National War Memorial among others.Also Read| Republic Day 2022: Here’s when and where to watch parade ceremonyIn Rajpath, a 360-degree camera has been installed to give people a bird's eye view of the celebrations as they unfold. Another such camera has been placed on top of the India Gate.Security has been tightened in the national capital and more than 27,000 personnel of the Delhi Police have been deployed on security duties. Companies of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) will also assist in security. All anti-terror measures have been intensified.The Delhi Police has said that CCTVs fitted with facial recognition software and anti-drone equipment have been installed.All major border points in Delhi including Tikri, Ghazipur and Singhu have been sealed to prevent any untoward incident. Patrolling has been intensified at these border points.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-home-minister-amit-shah-extend-wishes-on-india-s-73rd-republic-day-101643162510960.html
26-01-2022||India||Lt Cdr Aanchal Sharma: Saluting the President at Rajpath will be a lifetime achievement||New DelhiAs the Indian Naval contingent marches to the gallant tune of Jai Bharati, for the Republic Day parade at Delhi’s Rajpath this year, it’ll be a splendidly inspiring sight to watch Lieutenant Commander Aanchal Sharma — an observer officer posted at the Indian Naval Air Squadron (INAS) 314 — lead the contingent of 96 young sailors and four officers, including herself. “Attired in ceremonials, marching briskly, and saluting the President at Rajpath will be a lifetime achievement for me; I will cherish it throughout my life,” she says with a josh in her voice that’s infectious. More women are leading from the front in the armed forces now, and Lt Cdr Sharma opines: “As a woman officer, I feel no difference from any of my male counterparts. As a matter of fact, we are given equal opportunities and taskings. I have never felt second to anyone and the kind of atmosphere which is there in the Indian Navy is very inspiring. I will always be grateful to Indian Navy for making me a better officer everyday, and for giving every individual fair chance in every field.” And to those who watch her leading the contingent, this officer says: “Not only in the Armed Forces, but everywhere women have proved their mettle time and again. To all the young girls out there, I would like to say ‘Keep chasing your dreams!’ Perseverance, hard work and your dedication will always lead you to success.” Honoured to lead the Indian Naval Contingent, she shares how its members are “full of passion and pride and each individual has the sense of honour to be a fauji”. As people, the world over, watched them practise every day of January, with pride and honour, this naval officer informs about the “gruelling” and “rigorous” efforts that went behind the preparations for the parade that began much before the practise sessions kick started. “In December end our contingent started practising at Rajpath, which was the second phase of our training. We used to assemble at sharp 5am, and after warming up and pre-rehearsal drills, commence with the parade practice that would continue for 5-6 hours. Our practice was conducted under the strict supervision of the Gunnery Officer and the drill instructors, who constantly monitored and guided the team for improvements in drill standards. They focussed on the minutest of details and intricacies of our drill providing the necessary course correction.... We have been practising for two months now. We started our journey at INS India wherein the officers were selected, followed by our training phase at INS Chilka, wherein we underwent our first phase of training. Our practice, which covered a distance of almost 16 kilometres daily was primarily focused on building our physical as well as mental strength, endurance and stamina. The initial days did cause a lot of fatigue, however, we all had one goal in mind and that was to make it to the Republic Day 2022 celebrations! With time we improved... see the contingent today, it is full of passion and pride. The josh and courage of the contingent is unmatchable. It’s indeed an honour to be leading the Indian Naval Contingent,” she adds.Crediting the force for developing her personality as an individual, she shares how she felt a special inclination towards the defence forces since her childhood. “Though I worked in corporate for two years, I was not prepared to settle for less. I had always wanted to join in Combat Role, and at the time of my preparations Indian Navy provided the opportunity to join as an Observer - A Naval Air Tacticians, which obviously was my first choice. Since then the Indian Navy has given me ample opportunities to prove my mettle. Not only did the Navy help me build my physical strength, but also developed my skills intellectually as a Naval Air Operations Officer.”In the last five and half years of her service, she has indeed achieved many milestones. “I was awarded the Most Promising Naval Orientation Cadet trophy in Naval Academy, Best in Overall Merit in Ground Subjects, during my Observer Phase, FOC-in-C (West) commendation during my Staff Appointment at INAS 314, and I am now leading the Naval Contingent at Rajpath,” she recalls, and shares about the time when she was undergoing intensive training at the Naval Academy, which provided her with an exercise to expose herself to her fear of height and water. Feeling proud to have overcome it, she says, “Now as an Observer, I am operating in the blue skies high above the oceans.” Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lt-cdr-aanchal-sharma-saluting-the-president-on-rajpath-will-be-a-lifetime-achievement-101643163951172.html
26-01-2022||India||Omicron may have prolonged effect in India; Covid can't be eradicated: Harvard immunologist||Harvard immunologist Dr Shiv Pillai has said that Covid-19 will never be completely eradicated but vaccines and drugs will hopefully change many things in a few years down the line. The ongoing Omicron wave may have a prolonged effect in India, the immunologist expressed concerns as not much is known about the second version of Omicron (BA.2) that has started spreading in the country. "In India, there is a variant of Omicron BA.2 that's also spreading, it is different from Omicron. In fact, Omicron BA.1 is the original, but it's slightly different," Dr Pillai Professor of Medicine and Health Sciences and Technology, director, Harvard Immunology Graduate Programme at the Harvard Medical School, said to ANI.BA.1, the first version of the Omicron, is slightly milder than the original virus and its variants like Alpha, Beta, Delta and did not affect the lungs badly. But with BA.2, it can't be confirmed as it is just being reported."Immunity from BA.1 first Omicron might give us some immunity against the second one BA.2. But will that second one be as mild? Not proven yet. We'll see the data will probably come from South Africa and India first. Because in India, BA.2 has taken over it is the most common version in India right now. It's rising the second version of Omicron," Dr Pillai said.South Africa and the United States too have many BA.2 cases, Dr Pillai said, adding that it is not clear whether BA.2 will replace BA.1 and create another surge.Agreeing with scientists who are of the opinion that Covid will become endemic, Dr Pillai said the virus will live on at some level, maybe in a less virulent form. Vaccinations and drugs will change a lot of things, the immunologist said.The government's expert committee on genome sequencing (INSACOG) has said that Omicron is now in community transmission and has become dominant in multiple metros. "BA.2 lineage is a substantial fraction in India and S-gene dropout based screening is thus likely to give high false negatives," INSACOG said.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-may-have-prolonged-effect-in-india-covid-can-t-be-eradicated-harvard-immunologist-101643161500652.html
26-01-2022||India||Top outreach bureau officer Satyendra Prakash conferred with national award for raising poll participation||Satyendra Prakash, the Principal Director General (DG) of the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC), was conferred with the national award for enhancing electoral participation through voter awareness and education in 2021-22. The Election Commission of India (ECI) conferred the award to Prakash on the occasion of National Voters Day 2022. Union minister of law and justice Kiren Rijiju and chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra were present during the award ceremony at Ashoka Hotel, New Delhi. Prakash has received the prize for his contribution in educating and creating awareness for enhancing the people’s participation in casting votes during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Prakash's contribution in devising new techniques to reach the masses post Covid-19, when direct interaction is a challenge, was very significant, according to a release. His efforts have led to an increase in the percentage of voter’s participation to 67.47% in 2019 which was 58.19 % in the year 2009.Bureau of Outreach and Communication with its 23 Regional Outreach Bureaus (ROBs) and 148 Field Outreach Bureaus (FOBs) are messaging through WhatsApp, Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, SMS, telephonic calls and webinars to increase voters' participation. Awareness activities by audio announcement using the Branded Mobile Vans are also used as a major tool for reaching the people in the present situation.Various voter awareness campaigns and education programmes as part of the Systematic Voters' Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) activities have been carried out through cultural programmes, digital exhibitions, photo exhibitions, door to door campaigns, magic shows, nukkad nataks, demonstrations, and rallies, among others. BOC identifies mainly the low voter turnout areas and, through such campaigns, make the outreach activities more focused to disseminate the message of ‘No Voter to Be Left Behind’.Prakash was earlier awarded the ‘Rajat Kamal’ for the Best Documentary Film Producer at the National Film Awards 2018. He was also honoured with the Swachh Bharat Award in the year 2019 and 2020 for his exemplary work in Swachh Bharat Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-outreach-bureau-officer-satyendra-prakash-conferred-with-national-award-for-raising-poll-participation-101643160530285.html
26-01-2022||NA||Highlights: Mumbai reports 1,858 new Covid cases, 13 deaths in last 24 hours||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Former Uttarakhand Congress chief Kishore Upadhyaya likely to join BJP tomorrow, reports ANIFormer Uttarakhand Congress chief Kishore Upadhyaya is likely to join BJP on Thursday, reported news agency ANI citing sources. He could contest the Assembly polls from Tehri constituency.BJP releases list of 9 candidates for Uttarakhand Assembly electionBJP releases a list of 9 candidates for Uttarakhand Assembly elections; fields former CM BC Khanduri's daughter Ritu Bhushan Khanduri from Kotdwar pic.twitter.com/l5tJ3NlrXvBJP releases a list of 9 candidates for Uttarakhand Assembly elections; fields former CM BC Khanduri's daughter Ritu Bhushan Khanduri from Kotdwar.Mumbai reports 1,858 new Covid cases, 13 deaths in last 24 hoursMumbai has reported 1,858 new cases of the Coronavirus disease and 13 deaths in the last 24 hours.At 7,498, Delhi sees slight rise in Covid-19 infections, 29 deaths in the last 24 hrs Delhi on Wednesday reported 7,498 fresh Covid-19 cases, 11,164 recoveries and 29 deaths in the last 24 hours. The active cases of the Covid-19 disease in the city have risen to 38,315.The current positivity rate stands at 10.59 per cent.5 feared trapped after building collapses in Mumbai; Rescue ops underwayAt least five persons are feared trapped after a 5-storey building collapsed in Behram Nagar locality of Bandra (East), Mumbai. Five fire engines, one rescue van, and 6 ambulances have been rushed to the site: BMCAustria to end lockdown for unvaccinated: ReportAustria will end a lockdown for unvaccinated people from January 31 after the rate of infected people requiring hospitalization remained low during the latest wave of the coronavirus pandemic, reported news agency Bloomberg.Indian army jawans unfurl national flag at LoC in Jammu and Kashmir Jammu and Kashmir: Indian Army jawans, deployed at LoC in Baramulla, unfurled the national flag on #RepublicDay pic.twitter.com/6bNaLX9cBvIndian Army jawans, deployed at LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla, unfurl the national flag on Republic Day.Missing Arunachal teen to be handed over soon, says law minister RijijuHotline exchanged on Republic Day by Indian Army with Chinese PLA. PLA responded positively indicating handing over of our national and suggested a place of release. They are likely to intimate date and time soon. Delay attributed to bad weather conditions on their side. https://t.co/CX7pu2jIRVUpdate: 6 dead after consuming spurious liquor in Rae BareliThe death toll due to consumption of spurious liquor in Rae Bareli has climbed to six. Arunachal Pradesh 526 new Covid-19 cases, 1 more deathArunachal Pradesh on Wednesday added 526 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which pushed the tally to 60,598. Wednesday's case count is 142 less than that of Tuesday's when 668 people were detected as Covid-19 positive. Rae Bareli: 4 dead after consuming spurious liquorFour people died and few others were taken ill after consuming liquor in Paharpur village of the Rae Bareli district of Uttar Pradesh, police told news agency PTI on Wednesday. Railways suspends NTPC and Level 1 exams after protests by aspirantsThe Indian Railways on Wednesday suspended NTPC and Level 1 exams after protests by aspirants. “Railways has formed committee to examine grievances of protesting aspirants,” a spokesperson told news agency ANI. India adds 285,914 Covid-19 cases, tally over 40 millionIndia's overall Covid-19 tally crossed the 40 million mark on Wednesday after 285,914 new infections were reported in the last 24 hours, according to  the Union health ministry's dashboard. Active cases continued to decline and currently stand at 2,223,018. Total number of districts in Andhra Pradesh now at 26Government of Andhra Pradesh issues a gazette notification, taking the total number of districts in the State from the existing 13 to 26 pic.twitter.com/czn80VkOPQThe government of Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday issued a gazette notification, which has taken the total number of districts in the state to 26 from existing 13. PM Modi,  Amit Shah, extend wishes on 73rd Republic DayPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday extended wishes to all citizens on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day. Read moreUS mulls allowing diplomats to leave China over intrusive Covid rulesThe US State Department is considering to allow its diplomats and their families to leave China since the Biden administration is unable to prevent Chinese authorities from subjecting them to intrusive pandemic control measures, news agency Reuters reported on Wednesday citing sources. Dozens missing after boat capsizes off coast of FloridaThe US Coast Guard has launched a search for 39 people reported missing when their boat capsized off the coast of Florida in a "suspected human smuggling venture".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-26-2022-101643161307958.html
26-01-2022||India||US-India ties to be stronger, closer, tighter: White House on 73rd R-Day||The partnership between India and the United States is rooted in their shared responsibility to uphold democratic values, the White House said on Tuesday as it greeted the people of India on the occasion of the country's 73rd Republic Day. "We join India, the world's largest democracy, in honouring Republic Day, the day that marks the adoption of India's Constitution," White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at her daily news conference."As President (Joe) Biden said when India's Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi visited the White House last September, the relationship between India and the United States is destined to be stronger, closer and tighter, and it can benefit the whole world," she said.
26-01-2022||India||'Mischievous': Ghulam Nabi Azad on 'fake news' that he removed Congress from Twitter profile||Veteran Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad clarified on his Twitter that he has not changed his Twitter profile and there was some mischievous propaganda being circulated by some people to create confusion. After he was conferred the Padma Bhushan, the third-highest civilian award on the eve of the Republic Day. Azad clarified that nothing has been removed or added to his Twitter profile dismissing the fake claims of several social media users who took screenshots of Azad's Twitter bio and said that he has removed the Congress from his Twitter bio.
26-01-2022||India||R-day parade: A chronicle of India||From the first Republic Day parade staged at Irwin Stadium in 1950 when India’s highest wartime honour Param Vir Chakra (PVC) was awarded to four Indian braves, to Pakistani and Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) dignitaries attending the event as chief guests in the same decade, to foreign soldiers marching down Rajpath for the first time in 2016, to the traditional wreath-laying being shifted from Amar Jawan Jyoti to the National War Memorial (NWM) in 2020, India’s foremost ceremonial event has come a long way over the past 72 years.The configuration of the parade, its composition and its overall flavour have evolved significantly over the decades to keep up with the times, but what has remained constant is the extraordinary sense of pride and patriotism that the majestic display of India’s military might and rich cultural heritage evokes.Mukesh Khetarpal, his children and his grandchildren will be glued to their TV screens to watch the live broadcast of the Republic Day parade on Wednesday, an emotion-laden event for the Khetarpal family. His brother Second Lieutenant Arun Khetarpal, one of India’s best known military heroes, was posthumously awarded the hallowed PVC by President VV Giri at the 1972 Republic Day parade, the honour received by their mother Maheshwari Khetarpal.Mukesh was just 20 and seated in one of the stands along with his father when he watched his mother accept Arun’s PVC from the President.“Over the years, we have seen brave men and their kin accept the highest military honours from the President at the parade. We connect with them in those solemn moments. The parade’s format keeps changing but it still makes us numb and proud. It takes us back to 1972,” said 70-year-old Khetarpal.His brother, Arun, is among the only 21 Indian soldiers decorated with PVC for their heroism in independent India’s history. He was only 21, and commissioned into Poona Horse only six months before the 1971 India-Pakistan war, in which he destroyed seven Pakistani Patton tanks in the Battle of Basantar fought on December 16, 1971, a glorious and unforgettable chapter in India’s military history.At the first Republic Day parade held at Irwin Stadium, now Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium, President Rajendra Prasad awarded PVC to four Indian Army heroes for their uncommon courage in the 1947-48 Kashmir operations --- Major Somnath Sharma (posthumous), Lance Naik Karam Singh, Second Lieutenant Rama Raghoba Rane and Naik Jadunath Singh (posthumous).Karam Singh and Rane were India’s first living recipients of the military honour. PVC was instituted as a military honour in January 1950 with retrospective effect from August 15, 1947. Only the highest honours, PVC and its peace-time equivalent Ashoka Chakra, are awarded at the Republic Day parade.Like Mukesh, the parade holds a special place in the heart of Brigadier Chitaranjan Sawant (retd) who has been associated with the ceremonial event for almost five decades as its leading commentator. The 88-year-old Sawant’s first commentary at the parade was on January 26, 1973.“I still remember reading out Ashoka Chakra citations in the 1970s. Back in the day, the parade was not as grand but it evoked the same emotions. The President took the salute from a small dais near Rajpath. There were fewer security restrictions in the 1970s. However, things changed after PM Indira Gandhi’s assassination in 1984,” he added.Security concerns have increased even more in recent decades.The 1990s witnessed the creation of a separate security enclosure for the President, visiting chief guest, Vice President, Prime Minister, defence minister and the three service chiefs, said defence analyst Chandrashekhar Bhattacharyya.“The Republic Day parade, however, has over the years been a reflection of India; as it was, is, and also a glimpse of our future,” he said.Among the most notable parades in the past was the one in 1987, the event held in the midst of Operation Brasstacks when the Indian army moved tens of thousands of troops to the western border with Pakistan, along with armoured columns, artillery and rocket systems, he added.“That year, the parade witnessed the largest ever participation of tanks and other mechanised elements,” he said.This year’s parade is being conducted in the shadow of the third Covid-19 wave and will be witnessed by fewer spectators at Rajpath --- only 5,000 to 8,000 people to be allowed entry to the venue.The parade was attended by around 25,000 spectators amid the ebbing first wave last year, compared to around 125,000 people who would usually show up at Rajpath to watch the event in the pre-pandemic era.The parade was held at Rajpath for the first time in 1955 (in the early years it was held at Irwin Stadium, Red Fort and Ramlila grounds), with Pakistan’s Governor General Malik Ghulam Muhammad attending the event as chief guest.It was the first of the only two times that a Pakistani leader was given the honour --- Pakistan’s agriculture minister Rana Abdul Hamid was the chief guest in 1965. Chinese PLA Marshal Ye Jianying was the chief guest at the 1958 parade.This year’s parade will have no chief guest, like last year’s. India had invited the leaders of the five Central Asian states --- Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan --- to be chief guests at the celebrations, though no formal announcement was made in this regard by any of the countries.The spread of the Omicron variant of the Coronavirus in the past few weeks and recent violent protests in Kazakhstan, which resulted in the death of more than 220 people, were factors that went against the participation of the Central Asian leaders.Last year, India went ahead with truncated Republic Day celebrations without a chief guest after UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson called off his visit at the last minute because of the rapid spread of a strain of the Coronavirus in Britain. It is extremely rare for the Republic Day celebrations, seen as a high point in the country’s diplomatic calendar, not to have a chief guest.Prior to 2021, the last time the celebrations didn’t have a chief guest was in 1966, when Indira Gandhi was sworn in as prime minister on January 24 after the death of Lal Bahadur Shastri on January 11. There were also no chief guests at the celebrations in 1952 and 1953.The parade involves a massive logistics exercise and preparations begin almost five to six months ahead of the event, said Lieutenant General Asit Mistry (retd), who was the parade commander in 2018, 2019 and 2020. The preparations involve the selection of marching contingents, weapons and equipment to be showcased and various tableaux that take part in the parade as well as readying camps where the participants are to be accommodated.Timing is the most critical aspect of the parade. “If it’s 90 minutes, it has to be 90 minutes. The parade is planned with clockwork precision. The pace of the parade --- it may sometimes move a bit fast or a bit slow --- is constantly monitored and corrections made in real-time. All contingencies are catered for. If a tank breaks down on Rajpath, recovery mechanisms are in place so that the parade is not obstructed,” said Mistri.The parade will begin at 10.30 am this year, instead of the traditional timing of 10 am, for better visibility to the parade and the fly past. The parade formation will consist of 16 marching contingents, including those from the army, air force, navy and para-military forces, and 25 tableaux of various states, government departments and the armed forces.Tableaux have been a part of the parade since its inaugural edition in 1950.The flypast, consisting of 75 aircraft in India’s 75th year of Independence, will feature flying formations to commemorate glorious moments of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war.The Tangail formation will feature a vintage Dakota aircraft along with two Dornier 228 aircraft. The Tangail airdrop north of Dhaka --- the biggest airborne operation mounted by Indian paratroopers --- set the stage for surrender by the rival army.The aim of the operation was to capture the Poongli bridge on Jamalpur-Tangail-Dhaka road and the ferry site on Louhajang river to intercept Pakistani army’s 93 Brigade that was retreating from the north to defend Dhaka. Around 750 men of the 2nd Battalion of the Parachute Regiment were involved in the mission.The paratroopers defeated a force that was three times numerically superior and shattered the will of the Pakistani army.The Meghna formation to commemorate a critical heli-borne operation during the 1971 war will involve a CH-47F Chinook helicopter and four Mi-171V choppers. IAF helicopters played a critical role in moving troops across the Meghna river in erstwhile East Pakistan.This year’s parade also comes on the back of a political row over the eternal flame at the Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate being extinguished after 50 years and merged with the flame at the adjacent NWM last week.The India Gate, a British-era monument, was built in the memory of around 90,000 soldiers of the British Indian Army who fell in World War I and the Afghan war.Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated NWM, a monument dedicated to soldiers who fell in post-Independence wars and operations, almost three years ago, on February 25 2019. As on date, the names of 26,466 brave warriors are inscribed on the memorial, including the ones who fell in the 1971 war.
26-01-2022||India||Key appointments in army soon: Officials||Some top-level appointments are expected in the Indian Army by the end of January to fill vacancies created by the upcoming retirement of the vice chief and the Northern Army commander, even as the Centre is yet to decide on the appointment the next chief of defence staff (CDS) following the passing of General Bipin Rawat in a helicopter crash last December, officials familiar with the development said on Tuesday.While the current Eastern Army commander Lieutenant General Manoj Pande is set to take over as the next vice chief after Lieutenant General CP Mohanty retires on January 31, Pande is expected to be succeeded by Lieutenant General Rana Pratap Kalita at the Kolkata-based Eastern Command, one of the officials said, requesting anonymity. Kalita is currently serving as a deputy chief in the Army Headquarters.Another position falling vacant on January 31 is that of the Northern Army commander as Lieutenant General YK Joshi is retiring that day. Joshi is expected to be replaced by Lieutenant General Upendra Dwivedi, said a second official. Dwivedi is also serving as a deputy chief in the army headquarters.Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane, seen by many as the frontrunner for the CDS’s post, is due to retire on April 30. Pande will be the top contender for the army chief’s post.Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari and navy chief Admiral R Hari Kumar are both around two years junior to him. There is a strong possibility of Naravane being named as the next CDS if the government follows the seniority principle, as previously reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/key-appointments-in-army-soon-officials-101643149904205.html
26-01-2022||India||18-year-old student’s body found in well in Prayagraj, rape suspected||PRAYAGRAJ: The body of an 18-year-old college student was recovered from an old well near the Institute of Engineering and Rural Technology (IERT) here on Tuesday, police said, adding that the woman was gang-raped before being murdered. According to Prayagraj police, the woman had been missing from her hostel for two days, after which her family lodged a complaint of abduction against a youth. When detained and questioned, the youth, who claimed to be the woman’s boyfriend, told the police that he and the woman were attacked by some miscreants while they were at a deserted spot near IERT on January 22. “He is the prime suspect in the case. He has given contradictory statements,” said SSP Ajay Kumar.The woman was a student at a degree college in the city and lived in a girls’ hostel. Her roommate informed the family that she left the hostel on January 22 evening, saying she was going to hand over some notes to a friend, police said.Subsequently, her family approached the police. The suspect told the police that when they were attacked by miscreants, he fled the spot and had no knowledge of her whereabouts. The police traced the last location of the woman’s cell phone to the spot near IERT.Late on Monday night, her body was found in an old well.A post-mortem examination on Tuesday suggested she was gang-raped before being strangulated. Police said they are rounding up suspects and collecting evidences, added the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18yearold-student-s-body-found-in-well-in-prayagraj-rape-suspected-101643139811427.html
26-01-2022||India||939 president police medals this Republic Day; J&K police bags most||New Delhi: Nine hundred and thirty-nine police personnel were honoured with the President’s police medals on the occasion of Republic Day, with officials from the Jammu & Kashmir Police bagging 115 of the 189 gallantry medals, followed by 30 to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), and 10 to the Chhattisgarh Police. In all, 134 of the gallantry medals were awarded for action in counter-insurgency operations in the Jammu & Kashmir region alone. Government officials said that 662 of the medals were given for meritorious service, and 88 medals for distinguished service. Apart from operations in Jammu & Kashmir, security personnel were awarded for their role in combating counter-insurgency in Naxal-affected states, the northeast, and on India’s international borders, and for displaying extraordinary policing and investigation skills. Among the officers from J&K, additional director general of police, Jammu, Mukesh Singh, received a medal for distinguished service. The citation of the awardees shared by the home ministry said that J&K Police was instrumental in eliminating terrorists belonging to the Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jaish-e-Mohammad and Hizbul-Mujahideen, including neutralising or capturing some top terrorists such as Kalimullah, alias Saifullah, Shahid Ahmad Bhat, and Hilal Ahmad Bhat, among others. A total of 182 terrorists, including 44 top commanders of various outfits, were killed in J&K last year. Senior Delhi Police officer, deputy commissioner of police Sanjeev Kumar Yadav of the 2008 Batla House encounter fame, received his 11th President’s police medal for gallantry, a rare feat by any officer. Of the 662 police medals for meritorious service, personnel from the Uttar Pradesh Police received 73 medals, followed by CRPF (57), Border Security Force (46), and Maharashtra Police (40). At least 29 officers of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) also received medals for distinguished and meritorious services, including the agency’s joint director in Bhopal, Ramnish Geer, deputy inspector general, Kolkata, Akhilesh Kumar Singh (who supervised investigations in the post-poll violence in West Bengal), and additional superintendent of police, Delhi, Anil Kumar Yadav (who is investigating actor the Sushant Singh Rajput death case).Eighteen Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel were awarded police medals for meritorious and distinguished service. On Independence Day 2021, 20 troopers of the border guarding force deployed in eastern Ladakh, who fought shoulder-to-shoulder with the Indian Army in keeping Chinese troops at bay in the Galwan Valley and the Gogra Hot Springs clashes in 2020, were awarded gallantry medals. The Galwan Valley clash of June 15, 2020, was the first deadly skirmish between Indian and Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control in more than five decades, which pushed the relationship between the two countries to breaking point. It left 20 Indian soldiers and an undisclosed number of Chinese troops dead. Apart from 939 medals for police personnel, 42 personnel from fire services were also awarded President’s Fire Service medals. In addition, 25 personnel or volunteers were awarded Home Guard and Civil Defence medals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/939-president-police-medals-this-republic-day-j-k-police-bags-most-gallantry-medals-101643139333777.html
26-01-2022||India||Republic Day: President approves 384 gallantry awards, PVSM for Neeraj Chopra||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday approved 384 gallantry awards and other military decorations for security forces personnel, including 12 Shaurya Chakras for soldiers who demonstrated exceptional courage during operations, the government said in a statement.Tokyo 2020 gold medallist Subedar Neeraj Chopra -- the first Indian to win a gold in a track & field event at the Olympics -- of 4 Rajputana Rifles will be awarded the Param Vishisht Seva Medal (PVSM), a decoration usually given to three-star officers for distinguished service.The President will posthumously award Ashok Chakra to Assistant Sub Inspector Babu Ram of the Jammu and Kashmir Police at the Republic Day parade on Wednesday, said officials familiar with the matter. Ashok Chakra is the country’s highest peace-time gallantry award.Babu Ram killed three terrorists during an operation in Srinagar on August 29, 2020.The President approved the top gallantry award for Babu Ram, who was from the Special Operations Group of JKP, on the eve of Independence Day 2021.Three terrorists fired at a CRPF/police checkpoint in Srinagar and took shelter in the nearby Pantha-Chokh area. The security forces cordoned off the area and asked the terrorists to surrender. The terrorists, however, opened fire on the police party. In the ensuing encounter, the ASI not only shielded his colleague but killed all three terrorists in retaliatory fire before he succumbed to bullet injuries.Shaurya Chakra is India’s third highest peacetime gallantry award. The award will be posthumously conferred on nine personnel.The Shaurya Chakra awardees are Naib Subedar Sreejith M (posthumous), Havildar Anil Kumar Tomar (posthumous), Havildar Kashiray Bammanalli (posthumous), Havildar Pinku Kumar (posthumous), Sepoy Maruprolu Jaswanth Kumar Reddy (posthumous), Rifleman Rakesh Sharma, CRPF Deputy Commandant Dilip Malik, CRPF Assistant Commandant Anirudh Pratap Singh, CRPF Head Constable Ajeet Singh (posthumous), CRPF Constable Vikas Kumar (posthumous), CRPF Constable Purnanand (posthumous) and CRPF Head Constable Kuldeep Kumar Urawan (posthumous).The 384 awards approved by the President on the eve of 73rd Republic Day include 29 Param Vishisht Seva Medals, four Uttam Yudh Seva Medals, 53 Ati Vishisht Seva Medals, 13 Yudh Seva Medals, three Bar to Vishisht Seva Medals, 122 Vishisht Seva Medals, three Bar to Sena Medals (Gallantry), 81 Sena Medals (Gallantry), two Vayu Sena Medals (Gallantry), 40 Sena Medals (Devotion to Duty), eight Nao Sena Medals (Devotion to Duty), and 14 Vayu Sena Medals (Devotion to Duty).On August 7 last year in Tokyo, Chopra became the first Indian to win an Olympic gold medal in track and field. Chopra hurled the javelin to 87.58m at Tokyo’s National Stadium to achieve the feat in his maiden Games. The 24-year-old was only the second Indian after shooter Abhinav Bindra to win an individual gold medal at the Olympics. Bindra’s gold came in 2008 in Beijing.In Tokyo, Chopra qualified for the finals with his first attempt of 86.65m. The Haryana athlete was irrepressible on the final day. In only his second attempt (87.58m), he broke away from the field that included the event favourite Johannes Vetter of Germany, the 2017 world champion who held the season’s best of 97.76m. Jakub Vadlejch of Czech Republic won the silver medal with a throw of 86.67m.Chopra, the 2016 world junior champion, was also awarded country’s highest sporting honor Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award after his golden feat last year.Chopra, who is training in the United States, said he was delighted to be named for the awards. “I am very happy to know about PVSM and Padma Shri. I am thankful for everybody’s wishes and support. I have just arrived at the centre here for my morning training session. I will continue with my hard work and try giving good performances for my country. I congratulate all award winners,” Chopra said in a video message from his training base at Chula Vista Elite Athlete Training Center at San Diego, California, where is being accompanied by his coach Klaus Bartoneitz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-president-kovind-approves-384-gallantry-awards-pvsm-for-neeraj-chopra-101643138790072.html
26-01-2022||India||17 states respond to proposed amendments to IAS cadre rules, 11 not in favour||New Delhi:Changes proposed in the All India Service (AIS) rules have been opposed by 11 of the 17 states that have so far responded, with most arguing that these would kill the federal compact, officials familiar with the matter said.The government will likely issue another reminder by next week to allow the remaining states to weigh in, the officials added, asking not to be named. The states that have opposed the changes are mainly those not ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party.“So far, the government has received representations from 17 states, and 11 of these have challenged the rule amendments,” one of the officials said. “Reminders will be sent by next week to ensure the rest of the states can be heard as well.”The 11 states opposing the changes are Rajasthan, Telangana, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Bihar and Karnataka.Among these, only Karnataka has a BJP government, and is expected to send a revised note backing the changes. Bihar is governed by an alliance of the BJP and the Janata Dal (United).The states backing the changes are Manipur, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Tripura, the official cited above added.Karnataka will likely send a new statement once the reminder is sent, the official said.The changes have to do with the deputation of civil servants from state cadres to the Centre. The Union government has claimed there is a shortfall in this deputation, which has meant vacancies in key positions in the Indian Administrative Service as well as the Indian Police Service. Most states are not meeting their Central Deputation Reserve, or CDR, the Union government has said.Among the amendments proposed is one that says the Centre will arrive at the number of officers on CDR in consultation with states, another that in case of any difference of opinion between the Centre and the state, the latter will have to go with the decision of the former, and within a specified time, and a third that the Centre could pick a specific officer from a state in public interest.The Union government has sought state government responses to the proposed amendments to the cadre rules by January 25, after the last reminder on this was sent on January 6, and some chief ministers have written to the Prime Minister, terming this a blow to the federal structure of governance, as they will be forced under the new rules to relieve officers for central deputation.The government has flagged a trend of decreasing representation of IAS officers up to joint secretary level in at the Centre as most of the states are not meeting their CDR obligations, and the number of officers sponsored by the states to serve at the Centre are fewer than the CDR, according to an official note seen by HT and reported on January 25.“The number of IAS officers on CDR has gone down from 309 in 2011 to 223 as on date,” said the note. “The percentage of CDR utilization has gone down from 25% in 2011 to 18% as on date. This is despite an increase of IAS officers at deputy secretary/director level in IAS from 621 in 2014 to 1130 in 2021; the number of such officers on central deputation has gone down from 117 to 114 during the period.”The reason quoted by most states for not sponsoring officers as per prescribed CDR is a shortage of officers in the cadre, the note said.“Considering the same and the fact that shortage of AIS officers in the cadres, if any, has to be shared mutually between the Centre and the States, it has been proposed that the state cadre may now provide such number of offices as part of CDR only after adjusting the same proportionately with the number of officers available in the cadre,” added the note.“It may be mentioned that the requirement from the states is only to sponsor adequate number of officers for posting in the Centre. The actual number of officers to be deputed to the Central Government shall be decided only in consultation with the State Government,” the note said.It further noted that for dealing with specific situations, such as major disasters or national security issues, services of an AIS officer may be warranted in the Centre.“Similarly, services of an AIS officer with a specific domain expertise may be required for any important time bound flagship programme/project of GoI. The extant Cadre Rules do not have specific provisions to cater to such situations, which have now been proposed through these amendments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17-states-respond-to-proposed-amendments-to-ias-cadre-rules-11-not-in-favour-101643138489894.html
26-01-2022||India||Terrorists hurl grenade in Srinagar day ahead of Republic Day; four injured||On the eve of Republic Day celebrations, terrorists threw a grenade at Hari Singh High Street on Tuesday afternoon, resulting in injuries to four persons, including a police officer, officials said.The grenade was hurled towards the security forces vehicle. However, it missed the target and exploded on the road, leaving three civilians, including two women, and a security force personnel injured. One police inspector, Tanveer Hussain of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and his wife were also injured in the attack.Late on Tuesday night, police claimed to have arrested the person involved in grenade attack. “Srinagar Police arrested grenade thrower who was involved in today’s #terror incident at Hari Singh High Street #Srinagar in which a few civilians and one police personnel got injured. #Investigation is going on,” Inspector General of Police Kashmir zone Vijay Kumar tweeted. The IGP did not reveal any details about the arrested person.According to a police spokesperson, the incident took place at 3.25 pm, when unknown terrorists hurled a grenade upon a police vehicle near Hari Singh High Street, Srinagar.“In this terror incident, few civilians sustained minor splinter injuries, besides minor damage to the police vehicle. All the injured were immediately shifted to nearby hospital. They have been discharged after treatment,” the spokesperson added.Senior police officers immediately reached at the spot and the area has been cordoned off, the spokesperson said.A search and cordon operation was launched in nearby markets to nab the attackers.Medical superintendent at SMHS hospital said the three injured civilians were stable. “The civilians treated in the hospital had minor injuries.”The grenade attack came a day before the Republic Day parade at SK Stadium in the city. The forces are on a high alert, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-hurl-grenade-in-srinagar-day-ahead-of-republic-day-four-injured-101643138129627.html
26-01-2022||India||India showed unmatched resolve during Covid pandemic: President Ram Nath Kovind||The Covid-19 pandemic is still widespread and people should not let their guards down, President Ram Nath Kovind said in his 73rd Republic Day eve address to the nation, as India continues to battle the third wave of infections.President Kovind lauded the country for showing “unmatched resolve” against the coronavirus and said all precautions against Covid-19 should continue.“Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing have been essential parts of Covid-appropriate behaviour. In the fight against the Covid pandemic, it has now become a sacred national duty of every citizen to follow the precautions suggested by our scientists and experts. We have to discharge this duty till the crisis is behind us,” he said.The President said the pandemic management was bound to be more difficult in India due to its high population and other factors. “But it is only in such difficult times that the resilience of a nation shines forth. I am proud to say that we have shown an unmatched resolve against the coronavirus… During the pandemic, we have reached out to several other countries with vaccines and other medical help. This contribution by India has been appreciated by international organizations,” he said.Asking people to celebrate “Indian-ness” this Republic Day, the President said that “diversity and vibrancy” of our democracy is appreciated worldwide.“It is an occasion to celebrate what is common to us all, our Indian-ness. It was on this day in 1950 that this sacred essence of us all assumed a formal shape…The diversity and vibrancy of our democracy is appreciated world-wide. It is this spirit of unity and of being one nation which is celebrated every year as Republic Day. This year’s celebrations may be muted due to the pandemic, but the spirit is as strong as ever,” he said.While hailing doctors, nurses and paramedics for their contribution in India’s fight against the pandemic, the President appreciated the “timely interventions” by the leadership, policymakers, administrators and others at the central and state levels to tackle the economic condition of the country.“Due to such interventions, the economy is on the move again. It is a testimony to India’s spirit in the face of adversity that the economy is projected to grow at an impressive rate in this fiscal, after going through contraction last year,” the President said. “This shows the success of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan launched in the previous year. The government has shown relentless focus on reforming every economic sector and providing a helping hand wherever necessary. The impressive economic performance is made possible due to improvement in the agriculture and manufacturing sectors.”The president also mentioned former chief of defence staff Bipin Rawat and said: “When a brave soldier dies on duty, the entire country feels sad. Last month, in an unfortunate accident, we lost one of the bravest commanders of the country - General Bipin Rawat - his wife and many brave soldiers. The entire country was deeply saddened by the tragic loss.”As the supreme commander of the Armed Forces, the President said that it was a “watershed year” for women’s empowerment in the armed forces in India. “Our daughters have broken a glass ceiling, and permanent commission has now been allowed for women officers in new areas. Also, the talent pipeline for the forces will be strengthened with women coming through Sainik Schools and the prestigious National Defence Academy. Consequently, our Armed Forces will benefit from better gender balance,” he said.Quoting Mahatma Gandhi’s advice on how to celebrate the “purna swaraj day”, the President said he would have liked us to celebrate Republic Day by striving to become better human beings and contributing towards the making of a better India and a better world.While mentioning Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, the President said, “His quest for independence and his ambition to make India proud inspire all of us.”The President said patriotism strengthens the sense of duty among citizens. “Whether you are a doctor or a lawyer, a shopkeeper or office worker, a sanitation employee or a labourer, doing one’s duty well and efficiently is the first and foremost contribution you make to the nation,” he said.The President also hailed Indian Navy and Cochin Shipyard Limited for building indigenous state-of-the-art aircraft carrier IAC Vikrant, which will soon be inducted into the Indian Navy. “Due to such modern military capabilities, India is now counted among the world’s leading naval powers. This is an impressive example of moving towards self-reliance in the field of defence,” he said.He further mentioned Sui village in Bhiwani district of Haryana for its extraordinary achievements under the government’s Swa-Prerit Adarsh Gram Yojana, and asked people to work for the welfare of their villages, towns or cities.“All of you must serve your place of birth and your country in whatever way you can. If all the successful people of India work sincerely for the development of their birthplaces, then the whole country will benefit from the outcome of such local development,” the president said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-showed-unmatched-resolve-during-covid-pandemic-president-ram-nath-kovind-in-republic-day-eve-address-101643137829479.html
26-01-2022||India||Jamia’s first female vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar among Padma award winners||NEW DELHI: The first female vice-chancellor (VC) of Jamia Millia Islamia Najma Akhtar has been selected for Padma Shri award on Tuesday for her contribution in the field of literature and education. Akhtar, 68, was appointed as the first ever woman VC of Jamia in April 2019. She is known for establishing the first state-level management institute in Allahabad and worked as the controller of examination and director of academic programs at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). On being selected for the prestigious award, Akhtar said, “I am grateful to those who recognised my work and deemed me for this award. I would extend special thanks to our honourable Prime Minister and President who entrusted me as the first women vice-chancellor of Jamia. With this award, my responsibilities towards Jamia and the country have increased. It will motivate me and Jamia to work harder in future.” Akhtar has been working for the upliftment of women at Jamia ever since she took charge as the VC. In December 2019, when Jamia witnessed violence during anti-CAA protests and police entered the campus, Akhtar backed her students. The University had also filed a police complaint against “brutal action” of “unruly policemen”. The University also tweeted saying, “It is a matter of great pride for the @jmiu_official that Vice Chancellor Prof.Najma Akhtar has been selected for #PadmaShri Award for her distinguished services in the field of literature and education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jamias-first-female-vice-chancellor-najma-akhtar-among-padma-award-winners-101643136630721.html
26-01-2022||India||HT This Day: January 26, 2001||MELODY OUEEN Lata Mangeshkar, who had held audiences worldwide in a thrall for over five decades, and shehnai maestro Ustad Bismillah Khan are to be awarded the Bharat Ratna, the nation’s highest civilian honour.The winners of the Padma Vihhushan - the second highest award - are sarod wizard Ustad Amjad Ali Khan, santoor player Pandit Shiv Kumar Sharma, western classical musician Zubin Mehta, filmmaker Hrishikesh Mukherjee,writer-economist and former US ambassador to india John Kenneth Galbraith, former UN Under Secretary General CV Narasimban, Benjamin Arthur Gilman of the US, Hosei Norota of Japan, Telugu writer Kota Satchidananda Murty and scientist Man Mohan Sharma.The Padma Bhusban winners include superstar Amitabb Bachchan, film maker BR Chopra, singer composer Bhupen Hazarika, thespian Dev Anand, veteran Tamil and Telugu actress Bhanumathi Ramakrishna orthopaedic surgeon Chittaranjan S Ranawat, heart specialist Dr Naresh Trehan, editor Aroon Purie, violinist Lalgudi G Jayaraman, world chess champion Vishwanathan Anand, dancers Uma Sharma (Kathak) and Yamini Krishnamurthi (Kuchipudi), former attorney-general Ashok H Desai, Amrita “operation flood” Patel,, actor Pran, industrialist Rahul Bajaj and hotelier Mohan Singh Oberoi, among others . Sixty six eminent personalities were named for the Padma Shri. In all 109 names of prominent personalities were announced for Padma awards on the eve of the Republic Day here this evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-january-26-2001-101643135910135.html
26-01-2022||India||Pratibha Ray, the prolific Odia woman writer, gets Padmabhushan||BHUBANESWAR: Pratibha Ray, whose name was announced for Padma Bhushan award on Tuesday evening, is among the most prolific women writers in India whose novels and short stories depict the tension of modern life, corruption and degeneration of values in every sphere while questioning the caste and religious discriminations. The 78-year-old writer, who has earlier won prestigious awards like Jnanpith, Moortidevi and Saptarshi for her literary exploits is among the boldest writers in India whose writings in Odia language bring out her desire for a social order based on equality, love, peace, non-violence and emotional integration. Daughter of a school principal, Ray caught the attention with her first novel Barsha Basanta Baishakha (Rain, spring and summer) in 1974, that was set in a rural ambience. By mid-eighties she was already established as a leading writer in Odia with novels like Parichaya (An identity – 1978), Punyatoya (The Hallowed River – 1978), Asabari (The rhythm asabari, 1980), Nilatrushna (The Blue Thirst, 1981), Sila Padma (The Stone Lotus, 1983), Uttarmarga (The Salvation Way-1988) and Adibhumi (The Primal Land / The Primitive Land – 1993). She worked first as a headmistress of a tribal school and then as a professor in a college. She churned out 21 novels, 24 short story collections, 10 travelogues, 2 books of thought-provoking essays and an autobiography titled “Amrit Anwesha” (In search of Nectar). Ray’s novel Shilapadma in 1983 won her the Orissa Sahitya Academy Award, 1985, while Yajnaseni (1984) got her the Moorti Devi Award in 1991 and Sarala Award in 1990. In 1985, she wrote the book “Adibhoomi” on the primitive Bonda tribes living in Bonda hills of Malkangiri district visiting all the 32 villages where even male researchers did not dare to go. In 1984, her novel Yajnaseni analysed the character of Draupadi in the epic Mahabharat where she showed her to be a modern-day woman with an identity of her own. Yajnaseni was later adapted for stage ballet by noted danseuse and film star Hemamalini. Her movie “Shilapadma”, is a moving work on the legends associated with the world-famous Sun temple at Konark, while “Uttarmarg”, a novel, was based on suffering of neglected heroes of freedom struggle in her native village. Although her literary focus is on psycho-social analysis of people, tribes and characters, Pratibha Ray grapples with issues of contemporary relevance, oppressive surroundings, over powering tension of modern life, corruption and degeneration of values in every sphere, a growing hedonism and the alienation of the individual in a complex modern society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pratibha-ray-the-prolific-odia-woman-writer-gets-padmabhushan-101643135848955.html
26-01-2022||India||Academicians write to K’taka CM, voice concerns over ‘growing intolerance’ in state||Eminent personalities across the state on Tuesday wrote to chief minister(CM) Basavaraj Bommai voicing concerns “over deteriorating governance and frequent violence against religious minorities.”“We are a group of senior scientists, writers, academics, artists, and lawyers, and we write with concern about Karnataka’s deteriorating governance and the frequent violence against religious minorities. Over the past few months, the state has witnessed brutal killing of youths in several districts, rampant ‘hate speeches’, public threats and disruptions of worship by religious minorities, ‘honour killings’, ‘moral policing’, misogynistic statements by legislators, and incidents of hostile and violent encounters between various religious groups,” states the letter signed by at least 34 well-known personalities.“These trends have been encouraged by the callous and un-constitutional statements made by legislators and the inability of the state machinery to rein-in fringe anti-social groups,” read the letter.The list includes professor Vinod Gaur (former secretary, department of science and technology, geo-physicist), Flavia Agnes (lawyer and author), professor Janaki Nair (historian), professor Vidyanand Nanjundiah (scientist), Dr Ramachandra Guha (historian and commentator), KP Suresha (poet, essayist, and translator), Dr Yellappa Reddy (forester and environmentalist), Bezwada Wilson (human rights’ specialist) and professor AR Vasavi (social anthropologist) among others.The letter comes amid a series of incidents being reported from across Karnataka.“Such trends go against the long history of Karnataka as a progressive state that facilitated social harmony of a plural society and initiated model welfare programs for all sections of the population,” the letter states.“We note with both sadness and alarm that these traditions of tolerance and shared well-being are being torn asunder. Instead, the state is losing its identity on multiple fronts. On the fiscal, administrative, and political fronts Karnataka is losing its federal strength. Recent legislations such as the ‘cow protection’ and ‘anti-conversion’ Acts are pogroms against the economic and cultural rights of religious minorities. No longer are harmony, peace, and tolerance the hallmarks of the state. It also needs to be stressed that if the above issues are not addressed, even Karnataka’s reputation as a business destination is bound to be impacted negatively as all types of economic activity depends upon an atmosphere of social peace and harmony,” it adds.Meanwhile, another letter is being circulated online to get more people to endorse itThe letter titled; “I am a proud alumnus of a Christian institution and stand by my alma mater- An Open Letter of Solidarity”, states that there have only been good experiences studying in Christian schools.“As elected representatives, it is the responsibility of the chief minister and all legislators to deliberate on all legislations, programs, and policies in a democratic and open manner. Implementing received ideas and suggestions that seek to assert only narrow, sectarian agendas will only be antithetical to the interests of the state and its people. We call upon you all to seriously review these negative trends in the state and to ensure that the rule of law, the principles of the Constitution, the rights of all citizens, and the basic norms of humaneness prevail. It will be your abilities to address these challenges that will be the yardstick with which posterity will assess you,” the letter reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/academicians-write-to-k-taka-cm-voice-concerns-over-growing-intolerance-in-state-101643135668231.html
26-01-2022||India||MB Patil to lead K’taka Cong campaign committee||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Tuesday named MB Patil as the chairman of the campaign committee for the Karnataka unit of the national party in a possible move to assuage growing dissent and infighting within the outfit in the southern state.AICC general secretary (organisation), KC Venugopal, in a statement on Tuesday, said that the appointment was approved by Congress president Sonia Gandhi and would come into ‘immediate effect’.“I offer my sincere gratitude & heartfelt thanks to the @INCIndia President Smt SoniaGandhi, Sh @RahulGandhi ,Smt @priyankagandhi, Sh @rssurjewala, Sh@kharge ,Sh @kcvenugopalmp ,Sh @siddaramaiah,Sh @KPCCPresident ravaru for appointing me as the Chairman of the KPCC CampaignCommittee (sic),” Patil posted on Twitter.The appointment comes at a time when the state Congress appears more divided with at least two factions , one led by Siddaramaiah and the other by state president, DK Shivakumar. Patil is among those leaders of the Congress who have long aimed for bigger roles within the party. He was also in the running for the state unit president two years ago.The naming of the campaign committee chief almost a year-and-a-half before elections is also considered unusual unless the party is attempting to quell discontentment, if any.Both Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah have made no secret of their aspirations for the chief minister’s post, should the party come to power in the 2023 assembly elections. There are, however, several other smaller factions within the Congress who continue to align with either of the two leaders or are maintaining a neutral stance at least till the elections.The infighting in the Congress has not allowed the party to take full advantage of the crisis within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government by Basavaraj Bommai in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mb-patil-to-lead-k-taka-cong-campaign-committee-101643135550429.html
26-01-2022||India||Republic Day Parade: Nation to witness many firsts at Rajpath event||Today India is celebrating its 73rd Republic Day. One of the key features of the celebration is the Republic Day Parade held at Rajpath in New Delhi where India's military might, cultural diversity and many unique initiatives will be on display.As the event is being held under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic, special arrangements have been made to minimise the risk of the virus’ spread. As part of the measures, only double vaccinated adults/one-dose vaccinated children above 15 years will be allowed entry at the parade. It will be mandatory for everyone to follow Covid-19 precautions.The parade ceremony will begin with Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the National War Memorial, who will lead the nation in paying solemn tributes to the fallen heroes by laying a wreath.According to tradition, the National Flag will be unfurled followed by the National Anthem with a booming 21-gun salute. The parade will commence with President Ram Nath Kovind taking the salute. This would be followed by distribution of the gallantry awards.Also read | Republic Day 2022: Here’s when and where to watch parade ceremonyTo mark the Republic Day event this year, which also coincides with the 75th year of Independence, the government decided to make it a week-long event starting from January 23. From this year onwards, the celebrations will begin on January 23, the birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, and culminate on January 30, which is observed as Martyrs’ Day.The ministry of defence has also conceptualised a series of unique events to mark this year’s Republic Day celebrations.According to a government release, for the first time, an Indian Air Force (IAF) will show a grand flypast of 75 aircraft or helicopters.Among other things, a show by 1,000 indigenously developed drones has been planned for the 'Beating the Retreat' ceremony to be held on January 29, along with projection mapping that will be shown for the first time at the Republic day parade.Also, for the first time, 480 dancers who will perform during the cultural programme at the parade have been selected through a nationwide Vande Bharatam dance competition.Also read | R-day 2022 parade: DRDO to display two tableaux; Here’s what in storeThe main parade will also see the launch of 'Shaheedon Ko Shat Shat Naman' programme by National Cadet and a display of 10 scrolls each of 75m prepared during the 'Kala Kumbh' event and installation of 10 large LED screens for a better viewing experience of spectators.The parade will be commanded by Parade Commander, Lieutenant General Vijay Kumar Mishra, Ati Vishisth Seva Medal, a second-generation Army officer. Major General Alok Kacker, Chief of Staff, Delhi Area will be the Parade Second-in-Command.A total of six marching contingents of the Army will be there and it will include the Rajput Regiment, the Assam Regiment, the Jammu and Kashmir Light Regiment, the Sikh Light Regiment, the Army Ordnance Corps and the Parachute Regiment.The combined Band of the Madras Regimental Centre, the Kumoun Regimental Centre, Maratha Light Regimental Centre, Jammu & Kashmir Light Regimental Centre, Army Medical Corps Centre and School, 14 Gorkha Training Centre, Army Supply Corps Centre and College, Bihar Regimental Centre and Army Ordnance Corps Centre will also march past the saluting dais.The theme of the marching contingents will be the display of the evolution of the uniform and personnel weapon of the Indian Army over the last 75 years.The Naval contingent will comprise 96 sailors and four officers, led by Lt Cdr Aanchal Sharma as Contingent Commander.It will be followed by the Naval tableau that has been designed with the aim to showcase the multi-dimensional capabilities of the Navy and highlight the key inductions under 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'.The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will display two tableaux, signifying the defence technological advancements of the country.The marching contingents of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), led by Assistant Commandant Ajay Malik will also march past the saluting dais.The National Cadet Corps (NCC) Boys Marching contingent, comprising 100 senior division cadets, will be led by Senior Under Officer Rupendra Singh Chauhan of the Punjab Directorate.It will be followed by tableaux of 12 states and Union territories and nine ministries and departments, which have been prepared on various themes under 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'.The tableaux will be followed by cultural performances by 480 dancers chosen through an all-India dance competition, titled 'Vande Bharatam'.The grand finale and the most keenly awaited segment of the parade, the Flypast will witness 75 aircraft/helicopters of the Indian Air Force displaying a number of formations, as part of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'.A nationwide flagship programme of NCC 'Shaheedon Ko Shat Shat Naman' will be launched to honour the supreme sacrifices of the fallen heroes in defending the nation.In another first, the ministry of defence in collaboration with the ministry of education organised a nationwide 'Veer Gatha' competition to motivate school students to do projects on gallantry award winners. MoreBefore the commencement of the parade, the contingents of Central Armed Police Forces will undertake static band performances in the seating enclosures at Rajpath.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-parade-nation-to-witness-many-firsts-at-rajpath-event-101643134558874.html
26-01-2022||India||Hijab row: Karnataka considering code on college uniforms, says minister||Karnataka minister for home affair Araga Jananendra on Tuesday said that the government is planning to bring a uniform code for all colleges in the coming days. The statement comes after a controversy erupted over students being denied entry to classroom, in a Udupi government pre-university college, for wearing hijab. Talking to the media, Jananendra said, “If students start behaving like religion is more important, then what sort of future are we building? There must be a universal feeling in our schools and colleges that we all are Indians. So, they should all follow the uniform code set by colleges. We have a plan to bring in uniforms in all colleges.” Education minister BC Nagesh hinted at possible changes in the uniform code in the state. “Following the controversy, we had sought information from the college in Udupi and found that the school development and monitoring committee (SDMC) had introduced a uniform code in the school in 1985. So far, there has been no problem,” he said. “We will look into the decisions of other states in such matters (allowing hijab) and court verdicts, following which we will take further steps. Till then, all colleges /schools will continue with the current norms they have set, including the one in Udupi,” he said. Department of pre-university education director Snehal R said that the department is yet to formulate any recommendation for the proposal. “We will see if we can propose a uniform, probably from the upcoming academic year,” she said. Talking about the government’s proposal, former Rajya Sabha MP and chairman of KK Educational Institutions K Rahman Khan said that in a culturally diverse country like India such a rule would be against the constituency. “In a diverse society, it is impossible to bring uniformity, especially in cultural aspects. For example, Sikh community members are allowed to wear a beard and turban. That is because Article 29 and 26 is very clear on these factors. The education minister could say anything but our constitution protects our diversity,” he said. Lawyer-cum-activist Kasturi Shankar questioned the sudden implementation of ban on hijab in the college. “Legally speaking when there is no consistent law in place, and there has been a precedence of people wearing hijab in the past, you can’t precipitously introduce enforcement when it has been not done previously especially in government institutions,” she said. Meanwhile, Campaign Against Hate Speech, a social initiative, has initiated a signature drive condemning discrimination against hijab-wearing Muslim students. They are calling it a blatant violation of Article 25 of the Constitution. The campaign has garnered over 1,000 signatures so far. “In the last few years, especially in coastal Karnataka region, there has seen an increase in Hindutva violence against minority communities. The denial of entry for hijab-wearing Muslim students is an instance of institutional discrimination,” read a statement from the Bengaluru based organisation. The ll-India Lawyers Association For Justice too has written to the state government, demanding an investigation against the college administration. “The actions of the college administration and staff against the students is per se violative of the fundamental rights of the students. It is important to remember that the Constitution recognizes that every person has the right to be treated equally (Article 14), to live with dignity (Article 21), a right to education (Article 21) and profess a religion of their choice (Article 25). The constitutional value of being able to profess one’s religion freely and live with dignity has time and again been emphasised by the courts in various judgments,” read a statement from the association.
26-01-2022||India||The republic is at an economic crossroads||India will complete 75 years of its freedom on August 15 this year. This important milestone deserves a critical appraisal of the progress we have made as a nation. However, the larger framework that guided our nation-building project in the political, economic and social realms only came into being when we adopted our constitution on January 26, 1950. As India celebrates its 73rd Republic Day today, it is useful to take stock of the economic journey of the country.What should be the guiding principle for such an exercise? The original preamble of the constitution – the 42nd amendment in 1976 inserted the word socialist in it – provides for an interesting tension in the economic trajectory of the republic. The constitution seeks to make India a sovereign republic, but also calls for ensuring social, economic and political justice. Sovereignty, when seen purely from an economic perspective, can be roughly described as growth in economic power of a country. This is best captured by GDP levels in the modern world.But is growth a harbinger of equality?Economists often argue that the two might actually be more congruent in the long-term. Simon Kuznets, the Nobel Prize winning American economist, is the most famous and influential proponent of this view. He theorized that inequality first increased and then decreased with increase in per capita incomes.The experience of China seems to support Kuznets’ larger message. The Chinese state, although a communist dictatorship, has done well to achieve high economic growth and also achieved a sharp reduction in poverty in the past few decades.Did too much democracy actually act as an impediment to economic growth in India? Does it continue to do so? The government being forced to repeal the farm laws due to persistent political protests (read democracy) last year can be held out as one such example by those who believe that those laws would have boosted farm incomes. After all, given India’s democratic framework, no government would like to sacrifice itself by pushing policies that have widespread political opposition.The growth-equality tension is not the only one within the constitutional framework. The constitution envisions India as a union of states. Fiscal federalism is among the founding principles of the republic. Has the federal framework helped our economic journey in the past seven decades? Or, did it create more hurdles in the march to economic prosperity? What should be the way forward?While the word socialism made a de-jure entry into the constitution during the infamous emergency, it is no secret that India’s economic policies, at least in the first few decades after independence were heavily influenced by the economics of the socialist countries.From India’s Soviet Union inspired Five Year Plans – the constitution did not provide for a Planning Commission – to the commanding heights of the economy being an exclusive preserve of the state, India’s so-called mixed economy framework had a strong socialist flavour. Was this pro-state tilt in economic policy a costly mistake? Is it time to wind up the already reduced state presence in economic activities even more?These are all questions that evoke strong and extremely polarized reactions in India’s public debates. The truth, as is often the case, lies not in a black and white approach to any of these questions. In fact, the experience of the past seven decades shows that when it comes to the economic well-being of the republic, the best foot forward must be decided by deliberating on the situation at hand, rather than blindly accepting or rejecting the policies of the past. This argument is best made by a set of examples.Shunning the private sector, and shunning a part of the private sector, both have hurt growthWere our founding fathers wrong in adopting a state-led, plan-based model of economic growth at the time of independence? That such a model was chosen may have to do with no other option being available. Private capital in India did not have the economic prowess to undertake large-scale economic activity after independence and in fact wanted to state to take up this job. The 1944 Bombay Plan document (it was a private proposal for economic development in post-independence India by some of the biggest industrialists of the time) is testimony to this fact.However, what started as a state-led model of last resort ended up mutating into an economic system which created absurd controls on private sector activity that were counterproductive. Most of these fetters were dismantled when India unleashed large-scale economic reforms in 1991. Have reforms been unambiguously good for the cause of economic growth?The answer would have been a big yes if we were asking this question a decade ago. However, a fall in compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of GDP in the past 10 years – this holds even if we exclude the pandemic year – shows that economic growth needs more than just reforms.There is a widespread belief among independent economists today that the slowdown in economic growth in the second half of the last decade is the result of a policy induced squeeze on the informal sector in India. The larger message to be drawn from this trend is that while the pre-reform economic regime fell behind time in realizing the importance of private capital in India, the current regime may have faltered in trying to get ahead of time in wishing away the informal sector in the country.State is not just about welfare, its economic footprint also brings a lot of positive externalitiesThe pandemic has taught even the most ardent free marketers the importance of welfare spending. In India, it brought to the fore the gross deficiencies in our public health system, as people struggled to access lifesaving medical care. Criticism of India’s poor track record in providing basic social services such as health and education to its people is not something new. For example, economist Amartya Sen has had a longstanding critique of India’s post-independence economic strategy being obsessed with physical production rather than human development.Should the state then focus on just basic social services such as health and education? Has the time come for the state to finally withdraw from purely economic sectors such as banking? It has already withdrawn from the manufacturing economy to a large extent. The answer to this question must keep in mind among the most important and often under-appreciated concept in economics, that of externalities.The state, when it enters an economic activity, does not just operate on a profit motive, and while not doing so, does a lot of work which strictly profit-driven firms would not do. The social capital which India’s public sector based industrial towns gave to the newly emerging middle class is one such positive externality.Even today, the state’s presence is critical to realizing many of the ambitious inclusion programmes governments wants to pursue. For example, private sector banks – which are generally more profitable and efficient compared to their public sector counterparts – accounted for only 13 million out of the total 444 million beneficiaries of the government’s Jan Dhan Yojna, a no frills banking scheme. Would the scheme have been as successful had the public sector banks not taken this task on themselves, disregarding the profitability of the exercise? It will be naïve to think that state withdrawal from any critical sector will not unleash effects in the realm of externalities.Political competition and the short-termism in the state’s economic approachWith political calculations driving economic decisions, long-term problems which involve taking on politically important communities have mostly been kicked down the road.India’s half-hearted approach to land reforms immediately after independence was an outcome of the Congress’s dependence on local landowners for its political needs. A radical redistribution of land – even the US-led capitalist block promoted land reforms in some south-east Asian countries after the second world war – would have reduced economic inequality and given a boost to domestic demand. This is a reform that has lost its relevance today as landholdings have become extremely fragmented with time.Similarly, a large number of problems – environmentally unsustainable farm practices, pending dues of electricity distribution companies and skewed procurement from just a few states are some – associated with the existing agricultural subsidy regime in India are rooted in the fact that almost all political parties promote such behaviour during local elections.While the agriculture example is more relatable, political short-termism driving economic policy is a much larger problem for the Indian economy. The tendency to dilute environmental safeguards to expedite private investment, governments (especially at the state level) announcing a large number of cash-transfer schemes even as resource requirements on critical fronts are ignored, and the political temptation to use reservations as a silver bullet for all economic problems, are more such examples.However, at a time when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as the new national political hegemon is seeking to squeeze regional political formations in state through the twin strategies of politically leveraging welfare schemes like never before and gaining an unprecedented lead in political funding (largely from big capital), such desperate attempts are only likely to increase. Given the increasing importance of spending by the states, this means a growing short-termism in resource allocation by the state.It is in handling these three pitfalls – the state’s urge to dictate terms to the market, treating its own economic activities on par with the private sector and prioritizing short-term political gain over long-term interests, especially of sustainability – that the economic future of the Indian republic will depend.
26-01-2022||India||Recommitting to India’s core values||A republic is not a monarchy. If the head of State is elected, rather than elevated by virtue of birth, the technical definition of a Republic is met. But what distinguishes the Republic of India from other republics, including the one to its north (People’s Republic of China) and to its west (Islamic Republic of Pakistan), is the fact that it is a democratic republic.A democratic republic has an abiding political commitment to a fundamental principle: Sovereignty rests with citizens and only with citizens, not with the Crown, not with a foreign empire, not with a political party, not with a despot, not with the army, and not even with a democratically elected, supremely popular leader. A democratic republic translates this principle through a Constitution that creates both popular and independent institutions: Popularly elected institutions ensure that people’s sovereign will is reflected in the exercise of power through representatives; independent institutions ensure that this power is not exercised arbitrarily by the same representatives, and is subject to checks and balances, laws and rules.A democratic republic is invested in nurturing republican values: Of equality, so that all citizens, irrespective of their ethnic, religious, caste, class, and gender identities, have the same rights, and are not subject to discrimination, even as there is a conscious effort to create opportunities for those who have been historically disadvantaged. Of liberty, so that all citizens can exercise the freedom of speech, of thought, of assembly, of association, of religion, of practicing their vocation, and lead lives the way they want to, subject to limited reasonable restrictions. Of fraternity, where citizens find ways to relate to each other, develop empathy, and see themselves, voluntarily, as a collective. And of justice, in its broadest sense, where citizens have protection, through the rule of law, against both the excesses of the State and that of fellow citizens, and where there is the State’s helping hand to enable them to battle socioeconomic hurdles and live a life of dignity. On this day, 73 years ago, India embraced this vision of a democratic republic, based on work done by members of the Constituent Assembly. By any parameter, this was a remarkably ambitious enterprise. But it was even more ambitious given the context.India had just emerged from two centuries of oppressive colonial rule where people were seen as subjects, not citizens, and they had neither exercised freedom nor self-rule. Yet, the Constitution granted universal adult franchise on Day 1, and ensured all citizens could vote; all citizens were also free, equally free, and their fundamental rights were legally protected. India had never had a unified, modern political and administrative State governing over the entire territory that constituted the country’s post-Independence borders. Yet, the Constitution envisaged a State apparatus that would secure citizens, ensure order, protect rights and enable socioeconomic justice across the incredibly diverse landscape.India had just undergone a violent Partition with tremendous human suffering, there was a political fracture based on religion, and anger and bitterness permeated the mood. Yet, the drafters of the Constitution ensured that equal rights for all citizens and a non-discriminatory and non-denominational State were integral ideas to the constitutional compact. Indian society had never known equality, given its deeply hierarchical and stratified nature due to caste. Yet, the Constitution banned untouchability and ensured that each citizen enjoyed the same rights with those who had suffered one of the worst forms of indignity known to human civilisation being given extra room to create a level-playing field.When judged against its own republican ideals, how has India fared?The democratic republic gets its highest score when it comes to protecting the idea of popular sovereignty. As post-colonial republics, from Asia to Africa, fell under the sway of military regimes or authoritarian despots, turned into ethnocracies or fragmented, not only did India stay united, it stayed democratic. Every five years, since 1951, except for the brief interregnum of the Emergency, India’s citizens got to choose their representatives for Parliament; at regular intervals, they also elected their representatives for state legislatures and local bodies.There can be a debate on the distortions in the electoral system, or whether the first-past-the-post system accurately reflects the will of the people. There can also be a debate on the urgent reforms India’s electoral system needs. But it is undeniable that elections have largely been free and fair; the electoral system has popular sanction and legitimacy; and there has always been peaceful transfer of power, indicating that all warring sides in the battlefield of Indian democracy abide by the rules of the game, which cannot be said about advanced democracies, including the United States, anymore. If you do not like a government, Indian democracy offers you enough political space to set up or join a party, make a political argument, electorally mobilise a constituency, and defeat the incumbent. And this is true of this particular moment in India’s democratic evolution too.Where India gets a mixed score is in quality and performance of its republican institutions.India’s legislature, executive and judiciary have broadly stayed true to their functions, and independent institutions have made the Indian system resilient over the decades.But, in terms of separation of powers, there is a design flaw. In a parliamentary democracy, citizens elect representatives. These representatives then chose their leaders in the House. The political force which commands a majority of representatives in the legislature then gets to constitute the executive branch of the government. So the executive springs from the legislature, but is also accountable to it. There is a delicate balance here. Members of the legislature are meant to make laws, and keep an eye on the political executive, even if they are political colleagues from the same side of the aisle. Members of the political executive, who constitute the council of ministers, are meant to help frame laws, but their primary task is in executing the law and providing day-to-day governance, while carefully abiding by the diktats of the House. And the judiciary is meant to stay completely, fiercely independent, keeping an eye on both legislative and executive actions to see if it conforms to constitutional test.In India, ever since 1950, the executive has been the most powerful of the three branches. When political power is somewhat diffuse, then the legislature can perform its role of holding the executive accountable, or the judiciary can stay immune to the larger political ecosystem. When political power is concentrated, then the legislature pales in relation to the executive. This, in turn, is due to the nature of Indian political parties (none of which are truly democratic; members of parliament are beholden to party bosses) and draconian laws (which prohibit a parliamentarian from exercising independent judgment). The judiciary, too, with all due respect, gets a tad too influenced in the face of an excessively powerful executive. And this is true of all other institutions, from the armed forces to the Election Commission, from the Reserve Bank to the Finance Commission. Their professionalism and autonomy is often inversely proportional to the might of the political executive of the day. This institutional dynamic is not unique to the current moment in Indian politics, but it is amplified because of the fact that India has the most powerful political executive in close to five decades. India needs a more healthy balance between its institutions.Where India has made progress, but still has a long way to go, is in the realm of deepening republican values. The big picture, of course, is that compared to 1950, primordial identities matter less and Indians across castes, religions, and gender are less bound by structural barriers. Affirmative action has helped, constitutional protections have helped, and the public sector, market forces, education and urbanisation have all played a role in enhancing incomes, reducing poverty and creating opportunities. Indians today are also more free to exercise their individual freedom and make choices. There is also greater interaction between individuals from diverse regions, communities, castes and religions than there ever was in Indian history, aided by media and connectivity. Yet, behind this story of progress is a moment of pessimism. The most underrated of republican values is the idea of fraternity. State-encouraged and media-amplified religious majoritarianism has caused a rupture in Hindu-Muslim ties; new media have deepened polarisation and made civil conversation between contending points of view hard; the us versus them political binary is now extended to every social sphere. Back in 2018, political scientist Devesh Kapur, writing in Seminar Magazine, warned about the “fragility of fraternity”; it has grown even more fragile since. Indians today are also, arguably, less free than they have been in recent decades, especially if they are opposed to the regime of the day. And the test of liberty is whether a dissenter is truly free. Draconian laws and the clampdown on civil liberties has hurt India’s liberal democratic record and triggered uncomfortable questions at home and abroad. India today also faces an acute challenge of growing economic inequality, a trend exacerbated by the pandemic. And whether you get justice is often a function of your identity, income bracket, political standing and views. But given what a leap India has made in these seven decades, it is entirely possible that India will be able to overcome its current challenges – and recommit to the republican idea of popular sovereignty, the republican architecture of popular and accountable institutions, and republican values of equality, liberty, fraternity and justice. That would be the finest tribute to those who created a modern constitutional compact for a free India and its free citizens. 
26-01-2022||India||Indians to benefit from new changes in UK Covid-19 travel rules||Fully inoculated Indian nationals will no longer be required to take any medical test to travel to the UK from February 11, although they will still have to fill out a passenger locator form.Those who are not fully vaccinated will have to produce a negative RT-PCR test result before departure and also take another test on or before the second day of their arrival, the UK government said in a statement. No traveller will need to self-isolate on arrival, and will only need to do so if they test positive.“All testing measures for eligible fully vaccinated travellers arriving in the UK will be removed from 4 am on 11 February, as the government goes one step further to reopen the travel sector,” the statement said. The changes, announced on January 24, mean that the UK “has one of the most free-flowing borders across Europe in addition to having the most open economy and society.”The changes in travel rules will be in place ahead of the February half term for educational institutions and follow the success of Britain’s booster programme, the statement added. The UK government is able to reduce the number of travel restrictions due to the success of the Covid-19 vaccine and booster rollout in the country.Before the end of February, eligible fully vaccinated travellers will only need to fill a simplified passenger locator form that will confirm their vaccination status, travel history and contact details.For inward travel, all under-18s, regardless of their individual vaccination status, will continue to be considered as fully vaccinated.The new framework aims to provide stability for travellers and the travel industry throughout 2022, and will result in savings of around £100 for an average family with the removal of testing.“We made the right calls at the right time, and thanks to our vaccine and booster rollout, it’s paying off, allowing us to safely remove nearly all Covid-19 travel restrictions for vaccinated travellers,” UK transport secretary Grant Shapps said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-to-benefit-from-new-changes-in-uk-covid-19-travel-rules-101643134408880.html
26-01-2022||India||Republic Day 2022: Here’s when and where to watch parade ceremony||The Republic Day parade is one of the most watched and awaited events on January 26 as the country celebrates the day when the Constitution of India came into existence.Being held under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic, this year's Republic Day's parade will be a muted affair, with the number of people allowed to attend the event reduced significantly.Among other restrictions, children below the age of 15 and those who have not taken both doses of the vaccine will not be allowed to attend this year's Republic Day parade.The Republic Day parade ceremony will commence with Prime Minister Narendra Modi visiting the National War Memorial. After this, the National Flag will be unfurled, followed by the singing of the National Anthem with a booming 21-gun salute.Also read | R-day 2022 parade: DRDO to display two tableaux; Here’s what in storeThe parade will commence with President Ram Nath Kovind taking the salute.The parade will showcase India's military might, cultural diversity and many unique initiatives to mark the celebration of the 75th year of Independence as part of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'.When & Where to watch Republic Day Parade 2022?The parade at Rajpath will start at 10:30am.People can watch the celebrations from the comfort of their homes as the event will be telecast live on various platforms. Those interested in watching the parade can tune in on Doordarshan's YouTube Channel. They can also follow the Press Information Bureau which will also be live-streaming the event on its YouTube channel.Further, the Union Ministry of Defence will also host the event on two of its platforms – www.indianrdc.mod.gov.in and a YouTube channel 'Indian RDC'.What to expect from the parade?For the first time, the parade will see the launch of 'Shaheedon Ko Shat Shat Naman' programme by the National Cadet and a display of 10 scrolls each of 75 metres prepared during the 'Kala Kumbh' event and installation of 10 large LED screens for a better viewing experience of spectators.A total of six marching contingents of the Army will be there, including the Rajput Regiment, the Assam Regiment, the Jammu and Kashmir Light Regiment, the Sikh Light Regiment, the Army Ordnance Corps and the Parachute Regiment.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, special arrangements have been put in place to reduce the risk of virus spread. The number of seats for spectators has been reduced to 5,000-8,000, down from 1.25 lakh during the pre-Covid times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/republic-day-2022-here-s-when-and-where-to-watch-parade-ceremony-101643130284194.html
26-01-2022||India||Top Padma honours for Gen Rawat, Kalyan Singh||India’s first chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, Gita Press chairman Radheyshyam Khemka, and renowned vocalist Prabha Atre were on Tuesday awarded the Padma Vibhushan, the country’s second-highest civilian honour.The government announced 128 Padma awards on the eve of Republic Day, including 17 Padma Bhushans and 107 Padma Shri honours. Thirty-four of the awardees were women.Some of India’s top vaccine manufacturers featured in the list, including Serum Institute of India chairman Cyrus Poonawalla and Bharat Biotech founders Krishna Ella and Suchitra Ella. They were awarded the Padma Bhushan, India’s third-highest civilian honour.Alphabet Inc chief Sundar Pichai, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella and Tata Sons chairman Natarajan Chandrasekharan were conferred with the Padma Bhushan.“No nation can excel without the contribution of selfless individuals working tirelessly to serve society. Congratulations to all those who have been conferred with the Padma Awards. PM (Narendra) Modi ji is committed to honouring our real heroes,” Union home minister Amit Shah said.“It makes you very happy when the audience notices your thought process behind the songs and compositions. I am thankful for receiving such support and acceptance,” Atre said.“It is a great privilege for me to be amongst a prestigious list of illustrious people who have contributed to the growth of our country,” said Poonawalla.Actor Victor Banerjee, artist Rashid Khan, Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad and former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee were also named for the honour, though the Left leader later said he declined the award.“I do not know anything about the Padma Bhushan award. Nobody said anything to me about this. If I have been given the award then I refuse it,” Bhattacharjee said in a short statement.Rawat was India’s longest serving four-star general who was killed in helicopter crash last month. He was headed to the Defence Services Staff College in Wellington when his chopper crashed in Tamil Nadu on December 8. His wife Madhulika Rawat and 12 other personnel also died in the crash.Former union home secretary Rajiv Mehrishi, who later became the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), was among 17 Padma Bhushan awardees. Others in the list were Punjabi folk singer Gurmeet Bawa, chef and food journalist Madhur Jaffrey, two-time Paralympics gold-medalist Devendra Jhajharia, India-born Mexican scientist Sanjaya Rajaram and Swami Sachidanand, known for his work in disaster relief.Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra led the Padma Shri honours, which also included paralympic gold medallists Sumit Antil, Pramod Bhagat and Avani Lekhara.Singer Sonu Nigam, author Najma Akhtar, Kathak duo Kamalini Asthana and Nalini Asthana; Garhwali folk singer Madhuri Barthwal, author Harmohinder Singh Bedi and Gandhian social worker Shakuntala Choudhary were among other awardees.Others in the list included Chandraprakash Dwivedi, a national award winning director and actor best known for playing Chanakya, distinguished economist Shaibal Gupta, hockey player Vandana Kataria, senior bureaucrat Guruprasad Mohapatra, who carried out his assigned charge of ensuring oxygen availability during Covid even from his hospital bed before finally succumbing to the virus,Narendra Prasad Mishra, a senior doctor known for treating victims of the 1984 Bhopal Gas tragedy, Sheesh Ram, a 1971 war veteran, former Indian football team captain Brahmanand Sankhwalkar, Russian scholar Tatiana Lvovna Shaumyan and Punjab spiritual leader Baba Iqbal Singh were among the other names.The Union home ministry said these awards were given in various disciplines or fields of activities such as art, social work, public affairs, science and engineering, trade and industry, medicine, literature and education, sports, and civil service. Padma Vibhushan was awarded for exceptional and distinguished service; Padma Bhushan for distinguished service of high order and Padma Shri for distinguished service in any field.The awards also stirred controversy late on Tuesday evening after Bhattacharjee declined the honour.A senior home ministry official said a call was made to the residence of Bhattacharjee on Tuesday morning, which was picked by his wife, and she was informed about his Padma award. There is no provision of taking consent for giving Padma awards to anyone; the awardees are only informed after the decision has been made.Bhattacharjee, who was the chief minister of Bengal from 2000 to 2011, is not well and largely confined to his home in Kolkata. His predecessor, Jyoti Basu, had also refused the Bharat Ratna in 2008.“Right thing to do. He wants to be Azad not Ghulam,” said Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, in an apparent reference to Ghulam Nabi Azad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-padma-honours-for-gen-rawat-kalyan-singh-101643134231602.html
26-01-2022||India||Ex-Union minister RPN Singh junks Congress for BJP||Congress leader and former Union minister RPN Singh, 57, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday, explaining his decision to switch sides as being prompted by the work Prime Minister Narendra Modi was doing for the country, and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the state, and as “better late than never”.He resigned from the primary membership of the Congress on Tuesday and sent a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. “This is a new beginning for me and I look forward to my contribution to nation building under the visionary leadership and guidance of PM Narendra Modi, BJP President JP Nadda, and home minister Amit Shah,” he said soon after on TwitterSingh, the former MP from Padrauna, in Uttar Pradesh, is from the Sainthwar royal family that ruled the region once, although he lost the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He is from the Kurmi community, and considered a strong other backward classes (OBC) leader, and it is believed the BJP may use him to counter some of its OBC leaders who recently shifted to the Samajwadi Party. His induction into the BJP comes weeks ahead of the elections in Uttar Pradesh. In the 2009 Lok Sabha election, he defeated Swami Prasad Maurya, then of the BSP; Maurya subsequently moved to the BJP and is one of the OBC leaders who recently quit the party.Interestingly, Singh’s move comes a day after he was named as a star campaigner by the party for the assembly elections beginning next month. He is among several other Congress leaders who have shifted loyalties to the BJP in recent months. Between 2004 and 2014, he was considered part of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s inner circle, and widely seen as a next-generation leader of the party along with Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sachin Pilot, Milind Deora, and Jitin Prasada. Scindia joined the BJP in 2020, and Prasada, last year.On Tuesday, along with Singh, Shashi Walia and Rajendra Awana also joined the BJP.Addressing the media, Singh said that the party that he worked for with dedication and honesty for 32 years is not the same anymore.“It is not the same party where I began and it is not the same ideology...,” he said, without naming the Congress, and added that he is ready to work as an ordinary party worker with PM Narendra Modi.“The whole country appreciates the work that has been done by our PM, bringing the (glory of India’s) old civilisation together with the 21st century...”He also commented that for years people had been asking him to join the BJP. “I can say der aaye durust aaye (better late than never).”Singh, also praised the Modi and Yogi governments for bringing a change in the state’s law and order.Earlier, while welcoming Singh into the party fold, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who is also the BJP’s person in charge of the UP election said he was keen the former Congressman join the BJP. Scindia, now the Union minister of aviation was also present at the event.The Congress reacted sharply to Singh’s defection.“This battle (against the central government) can only be fought with courage and bravery. Because, this battle is against a repressive government, its arrogance, its agencies, capitalism and all types of allegations…,” said Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate. Taking a dig at Singh, she said, “Only a coward can jump to a party with a completely opposite ideology.”Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra also slammed Singh over his resignation on Twitter. Without naming him, she tweeted: “ Heavyweight or Deadweight? Those who have not won a seat in over a decade moving to BJP on election eve.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exunion-minister-junks-cong-for-bjp-101643134112872.html
26-01-2022||India||Chill is on for Delhi: Jan days coldest in 19 years||The bitter cold that has gripped Delhi through January, leading to several weeks where the maximum temperature has been unrelenting, has caused the second coldest spell of winter recorded in the city in more than seven decades, and the coldest start to a year in 19 years, data analysed by HT showed.Delhi is also currently also in the middle of the sixth longest spell of consecutive days since 1951 where the day temperature has been significantly below levels considered normal, according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) gridded data set. And if forecasts are any indication, this spell is only likely to become longer.The average maximum temperature in Delhi from the start of the year up to January 24 is 16.9 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD data. Since 1951, only the January 1 to January 24 period in 2003, when the average was 15.8 degrees Celsius, was colder, it shows.To be sure, the calculation for average temperature excludes the maximum temperature reading from Tuesday, which was 12.1 degrees Celsius at Delhi’s base weather station Safdarjung, according to IMD. Once the numbers from Tuesday is taken into account, it is likely to further bring down the average day temperature.This average figure, however, masks what has been experienced by Delhiites in the past 11 days. The maximum temperature from January 14 has been less than normal by 25% or more on every day except the three-day period from January 19 to January 21. Four of these 11 days – January 14, January 15, January 18, and January 24 – had never been as cold in any year since 1951.These series of records highlight what Delhi residents have been experiencing over the past several weeks – an unrelenting and continuous cold, which sees no relief particularly during the day as sunlight is sparse, if any, leading to gloomy and moisture-laden days which feel a lot colder than what even the thermostat indicates.HT looked through the IMD data for all spells in history where the maximum temperature in the winter was 9% below than normal. There are only eight such spells including the current one. The longest ever cold day spell is 40 days long (November 23, 1997, to January 1, 1998). Others spells where the maximum temperature has dropped significantly were between 17 to 23 days long. The current one is definitely among the colder ones. The average maximum temperature of 15.8 degrees in the current spell is higher only than the average of 15.4 degrees in the 23-day long spell that started on December 31, 2002 and ended on January 22, 2003.The only marginal relief from cold weather Delhi has right now is that average minimum temperature of 8.92 degrees this month has been 2.42 degrees higher than normal. From January 14, when maximum temperatures dropped significantly below normal, minimum temperature has been at least 0.7 degrees or 10% above normal. Since January 20, minimum temperature has been at least 2 degrees or 30% above normal.Daytime temperatures are, however, not expected to improve this week either.The reason for such a cold start to the year, experts say is a rare natural phenomenon – three intense western disturbances just this month have added a heavy amount of moisture in the air, leading to a dense layer of lower-level clouds which has stretched across the entire north India. This has led to heavy snowfall in the Himalayas over the weekend, causing an intense chill through most of the country with the mercury seen dropping in cities as far as away Mumbai and Hyderabad.“We generally see this trend once every four to five years. This time around, we had three active western disturbances between January 3 and 5, January 6 to 9 and more recently, from January 21 till 23, each of which added plenty of moisture and have kept a thick layer of low-clouds hanging over the city,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD.Delhi has already recorded 12 days this month where the maximum temperature was below the 17-degree mark, highlighting the intensity of this cold spell, Jenamani pointed out. Delhi had more such days last in 2003 only, when the capital recorded 19 days in the month of January. “In recent years, this number was higher only in 2003, when Delhi recorded dense fog for the first three weeks,” said Jenamani. He added that Delhi’s maximum is expected to be around 14 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, it will hover around the 16-degree mark on Thursday and Friday.To be sure, IMD’s gridded dataset covers an area bigger than the administrative boundaries of Delhi as it is based on boxes of latitude and longitude a degree apart. Data for Delhi published by IMD in its bulletins gives a more precise measurement of the temperature within Delhi, but is not publicly available for analysis as a historical time series.“Normally, such a low [day temperature] towards the end of January is rare. December was warmer than usual this year though, and we have suddenly seen a flurry of western disturbances in January, with the last one fairly active and leading to instant impact,” said a met official.Owing to these western disturbances, Delhi has already recorded its wettest January ever, with 88.2mm of rainfall received during the month so far.IMD’s forecast for Republic Day at India Gate shows the maximum is expected to hover between 13 and 15 degrees Celsius, while the minimum will hover between 5 and 7 degrees Celsius.Delhi’s air quality meanwhile remained in the ‘poor’ category on Tuesday, with an overall air quality index (AQI) of 234 recorded as per Central Pollution Control Board’s daily 4pm bulletin. It was 241 (poor) on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chill-is-on-for-delhi-jan-days-coldest-in-19-years-101643134047994.html
26-01-2022||India||Better to wind up tribunals if members can’t follow propriety: SC||It is better to wind up tribunals if their members cannot honour the principle of propriety, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday, taking strong exception to a technical member of the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) hearing a case involving GAIL (India) Ltd despite having headed GAIL as its chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) in the past.“How can he (member) hear the matter? Whatever it is, how can he hear that matter? It is better to wind up tribunals if things are going to be like this. What about the propriety?” a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, told additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain. The bench, which included justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli,said that since Ashutosh Karnatak, who is presently a technical member at APTEL, worked with GAIL for several decades , it was improper for him to hear and decide cases relating to the natural gas company.“He (Karnatak) worked as an officer with GAIL for so many years. Now, he wants to sit on the bench and decide their cases. This is not proper,” the bench told Jain.Senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the petitioner, Sravanthi Energy Private Limited, told the bench that Karnatak served 38 years with GAIL and was also in-charge of the project as an officer, but was now examining it as an APTEL member. “This bench has decided 17 matters of this nature. I am here because it (the matter) has also been decided against us. Such things cannot be allowed to go on. How can someone like him hear these cases?” Singhvi said. Jain on his part harped upon the “principle of necessity” to state that there are not enough members available in APTEL to hear and decide cases. “Not many benches are available and thus, they had to hear the case.” To this, the bench retorted: “Mr Jain, it is a simple question of propriety. If you think there is no other bench available, you appoint other members and chairman so that they can hear it. It cannot mean that he (Karnatak) can start hearing and deciding such cases.” The bench further told Jain: “We have already made recommendation for appointment of APTEL chairperson and other members. Why don’t you ask your government to appoint them?”At this, Jain submitted that a reply may be sought from the Government of India of appointment of chairperson and members of APTEL since he is not in a position to answer on this aspect. “Alright, if that is so, we will seek an answer from the Government of India why they are not appointing APTEL members. So, we are issuing notice to the government to tell us when they are going to appoint chairman and other members of APTEL,” retorted the bench.It then issued a personal notice to attorney general KK Venugopal to appear on behalf of the Union government on February 15 to apprise the court of the status of appointment. Venugopal represents the government in a separate batch of cases where issues relating to vacancies across various tribunals in the country are being examined by the top court. The top court has been repeatedly pulling up the Central government over the shortage of manpower and lack of infrastructure in consumers courts across the country.The CJI-led bench had in August and September 2021 put the Union government in the dock over “making tribunals virtually defunct” by not filling up vacancies. The government is “emasculating tribunals” by not filling up vacancies in them, it said.While hearing a matter over vacancies in consumer courts, another bench in the top court had in October 2021 reproached the Union government for creating an “imbroglio” over functioning of the tribunals and making “citizens suffer in the bargain”, observing the Centre should abolish all tribunals if the judiciary is compelled to make appointments in these bodies to keep them alive.APTEL is working without a full-time chairperson since August 2021. The appellate tribunal is currently working with three members – one judicial member and two technical members, including Karnatak. Apart from chairperson, the tribunal is also short of a technical member. Sravanthi Energy Private Limited filed a petition against an order of the APTEL in October 2021 relating to enforceability of a capacity tranche agreement between the private firm and GAIL, and payment of ‘ship or pay’ charges by Sravanthi. APTEL ruled in favour of GAIL, prompting the private firm to approach the apex court in appeal.
26-01-2022||India||SC refuses relief to NGOs that missed the FCRA registration cutoff||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to grant any protection to NGOs that failed to renew their registration with the Foreign Contribution Regulation Authority (FCRA) by the deadline of December 31.Representing the cause of about 6,000 NGOs that failed to renew their FCRA registration, a petition filed by US-based organisation Global Peace Initiative and its founder KA Paul challenged a December 31 notification issued by the home ministry that extended the registration of only those NGOs that had applied within the cutoff date.Most of the NGOs were aggrieved by a new set of regulations introduced by the Centre through amendments in the FCRA Act in September 2020. These amendments required NGOs to disclose the purpose for receiving funds and to open bank accounts with the State Bank of India, which alone could receive foreign funds. Transfer of funds from a registered NGO to an unregistered NGO was barred, as was diverting funds for purposes other than those specified during registration. The new rules also put a cap on administrative expenses.These amendments are under challenge before the Supreme Court, which reserved judgment on a bunch of petitions in November last year. Citing the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the current petition sought an extension of existing FCRA registrations, citing the good work being done by NGOs during the pandemic.A three-judge bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar refused to grant any interim relief and ordered the petition to be heard after pronouncement of judgment on the FCRA amendments. The bench said, “If these NGOs have not applied for registration, they have chosen not to continue under the current regime.”Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre, opposed the petition and questioned the locus of the petitioner being an organization registered in Texas, US. He informed the court that the Centre had extended the provisional registration of about 11,594 NGOs which applied within the deadline, till March 2022 pending the judgment by the court.The bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar, recorded the submission of Mehta and said, “We have heard the counsel on the matter of granting interim relief….In the light of the stand taken by the authorities, we do not intend to pass any interim order.”Senior advocate Sanjay Hedge, appearing for the petitioner, told the court that since the extension has been granted to those NGOs which applied within cut-off, the government could provide a window of two weeks to enable the 6,000 NGOs to seek an extension. The bench said, “We will say the matter can wait till judgment. “ However, the Court observed that it will be open to the petitioner to submit a representation in this regard to the government.The petition cited Section 50 of the FCRA Act, which empowers the government to extend the validity of registration of organizations. Such orders were passed by the Centre in favour of certain organizations during the peak of the second wave of Covid-19. The petition argued that similar exigency still exists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-relief-to-ngos-that-missed-the-fcra-registration-cutoff-101643133749533.html
26-01-2022||India||Don’t lower standards any further: SC to Bar Council of India||There are antisocial elements graduating with a degree in law without attending a single class, lamented the Supreme Court on Tuesday, as it implored the Bar Council of India (BCI) to refrain from lowering the standards of entrance exams for law schools. “Look at your entrance exams. You keep lowering your standards. You have to control quality. Don’t keep lowering the quality of entrance exams. Look at how ICAI (Institute of Chartered Accountants of India) does it for Chartered Accountants. They control intake and also the quality. This is high time you should do an introspection,” a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh told BCI’s lawyer.The bench was emphatic that the standards of legal education would not improve until BCI, the apex regulatory body for the legal profession in India, does two things. “You need to adopt a two-pronged approach – tightening of yardsticks in exams and stricter control at entry level. You must do these two things if you want a better standard,” it told advocate SN Bhat, who represented BCI. The court rued that there were certain states where the problem was one of plenty with the mushrooming of law colleges. “We think your problem starts at the law schools. In one state, the number runs into hundred. Where are so many law teachers available? If we may say so, most of these (schools) are fictitious,” remarked the bench.According to the latest statistics available with the BCI, there are around 1,500 law colleges across the country. Private colleges account for almost 75% of the total number of law colleges. In August 2019, the BCI imposed a three-year moratorium on opening new law colleges, resolving it will stress on improving standards of the existing law colleges. The moratorium was however not applicable to establishing a new National Law University if a state proposed it. As per the BCI data, there are 1.7 million registered lawyers in the country and 80,000 to one lakh new advocates get enrolled annually. It added that there were instances of some law colleges in Andhra Pradesh running from “cowsheds and under thatches”. “There is a lot to say about the quality of law colleges...the kind of admissions they provide. There are antisocial elements taking admission in these colleges and they pass out with a degree without attending even a single day in class. This is completely diluting the quality…Person without attending classes gets a law degree…More stringent checks on law schools and more serious criteria of entry are important,” said the court. The bench emphasised that although BCI is authorised under the law to prescribe criteria for admission to law schools and enrolment of lawyers in the country, the current situation requires an intervention by the top court.“Prima facie, we are inclined to make comments on how to improve the system at the entry level. We can always make some recommendations to BCI on their responsibility to hold proper exams and on how to improve the system at entry level...The rigour of your bar exam must test knowledge,” underscored the bench.It also asked BCI to consider suggestions given by senior counsel and amicus curiae KV Viswanathan on enrolment of those who are already gainfully employed in some other profession. Currently, BCI rules prohibit anybody employed in some other profession to be enrolled as a lawyer.The court is hearing an appeal by BCI against an order of the Gujarat high court, which allowed a woman to enroll as an advocate without quitting her job through an order in November 2020. BCI argued that the decision would open floodgates for such requests although the rules specifically state that nobody can enrol as an advocate while being gainfully employed in some other job.
26-01-2022||India||Courts can’t direct states to give reservation: Supreme Court||A court cannot issue directions to a state government to provide for reservation for any class of citizens, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday, quashing a judicial order for reserving 3% seats under the sports quota in government medical and dental colleges in Punjab.“No mandamus (judicial writ) can be issued by the court directing the state government to provide for reservation... Power lies with the State to make a provision but, at the same time, courts cannot issue any mandamus to the State to necessarily make such a provision,” said a bench of justices MR Shah and BV Nagarathna while referring to a series of Supreme Court judgments.The bench took a cue from a batch of four judgments between 2010 and 2020 in which the Supreme Court ruled that it is for the state to take a call on providing for reservation for different classes based on various factors and that there cannot be any direction by a court for earmarking quota benefits for any particular class of citizens.Setting aside the 2019 order of the Punjab and Haryana high court, the bench further relied on a recent judgment in 2020 where the top court underscored that apart from not passing a directive to provide for reservation,a court also cannot ask a state to collect quantifiable data to justify reasons for not providing for reservation. “It was observed that even if the under-representation of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in public services is brought to the notice of the Court, no mandamus can be issued by the Court to the State Government to provide for reservation. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decisions to the facts of the case on hand, we are of the opinion that the high court has committed a grave error in issuing a writ of mandamus and directing the state government to provide for 3% reservation for sports persons,” said the bench. It noted that a policy decision was already taken by the Punjab government in July 2019 to provide for 1% reservation for sportsmen. “Therefore, the high court has exceeded its jurisdiction while issuing a writ of mandamus directing the state to provide a particular percentage of reservation for sports persons, namely, in the present case, 3% reservation instead of 1%, while exercising powers under Article 226 (writ jurisdiction) of the Constitution of India,” said the court in its judgment.While allowing a bunch of writ petitions, the high court in August 2019 directed the Punjab government to provide for a sports quota of 3% in government medical and dental colleges instead of 1%.It had also directed the state to extend the benefit of 1% reservation to children and grandchildren of those affected by terrorism and during the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 in private medical colleges as well as for management quota seats. The top court set aside the high court order on the sports quota but refrained from interfering with the other part of the order since the state government had itself come out with a fresh rule providing for 1% reservation for children and grandchildren of those affected by terrorism and during the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 in private medical colleges as well as for management quota seats from the 2021-22 session. “However, the question of law, whether such a direction/writ of mandamus could have been issued is kept open,” added the bench.
26-01-2022||India||Ensure voter turnout touches 75% in upcoming elections: Modi||Citizens and political parties must ensure that voter turnout in the country increases for elections at all levels, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday. He exhorted workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to ensure the overall voter turnout in every election is at least 75%. “In the 75th year of India’s independence, we should resolve that we will ensure a 75% turnout for elections,” he said, addressing party workers on the occasion of the National Voters’ Day.Since the first general election, voting percentage has gone up over the years, but is still low and needs attention from all political parties, Modi said. Voting turnout was just 45% in the first election but rose to 67% in 2019, he said. “The percentage of women voters in all the years has gone up. In some places women outnumbered men. But the voting percentage is still low and this needs everyone’s attention,” the Prime Minister said. “All political parties and citizens need to think about this.”He urged BJP workers who are entrusted with the job to make sure voter turnout in the 75th year of India’s independen ce reaches 75%.The theme of this National Voters’ Day is: “Making elections inclusive, accessible, and participative”.There are more than 953 million voters in India, out of which 490 million are male and 460 million are female, Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sushil Chandra said. “Among these registered voters, there are 19.2 million senior citizens,” Chandra said, addressing an event in the national capital. The right to vote was bestowed upon every adult citizen of India at the same time as India won her freedom. “For a newly independent country with a literacy rate of 18%, this was a truly radical move,” the CEC said.Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu urged the Election Commission and citizens to ensure a voter turnout of 75% in the next general elections to make electoral democracy more inclusive. He also sought consensus on simultaneous national and state polls to sustain the tempo of development.As Naidu is in home isolation in Hyderabad after testing corona positive, his address was read out at the event in New Delhi. “In the 75th year of our Independence, let us resolve to leave no voter behind and aim to increase the voter turnout to at least 75% in the next general elections. Let each one realise that vote is not only a right but a responsibility. We, as a nation, must think and arrive at a consensus to have simultaneous polls to all the three tiers of federal set up and move towards better governance by focusing our attention on all-around development of our people,” he said.The Congress party congratulated the people on the occasion. “On the National Voters Day today, we congratulate the people of India for keeping the spirit of democracy alive,” the party said on its official Twitter handle.Meanwhile, in his address to the BJP workers, Modi expressed concern that in the urban areas where people have better education and more resources, voter apathy continues and voting percentage is low. “This needs to change in a vibrant democracy like India,” he said. He also commended the election commission for various initiatives to increase voter participation. He said the commission has made it possible for people to register as voters four times a year and has made provisions for postal ballots for those above 80 and for people with disabilities.On the issue of one nation, one election, an idea that he supports, Modi said discussions on doing away with elections at frequent intervals should continue. He said in a democracy, discussion lead to churning and the issue of how frequent elections affect development needs to be debated. “Because of frequent elections, every move is seen through the political prism. For instance, today I wanted to reach out to the Panna Pramukhs and speak to party workers, but I noticed on social media some people commented that Modi is already thinking of elections,” he said. The Prime Minister urged the BJP workers to connect with every family on their voter lists, encourage people to participate in the BJP’s micro-donation drive and search them to ensure they participate in the government’s programme to weed out malnutrition.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-voter-turnout-touches-75-in-upcoming-elections-modi-to-citizens-parties-101643132914671.html
26-01-2022||India||Supreme Court notice to Centre, EC on plea over pre-poll freebies||Terming unrealistic poll promises and hand outs a “serious issue” that “disturbs the level-playing field”, the Supreme Court on Tuesday asked for explanations from the Union government and the Election Commission of India (ECI) on steps taken by them since the court’s 2013 judgment to regulate electoral promises and distribution of freebies by political parties using public funds. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, issued notices to the Centre and ECI on a public interest litigation filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, who sought a direction for issuance of stringent guidelines to deregister errant political parties and seize their election symbols over offering “irrational freebies” ahead of polls.“This is no doubt a serious issue. Budget for freebies is going above the regular budget. As the Supreme Court said before, this disturbs the level playing field,” observed the bench, which included justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli. Admitting Upadhyay’s petition, the court sought replies from the Centre and ECI within four weeks. During the proceedings, senior counsel Vikas Singh, representing Upadhyay, contended that parties, even in debt-ridden states, were promising or distributing freebies to garner votes, creating an uneven playing field before the elections. Singh added that ECI had framed certain guidelines as per the court’s direction in 2013 judgment but that these were “toothless” .“There are states such as Punjab where every individual has an average debt of more than ₹3 lakh with state owing more than ₹ 2.8 lakh crore in debt. Even there the political parties are promising freebies. Ultimately, who is suffering? Citizens are suffering. And every party is doing this,” argued Singh. At this, the bench asked Singh to read out from the Supreme Court’s judgment in S Subramaniam Balaji vs Government of Tamil Nadu & Ors in July, 2013, in which the issue of election manifesto and freebies were dealt with.After Singh read out a couple of relevant paragraphs from the 2013 judgment, the bench intervened to state that the court had then underscored the need to have a separate legislation “for governing the political parties in our democratic society” but it appeared that this has not been passed to date. Striking a cautious note, the bench asked Singh: “Now, when there is no legislation, how do we manage it? Assuming we issue a notice and the EC will reply, but explain how we are going to control all this? You answer this as a question of law.”“Within the limited scope, we directed the Election Commission to frame guidelines. But subsequently, they conducted only one meeting after our directions. They sought views from political parties and thereafter we do not know what happened,” added the bench.Singh responded that Upadhyay’s petition is seeking curbs on freebies for future and therefore, the central government and ECI should be called upon to furnish explanations on the steps taken by them in the spirit of the 2013 judgment.Accepting Singh’s submissions, the bench proceeded to issue notices to the Centre and ECI: “We want to have a legal debate on how to control this...for the time being, we will see what the Union government and the Election Commission have to say.”In the 2013 judgment, the top court had said that distribution of freebies of any kind, undoubtedly, influences all people. “It shakes the root of free and fair elections to a large degree. The Election Commission through its counsel also conveyed the same feeling both in the affidavit and in the argument that the promise of such freebies at government cost disturbs the level playing field and vitiates the electoral process and thereby expressed willingness to implement any directions or decision of this Court in this regard,” that judgement said. The court held in the 2013 judgement that promises in the election manifesto cannot be construed as “corrupt practice“ under the Representation of People Act or under any other prevailing law and hence, distribution of freebies can’t be stopped when the ruling party uses public funds for this purpose through passage of Appropriation Acts in state assembly. At the same time, the court noted that there is no enactment that directly governs the contents of the election manifesto, and directed ECI to frame guidelines for the same in consultation with all the recognised political parties. Upadhyay relied upon the 2013 judgment to complain that the promise or distribution of freebies from public funds before election unduly influences the voters, shakes the roots of free and fair elections, disturbs level playing field and vitiates the purity of election process.The plea pointed out that ECI’s guidelines said that while there could be no objection to the promise of welfare measures in election manifestos, political parties should avoid making promises which are likely to vitiate the purity of the election process or exert undue influence on the voters in exercising their franchise.“Arbitrary promises of irrational freebies violated the ECI’s mandate for free and fair elections, and distributing private goods-services, which were not for public purposes, from public funds clearly violated the Constitution,” added Upadhyay’s petition.The fulcrum of democracy is the electoral process, said the petition, adding that if the integrity of electoral process is compromised then the notion of representation becomes vacuous. 
26-01-2022||India||Maharashtra: MLA’s son among 7 medical students killed in Wardha accident||Seven medical students were killed in Maharashtra’s Wardha district when the car they were travelling in fell off a bridge near Selsura village early on Tuesday, police said, adding that the deceased included the son of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator. Superintendent of police, Wardha, Prashant Holkar, said the students were returning after a late-night party to their hostel rooms of the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College at Sawangi (Meghe) in Wardha, when the driver of the car lost control and rammed into a bridge. The car, an SUV, fell into the Bhadari river and all seven died on the spot, the SP added.According to the police, the incident took place around 1.30am near Selsura village in Wardha, 120km from Nagpur One of the deceased students, Avishkar Rahangdale (22), was the son of BJP MLA from Tirora, Vijay Rahangdale. He was a first-year MBBS student of the college in Wardha. Police said the SUV was being driven by one of the students, and that they were  returning from neighbouring Yavatmal district after celebrating the birthday of a student. The other six deceased have been identified as Niteesh Kumar Singh from Belapur in Odisha, Vivek Nandan and Pawan Shakti (both from Gaya in Bihar), Niraj Chauhan, from Daudpur in Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh),  and Pratyush Singh and Shubham Jaiswal from Chandauli (Uttar Pradesh). Police said all the dead were in their 20s. Wardha sub-divisional police officer Piyus Jagtap said priliminary probe suggested that the vehicle was “running at a speed of more than 120 mph”. “That must have been the reason behind the accident,” he said.“We also feel that the vehicle driver was under the influence of liquor. However, we are awaiting the post mortem report,” he added. All the bodies were sent to the Wardha civil hospital for postmortem. Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended condolences and announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each for the kin of the deceased. “PM Narendar Modi announced that ₹2 lakh each from PMNRF would be given to the next of kin of those who have lost their lives in the accident near Selsura. Those who are injured would be given ₹50,000,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtramlas-son-among-7-medical-students-killed-in-wardha-accident-101643132849083.html
26-01-2022||India||9 states told to boost Covid testing, vaccination||Amid a spike in daily Covid-19 cases, health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday directed nine states and Union territories to ramp up testing and ensure full vaccination in districts that have shown a lower coverage.“Cannot help but re-emphasise the need for ramping up testing in the states and UTs. Those states/UTs that are showing a lower share of RT-PCR are requested to ramp up tests,” the health minister said after a review meeting with health ministers, bureaucrats and administrators of Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Delhi, Ladakh and Uttar Pradesh.“Also, keep a close watch on the emerging clusters and hot spots and monitor the trend of hospitalised cases along with the deaths in the state,” he said. The minister stressed that vaccination continued to remain a potent tool to fight the virus.“Vaccinated people are less prone to severity and hospitalisation as seen in India and globally. Higher hospitalisation is being seen in unvaccinated people and hence, it becomes crucial to vaccinate the unvaccinated,” he said.“Promote vaccination among the 15-18 age group and ensure full coverage in the districts that have shown a lower coverage of the first and second doses,” he added. Reiterating that the Centre is dedicated to supporting states and UTs in containment and management of Covid-19, the minister advised them to review and expedite the implementation of activities under the emergency covid relief package-II for strengthening the health infrastructure. “With strengthened health infrastructure, we can meet any health emergency and public health crisis with better preparedness. Ensure regular updation of availability, occupancy and use of infrastructure like hospital beds, pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants, oxygen equipment on the Covid-19 portal- https://covid19.nhp.gov.in/. This updation would help in obtaining a bigger picture and taking data-driven decisions at several levels for efficient public health response,” he said.Mandaviya asked states to focus on expanding the reach of teleconsultation services to ensure timely healthcare as a substantial number of Covid-19 patients were found recuperating in home isolation. As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s latest guidelines, asymptomatic contacts of a laboratory confirmed Covid-19 case do not require testing unless they are at risk due to their age (if they are older than 60) or if they suffer from certain underlying medical conditions such as diabetes. “(The government’s) eSanjeevani has been able to provide services to more than 2.6 crore beneficiaries where people can seek medical advice from the confines of their homes. This will be of immense value and importance for the hard-to-reach and far flung areas, and especially in the northern regions in the current winter season. Such expert advice can be provided at the block levels, secondary or primary health centre levels too,” he said. 
26-01-2022||India||UP elections: In Mathura, murmurs of dissent over local issues, farm laws||Just outside Gate No. 1 of the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi temple in Mathura, 45-year-old Sarvesh Dubey has pulled out his phone to prove a point.Dubey and a group of six men, as they do everyday, have collected at the Krishna Mishthan Bhandar, asweets shopwith a name understandably ubiquitous in a town considered the birthplace of the Hindu god, and are discussing politics.This group of seven Brahmins, and Dubey, a self-avowed Bharatiya Janata Party supporter, is dismayed with murmurs of dissent about a glorious revival of Krishna’s birthplace.So, he plays his trump card and pulls out his phone — the argument to beat all arguments. From a saved recording on his phone emanates the voice of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath addressing a rally in Mathura on December 29, 2021. He talks of the temple construction in Ayodhya, and the inauguration of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor. He speaks the words that make Dubey look around triumphantly at those around him. “Can Vrindavan Mathura be left behind?” says Adityanath.“Is there one other party, or one other chief minister who would say this?” Dubey asks. The men around him nod, but there is still a note of doubt, even a rebuttal from 36-year-old Ashish Mishra.“Bas election mein hi yaad aata hai (Do they only remember during the elections?)”Mathura, raised by both the chief minister and his deputy in recent months, may be the next vehicle in the BJP’s Hindutva project, a symbol that there is much left unfinished. The Ram temple in Ayodhya is well on its way to being built, Varanasi has been beautified, and Mathura is next.A month before Adityanath’s speech, on December 1, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had tweeted, “Ayodhya Kashi bhavya mandir nirman jaari hai, ab Mathura ki baari hai.”While a massive temple already exists at Mathura, the conflict is with the Shahi Eidgah that abuts the Katra Keshav Dev temple complex, ostensibly built by a Mughal ruler, in this case Aurangzeb. Much like in the Ram Janmabhoomi case, here too there is a civil suit in a Mathura court that asks for the removal of the mosque.So when the seven men listen to Adityanath’s words, there is some resonance. Just not quite as much as in 2014, 2017, or 2019.Mishra owns a shop that sells religious paraphernalia just outside the temple complex. Beneath his feet, where his red plastic stool is usually stationed in the January sun, is an open drain.“In the past few elections, I voted for the BJP. They are after all the party of Hindus. But they are saying the same things. There is nothing new they have to offer. I knew they would bring up Mathura just before the elections. But here, the temple and the Eidgah are right next to each other. Would I like the mosque not to be there? Sure. But am I prepared for the inevitable violence and conflict for years to come? Covid has wrecked our businesses. We cannot afford more disruptions or a break in peace,” Mishra said.If anything, the argument for “developing” the Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura has greater recall as a promise of infrastructure development, and beautification, as opposed to an emotional, religious call.The one road that cuts through the heart of Mathura’s spiritual centre, from the imposing Holi Gate to the gates of the Janmabhoomi, are lined with open drains. There is only room for two vehicles to pass, and no room for pedestrians. At the beginning of most small bylanes are open garbage dumps, everyday waste from the street market being a constant problem.Vinod Agarwal, who owns a medicine shop right next to Holi Gate, looks at the unmasked chaos in front of him and says, “The one good thing that might happen if they focus on the Janmabhoomi is perhaps this road can get widened and cleaned up. “In the absence of a broader wave unlike 2017 or 2019, there is much more conversation in the five seats of Mathura—Mathura city, Govardhan, Chhatha, Manth, and Baldev (reserved for a scheduled caste candidate) around local factors. All five seats go to the polls in the first phase on February 10.While the BJP is campaigning on improved law and order, the Bahujan Samaj Party seems to be holding on to the Jatav vote, and the alliance of Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Lok Dal have been promising development and change under Akhilesh Yadav.If Adityanath not contesting from Mathura (one rumour said he would, just as another said he would from Ayodhya) has meant that sitting MLA and minister Shrikant Sharma will fight the elections for the BJP, there is worry among the ranks on the role of an angry and influential Brahmin leader SC Sharma, denied a ticket from Manth, who is now contesting from the city.The primary contender in Mathura is four-time MLA and old Congress hand Pradeep Mathur, also a Brahmin. Manth itself has a fascinating melange of factors; it is the only seat of the five the BJP doesn’t currently hold.The sitting BSP MLA is Shyam Sunder Sharma, serial party hopper, but a seven-time legislator so influential that in 2012, he won on a Trinamool Congress ticket.And Manth is also a seat where cracks are visible in the SP-RLD partnership, where both parties have put up candidates. Sure, the RLD has asked its candidate to withdraw, but Yogesh Nauhwar has refused to do so.Outside the city, in its villages, Mathura is also a marker for a factor that may well define the fate of western Uttar Pradesh, for the district has a sizeable number of Jats, accounting for around 20% of the population.In March 2021, one of the first appearances of Akhilesh Yadav and RLD President Jayant Chaudhary together, a presaging of what was to become a formal alliance, was at a mahapanchayat at the grounds of the Morki Inter College, 57 km from the Krishna Janmabhoomi complex.As evening sets, and 55-year-old Mahavir Chaudhary looks out onto his farms around him, he dismisses talk of the temple with a wave of his hand. Chaudhary spent five months at the Tikri border on Delhi’s outskirts in protest against the three farm laws, and then another month at another protest spot in Palwal.He felt relief when the three laws were repealed, and while there is some softening for Prime Minister Narendra Modi, even a conflict within, but he says he will not forgive.“I am a farmer, and I am a Hindu. I have voted for the BJP over the past seven years. But they called us so many names, attacked us. Modi eventually listened, and he is a viraat Hindu leader. But they have to be taught a lesson. This time, most Jats will not vote for the BJP. We will vote for Jayant, even if the seat selection has not been good,” Chaudhary said.But for the RLD, Chaudhary still has a word of warning. He does not trust the Samajwadi Party yet, and while Akhilesh is a “good man”, his party has “too many goons.”He sees a discernible shift away from the BJP, but the scale of this shift he cannot fathom yet. The BJP won all four of its seats in Mathura, with margins of over 13,000 votes, with Chatha and Mathura being won by over 60,000 and 100,000 votes, respectively.“The BJP has big leads, and those may not stay the same, but nobody can say who will win. The one big change though is that this time, there is a fight for every single seat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-in-mathura-murmurs-of-dissent-over-local-issues-farm-laws-101643132668899.html
26-01-2022||India||Air India flight held up for an hour after aircraft engineer’s tiff with pilot||NEW DELHI: An altercation between a senior Air India pilot and an aircraft maintenance engineer (AME) on Tuesday at the Srinagar airport led to an hour’s delay on the Srinagar- Delhi flight, the pilot has complained to the airline management.Air India flight AI 826 was scheduled to take off at 1.10pm but was delayed as the aircraft engineer refused to abide by the rules, the pilot alleged, according to a copy of the complaint. HT has reviewed the complaint.The argument picked up when the commandant, flying the Airbus fleet in the airline, brought to the notice of the ground staff that there was an imbalance of 1400kg of fuel (an imbalance of fuel means that the fuel in both the wings was not equally filled, due to which, according to the rules, take off is not allowed). The AME allegedly forced the pilot to accept the aircraft in fuel imbalance condition. The pilot refused and insisted on balancing the fuel for its departure.Airline officials said that instead of balancing the fuel, the AME allegedly asked the pilot to report the aircraft to have ‘snag’ after which he would declare it to be grounded. “It was after around 35-40 minutes that another AME attended the aircraft and balanced the fuel after which the aircraft took off at around 2.05pm,” said an official.Air India spokesperson did not comment on the matter.The pilot reported the incident to the Air India management and alleged that the AME has behavioural issues. The complaint said, “Due to high security airport and that too next day (being) Republic Day (I) fail to understand why they want to ground the aircraft. Please look into it through a security angle and intentionally for grounding.”The complaint further said, “I request for urgent appropriate restitution against outrageous mortification sufficed by the undersigned... This will address the prevalent issues of onerous and worrisome duty of some and insincerity of others keeping in view the high headed behaviour.”A former airline official, who did not wish to be named, said, “This (is) a classic example of how the new trend in aviation is to fly compromising with the safety of passengers. The trend is seen more with the low-cost carriers coming into the market, which needs to be addressed on an urgent basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-flight-held-up-for-an-hour-after-aircraft-engineer-s-tiff-with-pilot-101643130513822.html
