27-01-2022||India||‘Delighted it’s back’: Tata group takes over Air India||Tata Sons took control of Air India from the government on Thursday, the formal homecoming for India’s first airline born in the company in 1932 before it was nationalised nearly 70 years ago and began a turbulent journey that pushed its economic viability to the brink.Also Read | Tata Group takes over Air India, credits PM Modi's commitment to reformsThe moment also caps a significant effort by the Union government to offload an airline that in the last financial year lost ₹27 crore of taxpayer money a day, and is the biggest disinvestment deal in decades.“We are excited to have Air India back in the Tata Group and are committed to making this a world-class airline,” Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran said in a statement on Thursday, hours after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “It is indeed noteworthy that the disinvestment process of @airindiain has been brought to a successful conclusion in a time-bound manner,” Union aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said in a tweet. That proves the government’s ability and “the resolve to carry out disinvestment effectively in non-strategic sectors in the future,” he added.Air India board members, along with former Air India chairman and managing director Pradeep Singh Kharola, secretary of civil aviation ministry Rajiv Bansal, and chairman and members of Tata Sons reached the airline’s headquarters around 2.30pm. The process of final handover was completed by around 3.30pm.After completing the process, Tuhin K Pandey, department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM) secretary said; “All formalities have been completed. AI disinvestment transaction is closed. ₹2,700 crore has been received by the government. The shares have been transferred to Talace Pvt. Ltd. and so the new owner is Talace. The debt of ₹15,300 crore has been accepted (by the new owner). Air India is now not with the government.”Soon after the formal handover of the airline, Tata Sons in a statement said: “The transaction covers three entities – Air India, Air India Express and AI SATS. Air India is India’s flag carrier and premier full-service airline. Air India Express is a low-cost carrier. AI SATS provides a comprehensive suite of ground handling and cargo handling services.”Also Read | Welcome and welcome back: Tata Sons chairman's message to Air India employeesWhile Chandrasekaran did not comment on the formation of the new management, officials close to the development indicated that all four executive directors of Air India may be retained. “The board will be expanded in the coming days. The new members are awaiting security clearance,” an official said.One of the officials, who asked not to be named, said Amrita Sharan (currently director, personnel) will be the new human resource head of Tata Air India. Company representatives did not confirm the plan.On Thursday evening, Air India also sent out a circular to all its pilots to mandatorily make special welcome announcements in all departing flights on Friday.Talace Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, has received 100% equity shares of Air India and AI Express. It will also get the government’s 50% stake in ground-handling company AISATS.“It’s a very historic day because Air India gets a fresh lease of life under Tata’s control,” said Jitender Bhargava, a former executive director at Air India who’s written a book on the carrier’s downfall, news agency Bloomberg reported. Air India has weaknesses, Bhargava said, but the Tatas have the wherewithal to turn it around. “Air India will not only give Tata the scale, but also the number one position because of its vast network of international operations and a huge chunk of trained pilots and aircraft maintenance engineers,” he added.Also Read | Air India flights under Tata Group will have these changesThe airline, with its Maharaja mascot, was once renowned for its lavishly decorated planes and service championed by founder JRD Tata. Air India was founded in 1932 and nationalised in 1953 and in the 50s, 60s and 70s, it led the global aviation boom.Since the mid-2000s, Air India’s reputation declined as financial troubles mounted when it began to lose market share to low cost airlines like SpiceJet and IndiGo.In October 2021, the government announced it sold its 100% stake to the autos-to-steel Tata conglomerate for ₹18,000 crore.The Tatas won the bid by beating a ₹15,100 crore offer made by a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh. The reserve price was ₹12,906 crore.The bid amount includes about ₹15,300 crore of the carrier’s ₹61,562 crore debt. The remaining will be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Limited, a special purpose vehicle formed by the government.On October 11, a Letter of Intent was issued to the Tata Group confirming the government’s willingness to sell its 100% stake in the airline. On October 25, the Centre signed the share purchase agreement for this deal.For Tata Group, AI is the third airline. It holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd. It will also get the AI’s prized landing and parking slots. AI has control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports. It also has 900 slots at airports overseas such as London’s Heathrow and New York’s JFK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delighted-it-s-back-tata-group-takes-over-air-india-101643308199843.html
27-01-2022||India||Covid was the primary cause of death in 21% victims from Jan 13-25: Delhi govt analysis||New Delhi: Between January 13 and 25, only a little over 20% of the 438 Covid-19 classified deaths were due to a coronavirus infection with the rest being primarily caused by other comorbid illness, the death audit committee of the Delhi government has found, according to details accessed by HT.The 94 deaths spread over 13 days means there were a little over seven fatalities a day caused primarily by Covid-19 on average, corresponding to a period when cases were at its peak. The death audit committee also found that 64% of the deaths in which Covid-19 was the primary cause were in unvaccinated people.Also Read | At 4,291, Delhi's Covid tally further dips; case positivity rate goes below 9.5%It was not immediately clear whether the rest were in people who were fully or partially vaccinated.“We can now say that in this wave fewer infected people are dying of Covid-19. Data from the last 13 days shows that 318 or 72.6% of those who lost their lives, died due to other serious illnesses such as cancer or kidney, liver, or heart diseases,” said a senior health department official who asked not to be named.“Mostly, we are seeing that the Omicron variant is not impacting even mild to moderately comorbid patients, if they are given timely and correct treatment after quick diagnosis. The learning is that people with comorbidities, especially those with serious comorbid conditions should be extra cautious,” this person added.Prior to the current wave, the last time there were seven deaths a day on average over a week was in the third week of June, at the end of the Delta variant-triggered wave.The data was presented at the meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday, where it was decided that some of the curbs, like the weekend curfew and the complete ban on dine-in service at restaurants, will be rolled back.Also Read | Weekend curfew over, dining out back in cityOf the 94 people who died primarily of Covid-19, 89 were eligible for vaccines. In this, only 32 were vaccinated. The numbers are consistent with previous analyses of deaths, when 66-75% of the deaths were found to be in unvaccinated people. Experts said the most recent number needs to be further studied.Eight of the 438 Covid-19 classified deaths were due to other causes such as accident and suicide. “In this category, they came to hospitals due to burn injuries, asphyxiation, trauma and so on and they were later found Covid-19 positive when RT-PCR tests were conducted as per the admission protocols,” the official said.The bulk of the fatalities were classified as incidental Covid-19 positives – that is, they were detected with the virus because they underwent mandatory testing.The data presented at the meeting also showed that citywide genome surveillance found 79% of 2,503 samples to be of the Omicron variant, while 14% were of the Delta variant and its sub-lineages.A second official present in the DDMA meeting said experts such as Dr VK Paul, member (health) NITI Aayog and Dr Balram Bhargava, ICMR chief, asked authorities to carry out genome sequencing of 100% hospitalised cases so that it is known which variants are causing how many deaths.“They were also asked to prepare age-wise details of hospitalised cases so that it is known which age group is more susceptible to falling serious post infection. It will help plan necessary interventions,” the official said requesting anonymity.Dr Suman Batra, medical superintendent of Deep Chand Bandhu hospital said the number of patients reporting at the casualty section of their facility are mostly patients with mild symptoms who are recommended home isolation by the doctors.“This time we had a maximum of about 30-40 Covid-19 patients admitted in our hospital on a single day. All of them either have co-morbidities or are elderly. Many of them came with complaints such as high sugar or chest pain, but not because of Covid-19. So, when we do their Covid-19 test after admission, they come out positive. They are admitted not for Covid-19, but for the comorbidities and once that co-morbidity is treated, they recover very fast. Whatever little deaths are happening, it is because of severe comorbidities,” she said.The number of hospitalisations also decreased from 2,684 on January 18 to 1,887 on Thursday. Patients needing oxygen decreased from 909 to 725 during the same period. However, serious cases have seen only a marginal decline. On January 18, there were 575 patients on ICU beds, who also needed oxygen. On Thursday, this came down marginally to 497. At the same time, 140 patients were on ventilators on January 18 and on Thursday, the number increased to 155.Of the total 15,420 Covid beds available, 13.9% or 2,137 were occupied as on Wednesday. The maximum occupancy was in Central government hospitals where 722 (21.3%) of its 3,391 Covid-19 beds were occupied. Delhi government hospitals had 246 (5.1%) of its 4,791 beds taken , while private hospitals had 1,169 (16.2%) of their 7,238 Covid beds occupied.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said death audit is important to find out the relationship with death but it is not a causal association. “We need to know from among the 94 deaths labelled as primary cause, how many are actually associated with comorbid conditions and older age groups? Omicron as such is not involving lung or other major organs so the cause of death could be secondary infections,” Dr Kishore said.
27-01-2022||India||‘Golden age lies ahead’: Tata chairman welcomes Air India staff||In his first communique to Air India employees after taking over the debt-laden airline on Thursday, Tata Sons chairman Natarajan Chandrasekaran said he is “convinced that the golden age of Air India lies ahead”.Also Read | ‘Delighted it’s back’: Tata group takes over Air IndiaThe entire nation’s eyes are on the Tata Group and Air India waiting to see what they will achieve together, he added.“Today is the beginning of a new chapter... I write this letter on behalf of the Tata Group, to welcome you to our family,” Chandrasekaran said in his letter which was shared with the employees via email around 4.50 pm.“I have learned that to preserve what is best about the past, requires constant change. It is by evolving, adapting and embracing the future that we best honour a glorious history… The entire nation’s eyes are on us, waiting to see what we will achieve together,” he added.The Tata Sons chairman also noted that “to build the airline our country needs, we need to look to the future”.
27-01-2022||India||India calls for ‘greater urgency’ in trade negotiations with EU||India wants “greater urgency” and “faster movement” in negotiations with the European Union (EU) for trade and investment pacts, though there are challenges such as the demands of the 27-member bloc and non-trade issues, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. Jaishankar made the remarks while participating in a virtual conversation with his French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian that focused on the EU-India partnership in the Indo-Pacific during the French presidency of the bloc. Le Drian announced France will host a ministerial forum on the Indo-Pacific on February 22 to come up with concrete proposals for cooperation in security and defence, connectivity and digital, and global challenges. The two foreign ministers spoke extensively on cooperation between India and France within the Indo-Pacific region on a wide range of issues, including Covid-19 vaccines, regulations for the blue economy, connectivity projects that are transparent and respect the sovereignty, and promoting regional peace and stability. When Jaishankar was asked by the moderator of the discussion about India-EU negotiations for trade and investment agreements, he cited two specific challenges in the case of the European bloc – the involvement so 27 countries, and the need to “harmonise and prioritise” their demands and some non-trade issues. Negotiators from both sides have been in touch since India, and the EU agreed at a virtual summit last year to resume negotiations after a hiatus of eight years and are “quite active”, he said. “There has been movement but obviously the expectation level is high. We would like to see greater urgency, faster movement,” he said. India is “quite ready” to move faster and is hoping the progress in similar negotiations with other countries “adds to our credibility where Brussels is concerned”, Jaishankar said. Le Drian remarked that trade discussions are never easy, and bound to be complicated when they involve as many players as the 27 members of the EU. “The path is sometimes difficult, but if the will is there, we will get there,” he said. Recent reports have suggested that India and the EU are working to finalise an investment agreement before they take up the more complicated issue of a free trade pact. Le Drian outlined France’s plan to organise a ministerial forum on the Indo-Pacific on February 22, which he said would be the first such event during his country’s presidency of the EU. The forum will focus on three areas – security and defence, connectivity and digital, and global challenges – and will be part of efforts to preserve an Indo-Pacific governed by rule of law, he said. It is also part of a stronger European commitment to face up to the security challenges of the vast region, and will come up with concrete proposals to tackle such issues in line with the EU’s strategy for the Indo-Pacific, he said. “We wish to work within this forum for the emergence of a production capacity of a vaccine for all of the indo-Pacific because the production of vaccines...is a key challenge to which we can bring collective answers,” Le Drian said, speaking in French. There is also a proposal for India and the EU to create an “Indo-Pacific campus on health” that will foster exchanges in training, innovation, and cooperation on pharmaceutical products. Le Drian suggested this campus could be based in India as a “symbol of the common will to make the Indo-Pacific an area of sharing and partnership”. At the same time, the EU is working on a “coordinated maritime presence” in the Indo-Pacific for greater stability and better security in the region, he said. Both Jaishankar and Le Drian said the close cooperation between India and France in a range of key areas could serve as a foundation for collaboration within the EU framework in the Indo-Pacific. Jaishankar said India’s position on connectivity partnerships and the EU’s Global Gateway initiative for smart and secure links in the digital, energy and transport sectors are based on similar principles, including democratic values, good governance, transparency, commercial viability, local ownership, and respect for the territorial integrity of countries. 
27-01-2022||India||100 cops stand guard as Dalit groom rides a horse to his wedding in MP’s Neemuch||Nearly 100 policemen stood guard and protected a Dalit bridegroom, who wanted to ride a horse to his wedding, and ensured there was no trouble or objection from upper caste people on Thursday in Neemuch district, police said. Police personnel did a flag march before the wedding procession of Rahul Meghwal, a resident of Sarsi village of the district. “The father of the bridegroom, Fakirchand Meghwal, had sought police protection a few days ago for his son Rahul who was the first person from the scheduled caste committee of the village to have booked a horse for the wedding procession,” said Kanhaiyalal Dangi, town inspector Manasa. “As many as 100 police personnel were deployed in the village on Wednesday to keep a watch on the law and order situation,” Dangi said. A local Bahujan Samaj Party leader Radheshyam Commander said, “History was created in the village as people from the scheduled caste committee were afraid of riding a horse in the village to their wedding. A few goons of the village used to stop them from riding a horse so we requested police protection.” Earlier, on Sunday, some villagers in Ganiyari village of Sagar district attacked the house of Dalit groom Dilip Ahirwar for riding a horse. Ahirwar rode a horse during a wedding procession called Racch under police protection but later in the night; about 20 people attacked his house and pelted stones. The police have booked 20 people under relevant sections of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and arrested six of them. 
27-01-2022||India||India-born priest becomes England Bishop with Indian rosewood staff||An India-born vicar, who grew up in a leprosy hospital in Bangalore where his mother was a nurse, has been consecrated as Bishop in the Church of England with a staff, or crozier, made of Indian rosewood.The Right Reverend Malayil Lukose Varghese Muthalaly, known as Saju, aged 42 became one of the youngest Bishops when he was consecrated during a Eucharist service at St. Paul’s Cathedral in London by the Archbishop of Canterbury on Tuesday."I have been preparing for this service very much aware of what a great privilege it is that people around the world are praying for this moment. There is a very strong sense of the wider church affirming this calling," said Rt. Rev. Saju.Two of his four children, Zipp and Abraham, joined him for prayers during the service this week.While he has started work towards his new role, he will be formally installed and known as Bishop of Loughborough only after a Welcome Service with guests and representatives of the diocese at Brockington Church of England Academy in Enderby, Leicestershire, on February 5.The service in London marked the feast day of the conversion of St. Paul the apostle, and an insightful sermon was preached on that topic by Dr Selina Stone, tutor and lecturer in theology at St. Mellitus College."I absolutely loved the service… There were so many people there cheering you on from here in Leicestershire and from Dubai, from India and other parts of the world,” Rev. Saju told the BBC.Rev. Saju has previously spoken about how he was born in India and spent the first half of his life there, around the beautiful backwaters of Kerala and then Bangalore. He has spent the last 21 years in England, where he arrived during a gap year and fell in love with Katy, now his wife."I sensed the call to live and work in England. And now, Loughborough feels like home. Our experience is that Leicestershire people are so welcoming,” he said.On his priorities for his new role in the East Midlands region, the reverend added: “The first year I want to just spend time with as many people as I can. I am a stranger to this place, there’s a lot to learn and a lot to listen to."He also revealed his early to bed, early to rise routine, which includes lots of reading and reflecting. With his four young children, aged between eight and 12, he enjoys playing cricket, which he believes is among the most beautiful contributions the English have made to the world.As a sporty person, he also enjoys running and has completed a few marathons.Saju, whose appointment as Bishop in the Church of England was approved by Queen Elizabeth II in November last year, was educated at the Southern Asia Bible College in Bangalore, and trained for the ministry at Wycliffe Hall, Oxford. He served his title at St. Thomas’, Lancaster, in the Diocese of Blackburn and was ordained Priest in the Church of England in 2009.Previously, Saju was appointed Associate Vicar at St. Thomas’, Kendal, and St. Catherine’s, Crook, in the Diocese of Carlisle, north-west England, in 2011. He has served at St. Mark’s, Gillingham and St Mary’s Island in the Diocese of Rochester since 2015 – initially as Priest-in-Charge, before being appointed Vicar in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiaborn-priest-becomes-england-bishop-with-indian-rosewood-staff-101643305340426.html
27-01-2022||India||IMD alerts: Severe cold wave, rainfall and snowfall in these states till February 4||Cold day conditions are going to continue in most parts of central and northwest India as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted the same in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan, among others, for the next three days.According to the latest bulletin by the Met department, there will be no significant change in the minimum temperatures over northwest India till January 30. However, the mercury will commence dipping by two to three degrees Celsius thereafter.Also Read | Biting chill but familiar winter fog eludes Delhi, least since 2008The IMD has also forecasted heavy rainfall in most parts of northeast India, including Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh till January 28. Under the influence of two different western disturbances, fresh snowfall is likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and western Himalayan region between January 29 and February 4.Here are the key IMD alerts for rainfall, cold wave and snowfall till February 4:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-alerts-severe-cold-wave-rainfall-and-snowfall-in-these-states-till-feb-4-101643301632456.html
27-01-2022||India||Air India flights under Tata Group will have these changes||Tata Group which officially became the owner of Air India starting from January 27 (Thursday) after the divestment process was complete has thought of some changes to be made for an overhaul of the brand of the debt-laden airline. According to a PTI report, the employees have been told that efforts will be made to change the image, attitude and perception of Air India. On Thursday, Air India offered enhanced meal services on four flights from Mumbai even before the handover was complete.Here are the changes that are being planned:Guests not passengersAccording to reports, the cabin crew members have been instructed to address passengers as guests.Grooming executiveThe crew members will have to be smartly dressed and well-groomed and grooming executives will be conducting checks at the airports.‘Historic flight’: All Air India flights to make this announcement tomorrowClosing doors 10 minutes beforeThe renewed focus will be on the performance of Air India. Timeliness is the top priority of the new management. Hence, doors will be closed 10 minutes before departure.Ratan Tata's messageA special audio message by Ratan Tata, Chairman Emeritus of Tata Sons, will also be played in flights and crew will be instructed on when and how to play it.Enhanced meal service on select flights for a few daysThe enhanced meal service will be continued on some select flights in the initial days. Then the service will be expanded in a phased manner. On Friday, the special meal will be served on the Mumbai-Newark flight and five Mumbai-Delhi flights.On Friday, all flights will have a special welcome address by the pilots announcing that Air India has officially become a part of the Tata Group.As the takeover was complete, Tata Sons chairman Natarajan Chandrasekaran sent a message to all Air India employees that memories are wonderful but now is the time to look ahead as the entore nation is looking at Air India and the Tatas waiting to see what will be achieved in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-flights-under-tata-group-will-have-these-changes-101643303227498.html
27-01-2022||India||TMC to move motion in Parliament against Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar||Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday decided to place a Substantive Motion in the Rajya Sabha criticizing the actions of Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar with whom the state government’s acrimonious relationship has touched an all-time low in recent months, TMC leaders aware of the development said. The decision was taken at a closed-door meeting that chief minister Mamata Banerjee held with her party’s Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members on Thursday evening to discuss strategy for the coming session of the Parliament. TMC leaders publicly describe Dhankhar, the state’s 28th governor, as “an agent of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)” and call the Raj Bhawan in Kolkata an “extended office” of the saffron camp. The motion will describe Dhankhar’s activities as violation of Constitutional norms and practices, senior TMC leaders told HT. Since a governor is protected by the Constitution, the TMC may not directly demand Dhankhar’s removal and focus on his actions instead. The TMC will also talk to parties opposed to the BJP to garner support for the motion. No party in India has done this in recent history and the attempt may be futile, Constitutional experts said. The rule book of the Rajya Sabha says: “A substantive motion is a self-contained proposal made in reference to a subject which the mover wishes to bring forward.” “Dhankhar has crossed all limits when it comes to interference with governance. He arbitrarily summons bureaucrats and demands explanation for their actions. He shows no respect for the chief minister. We will present the scenario before the Parliament,” said TMC Rajya Sabha member and lawyer Sukhendu Sekhar Roy who was asked by the chief minister to draft the motion in consultation with experts. Asked whether the party will demand Dhankhar’s removal, Sudip Bandopadhyay, the party’s leader in the Lok Sabha said, “This governor should leave on his own without waiting for such a demand.” In a significant move, Banerjee also told her leaders that from now on she will give more time to organizational work by taking out time from her official duties. Dhankhar was sworn in on July 30, 2019, and the face-off started in less than two months. On September 19 that year, he raised eyebrows by rushing to Jadavpur University to “rescue” the then Union minister and BJP leader Babul Supriyo who was gheraoed by agitating students. Five days later, Dhankhar visited Siliguri town in north Bengal and reacted sharply when local people’s representatives and administrative officials did not show up for a meeting that he had convened. “It does not make any difference to me if people do not attend my meeting. I will visit every district and call similar meetings in future,” Dhankhar said, implying that he could not be deterred. The exchanges continued, with Dhankhar and the government taking to social media or exchanging letters that were released to the media from both sides. In April 2020, when the state was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, Dhankhar’s consistent jibes at the state over handling of the crisis prompted the chief minister to shoot off a 15-page letter to Raj Bhawan. “You appear to have forgotten that I am an elected chief minister of a proud Indian state. You also seem to have forgotten that you are a nominated Governor. You may continue to ignore all advice and inputs given by me and my council of ministers (as you appear to have taken upon yourself to do since the day of your appointment), but at least you should not ignore the wise words of Babasaheb Ambedkar in the Constituent Assembly on 31/5/1949,” Banerjee wrote and went on the quote what Ambedkar said on several occasions. A constitutional expert and former principal of Presidency College (now a university), Prof Amal Mukherjee told HT that the motion will be rejected outright by the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha because it has no validity. “Motions can be brought only against members of the Parliament, not outsiders. A governor is above those rules. In many ways a governor enjoys more privileges than the President of India. The Parliament may initiate impeachment proceedings against a President of the country but not against a governor,” Mukherjee said. Conflict between a governor and the ruling party is not new in Bengal but the present scenario is quite unique, political observers have pointed out on several occasions. In 2007, when the Left Front was in power, violence at Nandigram in East Midnapore district claimed 34 lives between January and November over farmers’ opposition to a proposed land acquisition for a special economic zone (SEZ). The Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government was compelled to scrap the plan. The then governor Gopal Krishna Gandhi, the grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, criticised the violence in a nearly 700-word statement in November 2007. It immediately triggered vitriolic reactions from the Marxists. 
27-01-2022||India||HT This Day: January 30, 1961 -- Taj Mahal A Glorious Sight Says The Queen||Queen Elizabeth and Prince Philip today spent about an hour at Taj Mahal and about 50 minutes inside the Agra Fort. “It is a glorious sight,” the Queen was heard to say. Leaving the Taj, the Queen abruptly stopped at the main gate to have a last look at the monument. They again visited the Taj shortly after 9 p.m and stayed there for nearly an hour. With an overcast sky there was only a dim and hazy moon. On their visits to the Taj and the Fort during the day the Queen and the Prince were accompanied by the Commissioner of Agra Division, who explained details about the architecture and Mrs Vijayalakshmi Pandit. Inside the Taj Mahal an attendant shouted thrice and the Queen listened to the echo with rapt attention. She also saw the alcove where the Kohinoor was once kept. Special overshoes in scarlet velvet had been provided by the authorities. At the Fort, where fountains played for the first time in many years, the Queen spent some time in the Sheesh Mahal, the octagonal tower where Shahjehan was imprisoned, and the Diwan-e-khas. On behalf of the citizens the Queen was presented with an album of coloured photographs of Agra. Queen Elizabeth on her arrival at Kheria airport was received by Mrs Sucheta Kripalani, U.P. Minister for Community Development, on behalf of the State Government, the Mayor and officials. About 5,000 spectators gathered at the airport, decorated with Tricolours and Union Jacks. Two large open cars belonging to the Governor’s Household which were brought to Agra from Lucknow drove up to the Queen’s Britannia as it came to a halt. The Queen, dressed in a turquoise dress and a white hat walking beside Prince Philip, smilingly shook hands with Mrs Kripalani and others, including 12 U.K. nationals in Agra. The Queen seemed to have borne the flight from Delhi to Agra, which must have been bumpy, fairly well. As the Queen got into the car with Mrs Kripalani, the crowd cheered. Simple Reception The reception at Agra airport was simple and did not take more than a few minutes. Even the national anthems were not played. The reason perhaps was the bad weather. But it seems that the reception at Agra was deliberately kept simple. Except for Mrs Kripalani, no other dignitary, neither the Governor nor the Chief Minister or other Ministers came to Agra from Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-january-30-1961-taj-mahal-a-glorious-sight-says-the-queen-101643302978613.html
27-01-2022||India||HT This Day: January 28, 1950 -- India goes gay on Republic Day||Unforgettable scenes of enthusiasm and rejoicing marked the beginning of a new era in the history of India yesterday when the Republic of India was born with the swearing in of Dr Rajendra Prasad as its first President. The glittering ceremony in the Durbar Hall of Government House, the excitement of hundreds of thousands of people lining the five-mile route through which the President drove in State and the spectacularly colourful parade at Irwin Stadium where the President hoisted the National Flag and took the Republic salute will remain in people’s memory for long. It was the people’s day, and they left no one in doubt about it. They crowded the streets, roofs and all available vantage points all along the route right from Government House to Irwin Stadium. Even though they could not watch the President, the Prime Minister and the Cabinet Ministers being sworn in they associated themselves with the ceremony by rushing into the forecourt of Government House and expressing their joy at the inauguration of the Republic. The swearing-in ceremony at Government House and the accompanying functions were most impressive. They took about two hours and went off exactly as planned. The audience in the Durbar Hall felt thrilled first when Rajaji read out the Proclamation establishing the Republic and next when the President took the oath of office in the national language and also made his brief speech first in Hindi and then in English. (Details of this function are published elsewhere in this issue.) While crowds were awaiting expectantly, the President in white cap, black achkan and white pyjamas, stepped down the Durbar Hall steps to the State Coach accompanied by his Private Secretary, his Military Secretary, and two picturesquely dressed A.D.C.s. The 35-year-old coach specially renovated for the occasion, bearing the new State emblem of Asoka’s Capitol, and drawn by six sturdy Australian valours had already pulled up at the foot of the steps. The trappings of its saddlery had also been changed from crowns to Asoka Capitols. As Dr Rajendra Prasad stepped into the coach and the two A.D.C.s took their seats facing him there were shouts of joy and crowds once again made a rush through the cordons. The Coach drove out of Government House at a slow trot escorted by the President’s Body Guards. All along the route the President was welcomed by shouts of joy. The President responded to the greetings of the people by bowing to them with folded hands. The drive, which began exactly at 2:30 p.m., ended exactly at 3:45 p.m. at Irwin Stadium where 3,000 officers and men of the three Services and the police with massed bands had taken position for a ceremonial parade. The Stadium was packed with visitors, with National Flags and the new flags of the Services fluttering all around the Stadium, it presented a site of splendour, the colourfulness of the scene being heightened by the drab walls of the historic Purana Qila in the background. FANFARE OF TRUMPETS A fanfare of trumpet announced the arrival of the President and there was loud cheering as he stepped down from the coach, and was received by the Defence Minister, Sardar Balder Singh. The three Service Chiefs were then presented to the President, who accompanied by the Defence Minister and the Service Chiefs, went to the Saluting Base. The parade gave the national salute to the President, the National Flag was broken at mast and while the whole assembly stood massed bands played the National Anthem. A brightly-painted jeep took the President and the Commander of the Parade. Brig. Dhillon, round the units on parade. The inspection over, the President returned to the base of the dais and a salute of 31 guns was fired in three instalments. In between the parade fired a fes-de-joie thrice. The most exciting moment came when the parade gave the President three jais while a flight of I.A.F. Liberators roared past over the Stadium. The march-past now began and the admiring crowds cheered each unit as it crossed the base. It was a smart turn-out and among those who received specially loud cheers were the Air Force, the Gurkhas and the boys of the Punjab Regiment. The massed bands were the last to march past and were cheered equally loudly. On the President’s departure from the Parade Ground there was another sound of trumpets and one of the most impressive ceremonies seen in years came to an end. The President drove from Irwin Stadium to Government House at 4:30 p.m. The crowds had swelled the route through Kingsway and they cheered the President all along. Historic in its significance, it was an unforgettable day. It was a day of joy and the ruminations all over the Capital at night showed how happily and enthusiastically the people welcomed the advent of the Republic. P.T.I. reports: A spectacular parade of the Defence Services climaxed the five-mile-long Presidential procession. Twenty thousand spectators, including President Soekarno of Indonesia, Pandit Nehru, the Deputy Prime Minister, Sardar Patel, and other Cabinet Ministers, members of the diplomatic corps, members of Parliament and men, and women and children from all walks of life watched the President take the National Salute. Tricolours, a huge Asoka capitol placed in the main stadium, the flags of the three Services, the multicoloured berets, caps, turbans and buckles, the gorgeous costumes of the massed bandsmen, the picturesque uniforms of the President’s Bodyguard escorting the President’s coach-and-six, the saffron and red decorations--everything contributed to a feast of colour and pageantry befitting the first ceremonial parade held in the capital of the new Republic. A tremendous cheer went up as they sighted the President’s coach, drawn by six chestnut horses and escorted by his mounted Bodyguard in scarlet tunics and a detachment of the Gwalior Lancers. Liveried footmen held aloft a red and gold umbrella. A fanfare of trumpets heralded his arrival. Dr Rajendra Prasad, wearing black achkan and churiders and Gandhi cap, bowed smilingly in acknowledgment of the cheers of the multitude. The parade-the Navy as the seniormost Service formed to the left, the Army in ochre green in the centre and the Air Force, boys of the Punjab Regiment and the police to the right then gave the President the National Salute, which replaced the old Royal salute. The National Flag was broken at half-mast and massed bands played Rabindranath Tagore’s Jana Gana Mana. Conducted by the Officer Commanding the parade, Brig. J. S. Dhillon, Dr Prasad then inspected the parade from a green-painted jeep flying the Presidents Flag. As the President returned to the dais 31 guns boomed and the men assembled in parade cracked their rifles thrice, firing feu-de-joie. each volley followed by the National Anthem. The parade gave the President three vigorous jais as the artillery smoke hid the view for the spectators perched precariously on top of the crumbling walls of the Purana Qila.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthis-day-january-28-1950-india-goes-gay-on-republicday-101643302077989.html
27-01-2022||India||BJP leaders mock Rahul Gandhi's Twitter complaint, say maybe this is the reason||As Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote to Twitter over his decreasing follower count, in which the US-based social media platform has denied any role, BJP leaders made fun of Rahul Gandhi and his concerns. Pointing to the defections that the party is seeing, BJP's Amit Malviya said at a time when the party is facing rebellion in Uttarakhand, Punjab, Rahul Gandhi is worried about his Twitter followers.Former IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, "May be large number of leaders who are leaving Congress, their followers are now unfollowing Rahul Gandhi." May be large number of leaders who are leaving Congress, their followers are now unfollowing Rahul Gandhi! 😀 https://t.co/YZi05qsTLMRahul Gandhi had written the letter on December 27, but it has only come to the surface on Wednesday. "I believe Twitter's unwitting complicity in curbing free and fair speech in India," Rahul wrote in the letter addressed to Twitter's CEO Parag Agarwal. In his letter, he also sent an analysis of data from his Twitter account showing that the follower count has not increased for several months. He also said that this is "not so coincidental".Twitter on Thursday issued a statement stating that follower counts are a visible feature and the numbers are accurate and meaningful.Amid this to and fro, Amit Malviya asked will Rahul Gandhi also write to the Election Commission for not getting votes. "Rahul Gandhi has written to Twitter complaining that his followers count has not increased since his account was temporarily suspended in 2021…Rahul doesn’t get audience in the real world and now virtual world too! What next? Write to EC and complain for not getting votes?"The Congress said Rahul Gandhi's stand was vindicated that democracy and social media platforms cannot be suppressed or subjugated by the ruling government||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leaders-mock-rahul-gandhi-s-twitter-complaint-says-maybe-this-is-the-reason-101643299217965.html
27-01-2022||India||Utpal Parrikar files nomination; rival Monserrate rubbishes threat to victory||Utpal Parrikar, the son of former Union defence minister Manohar Parrikar, on Thursday filed his nomination as an independent candidate from the Panaji constituency.Utpal, who had quit the BJP after the party handed over a ticket to Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate, ignoring his claims to the party ticket said he was confident that the people of Panjim will support him. “I have filed my nomination as an independent candidate and I am confident that the people of Panjim will give me their support through votes,” Utpal told reporters after he filed his papers. Utpal went ahead and filed his nomination despite efforts from the state BJP leadership to placate him. The party had offered him the chance to contest from the Bicholim constituency, a constituency that is presently represented by Speaker Rajesh Patnekar. Utpal’s nomination came on a day when the state witnessed a flurry of nominations on Thursday, being the penultimate day for filing of nominations. Among those who filed nominations on Thursday include Utpal’s rival and BJP candidate Babush Monserrate Besides Utpal, former Goa Chief Minister Laxmikant Parsekar who is contesting as an independent too filed his nomination. “This is not a monarchy, that father is there after that the son comes. It is a democracy; everyone has got to go for elections. My wife is MLA of Taleigao, she didn’t get nominated, she contested and she won. My son is a mayor, he also contested. If you have the wishes and the blessings of the people no one can do anything, that is the reason we are here,” Monserrate said as he filed his nomination. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Speaker Rajesh Patnekar too filed their nominations on Thursday for the Sanquelim and Bicholim constituencies respectively.Besides BJP candidates, candidates from the Congress including Panaji candidate Elvis Gomes, Dabolim candidate Viriato Fernandes, AAP leader Venzy Viegas and others filed their nominations. Friday is the last day to file nominations in the coastal state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/utpal-parrikar-files-nomination-rival-monserrate-rubbishes-threat-to-victory-101643298477629.html
27-01-2022||India||Covid-19: Tamil Nadu lifts night curfew, permits schools to reopen from Feb 1||Tamil Nadu on Thursday eased a few of the curbs that were put in place to contain the Covid-19 spread amid the improving pandemic situation.According to the latest orders, the state government has lifted the night curfew and Sunday lockdowns from tomorrow (Friday). Further, schools have been permitted to reopen from February 1 for classes 1 to 12.Meanwhile, other existing restrictions will continue across the state till February 15.Continuing a downward trend, the state reported 28,515 fresh cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday, taking the cumulative caseload to 32,52,751. The new infections included three returnees from Bangladesh and Odisha, according to the health department bulletin.Chennai accounted for 5,591 new cases followed by Coimbatore 3,629, Tiruppur 1,877, Chengalpet 1,696, Salem 1,431, Erode 1,314 while the remaining were spread across other districts.As many as 53 people succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours pushing the toll to 37,412, the bulletin added.The recoveries rose to 30,01,805 with 28,620 people recuperating from the viral disease in the same time span. The active infections in the state currently stood at 2,13,534.The state has been witnessing a decline in fresh infections since January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-tamil-nadu-lifts-night-curfew-permits-schools-to-reopen-from-feb-1-101643295197247.html
27-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi says party workers to decide CM face for Punjab polls, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the Congress will announce a CM candidate for the upcoming Punjab Assembly Election 2022 as both chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu urged Rahul Gandhi to announce a CM face ahead of the polls, instead of the collective leadership. Read moreReiterating that state governments must observe all precautions and not let their guard down, the Union home ministry on Thursday extended the existing Covid-19 guidelines till February 28. It has asked the states to impose or lift local curbs on the basis of case positivity and hospitalization status in respective areas. Read moreChina on Thursday said it will work “closely” with India to properly handle the ongoing border tension and strongly criticised the US for saying it was concerned by Beijing’s attempts to coerce its neighbours including India. Read moreIndia Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tribute to hockey legend Charanjit Singh, who passed away on Thursday in his hometown of Una, Himachal Pradesh. Read moreActor Nagarjuna is furious at those publishing ‘nonsense’ news reports about him ‘breaking silence’ on son Naga Chaitanya's divorce with Samanth Ruth Prabhu. On Thursday, he took to Twitter to share that he has not given any interview about the same. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-says-party-workers-to-decide-cm-face-for-punjab-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101643295633801.html
27-01-2022||India||‘Historic flight’: All Air India flights to make this announcement tomorrow||All Air India flights operating on January 28 will have a special welcome announcement that Air India has officially become a part of the Tata group again, after seven decades. A circular has been issued to all pilots on Thursday in this regard after the formal handover process was concluded in the afternoon."Dear Guests, This is your Captain (Name) speaking... Welcome aboard this historic flight, which marks a special event. Today, Air India officially becomes a part of the Tata Group again, after seven decades. We look forward to serving you on this and every Air India flight with renewed commitment and passion. Welcome to the future of Air India! We hope you enjoy the journey. Thank You," the circular said.Welcome and welcome back: Tata Sons chairman's message to Air India employeesTata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran said Tata Group is committed to making Air India a world-class airline.For the smooth functioning of the airline, Tata Group will get loans from a consortium of banks, led by the State Bank of India. All large lenders, including Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, and Union Bank of India, are part of the consortium, reports said. Existing lenders who do not wish to participate in the refinancing of debt to Tatas will get their money repaid through the refinanced amount.Reports said the maximum emphasis the Tatas will now give to the performance of the airline. There are several other changes that will be brought in including a recorded message of Ratan Tata on board in all Air India aircraft.Tatas are also planning to change the seating arrangements and the dress code of the cabin crew. After the disinvestment, Talace Private Limited, a subsidiary of the Tata Group's holding company Tata Sons, has become the new owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/historic-flight-all-air-india-flights-to-make-this-announcement-tomorrow-101643295892017.html
27-01-2022||India||Impose, lift local curbs based on test positivity, hospitalization: MHA to states||Reiterating that state governments must observe all precautions and not let their guard down, the Union home ministry on Thursday extended the existing Covid-19 guidelines till February 28. It has asked the states to impose or lift local curbs on the basis of case positivity and hospitalization status in respective areas. Issuing an order under the Disaster Management Act, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said the guidelines issued on December 27 last year to ensure compliance to the normative framework for taking evidence based Covid-19 containment measures at district/local level will remain in force till end of February. He separately wrote to the chief secretaries of the states and union territories asking them to issue necessary directions to the districts and other local authorities concerned to take measures for prompt and effective management of Covid-19, strict compliance of various advisories issued by the central health ministry and strict enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour – social distancing and wearing masks. “Due to the current Covid-19 wave, led by the new variant – Omicron, there has been a steady increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country and the active cases have increased to over 22 lakh. Though a majority of active cases are recovering fast and a low percentage of cases are in hospitals, it is still a matter of concern that 407 districts in 34 states and UTs are reporting a positivity rate of more than 10%,” Bhalla’s letter read. Therefore, he added, looking at the current trends of the Covid-19 virus, there is a need to exercise caution and vigilance. The home secretary said, “In this background, I would like to reiterate that all the states/UTs must observe all precautions and not let their guard down.” He asked the authorities to continue to take prompt and appropriate action. “Imposition and lifting of local curbs should be dynamic and should be based on case positivity and hospitalization status at the local level”. The ministry has also told the states to focus on the five-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to avoid any surge in Covid-19 cases, especially keeping in view Omicron, the new variant of concern (VOC). The government has already clarified through previous orders that any person violating the guidelines will be “liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, besides legal action under Section 188 of CrPC, and other legal provisions, as applicable.” India reported 2,86,384 new Covid-19 cases and 573 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry bulletin on Thursday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/impose-lift-local-curbs-based-on-test-positivity-hospitalization-mha-to-states-101643295897373.html
27-01-2022||India||Existing Covid-19 guidelines extended till February 28, states urged not to lower guards||The Union home ministry on Thursday extended the existing Covid-19 guidelines under the Disaster Management Act till February 28 as the country battles with the third wave of the pandemic, driven by the Omicron variant.Issuing a notification, the ministry said its previous order to “ensure compliance to the normative framework for taking evidence based Covid-19 containment measures” will remain in force till February 28, 2022.The guidelines were earlier applicable till January 31.Meanwhile, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, in a communication to all states and Union territories, highlighted that active cases have increased to over 22 lakh even though a majority of the patients are recovering fast and a low percentage of cases are in hospitals, according to news agency PTI.“It is still a matter of concern that 407 districts in 34 states and Union Territories are reporting a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent.”Also read | Covid-19: India logs 2,86,384 new cases in last 24 hours; positivity rate rises to nearly 20%Given the current situation, he reiterated that all the states and Union territories must not let their guard down."Therefore, looking at the current trends of Covid, there is a need to exercise caution and vigilance," Bhalla said in the letter to the chief secretaries."Imposition and lifting of local curbs and restrictions should be dynamic, based on the case positivity and hospitalisation status at the local level," Bhalla added.Bhalla also outlined that focus on the five-fold strategy of test, track, treat and vaccination, and adherence to Covid- appropriate behaviour is a must. He also appealed to the state enforcement machinery to strictly enforce the Covid norms, including the wearing of face masks and maintaining social distancing in all public areas and gatherings.Also read | New Omicron subtype BA.2 is spreading quickly"I would, therefore, urge you to issue necessary directions to the districts and all other local authorities concerned, to take necessary measures for prompt and effective management of COVID-19, strict compliance with various advisories issued by the MoHFW on the new variant of concern (Omicron) and strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour," PTI further quoted the Union home secretary as saying in the letter.Meanwhile, India reported 2,86,384 new cases of the Covid-19 disease and 573 related deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry bulletin on Thursday. While the country's positivity rate stood at 19.59 per cent, the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 17.75 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/existing-covid-19-guidelines-extended-till-february-28-states-urged-not-to-lower-guards-101643291886716.html
27-01-2022||India||India for ‘greater urgency’ in trade negotiations with EU, says EAM Jaishankar||India wants “greater urgency” and “faster movement” in negotiations with the European Union (EU) for trade and investment pacts, though there are challenges such as the demands of the 27-member bloc and non-trade issues, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. Jaishankar made the remarks while participating in a virtual conversation with his French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian that focused on EU-India partnership in the Indo-Pacific during the French presidency of the bloc. Le Drian announced France will host a ministerial forum on the Indo-Pacific on February 22 to come up with concrete proposals for cooperation in security and defence, connectivity and digital, and global challenges. The two foreign ministers spoke extensively on cooperation between India and France within the Indo-Pacific region on a wide range of issues, including Covid-19 vaccines, regulations for the blue economy, connectivity projects that are transparent and respect sovereignty, and promoting regional peace and stability. When Jaishankar was asked by the moderator of the discussion about India-EU negotiations for trade and investment agreements, he cited two specific challenges in the case of the European bloc – the involvement so 27 countries, and the need to “harmonise and prioritise” their demands and some non-trade issues. Negotiators from both sides have been in touch since India and the EU agreed at a virtual summit last year to resume negotiations after a hiatus of eight years and are “quite active”, he said. “There has been movement but obviously the expectation level is high. We would like to see greater urgency, faster movement,” he said. India is “quite ready” to move faster and is hoping the progress in similar negotiations with other countries “adds to our credibility where Brussels is concerned”, Jaishankar said. Le Drian remarked that trade discussions are never easy, and bound to be complicated when they involve as many players as the 27 members of the EU. “The path is sometimes difficult but if the will is there, we will get there,” he said. Recent reports have suggested that India and the EU are working to finalise an investment agreement before they take up the more complicated issue of a free trade pact. Le Drian outlined France’s plan to organise a ministerial forum on the Indo-Pacific on February 22, which he said would be the first such event during his country’s presidency of the EU. The forum will focus on three areas – security and defence, connectivity and digital, and global challenges – and will be part of efforts to preserve an Indo-Pacific governed by rule of law, he said. It is also part of a stronger European commitment to face up to the security challenges of the vast region, and will come up with concrete proposals to tackle such issues in line with the EU’s strategy for the Indo-Pacific, he said. “We wish to work within this forum for the emergence of a production capacity of a vaccine for all of the indo-Pacific because the production of vaccines...is a key challenge to which we can bring collective answers,” Le Drian said, speaking in French. There is also a proposal for India and the EU to create an “Indo-Pacific campus on health” that will foster exchanges in training, innovation, and cooperation on pharmaceutical products. Le Drian suggested this campus could be based in India as a “symbol of the common will to make the Indo-Pacific an area of sharing and partnership”. At the same time, the EU is working on a “coordinated maritime presence” in the Indo-Pacific for greater stability and better security in the region, he said. Both Jaishankar and Le Drian said the close cooperation between India and France in a range of key areas could serve as a foundation for collaboration within the EU framework in the Indo-Pacific. Jaishankar said India’s position on connectivity partnerships and the EU’s Global Gateway initiative for smart and secure links in the digital, energy and transport sectors are based on similar principles, including democratic values, good governance, transparency, commercial viability, local ownership, and respect for the territorial integrity of countries. 
27-01-2022||India||In Assam, 246 insurgents of two outfits lay down arms, surrender||A total of 246 terrorists from two outfits of Assam, the Tiwa Liberation Army (TLA) and United Gorkha Peoples Organisation (UGPO), formally surrendered and laid down arms before Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma in Guwahati on Thursday. According to Assam Police, members of both the outfits deposited 277 types of arms, grenades and 720 rounds of ammunition at the event held at Srimanta Sankardev Kalakshetra. Nearly 77 cadres of TLA surrendered and laid down arms, while the rest 169 were from UGPO. “All the main operatives of both the outfits including their chairmen, commander-in-chiefs, general secretaries have surrendered today. A few of their cadres, who are in jail or absconding, may have remained. We will deal with them later,” said Hiren Chandra Nath, additional DGP (Special Branch), Assam Police. Formed in 2014, TLA was mainly active in Marigaon, Nagaon and West Karbi Anglong districts while UGPO, which was formed in 2007, was active in Kokrajhar, Chirang, Baksa and Biswanath districts. In the same event, 462 former militants of five different terrorist outfits (Rabha National Liberation Front-28, National Santhal Liberation Army-41, Adivasi Dragon Fighters-61, National Liberation Front of Bengalis-303 and United Peoples’ Revolutionary Front-29) who had surrendered last year were handed over financial grants of ₹1.5 lakh each by the CM for their rehabilitation. 
27-01-2022||India||Eye on Northeast | A border deal, a teen lost and found, and a party cut short||GUWAHATI: On Thursday, the chief ministers of Assam and Meghalaya met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and apprised him of the recommendations of regional committees of the two states, which suggested a division of six of the 12 disputed border areas between them with the help of a give-and-take formula of swapping land.
27-01-2022||India||India-Central Asia cooperation key to regional stability: PM Modi||Cooperation between India and Central Asia has gained in importance for regional security and stability in the aftermath of developments in Afghanistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said while chairing India’s first summit with the five Central Asian states on Thursday. The summit will also create an effective structure for cooperation, Modi said in his opening remarks at the virtual summit that was joined by the presidents of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. The summit will also forge an “ambitious roadmap” for cooperation, he said. The virtual summit was organised as the leaders of the Central Asian states were unable to attend India’s Republic Day celebrations on Wednesday because of a surge in Covid-19 infections. The five leaders were invited to be chief guests at the event, though no formal announcement was made by any of the countries. Connectivity, trade, forging an institutionalised framework for cooperation and the situation in Afghanistan were on the agenda for the summit, the first interaction of its kind between the leaders of the six countries. The six countries currently have a mechanism at the level of foreign ministers, called the India-Central Asia Dialogue, and its third meeting was hosted by New Delhi in December. India has sharpened it focus on Central Asian both to counter China’s growing presence in the region and to strengthen cooperation on Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover of that country. “We are all concerned with the developments in Afghanistan,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi. “In this context, our mutual cooperation has become more important for regional security and stability.” Modi listed the three main objectives of the summit – to make it clear that mutual cooperation between India and Central Asia is essential for regional security and prosperity, to create an effective structure for cooperation, and to create an ambitious roadmap for cooperation. “On behalf of India, I would like to clarify that Central Asia is central to India’s vision of an integrated and stable extended neighbourhood,” he said. An effective structure for cooperation will establish a framework of regular interactions at different levels and among various stakeholders, and the roadmap will enable the six countries to adopt an “integrated approach for regional connectivity and cooperation in the next thirty years”, he added. As India and the Central Asian states mark 30 years of diplomatic ties, Modi noted that cooperation in the past led to many successes but the time had come to define an “ambitious vision for the years to come” that can fulfil the aspirations of the people, especially the younger generation. Modi also referred to India’s close ties with all the Central Asian states at a bilateral level, and described Kazakhstan as an important partner for the country’s energy security. “I express my condolences for the recent loss of life and property in Kazakhstan,” he said, referring to violent protests over a rise in gas prices in that country. India’s state governments are active partners in growing cooperation with Uzbekistan, while there is an active partnership with Kyrgyzstan in education and high-altitude research. “Thousands of Indian students are studying there,” Modi said. “We have long-standing cooperation in the field of security with Tajikistan, and we are continuously strengthening it,” he said. Modi described Turkmenistan as an important part of India’s vision for regional connectivity, and said this was evident from “our participation in the Ashgabat Agreement”. 
27-01-2022||India||Welcome and welcome back: Tata Sons chairman's message to Air India employees||Soon after the official handover of Air India to the Tata Group on Thursday, Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran sent a message welcoming the employees of Air India. In his letter, he said since the day of the announcement that Tata would buy Air India, everyone has been talking about homecoming. "We are proud to welcome Air India back into the Tata family, after all these years," he wrote.Reminiscing about his first Air India flight that he took in December 1986, he said he will never forget how special it felt. "I, like many others, have enjoyed reflecting on stories from the airline's brilliant past," he wrote.Tata Group takes over Air India, credits PM Modi's commitment to reforms "Such memories are wonderful, but now is the time to look ahead. Today is the beginning of a new chapter. The entire nation's eyes are on us, waiting to see what we will achieve together. To build the airline our country needs, we need to look to the future," he wrote."I write this letter on behalf of the Tata Group, to welcome you to our family. Our Group has its own stories past. I have learned that to preserve what is best about the past, requires constant change. It is by evolving, adapting and embracing the future that we best honour a glorious history," the letter read.The Air India divestment procedure was complete with the present board members resigning and with the formal handover of the shares. The government said it received ₹2,700 crore and the shares have now been transferred to Talace, the new owner of Air India.Tata Group was the founder of Air India which was nationalised in 1953. When JRD Tata launched the airline in 1932, it was the first carrier of the country and was used to fly mail between Karachi and Bombay.The Twitter handles of Air India and Tata Group also welcomed each other on Thursday. "A brand new chapter unfolds for Air India as part of the Tata Group. Two iconic names come together to embark on a voyage of excellence. Looking forward to soaring high propelled by our rich legacy and a shared mission to serve our nation. Welcome aboard Tata Companies," Air India tweeted. "Excited to take off with you," Tata Group replied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/welcome-and-welcome-back-tata-sons-chairman-s-message-to-air-india-employees-101643286438128.html
27-01-2022||India||All 28 corporators from Malegaon civic body join NCP in major jolt to Congress in Maharashtra||In a major setback to Congress, all its 28 corporators from the Malegaon Municipal Corporation joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Thursday. The corporators included Mayor Tahira Shaikh who joined the other ruling ally in the presence of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and state NCP president Jayant Patil.Congress is part of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government along with Shiv Sena and NCP. The move is likely to upset the Congress, which is already protesting over not being included in key decisions and allocation of less funds to departments held by its ministers.The election to the municipal corporation is scheduled this year. In the last elections, Congress had won 28 seats in the civic body that governs the Muslim-dominated Malegaon city in North Maharashtra. It won on its own but now it’s entire unit in the civic body has quit the party. “We were planning to hold a huge rally for induction of the corporators but it could not be held because of the Covid-19 pandemic as daily cases are being detected in big numbers. Ultimately it was decided to hold it at the party office. NCP chief Sharad Pawar has never discriminated against people over religion, caste, creed or relations,” said Ajit Pawar after inducting the corporators along with the mayor at the NCP headquarters at Ballard Pier.Atul Londhe, the Congress spokesperson said that the people of Malegaon are with Congress. “Even if corporators have left the party, the people of Malegaon city are with the Congress. This time again the party will win the upcoming civic body elections,” said Londhe.Significantly, Congress candidate in the last assembly elections Asif Shaikh resigned from the party last year. He is likely to join NCP. Shaikh was a Congress MLA but was defeated in the 2019 elections by AIMIM candidate Mufti Mohammad Ismail. 
27-01-2022||India||PM Modi hosts first India-Central Asia Summit, outlines 3 goals||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday emphasised on the need for India and Central Asian countries to define an ambitious vision for the coming years as he acknowledged the completion of 30 “fruitful” years together.Hosting the first India-Central Asia Summit in a virtual format, Modi in his initial remarks said, “Our cooperation has achieved many successes over the past three decades."And now, at this crucial juncture, let us define an ambitious vision for the coming years as well," he added.Also read | PM Modi writes to global academics, cricketers with ‘Indian connect’Modi then called for the need to define the three goals for the summit.Elaborating on the first goal, the Prime Minister said the mutual cooperation between India and central Asia was necessary for regional security and prosperity.“I want to make it clear that Central Asia is central to India's vision of an integrated and stable neighbourhood,” he said, addressing the event that saw a participation of the Presidents of five countries, including Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan.Outlining the second goal, Modi said, “Today's meeting is to give an effective structure to our cooperation, which will pave the way for the establishment of a platform for regular interaction among all stakeholders.”For the third goal, Modi said it was crucial to prepare an ambitious roadmap for the cooperation between India and Central Asian countries which, he added, will enable the nations to adopt an integrated approach for regional connectivity and cooperation.This is the first engagement of its kind between India and the Central Asian countries at the level of leaders. The summit is symbolic of the importance attached by the leaders of both sides to a comprehensive and enduring India-Central Asia partnership.The first India-Central Asia Summit, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) had said, is a reflection of the country's growing engagement with the Central Asian countries, which are a part of India's "extended neighbourhood".Modi had paid a visit to all Central Asian countries in 2015. Subsequently, there have been exchanges at high levels at bilateral and multilateral forums.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-hosts-first-india-central-asia-summit-outlines-3-goals-101643282671425.html
27-01-2022||India||Tata Group regains Air India’s ownership after seven decades||NEW DELHI: The government on Thursday handed over Air India (AI) to the Tata Group, marking the end of the process for the transfer of the debt-laden national carrier.The airline began its journey under the Tatas 90 years ago before the government nationalised the sector in 1953. Its 100% stake was sold to the autos-to-steel Tata conglomerate for ₹18,000 crore. The Centre announced the sale on October 8.Talace Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, gets 100% equity shares of AI and AI Express. It will also get the government’s 50% stake in ground-handling company AISATS.In a tweet, department of investment and public asset management secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said: “The strategic disinvestment transaction of Air India successfully concluded today with transfer of 100 per cent shares of Air India to M/s talace Pvt Ltd along with management control.” He added a new board, led by the strategic partner, has taken AI’s charge.In a statement, the finance ministry said the strategic disinvestment transaction has been completed with the government receiving ₹ 2,700 crores.Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran said they are totally delighted that this process is complete. “We are very happy to have Air India back in the Tata fold. We look forward to working with everyone.”In a tweet, civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya M Scindia said, “Best wishes to the new owners. I am confident that the airline will bloom under their wings, and pave the way for a thriving & robust civil aviation industry in India.”An internal message sent to AI employees on Monday said the closing balance sheet was to be submitted by the end of the day. The balance sheet was then forwarded to the Tata Sons for review.Officials were working round the clock to complete all procedures this week.On October 8, the Tatas beat the ₹15,100-crore offer of a consortium SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh led and the reserve price of ₹12,906 crore set for the sale of 100% stake in the carrier.The bid amount includes about ₹15,300 crores of the carrier’s ₹61,562 crore debt. The remaining will be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Limited, a special purpose vehicle formed by the government.On October 11, a Letter of Intent was issued to the Tata Group confirming the government’s willingness to sell its 100% stake in the airline. On October 25, the Centre signed the share purchase agreement for this deal.The deal was a boost for the government’s disinvestment drive and financial books. In the last financial year, which was battered by the pandemic, the airline was estimated to have lost ₹27 crores daily.For Tata Group, AI is the third airline. It holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines. It will also get the AI’s prized landing and parking slots. AI has control of 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports. It also has 900 slots at airports overseas such as London’s Heathrow and New York’s JFK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tata-group-finalises-deal-to-regain-air-india-s-ownership-after-seven-decades-101643283895717.html
27-01-2022||India||Evening brief with HT: Karan Singh backs Ghulam Nabi Azad amid infighting over Padma award and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Infighting over Padma award: Karan Singh backs Ghulam Nabi AzadCongress leader Karan Singh on Thursday backed his party colleague Ghulam Nabi Azad, calling him a “well-deserved” candidate for India’s third highest civilian award, the Padma Bhushan. Read MoreBJP fields Darshan Singh Shivjot from Chamkaur Sahib against Channi; Check listThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday announced the second list of candidates for the upcoming Punjab assembly polls, fielding Darshan Singh Shivjot from the crucial Chamkaur Sahib constituency, which is also chief minister Charanjit Singh's incumbent seat. Read MoreR-Day celebrations: Burhan Wani's father hoists Tricolour at Pulwama schoolThe father of slain Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Burhan Wani hoisted the Tricolour at a school in the Tral area of Pulwama district in Jammu and Kashmir on the occasion of the Republic Day. Read MoreGanguly told Shastri 'boss, it's time to go': Former Pakistan captain blames BCCI chief for launching 'personal attacks'Even as Team India tries to move on from the entire BCCI-Virat Kohli fiasco, speculations continue to flock Indian cricket. Read MoreShweta Tiwari in trouble over remark on God while talking about her innerwear, MP minister Narrotam Mishra wants probeShweta Tiwari has landed into trouble after her recent remark, referring to God while taking about her innerwear did not go down well with some. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-brief-with-ht-karan-singh-backs-ghulam-nabi-azad-amid-infighting-over-padma-award-101643283028362.html
27-01-2022||India||Omicron sub-strain BA.2 more prevalent; 3rd wave plateau observed: Centre||The Union health ministry on Thursday said there is an early indication of the plateau in Covid cases in certain geographies in India, though, in some other districts, the Covid-19 cases are rising. The sub-strain of Omicron, which is Omicron BA.2, is more prevalent in India, the ministry said. “We have been observing an early indication of Covid plateau, but it is only limited to some regions,” health ministry joint secretary Lav Agarwal said. A total of 10 states are contributing to 77% of the active cases. More than 90% of cases are under home isolation, the health ministry data revealed. Covaxin, Covishield to be available in hospitals, clinics; apex body gives nodTalking about Omicron and its sub-strains, Sujeet Kumar Singh, the director of the National Centre for Disease Control, said, "Initially when the variant was being spread through foreign travellers, then BA.1 was prevalent. But now as Omicron transmission is in the community, the prevalence of BA.2 is noted. This prevalence is also limited to some states. As on today, we can see Delta only in three states: Odisha, Maharashtra and West Bengal.""Delta cases are also found in India. Even in Delhi, Delta variants are found," Sujeet Singh said.Between December 2021 and January 2022, Omicron has replaced Delta, according to genome sequencing data. But active cases and corresponding deaths compared to previous waves remained lower. This is also because of the vaccination as it led to fewer cases, fewer hospitalisation and fewer deaths, the ministry said. On May 7, 2021, at the peak of the second wave, there were 4,14,188 new cases and 3,679 deaths while only 3% of people were fully vaccinated. Comparing this with the data of January 21, the ministry said on January 21, 2022, there were 3,47,254 new cases and 435 deaths and 75% of people are fully vaccinated.According to health ministry data, the third wave is now peaking in Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan. Districts that are recording high cases and increase in positivity include Pine, Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram, Ahmedabad, Nagpur and Kozhikode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-sub-variant-ba-2-more-prevalent-3rd-wave-plateau-may-be-coming-centre-101643282791228.html
27-01-2022||India||‘Surrender and seek bail’: Nitesh Rane gets 10-day arrest shield from SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday granted Maharashtra BJP MLA Nitesh Rane protection from arrest for ten days in connection to an attempt to murder case to let him surrender and seek regular bail from the trial court. A bench led by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana made it clear that the court is not commenting on the merits of the case, and that the interim protection for 10 days is granted to Rane for the purpose of him seeking regular bail from the trial court concerned.“We are not going to decide the facts...That is for the trial court. You surrender and seek regular bail,” the bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and Hima Kohli, told Rane’s lawyers.Rane is accused of being the mastermind behind the attempt on the life of a Shiv Sena member on December 18 last year in the Kankavli area of Maharashtra. Rane, son of union minister Narayan Rane, represents Kankavli assembly seat in the Sindhudurg district.Senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Sidharth Luthra, representing Rane, argued that the charges against the leader were “completely bogus”.“The prosecution’s version is that there was a ‘deep-rooted conspiracy’ to stab the complainant with a ‘paper-cutter’. This shows the extent to which the state and the ruling party will go against my client who is a two-time MLA. This is a case of the police being more loyal than the king,” Rohatgi submitted.Sidharth Luthra added that the alleged victim was roaming around the day after the alleged incident in December 2021. “How can you have a conspiracy, hire killers to cause a simple injury with a paper-cutter on the complainant, who is a member of an opposition party? Can this version be believed?” he asked.Appearing for the Maharashtra government, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi opposed Rane’s appeal against denial of anticipatory bail by the Bombay high court on January 17.“My learned friends are trying to over-simplify the incident. The weapon is not a blunt paper-cutter found on a study table but a formidable one, which caused serious harm. There is evidence to show a link between the petitioner, his close associates and the attack. A detailed investigation has been done along with a test identification parade,” contended Singhvi.The bench decided to dispose of Rane’s petition by asking him to approach the trial court for regular bail while protecting him from any coercive action from the police for the time being.The case was registered against Rane after a Shiv Sena member filed a police complaint, alleging he was assaulted by certain persons linked with the MLA. The incident took place in December during the campaigning for the Sindhudurg District Co-operative Bank election.The Bombay high court on January 17 refused to grant pre-arrest bail to Rane in the case, noting that a balance was needed between conflicting considerations of personal liberty and a proper investigation in the matter.A single-judge bench of the high court, which rejected the anticipatory bail applications of Rane and another accused Sandesh Sawant, allowed a similar plea of the third accused in the case, Manish Dalvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surrender-and-seek-bail-nitesh-rane-gets-10-day-arrest-shield-from-sc-101643280115326.html
27-01-2022||India||R-Day celebrations: Burhan Wani's father hoists Tricolour at Pulwama school||The father of slain Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist Burhan Wani hoisted the Tricolour at a school in the Tral area of Pulwama district in Jammu and Kashmir on the occasion of the Republic Day. Muzaffar Wani who is a teacher by profession unfurled the National Flag on the premises of the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Tral.Burhan was a commander of the terrorist group Hizbul Mujahideen. In July 2016, Burhan along with two others was killed in an encounter by the security forces in Anantnag district.His death delivered a major blow to the terrorist operation in the valley as he was the mastermind of several operations though he rarely participated in them.His death had triggered widespread protests across Kashmir that lasted for nearly five months leading to the loss of lives of many people. Several others were also injured in the clashes and protests. A resident of Dadsara village in the Tral area, Wani had fast risen through the ranks of the militant group and became the district commander and figured in the list of the agencies’ most-wanted militants. The 22-year-old also had a ₹10-lakh bounty on his head.Meanwhile, the Army on Wednesday unfurled a 150-feet-high flagpole in Shopian district to mark the Republic Day celebrations. The defence spokesperson dedicated the flag to the people of the valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rday-celebrations-burhan-wani-s-father-hoists-tricolour-at-pulwama-school-101643279791924.html
27-01-2022||India||Covaxin, Covishield get full market authorisation||NEW DELHI: The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted full market authorisation to Covaxin and Covishield, the vaccines against Covid-19, under certain conditions, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Thursday.“The @CDSCO_INDIA_INF has now upgraded the permission for COVAXIN and Covishield from restricted use in emergency situations to normal new drug permission in the adult population with certain conditions,” he tweeted.The approval has been granted under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019. The vaccines have been upgraded to the category of new drugs from drugs for restricted use in an emergency situation.The manufacturers of the vaccines will have to keep documenting data from the real-world usage and clinical trials that are underway and submit it regularly to the regulator.“The conditions include supply for programmatic settings including registration on the CoWin platform and to continue to submit safety data on a six-monthly basis,” said Mandaviya in another tweet.The subject expert panel of the regulator on January 19 recommended full market authorisation for Covaxin and Covishield under certain conditions.“SEC of CDSCO [Central Drug Standard Control Organisation] has recommended for upgrade of covishield and covaxin status from restricted use in emergency situations to grant of new drug permission with conditions In adult population, DCGI will evaluate the recommendations and give its decision,” CDSCO tweeted the day the recommendation was made.Currently, both vaccines are being administered under the national Covid immunisation programme under emergency use authorisation.Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech International Ltd, the manufacturers of Covishield and Covaxin, separately applied for full market authorisation, saying over a billion vaccine doses have been administered to beneficiaries under the immunisation programme.The full market authorisation is granted when there is enough data to demonstrate that a vaccine is safe and effective for most people who receive it.SII locally manufactures the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield. Bharat Biotech has developed and manufactured Covaxin in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Medical Research.
27-01-2022||India||Ahead of Budget Session, Congress to hold parliamentary strategy group meet tomorrow||The Congress party has called a meeting of its parliamentary strategy group on Friday that will decide the broad plans for the upcoming Budget Session, issues to be raised by the principal Opposition party and the nature of floor coordination with other Opposition parties and allies. The session assumes importance coming in the backdrop of the elections in five states including Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Goa and Uttarakhand. The political stakeholders of these polls, such as the BJP, Congress, AAP, Akali Dal and Trinamool Congress might see an opportunity in this session for maneuvering with an eye on the polls. For the Congress, the larger issues are effective floor coordination with like-minded parties and picking up raging issues such as price rise, the economic situation while it also struggles with internal dissent and key leaders leaving the organization to join the BJP or rival parties. The Congress will also take a call in the meeting on its equations with Trinamool, another key Opposition force—after the recent spat over Goa elections where the Congress refused to tie up with an eager TMC. Overall, the equations between the two sides have turned frosty over the public statements of TMC leaders against the Congress and the poaching of leaders by TMC. But the focus of the Congress would be on the Budget and some of the key bills such as the upcoming crypto bill, the personal data protection bill and amendments to wildlife act.The strategy meeting, chaired by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, would also see attendance by LoP Mallikarjun Kharge, party’s Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Chowdhury and other senior leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-budget-session-congress-to-hold-parliamentary-strategy-group-meet-tomorrow-101643279695029.html
27-01-2022||India||Tata Group takes over Air India, credits PM Modi's commitment to reforms||Air India on Thursday came back to the Tata Group as the historic divestment process was finally completed with all formalities concluding successfully. Chairman of Tata Sons N Chandrasekharan met Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the officials started the final handover procedure at the Air India office in New Delhi. The old members of the board stepped down making place for the new board to take over in the first landmark privatisation move in the last decade. The Tata Group issued a statement acknowledging PM Modi's commitment to reforms and faith in India's entrepreneurship spirit, which made this historic transition possible. "Our Prime Minister has in action demonstrated what his commitment to minimum government, maximum governance means."“Formalities have been completed. Air India disinvestment transaction is closed. ₹2,700 crore has been received by the government. The shares have been transferred to Talace, the new owner. Consideration amount has been received. The debt of ₹1,53,00 crore has been accepted by the new owner. The new board is currently conducting the meeting,” Tuhin Kanta Pande, secretary of the department of investment and public asset management said.Tata Sons chairman meets PM Modi; Air India handed over to Tata GroupThe strategic disinvestment transaction of Air India successfully concluded today with transfer of 100% shares of Air India to M/s Talace Pvt Ltd along with management control. A new Board, led by the Strategic Partner, takes charge of Air India. pic.twitter.com/wd5ZcUFomI"Today's disinvestment of Air India is a truly defining movement that will usher in a brighter future for the employees, will help the airlines to expand its wings and soar to greater heights, is a shot in the arm for domestic airlines and will add muscle to the Indian aviation sector," civil aviation secretary Rajiv Bansal said.
27-01-2022||India||Infighting over Padma award: Karan Singh backs Ghulam Nabi Azad||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Karan Singh on Thursday backed his party colleague Ghulam Nabi Azad, calling him a “well-deserved” candidate for India’s third highest civilian award, the Padma Bhushan.“These national awards should not become a subject of inter-party controversy, far less of intra-party ones… If one of our colleagues is honoured, he should be greeted with warm appreciation rather than snide remarks,” said Singh.Congress leaders, who wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi in 2020 seeking an overhaul of the party, congratulated Azad. But another leader Jairam Ramesh took a dig at Azad. “Right thing to do. He wants to be Azad, not Ghulam,” he tweeted in reference to former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s refusal to accept the Padma Bhushan.There was speculation about Azad leaving the Congress and forming an outfit in Jammu and Kashmir with support from the Bharatiya Janata Party. He issued a clarification denying this. “Some mischievous propaganda being circulated by some people to create confusion. Nothing has been removed or added to my Twitter profile. The profile is as it was earlier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padma-award-karan-singh-backs-azad-101643278194780.html
27-01-2022||India||Covaxin, Covishield to be available in hospitals, clinics; apex body gives nod||Covaxin and Covishield will now be available in the regular market as the Drug Controller General of India has given conditional market approval to these two Covid vaccines on Thursday. The subject expert committee of the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation has earlier recommended granting regular market approval to these Covid-19 vaccines for the adult population, subject to certain conditions. Market approval, however, does not mean that the vaccines will be available in medical shops. People will have to buy Covishield and Covaxin from hospitals and clinics. Vaccination data has to be submitted to DCGI every six months. Data will have t to be updated on CoWIN app also. Earlier, it was reported that the Centre was planning to cap the price of the vaccines at ₹275 per dose.What does market approval mean? What are the conditionsThe approval has been granted under the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019.The firms, in this case, Bharat Biotech (Covaxin) and Serum Institute of India (Covishield), shall submit data of ongoing clinical trialsAll vaccination data will be recorded on the CoWIN platform.The approval is only for adult population. Adverse events following immunisation will continue to be monitored as part of the conditions.Prakash Kumar Singh, Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at SII, had submitted an application to the DCGI on October 25 seeking regular market authorisation for Covishield. The DCGI had sought more data and documents from the Pune-based company following which Singh recently had submitted a response along with more data and information.In an application sent to the DCGI, V Krishna Mohan, whole-time director at the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, submitted complete information regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls, along with the pre-clinical and clinical data while seeking regular market authorisation for Covaxin.Covaxin and Covishield were granted Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) on January 3.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-covishield-to-be-available-in-regular-market-apex-body-gives-nod-101643276834446.html
27-01-2022||India||C’garh girl tries to remove flagpole after R-Day event, dies of electric shock||RAIPUR: A 14-year-old girl died while another sustained burn injuries when an iron flagpole they were trying to remove on Wednesday came in contact with a livewire at a government-run hostel for tribal girls in Chhattisgarh’s Mahasamund district, officials said on Thursday.The girls were trying to remove the pole after the tri-colour was hoisted on it on Republic Day. The pole fell on a high-tension electricity line that passes over the hostel premises.District collector Nilesh Kumar Kshirsagar said he has suspended Aishwarya Sahu, the hostel superintendent, and ordered a probe into the incident. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel expressed grief over the incident and directed compensation of ₹4 lakh to the kin of the 14-year-old girl.Kshirsagar said the superintendent was suspended for alleged negligence and inquiry has been ordered to find what led to it. He said that he has also directed good medical treatment of the girl, who was injured and remains hospitalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-girl-dies-while-trying-to-remove-flagpole-101643276693468.html
27-01-2022||India||5G lawsuit: Delhi HC expunges remarks against Juhi Chawla; reduces fine cost||The Delhi high court on Thursday expunged remarks made by its judge against Bollywood actress Juhi Chawla, earlier when it was hearing her petition challenging setting up of 5G wireless networks in the country on account of health hazards.The court also reduced the fine against the actress from ₹20 lakh to ₹2 lakh, saying she "didn't take up 5G issue in a frivolous and casual manner".Juhi Chawla and a few others had approached the Delhi high court against 5G rollout which a single-judge bench in June termed as 'defective' and 'abuse of process of law'. The bench also noted that the suit was filed for gaining publicity and imposed a fine of ₹20 lakh.In June last year, Chawla and a few others had approached the Delhi high court against the 5G rollout. During the hearing, a single-judge bench termed the plea as 'defective' and 'abuse of process of law'. The bench also dubbed the plea an attempt to "gain publicity".During today's virtual hearing, the court also noted that Chawal volunteered to work with the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) and feature in the programmes for empowering the marginalised section of the society.The actor thanked the court for the reduction in fine and offered to assist in any matter of public interest. "I thank you for your interest in reducing the costs imposed on me. I would like to mention that I moved the suit for relief to my immediate family as well as all citizens in the entire country," she said during the hearing, according to the ANI."I have been studying the effects of harmful radiation since 2010. Aspects related to my background and actions were totally ignored. It is a serious matter but it has been sidelined. I'm thankful that you acknowledged that the matter is serious," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5g-lawsuit-delhi-hc-expunges-remarks-against-juhi-chawla-reduces-fine-cost-101643276470056.html
27-01-2022||India||Tata Sons chairman meets PM Modi; Air India handed over to Tata Group||Chairman of Tata Sons N Chandrasekaran met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, before the official handover of the Air India to the Tata Group. The Prime Minister's Office released the photo of the meeting between PM Modi and Tata chairman.The official handover of Air India is the first major successful deal of privatisation in the last few decades. This also marks the homecoming of Air India, launched in 1932 by Tata Group's former chairman JRD Tata. As the chairman met PM Modi, senior officials reached the headquarters of Air India in New Delhi and the final handover process was completed with the members resigning from the Air India Board. Air India likely to be handed over to Tata Group today: TimelineShri N Chandrasekaran, the Chairman of Tata Sons called on PM @narendramodi. @TataCompanies pic.twitter.com/7yP8is5ehwThe Tata group has already planned the changes they are planning to bring in and the first has already been implemented on Thursday in four flights operating from Mumbai. The Tata Group provided enhanced meal services on AI864 (Mumbai-Delhi), AI687 (Mumbai-Delhi), AI945 (Mumbai-Abu Dhabi) and AI639 (Mumbai-Bengaluru).In October last year, Tata Group won the bid the acquire the debt-laden Air India along with Air India Express and 50% state in AISATS. For smooth functioning of the airlines, an SBI-led consortium of lenders has agreed to provide loans to the Tata Group. All large lenders, including Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, and Union Bank of India, are part of the consortium, reports said.As of August 31, Air India had a total debt of ₹61,562 crore. Around 75 per cent of this debt or ₹46,262 crore will be transferred to a special purpose vehicle AIAHL before handing over the loss-making airline to Tata Group.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tata-sons-chairman-meets-pm-modi-before-official-handover-of-air-india-101643275160417.html
27-01-2022||India||China's PLA handed over 'missing' Arunachal teen to Indian Army: Union minister||China's People's Liberation Army handed over the missing boy named Miran Taron from Arunachal Pradesh to the Indian Army, Union minister Kiren Rijiju informed on Thursday. "Due procedures are being followed including the medical examination," Rijiju also said on Twitter.The Chinese PLA has handed over the young boy from Arunachal Pradesh Shri Miram Taron to Indian Army. Due procedures are being followed including the medical examination. https://t.co/xErrEnix2hThis comes a day after the minister informed that the Chinese Army has responded positively to the Indian Army’s request to hand over the Indian citizen who was located on their side recently.The 17-year-old native of Zido village in Upper Siang district went missing from near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on January 18. The district authorities said the youth along with others were hunting in the border area between both countries when the incident took place.This comes in the backdrop of an ongoing stand-off between India and China in eastern Ladakh since April 2020. So far, officials from both sides have held 14 rounds of military-level talks, but no resolution has been found.The disengagement process is due in areas of Hot Springs, Depsang bulge and Demchok in eastern Ladakh. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.In September 2020, the PLA had abducted five youths from Arunachal Pradesh's Upper Subansiri district and released them after about a week. India shares a 3,400 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinas-pla-handed-over-missing-arunachal-teen-to-indian-army-union-minister-101643272963585.html
27-01-2022||India||Covid-19 result in just 15 minutes: Roche India launches at-home test kit||NEW DELHI: Roche India on Thursday announced the launch of its Covid-19 at-home testing kit. “The over-the-counter test is intended to be used for detection of Sars CoV-2 infection in individuals with symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 and is approved by the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research),” the company said in a statement.Roche is known for manufacturing diagnostic test kits including the gold standard RT-PCR, and rapid antigen to detect Covid-19 in a lab. It said the home-based kit can successfully detect the Sars-CoV-2 virus including the fast-spreading Omicron variant.By following instructions, individuals can perform the self tests at home without special training or the supervision of healthcare workers, and expect results in 15 minutes.“The test collects the sample from the front area of the nose instead of the nasopharynx, resulting in a simplified and more comfortable sampling procedure,” said the company. It added that the kit will be available at e-pharmacies and local pharmacies and would require no prescriptions.Narendra Varde, managing director, Roche Diagnostics India and Neighbouring Markets, said, “Roche has been at the forefront of reliable and benchmark diagnostic solutions for 125 years. Covid-19 At-Home Test is the newest addition to Roche’s comprehensive Covid-19 test solutions and allows convenient anytime, anywhere access to testing. As the third wave sets in, accessibility to such simple, convenient, fast and instrument-free self-test can contribute significantly to help us better manage our lives and health during the ongoing pandemic.”The kit includes a test cassette, a sterile swab, a tube with liquid and nozzle cap, along with a step-by-step guide and QR code to access the instruction video.Users will have to download the My Covid-M app using the QR code which will help them read and interpret the test results and also update the results to the ICMR database.
27-01-2022||India||Afternoon brief: SC stays Akali leader Bikram Majithia’s arrest till Monday and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Punjab drugs case: SC stays Akali leader Bikram Majithia’s arrest till MondayThe Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the arrest of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia till Monday in a drugs case registered against him by Punjab Police on December 20.Read moreBengaluru’s pollution levels higher than WHO standards: ReportAll 10 air quality monitoring stations in Bengaluru have recorded pollution higher than World Health Organisation (WHO) standards, environmental advocacy group Greenpeace has said in a report.Read more Mouni Roy ties the knot with Suraj Nambiar, glows in white at Goa wedding. See first pics of bride and groomMouni Roy tied the knot with Suraj Nambiar in Goa on Thursday. Arjun Bijlani shared pictures of the bride and groom on Instagram. Read moreUkraine crisis: Russia-NATO tensions soar | After S-400, Su-35 in BelarusThe West is keeping an eye on Russian troop movements and war games in Belarus. Read more Jaguar Land Rover opens bookings for Range Rover SV SUV in IndiaIndia has announced that bookings for the new Range Rover SV SUV in India has started from today. The SUV, which has already been introduced in global markets, will now be available for Indian customers as well. Read more&amp;nbsp;Manushi Chhillar's vacay diaries: In Oman, with a badminton bat and a cycle Manushi recently did paragliding and loved every bit of it. From watching the land from the sky to experiencing flying in its truest sense, Manushi's vacay diaries in Oman are setting major travel goals for us. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afternoon-brief-sc-stays-akali-leader-bikram-majithia-s-arrest-till-monday-and-all-the-latest-news-101643265736327.html
27-01-2022||India||Twitter says numbers ‘accurate’ after Rahul Gandhi's follower grievance||Following a report on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s letter to Twitter chief executive officer Parag Aggarwal over his follower count, the social media company on Thursday assured that the numbers are “meaningful and accurate”. A spokesperson for Twitter said that the follower counts is a visible feature and the company has a “zero-tolerance approach to platform manipulation and spam”, reported news agency ANI.“We fight spam and malicious automation strategically and at scale with machine learning tools, and as part of those consistent and ongoing efforts to ensure a healthy service and credible accounts, follower counts can and do fluctuate,” the spokesperson added.Rahul blames Twitter for restricting followers ‘under govt pressure’In a letter to newly appointed CEO Parag Aggarwal, Gandhi said that his reach appeared to have been limited on the micro-blogging platform after “pressure by the government to silence my voice”, according to people familiar with the matter. One of his tweets was recently taken down for violating Twitter’s content guidelines.“I want to bring your attention to what I believe is Twitter’s unwitting complicity in curbing free and fair speech in India… I have been reliably, albeit discreetly, informed by people at Twitter India that they are under immense pressure by the government to silence my voice,” Gandhi wrote. HT has seen a copy of the letter.The spokesperson said that Twitter removes millions of accounts each week for violating the company’s policies on platform manipulation and spam. While some Twitter handles notice minor differences in follower count, the spokesperson added, the numbers could be higher in certain cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-says-numbers-accurate-after-rahul-gandhi-s-follower-grievance-101643258290447.html
27-01-2022||India||Covid-19: India logs 2,86,384 new cases in last 24 hours; positivity rate rises to nearly 20%||India reported 2,86,384 new Covid-19 cases and 573 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry bulletin on Thursday morning. The country's positivity rate shot up from 16.16 per cent to 19.59 per cent.The weekly positivity rate, on the other hand, was recorded at 17.75 per cent.India's active cases maintained the 2.2 million mark at 22,02,472 infections, comprising of 5.46 per cent of the total infections. Notably, the active count dropped 20,546 cases in the last 24 hours.The cumulative total infections in the country reached 40.37 million, as per the health bulletin today.Among the states, Kerala recorded a massive spike in new cases. The southern state registered 49,771 infections in a span of 24 hours, as per the latest available data. Karnataka followed close with 48,905 new cases, while Maharashtra dropped to the third spot with 33,914 new cases.The national capital recorded 7,436 fresh infections, as per the health bulletin on Wednesday evening. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh continued to record more than 10,000 cases.Also Read | Covaxin, Covishield to get cheaper after nod, jabs to be priced at ₹275There were a total of 3,06,357 recoveries since yesterday, taking the recovery rate to 93.33 per cent. More than 37.6 million people have recovered from the disease so far.As many as 14,62,261 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours and 22,35,267 people took their vaccine dose. This includes a total of 2,65,238 booster doses and 1,79,381 jabs in the 15-18 age group, the health ministry data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-logs-2-86-384-new-cases-in-last-24-hours-positivity-rate-rises-to-nearly-20-101643255105792.html
27-01-2022||India||Sensex slumps over 1,200 points; Nifty trades around 16,900||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked over 1,100 points or 2 per cent in opening trade on Thursday, tracking losses in index-majors Titan, Wipro and HDFC twins amid a weak trend in the Asian markets.The US Federal Reserve's indication to raise interest rates soon and persistent foreign fund outflows weighed on market sentiment, traders said.The BSE gauge was trading 1,155.61 points or 2 per cent lower at 56,702.54 in early trade. Likewise, the Nifty declined 329.15 points or 1.91 per cent to 16,948.80.Titan was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 4.06 per cent, followed by Wipro, Dr Reddy's, HDFC Bank, Tech Mahindra and Infosys.On the other hand, Maruti and NTPC were the gainers.Equity, forex and bullion markets were closed on Wednesday on account of Republic Day.On Tuesday, the 30-share BSE Sensex finished 366.64 points or 0.64 per cent higher at 57,858.15. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 128.85 points or 0.75 per cent to close at 17,277.95.The US Fed on Wednesday indicated that it may raise interest rates in March to fight inflation.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with deep losses in mid-session deals.Stock exchanges in the US ended on a mixed note in the overnight session.Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.93 per cent to USD 89.12 per barrel.Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) remained net sellers in the capital markets, pulling out ₹7,094.48 crore Tuesday, as per provisional data||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sensex-tanks-988-pts-in-opening-session-nifty-sheds-262-pts-to-trade-at-17015-101643256253285.html
27-01-2022||India||Tata to offer ‘enhanced' meals on flights as first move in Air India takeover||As a first step in the process of Air India takeover, the Tatas introduced an “enhanced meal service” in four flights operating from Mumbai on Thursday. The central government had, earlier this week, said that it aims to complete the disinvestment process on January 27.Although the Air India flights will not be flying under the Tatas' banner just yet, it is an important declaration of the airline's handover to the autos-to-steel conglomerate nearly 70 years after it was taken.The “enhanced meal service” will be provided on four flights – AI864 (Mumbai-Delhi), AI687 (Mumbai-Delhi), AI945 (Mumbai-Abu Dhabi) and AI639 (Mumbai-Bengaluru) – scheduled for today.It will be served on the AI191 (Mumbai-Newark) flight and five Mumbai-Delhi flights on Friday and will be expanded to more flights in a staggered and phased manner.Meanwhile, the takeover is expected to take place on Thursday, as reported by Hindustan Times earlier.Following a competitive bidding process, the government had on October 8 last year sold Air India to Talace Private Limited – a subsidiary of the Tata Group's holding company – for ₹18,000 crore.The national carrier began its journey under the Tatas 90 years ago before the government nationalised the sector in 1953.Talace Pvt Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, will get 100% equity shares of AI and AI Express, along with the government’s 50% stake in ground-handling company Airport Services Private Limited (AISATS).This is the first privatisation of an airline since 2003-04.At the same time, with the takeover, Air India will become the third airline brand in the Tatas' stable, making it a dominant player at No. 2 spot in the domestic market after IndiGo. The Tata Group already holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tata-to-offer-enhanced-meals-on-flights-as-first-move-in-air-india-takeover-101643252561334.html
27-01-2022||India||Writer prompting endangered language among Padma awardees||NEW DELHI: Among this year’s Padma awardees included a poet-author from Assam, a tribal social worker based in Gujarat, and an Indian-born Mexican scientist. Dhaneswar Engti, the poet-author from Assam’s Karbi Anglong was conferred with the Padma Shri for literature and education. He has prompted the endangered language Karbi and the region’s literature and culture. Engti has authored 19 books and written 100 songs in the language. He has also been the Joint Secretary of Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council.Gamit Ramilaben Raysingbhai, the tribal social worker from Gujarat’s Tapi, has been recognised for grassroots level work for improvement in sanitation facilities and awarded Padma Shri. She is credited with transforming nine villages into open-defecation-free ones. Sanjaya Rajaram, the Indian-born Mexican agricultural scientist, was posthumously awarded the Padma Bhushan for his work on wheat. He developed 480 high-yielding and disease-resistant varieties of wheat which increased global production by 20 crore tonnes across 51 countries. Rajaram trained and mentored over 700 scientists from developing countries.Social worker KV Rabiya from Kerala was also conferred with the Padma Shri for her social work. Despite being affected by polio at 12 and later cancer and being paralysed neck below, Rabiya founded six schools for differently-abled. She has trained and empowered over 250 women.S Damodaran, a social worker from Tamil Nadu, received the Padma Shri for ensuring safe sanitation in rural areas. His organisation, Gramalaya, introduced the concept of community-managed Pay and Use Toilet systems for the underprivileged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/writer-prompting-endangered-language-among-padma-awardees-101643255990361.html
27-01-2022||India||Protest over RRB results: Student unions call for ‘Bihar Bandh’ on Friday | 10 points||All India Students’ Union (AISA) and other youth organisations have called for ‘Bihar Bandh’ on Friday to protest the alleged irregularities in Railway Recruitment Board's (RRB’s) NTPC stage 1 exam results. The students’ bodies termed the railway ministry’s move to form a committee to look into the concerns of the students as a “hoax”.The railway ministry announced the suspension of Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC) and the Level 1 exams after job aspirants in Bihar and Jharkhand staged massive protests on Wednesday.Four bogies of a train were set on fire by the protesters in Bihar’s Gaya.Here are the top developments:• The AISA and other youth organisations said in a press statement that the committee formed by the ministry is a "conspiracy" to postpone the matter till the elections in Uttar Pradesh.• They refused to bog down despite the assurance from the government, saying that this a massive movement of student youth, who are facing extreme unemployment.• The railway ministry set up the high-power committee to address the issues raised by job applicants. Railways minister Ashwini Vaishnav said the panel will submit its report before March 4.• Postponing the NTPC exams that were scheduled for next month, the Centre gave three weeks (till February 16) to job aspirants to submit their concerns.• During the protest on Wednesday, the job aspirants blocked the New Delhi-Kolkata main railway tracks. The agitations also spilled over to border areas in eastern Uttar Pradesh.• The Bihar Police said that railway properties were damaged in Gaya, Jehanabad, Bhagalpur, Sasaram, Samastipur and Chhapra districts. The protesters also pelted stones towards the cops.• Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday extended his support to the protesters, saying he is with them against the policies of the BJP government. He, however, said that violence is not the way.• The students who appeared for RRB’s NTPC exam had held a protest at the Bihar Sharif railway station on Tuesday too. They had blocked the Kolkata-New Delhi main railway line at Rajendra Nagar Terminal in Patna.• The job aspirants are opposed to the decision by the railways to hold the exam in two stages, claiming that the second stage is unfair to those who have cleared the first stage.• The results of the Computer Based Test-1 (CBT-1) exam, held last year, were released on January 15 for shortlisting the candidates for CBT-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protest-over-rrb-results-student-unions-call-for-bihar-bandh-on-friday-101643254648048.html
27-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Ex-Congress chief of Uttarakhand expelled from party, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ex-Congress chief of Uttarakhand, Kishore Upadhyay, expelled from partyCongress has expelled former state unit chief Kishore Upadhyay from the party for indulging in “ani-party” activities. In a letter dated January 26, the party in-charge of Uttarakhand, Devender Yadav, informed Upadhayay that he has been expelled from Congress for six years with immediate effect.Covid-19: 'Flurona' isn't real, people can get co-infection, say researchersAs the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to spread across the world, especially after the emergence of the Omicron variant, there have been reports of two strains combining and resulting into more severe infection. Read more…Beijing slams 'dirty trick' as upset US diplomats in China want to exit countryReports suggest that the US embassy in China has requested the state department to permit departures. The US govt is now considering allowing departures for diplomats and families in China. As per reports, some diplomats in China are upset over the US govt's inability to prevent the imposition of harsh steps. Watch the video for more'India paid heavy price for not seeing the obvious', says Manjrekar on dismal SA tour; 'There was much warning'Former Indian cricketer Sanjay Manjrekar assessed India's dismal performances and pointed out that individual contribution had been covering up the side's deeply-rooted batting issues – specifically in Tests. Read more…Mouni Roy introduces Suraj Nambiar to fans ahead of Goa wedding, Mandira Bedi says 'and so it all begins'Mouni Roy is all set to marry boyfriend Suraj Nambiar in Goa on Thursday. The actor has finally made it official by sharing a picture of them together on Instagram. Read more…Here's what Sultan of Brunei Hassanal Bolkiah's daughter wore at her weddingThe sultan of Brunei's daughter Princess Fadzilah Lubabul Bolkiah got married in a dreamy and a lavish week-long wedding recently. The wedding, which was announced last year on December 31, had alerted the world on the extravaganza that was to follow soon. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ex-congress-chief-of-uttarakhand-expelled-from-party-and-all-the-latest-news-101643251672629.html
27-01-2022||India||Cold wave conditions to continue in northwest India till weekend||NEW DELHI: Cold wave conditions are likely to continue in parts of northwest India for at least two days followed by a fresh western disturbance that will bring snowfall and rainfall to the western Himalayan region, the India Meteorological Department said.A western disturbance as a cyclonic circulation is also lying over Uttar Pradesh while a trough is running from Tamil Nadu to Karnataka. A fresh feeble western disturbance is very likely to affect the western Himalayan region from January 29 and another northwest India from February 2.Isolated light rainfall is very likely in sub-Himalayan West Bengal and Sikkim till January 28. In Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, and Odisha, isolated light rainfall is very likely.Under the influence of the western disturbance from January 29, light isolated rainfall and snowfall are likely in the Western Himalayan region on January 29 and 30. Isolated dense to very dense fog in the night and morning hours in isolated pockets is very likely to continue in Punjab, Haryana, and West Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-conditions-to-continue-in-northwest-india-till-weekend-101643252630529.html
27-01-2022||India||Jammu-Srinagar highway closed due to landslide; intense cold in parts of Kashmir||The Jammu-Srinagar national highway was closed for vehicular traffic due to a landslide in Ramban district on Wednesday, news agency PTI reported. The 270-kilometre stretch is the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with the rest of the country.The landslide took place at Duggi Pulli near Chanderkote, the PTI report said. Many heavy motor vehicles (HMVs) and light motor vehicles (LMVs) are stranded at different points on the highway, it added.The local officials PTI spoke to said that men and machinery have been deployed to clear the debris in the area.The highway was cleared for vehicles just days ago after multiple landslides between Chanderkote and Ramsu and snowfall in Banihal sector on Sunday.Most parts of the Kashmir valley are experiencing intense cold wave, with the temperature dipping to sub-zero levels. In Gulmarg, the mercury fell to minus 10.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday.Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, recorded a low of 1.3 degrees Celsius - down from 1.8 degrees Celsius the previous night.Pahalgam, which also serves as the base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra, recorded a low of minus 5.6 degrees Celsius - down from the previous night's minus 2.8 degrees Celsius, said officials.The Kashmir valley is currently under the grip of the 40-day harshest winter period known as 'Chilla-i-Kalan' which began on December 21 last year.The chances of snowfall are the most frequent and maximum during this period and most areas, especially in the higher reaches, receive heavy to very heavy snowfall.The 'Chilla-i-Kalan' will end on January 31, but the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long 'Chillai-Khurd' (small cold) and a 10-day-long 'Chillai-Bachha' (baby cold).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammusrinagar-highway-closed-due-to-landslide-intense-cold-in-parts-of-kashmir-101643246867838.html
27-01-2022||India||Tracing Air India's eight-decade-long journey||Air India is expected to return to the Tata Group after eight decades, which saw the airline witnessing several ups and downs. The central government, in a bid to complete the disinvestment process, is expected to hand over the airline to Tata Group today.The process started two decades ago, when former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee invited bids to sell the government's 40 per cent stake in the national carrier. Singapore Airlines and Tata Group showed interest, but the disinvestment process could not be completed.Since then, the government has tried to sell the airline, burgeoning with losses, to raise funds. It finally succeeded in its bid in October last year.The foundationAir India was founded by industrialist Jehangir Ratanji Dadabhoy Tata (as Tata Airlines) in 1932 and over the next few decades, it grew into India's flagship international carrier.The first scheduled flight took off from Karachi and brought air mail and some passengers to Bombay. It went further to Chennai.In 1939, its routes were extended to Thiruvananthapuram, Delhi, Colombo and Lahore.A public companyIn 1946, Tata Airlines was converted into a public company and renamed Air-India Limited. Two years later, the coverage was expanded internationally - to Cairo, Geneva and London from Bombay - and Air-India International Limited was formed.NationalisationThe government of India nationalised all Indian airlines in 1953 and created two corporations - Indian Airlines for domestic flights and Air-India International for worldwide services. The latter's name was changed to Air India in 1962.The national carrier expanded its international routes and cargo operations in the following years.Govt allows private airlinesThe central government allowed private airlines in 1994, which put additional strain on Air India. It began posting losses and in 2017, Indian Airlines and Air India were merged.The government aggressively began exploring ways to privatise the airline in 2017 and finally found success in October 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tracing-air-india-s-eight-decade-long-journey-101643245131992.html
27-01-2022||NA||Highlights: Tamil Nadu ends night curfew and Sunday lockdown||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Anil Deshmukh files bail plea before special PMLA court in money laundering caseFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday filed a bail application before a special PMLA court in a money laundering case. The plea will come up for hearing on February 3, reported news agency ANI.Deshmukh is currently lodged in Mumbai's Arthur Road jail.Tamil Nadu eases Covid-19 restrictions Amid the improving pandemic situation, Tamil Nadu on Thursday ended night curfew and Sunday lockdown. Further, the state has allowed schools to reopen for classes 1-12 from February 1.Delhi sees dip in daily Covid cases with 4,291 infections, positivity rate goes below 10%Delhi on Thursday reported a dip in its daily Covid-19 tally with 4,291 new infections being logged in the past 24 hours. Further, the surge took the positivity rate to below 10 per cent.Congress leader Ashok Chavan tests positive for Covid-19Maharashtra minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan tests positive for the Coronavirus (Covid-19) disease.External affairs minister S Jaishankar tests positive for Covid-19External affairs minister S Jaishankar has tested positive for the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Home ministry extends Covid-19 guidelines till February 28The Union home ministry on Thursday extended Covid-19 guidelines till February 28 and urged states/Union territories not to lower their guards.PM Modi hosts first India-Central Asia Summit, outlines 3 goalsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday emphasised on the need for India and Central Asian countries to define an ambitious vision for the coming years as he acknowledged the completion of 30 “fruitful” years together. Read moreAir India formally handed over to Tata GroupThe Air India airline has been formally handed over to the Tata Group. Read moreDCGI gives conditional market nod for Covishield and CovaxinIndia's drug regulator Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has given conditional market approval for Covid-19 vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, reports news agency ANI. Read more2 Punjab MPs boycott Rahul Gandhi's rallyTwo MPs from Congress Manish Tiwari and Amarinder Singh's wife Preneet Kaur have boycotted Rahul Gandhi's virtual rally in Jalandhar in an open rebellion to his leadership ahead of Punjab polls.DIPAM secretary reaches Air India headquarters ahead of airline takeover by TatasThe department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pande has reached the Air India headquarters. The Tatas will takeover the airline soon with government representatives of Air India resigning shortly.Air India board meeting shortly, govt representatives to resign, new board likely to be formed todayGovernment representatives of Air India will resign from their respective positions during a board meeting in Mumbai at 2.30pm today. Meanwhile, Tata Group Chairman N Chandrasekhar is in Delhi to witness the formal transfer after meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A new board is expected to be formed today as the Tatas take over the airline.DDMA meet: Cinema halls in Delhi to reopen with 50% capacity, schools to remain closedCinema halls will also be allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity, authorities decided after the DDMA meeting. Delhi government offices engaged in non essential services will be allowed to work with 50% attendance. Schools and educational institutions will remain closed till further order.China's PLA handed over 'missing' Arunachal teen to Indian Army, says Union minister Kiren RijijuThe Chinese PLA has handed over the young boy from Arunachal Pradesh Miram Taron to the Indian Army. Due procedures are being followed including the medical examination, said Union Minister Kiren Rijiju.Delhi ends weekend curfew, odd-even rule for shops after DDMA meetingHere are the decisions taken in DDMA meeting over curbs in Delhi:1. Weekend curfew will end2. Odd-even rule for shops, malls to end3. Night curfew to remain in place from 10pm to 5am4. Masks, Covid appropriate behaviour must5. Marriage functions allowed at 200 people limit or 50 per cent capacity.7. Restaurants, bars allowed to open at 50 per cent seating capacity.8. Schools to be taken up in next DDMA meeting.The decisions will be implemented only after the DDMA issues a formal order.CBDT issues I-T refunds of over ₹1.62 lakh crore till Jan 24 this yearThe Central Board of Direct Taxation (CBDT) has issued refunds of over ₹1,62,448 Cr to more than 1.79 crore taxpayers from April 1, 2021 to January 24, 2022. Income tax refunds of ₹57,754 crore have been issued in over 17.7 million cases.Corporate tax refunds of ₹1,04,694 crore have been issued in 2,23,952 cases. This includes 1.41 crore refunds of AY 2021-22 amounting to ₹27,111.40 crore.‘Sad and hurt’: Senior Congress leader Harish Rawat on Kishore Upadhyay joining BJP“I am sad. I am hurt to such a downfall of him,” Senior Congress leader Harish Rawat. Former Congress Chief of Uttarakhand Kishore Upadhyay was expelled from the party for 6 years for "anti-party activities". He later joined BJPMaharashtra BJP MLA Nitesh Rane gets 10-day protection from arrest in attempt-to-murder caseSupreme Court has granted 10-day protection from arrest to Maharashtra BJP MLA Nitesh Rane and directed him to surrender before the trial court and seek regular bail in connection with an attempt to murder case lodged in Sindhudurg district last month.DDMA meeting underway, decision likely on Covid-19 curfew in DelhiThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, is holding a meeting with the Delhi government to decide on further easing of curbs in the national capital. Read moreAmit Shah offers prayers at Bankey Behari TempleAmit Shah reached Vrindavan on Thursday morning and offered prayers at the Bankey Behari Temple. He will address a gathering at a college in Mathura later in the day before heading for Dadri and Noida.Tata Sons chairman N Chandrasekaran in Delhi to meet PM Modi ahead of Air India handoverTata Group Chairman N Chandrasekhar is in Delhi to witness the formal transfer, official sources were quoted as saying by news agency ANI. A formal announcement by the Tata Group regarding the Air India handover process will be made today.Delhi CM Kejriwal unfurls 115-foot national flag at 75 locations across capital to mark 75 years of IndependenceDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal unfurls a 115-foot national flag at 75 locations across the city to celebrate the 75th anniversary of India's independence.Budget 2022: Virtual meeting of Rajya Sabha floor leaders on Jan 31Virtual meeting of the Rajya Sabha floor leaders, ahead of the budget session of the Parliament, will be held on January 31. It will be chaired by Chairman of the House and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu.Ex-Uttarakhand Congress chief Kishore Upadhyay, expelled for anti-party activities, joins BJPFormer Uttarakhand Congress chief Kishore Upadhyay, who was expelled over “anti-party activities” has joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday.Govt representatives of Air India to resign at 2.30pm board meetingAs the Centre hands over Air India to the Tata Group, government representatives of the airline board will resign from their respective positions during a board meeting at 2.30pm today.After Rahul Gandhi's complaint over follower count, Twitter says numbers 'meaningful and accurate'Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote to Twitter CEO Parag Agrawal on 27th December 2021, stating that "it is perplexing that the growth in my Twitter followers has suddenly been suppressed." pic.twitter.com/xhbT1UWxXhFollower counts are a visible feature and we want everyone to have confidence that numbers are meaningful and accurate. Twitter has zero-tolerance approach to platform manipulation and spam, said Twitter spokesperson on Rahul Gandhi's letter to the micro-blogging platform after his number of followers witnessed a drop."We fight spam and malicious automation strategically and at scale with machine learning tools, and as part of those consistent and ongoing efforts to ensure a healthy service and credible accounts, follower counts can and do fluctuate.We remove millions of accounts each week for violating our policies on platform manipulation&spam. You can take a look at latest Twitter Transparency Center update for more context.While some accounts notic minor difference,in certain cases no.could be higher," Twitter's statement read.India logs 2,86,384 new Covid cases, 573 deaths in last 24 hours; active count over 2.2 millionIndia has reported 2,86,384 new Covid-19 cases and 573 deaths in the last 24 hours. There were a total of 3,06,357 recoveries since yesterday, while the active cases remained over the 2.2 million mark.Ex-Congress chief of Uttarakhand, Kishore Upadhyay, expelled for 6 years for 'anti-party activities'Former Congress Chief of Uttarakhand, Kishore Upadhyay expelled from the party for 6 years for "anti-party activities". He was earlier removed from all posts as a disciplinary action.Suspected Naxals blow up railway tracks on Howrah-New Delhi route in JharkhandSuspected Naxals blow up a portion of railway tracks on the Howrah-New Delhi line between Chichaki and Chaudharybandh railway stations in Jharkhand's Giridih, reported news agency ANI. Investigation underway.PM Modi to host first meeting of India-Central Asia Summit todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi to host the first meeting of the India-Central Asia Summit, with the participation of the Presidents of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, in a virtual format today.Air India likely to be handed over to Tata Group todayAir India is expected to be handed over to the Tata Group on Thursday. The handing over will culminate the over two-decade-long journey to privatise the national carrier. Read moreGoa Assembly polls: TMC delegation to meet EC today to discuss 'key issues'A four-member delegation of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) will visit the Election Commission of India at 12:30pm to discuss 'key issues' relating to the upcoming Assembly polls in Goa scheduled to be held on February 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-27-2022-101643242031231.html
27-01-2022||India||Air India likely to be handed over to Tata Group today: Timeline||Air India is expected to be handed over to the Tata Group on Thursday. The handing over will culminate the over two-decade-long journey to privatise the national carrier.The first such attempt was made in 2001. That was when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was prime minister. But the bid was not successful.Also Read | Tracing Air India's eight-decade-long journeySince then, the governments at the Centre kept trying to disinvest their stake in the national carrier but success finally came in October 2021.Here's a look at the previous attempts at privatisation:2001: The Atal Bihari Vajyapee-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government tried to sell a minority stake (40 per cent) in order to raise funds.Singapore Airlines, along with Tatas, were interested in buying the stake, but the plan could not materialise.2007: Congress-led UPA government decided to merge Air India and its subsidiary Indian Airlines to curb financial losses incurred by the airline in past decades.2011: The UPA government agreed to infuse ₹30,000 crore in equity funding in Air India, which will be spread over a decade. The move was meant to allow the airline to give salaries to its staff.June 2017: Govt approved the privatisation of Air India.March 2018: Expression of Interest (EoI) issued to sell 76 per cent stake of the national carrier, along with Air India Express and 50 per cent stake of Air India SATS Airport Services Pvt Ltd, the ground handling company.No private firms showed any interest in buying the debt-laden airline.January 2020: Govt decided to sell the entire 100 per cent stake and issued an EoI to invite bidders. The Covid-19 pandemic delayed the process further.October 2021: The Centre announced that Tata Group's ₹18,000 crore bid is successful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-likely-to-be-handed-over-to-tata-group-today-timeline-101643239909348.html
27-01-2022||India||Bengal govt rolls out Netaji tableau in Kolkata; TMC, BJP trade charges||KOLKATA: The West Bengal government on Wednesday rolled out its tableau on Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose at the Republic Day parade at Kolkata’s Red Road, days after it was rejected by the Centre for the parade at Raj Path in New Delhi. The rejection triggered a tussle between the state and the Centre with chief minister Mamata Banerjee accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government of not honouring Bose on his 125th birth anniversary. She also shot a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. After union defence minister Rajnath Singh replied to Banerjee, saying a tableau on Netaji and the Indian National Army wasmade by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) for the event in Delhi, TMC leaders said the job of paying homage to Bengal’s biggest freedom fighter should not been entrusted with a department that builds roads and bridges. Even as Wednesday’s event at Red Road was attended by Banerjee, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, assembly speaker Biman Banerjee, Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim, senior bureaucrats, more than a dozen foreign diplomats and senior officers of the armed forces, the leader of the opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, alleged that he was not invited. “This is the first time the leader of the opposition was not invited to the state’s official Republic Day programme. This was done because Banerjee cannot forget that I defeated her at Nandigram in the assembly polls last year, forcing her to get re-elected from Kolkata. Man has invented the cure for cancer but there is no cure for jealously,” Adhikari said. He celebrated the day at his constituency in East Midnapore district. TMC leaders countered Adhikari. “Adhikari never attends any official programme. He was absent from the Independence Day event last year,” said the Kolkata mayor while Trinamool Congress (TMC) state general secretary Kunal Gosh said Adhikari had gone mad. “If Adhikari was so keen on witnessing the parade he could have gone to Red Road on his own. Nobody would have stopped him,” Ghosh added. The BJP also took potshots at the chief minister who maintained her distance from Dhankhar during the event. The two were seen talking for around 30 seconds after the governor approached the chief minister. “Protocol says the chief minister should greet the governor when he arrives. Banerjee violated it,” said Bengal BJP president Sukanta Majumdar. TMC leaders did not react to the allegation although many in the ruling party said Banerjee’s behaviour was a fallout of the governor’s non-stop attacks on the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-govt-rolls-out-netaji-tableau-in-kolkata-tmc-bjp-trade-charges-101643236489007.html
27-01-2022||India||Visually-challenged man’s papers for sarpanch rejected because he signed in Braille||A 40-year-old visually-challenged tribal man in Nuapara district of Odisha has moved the Orissa high court protesting against the rejection of his nomination papers for the post of sarpanch on the ground that he had used Braille script to sign the papers, instead of Odia language.Shantilal Sabar, a resident of Dabripada village under Gandamer grampanchayat of Komna block in Nuapada district filed his nomination papers for the post of sarpanch in the forthcoming panchayat polls scheduled to be held next month. However, during the scrutiny of papers, the block development officer (BDO) rejected his nomination stating he was unable to read and write Odia language, as required under the Orissa Grama Panchayat Act to contest the polls.A livid Sabar said while he could pass the matric examination conducted by the Odisha Board of Secondary Education using Braille script, it was inexplicable why the returning officer for the panchayat polls was rejecting his papers.“Braille is an internationally accepted language for visually impaired persons. In the examinations, we are given helper writers during examinations. But we can read and write Odia using Braille script. By rejecting my nomination, the government will discourage visually-challenged candidates from participating in panchayat polls,” he said.In Nuapara district, 732 persons filed nomination for the post of sarpanch of which papers of 28 candidates including Sabar were rejected on several grounds.Election to the three-tier panchayatiraj bodies in Odisha are scheduled to be held between February 16 and 24 for 853 zilla parishad seats, 91,916 wards and 6,794 gram panchayats.Nuapara sub-collector Taranisen Naik said the rejection of Sabar’s papers should not be seen merely on the grounds of inability to read and write in Odia, but in totality.“A sarpanch is expected to deal with people’s grievances over several allowances including old age allowance, PDS rice and many other government schemes. The letters of people would not be in Braille script. So how would a visually-challenged person function,” he asked.Odisha Bikalanga Mahasangha, an association that espouses the cause of visually-challenged persons, said the rejection will send a wrong message to the visually-challenged persons.“If visually-challenged persons can work as state administrative service officers, lecturers and school teachers in our state, what stops them from becoming sarpanch or holding political posts. The government can surely amend the Odisha Grampanchayat Act to let the visually-challenged candidates participate in the polls,” said Niranjan Behera, president of the Mahasangh.Sabar, who is a keen player of chess and sells products like phenyl, candle and chalk through a self-help group, said he expects the high court to take up his case quickly and allow him to participate in the panchayat polls.While Sabar’s nomination papers were rejected, many other physically-challenged persons are in the fray in the panchayat polls. Parameshwar Mallick, who was born without arms, has filed nomination for the post of Ward member from Ward No-4 of Mangalpur Grampanchayat under Tihidi block in Bhadrak district. Mallick has promised to take up issues like all-weather road, tubewell, pucca houses and old age allowance for people of his area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visuallychallenged-man-s-papers-for-sarpanch-rejected-because-he-signed-in-braille-101643235469175.html
27-01-2022||India||Manipur Congress MLA joins JD(U) ahead of assembly polls||IMPHAL: With just 30 days to go for the Manipur assembly elections and nine days after his suspension from the Congress party, senior MLA Khumukcham Joykishan Singh joined the Janata Dal (United) in Imphal on Wednesday. MLA Joykishan, accompanied by his supporters, announced his decision to join the JD(U) during a press conference at his Khoyathong residence in Imphal. JD (U) Lok Sabha MP Ramprit Mandal was also present. Sharing the reason for joining the JD(U), Joykishan said, “We need a national party which can give a new light and hope (for the people in the state). After all, Nitishji (Bihar chief minister and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar) is a respectable politician in India and he has also a dream for the region.” “So, with the advice from my supporters, I’m formally joining JD(U) tomorrow,” he added. JD(U) National President Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh will be arriving here tomorrow. The elections to the 60 assembly constituencies of Manipur will be held on February 27 and March 3. Joykishan is a sitting Congress MLA from Thangmeiband assembly constituency in Manipur’s Imphal West district where the state’s capital and main commercial hub is located. On January 18, Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) suspended senior MLA Joykishan from the party “on the recommendation of the Disciplinary Action Committee, MPCC.” Fifty-six-year-old Joykishan was elected for the first time from Thangmeiband assembly constituency on an All India Trinamool Congress ticket in 2012 elections. A science graduate, Joykishan joined the BJP in May 2015 and helped the party reopen its account in the state assembly in the mid-term polls in November 2015. Later he resigned from the BJP in December 2016 and re-elected as a Congress MLA in 2017 elections. Despite winning 21 seats to the Congress’s 28 in 2017 elections, the BJP formed the government in Manipur with the support of others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-congress-mla-joins-jd-u-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101643228088486.html
27-01-2022||India||After PM Modi dons Uttarakhandi cap, Mussoorie artist starts getting queries||MUSSOORIE: Ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi wore an Uttarakhand cap during the Republic Day Parade on Wednesday, the artist in Mussoorie who is the brain behind the creation of the Brahmkamal ‘topi’ has been surprised by the number of queries he is receiving from different parts of the country for his product. Sameer Shukla, who runs Soham Himalayan Art and Heritage Centre, a museum dedicated to Uttarakhand’s traditional art forms in Mussoorie, is surprised to receive queries for the Uttarakhand ‘topi’ as soon as it was seen being worn by PM Modi during the Republic Day parade. “Many people from different parts of the country are calling and enquiring about the cap”, he said. When asked how the cap reached PM Narendra Modi, Sameer Shukla said: “I can say only this much that as per the interest shown by the person concerned last week, the cap was delivered directly that was worn by the PM during the republic day parade.” “It is 100 per cent made in Mussoorie product in which around six to seven traditional tailors were involved in 2017 when the cap was launched on the Republic Day function in Mussoorie”, he added. “It is indeed a day of pride for us that our traditional product in form of Uttarakhandi cap was worn by PM Modi,” said Kavita Shukla, wife of Sameer who assisted him in its designing. Sameer Shukla said there are different styles of caps prevalent in Uttarakhand but “we thought to make it trendy and attractive so that youngsters of the state are attracted to it by incorporating Brahmkamal, the state flower which is offered to Lord Shiva in Kedarnath, and the four coloured stripes depicting the natural elements of nature”. Jagtam Das, 75-year-old tailor belonging to the Dalit community who was assigned the task to stitch these caps in 2017, said, “For me, it was a dream come true when I saw my stitched cap being worn by the Prime Minister himself. We have been able to sell more than 8000 caps so far and the demand has risen suddenly now”, added Jagtam Das Sameer Shukla said the objective of designing and marketing this Uttarakhandi cap was to stop the traditional art form of stitching these caps from becoming extinct and to motivate the younger generation of the craftsperson and tailors to earn a dignified livelihood from it. Sharing the pictures of late General Bipin Rawat and NSA chief Ajit Doval, Shukla said that the first CDS General Bipin Rawat was the first celebrity of that stature to adorn the Uttarakhandi cap when it was gifted to him last year. NSA Ajit Doval followed him subsequently, he added. “Wearing Uttarakhandi cap was the best tribute that can be paid to the late CDS General Bipin Rawat, the son of the soil said”, Kavita Shukla. The local resident from Mussoorie Ramprakash Panwar said, “It is indeed a day of pride that locally made traditional Uttarakhandi cap has been adorned by our Prime Minister Narendra Modi as it will motivate other traditional artisans to continue with their tradition.” We are happy that our effort of several years has finally been acknowledged in the state, said Sameer Shukla. Uttarakhand Chief minister Pushkar Dhami tweeted, “Today on the occasion of 73rd Republic Day, Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi ji has made the culture and tradition of our state proud by wearing the Brahma Kamal cap of Devbhoomi Uttarakhand”. Ganesh Joshi, MLA Mussoorie, tweeted, “The cap worn by PM Modi ji today has been designed by Sameer from our Mussoorie. The efforts made by Sameer ji for the local artisans are commendable. Today Modi ji has given this message that ‘Vocal For Local’ is not just a slogan for him but his resolve”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-pm-modi-dons-uttarakhandi-cap-mussoorie-artists-start-getting-queries-101643226528413.html
27-01-2022||India||Centre considering Nagaland’s demand to remove AFSPA, hopeful of ‘positive’ outcome: CM Rio||The Centre is considering Nagaland’s demand of removal of AFSPA from the state, Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio said on Wednesday, expressing hope for a “positive decision”.Addressing the Republic Day function at the Civil Secretariat here, Rio said the Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed to probe the killing of 14 civilians by security forces in Mon has made good progress. “We are taking every measure to lessen the pain of the family members, who lost their near and dear ones, as well as of all those who suffered injuries,” he said.We are sure that justice will be delivered to the families, he added.Following the Mon killings, the state cabinet decided to take up with the Centre the immediate repeal of Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA), 1958, while a resolution was passed in the assembly on December 20 in this regard, Rio said.The state government has taken up with the Centre the matter of removal of AFSPA from Nagaland, he said.“The central government is considering the matter and we are hopeful of a positive decision soon,” Rio said. Maintaining that negotiations between the Naga Political Groups and the Centre over the political issue have been going on in a cordial atmosphere to find a solution, the chief minister said all MLAs have come together and formed an opposition-less government to convey to the negotiating parties that the state expects an honorable, inclusive and acceptable solution.“We will continue to facilitate and be hopeful of an early solution,” he said.Rio said ensuring good governance and bringing it to the doorstep of every person has been the endeavor of his government.“We took another step towards this end by creating three new districts, Tseminyu, Niuland and Chumoukedima in December 2021, and Shamator District in January 2022,” he said.The chief minister urged the people to continue adhering to COVID-appropriate behaviour as he took the booster dose of vaccine just after the function.Rio said Nagaland, which is nearing six decades as a state, has been capably marching shoulder to shoulder with all the other states of the Union and contributing in strengthening the nation.Despite the call for non-participation in the Republic Day celebrations by the Eastern Nagaland People’s Organisation and the Naga Students’ Federation over the Mon killings, the celebrations went off peacefully, an official said.Altogether 13 marching contingents from different security forces and NCC participated in the Republic Day parade.Several awards were presented during the function, while cultural performances by TaFMA, Department of Women Resource Development, 37th Battalion of BSF and troupes of Angami, Rengma, Lotha and Sumi enthralled the gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-considering-nagaland-s-demand-to-remove-afspa-hopeful-of-positive-outcome-cm-rio-101643225868563.html
27-01-2022||India||Arunachal boy missing: Union minister Rijiju says received positive response from Chinese army||China’s Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA) has responded positively to the Indian Army’s request to hand over the Indian citizen who was located on their side recently, Union minister Kiren Rijiju said on Wednesday, days after a teen from Arunachal Pradesh went missing from near the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Also Read | Missing boy from Arunachal found, China's PLA informs ArmyThe Chinese side has also suggested a place for the handover and are likely to share the date and time soon, he added.Taking to Twitter, Rijiju said: “Hotline exchanged on Republic Day by Indian Army with Chinese PLA. PLA responded positively indicating handing over of our national and suggested a place of release.”“They are likely to intimate date and time soon. Delay attributed to bad weather conditions on their side,” he added.The Indian Army had earlier sought assistance from PLA after Miram Taron, a 17-year-old native of Zido village in Upper Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh, went missing from near the LAC on January 18. The teen, officials believe, was allegedly abducted by PLA when he and a few others went hunting in the area.India and China have been locked in a standoff since mid-2020 along the LAC in Ladakh. There have also been reports of Chinese activity near the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh, including efforts by Beijing to develop villages in the area.On Sunday, PLA informed India that an “Indian boy” was found on their side but was unable to confirm his identity. However, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Arunachal East, Tapir Gao, who had earlier tweeted about the alleged abduction, claimed the teen found by the PLA was Taron.On Tuesday, Rijiju announced that India had shared details of the missing teenager with PLA to confirm the identity of the youth in their custody.In September 2020, five young men from the Tagin tribe, who worked as porters for the Indian Army, went missing from Upper Subansiri district on the Indian side of the McMahon line, bifurcating Arunachal Pradesh and Tibet autonomous region (TAR) of China.Following their disappearance, the brother of one of the men claimed on social media that they had been abducted by PLA. The same accusation was made by Gao and Congress MLA Ninong Ering from Pasighat.It was later revealed that the men had strayed across the border during a hunting expedition. They were handed back to India after 10 days.
27-01-2022||India||Padma Shri Muthukannamal, 82 wants to continue teaching Sathir||R Muthukannamal, 82, is ecstatic that she has won the Padma Shri in the arts category for Sathir, an ancient dance form which is a predecessor of the more popular Bharathanatyam, in which she performed her “arangetram” (on stage debut) when she was only 7 years old.“I’m so happy. It’s priceless that I don’t even feel hungry,” says Muthukannamal speaking over the phone from her native in Viralimalai in Tamil Nadu’s Trichy district. Her family says she’s tired from receiving an influx of guests and media interviews since morning but she doesn’t let that show.Still filled with enthusiasm and passion for her art, Muthukannamal says she hopes she can perform at Pollachi in a temple if an annual festival happens this February or March which has been cancelled over the past two-years due to Covid-19. “I will be there for ten days if it happens. I couldn’t dance in the past two years because temples couldn’t conduct festivals,” she says.Muthukannamal is a seventh generation dancer having performed across Tamil Nadu and Kerala. She was taught by her father. “We are a Sathir family so it was only natural that I also learnt from a young age,” she says.The art form involves these artistes to sing and dance at the same time. It was used to entertain Gods during festivals and the performing women artistes are called Devadasis who are employees of temple establishment. It is believed that Muthukannamal is the last surviving dancer of the 32 devadasis who once performed for the deity at Viralimalai’s Murugan temple in Trichy. In 2018, she was a recipient of the Dakshina Chitra Virudhu, an annual award given by The Madras Craft Foundation and The Friends of Dakshina Chitra.Muthukannamal has three children who didn’t take to the art form but it skipped a generation and she now teaches Sathir to her two granddaughters. “I will continue to teach to whoever is interested,” she says, hoping to keep the traditional art form alive.
27-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu: Christian group denies charge of religious conversion||The Franciscan Sisters of the Immaculate Heart of Mary Congregation that runs the 160-year-old school in Thanjavur – where a 17-year-old-girl died allegedly by suicide – in a statement on Wednesday denied the charge of religious conversion linked to the girl’s death.The superior general of the congregation said they run their institutions based on the principles of the Indian Constitution and provide secular education for all.The superior general said the child had been studying in this school since when she in class 8. “She wanted to stay with us, even on vacation, without going home. Thus she grew up to be the child of all of us. That’s why she got 489/500 marks in 10th class,” the statement stated.The institution defended it by saying that it has been involved in academic work for the past 180 years. The school in this case was started 160 years ago and the hostel has been functioning for 90 years.“The contribution of the church is paramount in women’s education and women’s emancipation on Tamil soil,” it stated, adding that they have always taken in students from poor and backward communities. “The children, who study with us, belong to many religions and communities… In that context, we provide secular education for all. We do not interfere in anyone’s religious beliefs.”The institution also said it was cooperating with police and the education department since the girl has blamed its hostel warden, 74-year-old Sahaya Mary, for harassing her to death.BJP, AIADMK differ The case has also led to differences between allies as the AIADMK has kept mum while the BJP is leading the charge that the girl was forced to die by suicide because she was tortured as she had not agreed to convert to Christianity.A day ago during the BJP’s protest in Chennai, former AIADMK leader and now a BJP MLA Nainar Nagendran said the AIADMK lacked spine and manliness in the state assembly. “It is the BJP which is behaving like the opposition, not the AIADMK,” he said. After it led to a row with the leading ally, Nagendran backtracked saying his comments were misunderstood.AIADMK members reacted by challenging Nagendran to contest alone without their support to see if he wins. Tamil Nadu BJP president K Annamalai sought to diffuse the situation. Annamalai said he reached out to AIADMK’s coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi Palaniswami on Wednesday.“I couldn’t catch OPS on the phone but I spoke to EPS. I conveyed my remorse to him. What was spoken came out wrong. It is not the stance of the BJP and even Nagendran. The AIADMK is functioning very well as the opposition.”
27-01-2022||India||India’s first woman Rafale pilot part of IAF’s tableau||NEW DELHI: Flight Lieutenant Shivangi Singh, the country’s first Rafale pilot, was a part of the Indian Air Force (IAF) tableau that featured in the Republic Day parade on Wednesday. She joined the IAF’s fighter stream in 2017 and flew the MiG-21 Bison aircraft before being posted to a Rafale squadron based in Ambala.She hails from Varanasi.Only a handful of women --- less than 20 --- have been commissioned as fighter pilots so far after the government launched a scheme for their induction into the IAF’s combat stream in 2015, a watershed in the air force’s history.Shivangi was in her teens when her grandfather drove her to an air force museum for the first time, the fateful trip marking the beginning of an unending romance with aviation for the young and impressionable girl.Apart from Rafales, IAF’s women pilots are operating the MiG-21 Bison, Sukhoi-30 and MiG-29 fighters.There are more than 9,000 women currently serving the army, navy and air force, with the services giving them more opportunities to boost career progression. The headcount of women in the military has increased almost threefold over the last seven years.While women have now been allowed to serve on warships; tanks and combat positions in the infantry are still no-go zones. They were allowed to join the armed forces outside the medical stream for the first time in 1992.In December, the Indian Navy said it was going ahead with a plan to give women officers more opportunities to serve aboard warships alongside their male counterparts, with several women already assigned to frontline ships operating in the broad expanse of the Indian Ocean Region.Also, the National Defence Academy is set to induct its first batch of women cadets in June 2022. The Supreme Court opened the doors of the academy to women in a landmark order in October 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-first-woman-rafale-pilot-part-of-iaf-s-tableau-101643225088175.html
27-01-2022||India||Hyderabad film buffs to celebrate Ajit’s birth centenary||Hyderabad Film buffs are planning to celebrate the birth centenary of popular Bollywood actor of yesteryears Hamid Ali Khan, better known as Ajit, in association with his family and fans in Hyderabad on Thursday.According to Mohammad Safiullah, managing trustee of Hyderabad-based Deccan Heritage Trust, floral tributes will be paid to the actor known for his dialogue delivery. “We shall offer prayers at his grave situated at Jamali Kunta graveyard, near Golconda Fort in the afternoon.”Ajit’s son Shahid Ali Khan, senior IAS officer Jayesh Ranjan, former member of Salar Jung Museum Zakir Hussain and president of Deccan Heritage Trust Veda Kumar will attend the ceremony.“On the occasion, a coffee table book on his life and times would be released. We are also planning screening of his super-hit films over the next few days,” Safiullah said.He said a series of picture post cards would be released and a webinar on his life, times and legacy was also being planned. “Similar events are being planned at various centres across the country in the centenary year.”He said a request had been made to the Telangana government for naming of a road after him. “We have also made a request with the government of India for the release of a postage stamp in the memory of Ajit,” he said.According to Safiullah, Ajit, born at Golconda in Hyderabad on January 27, 1922, had his early education in Hyderabad and Warangal. He went to Bombay in the early 1940s to pursue a career in acting. After some small roles in films, he got a break in 1946 as a hero in film ‘Shah-e-Misr”.He played leading and supporting roles for 20 years in films for such as Nastik, Guest House, Anand Mutt, Bada Bhai, Marine Drive, Delhi Junction and Naya Daur, before switching over to villainous roles in films such as Suraj, Zanzeer, Kalicharan, Yaadon Ki Barat, Ram Balram and Dharma.“In his career spanning more than five decades, Ajit Khan starred in more than 200 films and was known for his unique mannerism and dialogue delivery. His catchy phrases like ‘Mona Darling’ and ‘Smart Boy’ were a craze among the film buffs those days,” Safiullah said.Ajit returned to Hyderabad in 1980s after he stopped acting due to age-related issues. He died on October 22, 1998 at his Hyderabad residence.
27-01-2022||India||Dalit poet Dr Siddalingiah conferred with Padma Shri posthumously||Noted poet and Dalit rights activist who used his poetry to raise issues of social injustices, Dr Siddalingaiah, was conferred the Padma Shri. The award was conferred posthumously. The poet had died in June last year after he contracted Covid- 19. He was 67. Known for his humour and hard-hitting poetry, Siddalingaiah, was member of Karnataka’s legislative council twice. His poem, Yarige Banthu, ellige bantu, nalvathayelara swatantrya (who got, where did it come, (19)47’s Independence), propelled him as one of the leading voices of the movement, converting the song into an anthem which is used even now in protests and other rallies of backward communities. The poet was one of the most prominent voices for social justice and was one of the co-founders of the Dalit Sangharsha Samithi. “Posthumous Padma Shri honour for people’s poet S Siddalingaiah in the field of literature and education,” Basavaraj Bommai, the chief minister of Karnataka said in a post on Twitter. “The Padma Shri award has been awarded posthumously to noted literature personality, Dalit poet for his outstanding service. It is a matter of pride for the entire state that he was conferred this award for all his achievements,” BS Yediyurappa, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said. In his condolence message last year, Yediyurappa had said that Siddalingaiah narrated the pain of Dalits through his writings and awakened them. He endured the pain and his poems set the required blaze to the Dalit movement, he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalit-poet-dr-siddalingiah-conferred-with-padma-shri-posthumously-101643224967953.html
27-01-2022||India||Kerala’s Literacy hero gets Padma Shri, says nation has taken note of her work||“God is great”, was the reaction of 56-year-old K V Rabiya when she was informed about her name featuring in the list of Padma Shri awardees. A resident of Tirurangadi in Malappuram district, Rabiya was confined to a wheel chair since she was 14 due to polio. But, she never allowed the disability to come in her way of spreading literacy among the needy. “The country has recognised my work and honoured me. This is the biggest recognition. I am really humbled,” said Rabiya. “I could not believe,” she said when she got a call from New Delhi the other day saying that she was being awarded the Padma Shri.She had started a small literacy campaign in 1990. Later, the state government had launched the state literacy mission and made her the mascot of the project. She also founded an organisation called Chalanam which runs six schools for differently-abled and intellectually disabled children in the district. Besides this, she started 60 neighbourhood self-help groups for women and trained them to make pickles, carry bags and other products.“Getting knowledge is foremost and imparting this to others is equally important. I feel education serves its purpose only if you impart the same to others and empower them,” she said. Besides polio, she was afflicted with cancer at the age of 32 and later her backbone was affected after she survived a fall. Her heroic fight against odds found its way to school text books in the state. She has also authored many books, including her autobiography “Swapnangalkku Chirakukalundu” (Dreams have wings). A born fighter, she kindled light of knowledge in many.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-literacy-hero-gets-padma-shri-says-nation-has-taken-note-of-her-work-101643224908027.html
27-01-2022||India||Culture, history and diversity: 25 tableaux capture India’s journey||New Delhi: From the freedom struggle to tribal movements; religious sites to biodiversity; sports to women empowerment; Vedas to metaverse; the 25 tableaux at the Republic Day parade on Wednesday unfurled a visual showcase of the country’s social and cultural fabric.Also Read | Republic Day 2022: Vaishno Devi Bhavan, Fort Aguada showcased in state tableauxOf the 25 tableaux, 12 were from states and Union territories (UTs) -- Meghalaya, Gujarat, Goa, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Maharashtra. The remaining nine were from various ministries and government departments.The Meghalaya tableau was the first to enter Rajpath. It depicted 50 years of statehood and honoured the contributions of women-led cooperative societies and self-help groups to the state’s economy.It was followed by the tableau from Gujarat which was dedicated to the tribal revolutionaries of the state. The tableau described a scene from March 7, 1922, when more than 1,200 tribals were killed by Britishers when they had gathered in Sabarkantha district for a protest.Haryana’s tableau, themed “number one in sports”, featuring a large statue of Olympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra. The tableau was designed as a chariot. Of the seven medals won by India in Tokyo Olympics 2020, four were won by sportspersons from Haryana, including Chopra.Punjab’s tableau highlighted the role of the state in the freedom struggle. It showcased freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev; the protest against the Simon Commission led by Lala Lajpat Rai in Lahore; and Shaheed Udhham Singh avenging Jalliah wala bagh massacre after 21 years. The tableau also featured the ‘Jang-e-azadi’ memorial of Kartarpur.The tableau from Uttar Pradesh highlighted the Kashi Vishwanath Dham’s history and accomplishments achieved through the state government’s One distinct One Product (ODOP) scheme. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand presented connectivity projects and religious sites, including Badrinath temple, in its tableau.The theme of the tableau from Jammu and Kashmir was the “changing face of Jammu and Kashmir ‘’ and depicted the Indian Institute of Management, Indian Institute of Technology, AIIMS, and other developments in recent years.The tableau from Goa was based on the state’s “symbols of heritage” and showcased fort Aguada, the Martyr’s memorial at azad maidan in Panaji, and Dona Paula. Besides, while Maharashtra government designed its tableau around the theme of the state’s biodiversity and bio-symbols, Karnataka themed around its ancient tradition of handcrafts.The tableau of the union ministries of education and skill development and entrepreneurship showcased the key aspects of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 through the theme ‘vedas to metaverse’.The department of posts tableau displayed the robust outreach and the modern face of the India post and women empowerment through “all women post offices”. The ministry of culture presented its tableau on the life and work of Shri Aurobindo as the nation celebrates his 150th birthday. The ministry of law and justice showcased benefits of resolving disputes through Lok Adalats in its tableau.Meanwhile, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) paid a floral tribute to Subhas Chandra Bose and the Indian National Army in its tableau. The remaining tableaus were from the Ministry of Textiles, Department of drinking water and sanitation ministry of jal shakti, CRPF (Ministry of Home Affairs), and the ministry of civil aviation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/culture-history-and-diversity-25-tableaux-capture-india-s-journey-101643224848189.html
27-01-2022||India||Left Front in tizzy over Lokayukta ordinance||As controversy over the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s move to promulgate an ordinance to clip wings of the anti-corruption body Lokayukta raged, differences have started appearing in the ruling alliance.The Communist Party of India (CPI), a partner in the ruling LDF, secretary Kanam Rajendran said the issue was not discussed at the alliance meeting and the government should have brought it in the state assembly to avoid such a controversy.“Normally, there is no need to discuss administrative matters in the LDF meet. But since this is major shift in policies upheld by the LDF, it has to be discussed in detail. It should have been brought before the assembly,” he said in the state capital. There are reports that many CPI(M) leaders and some other alliance partners are also upset with the decision to enact an ordinance.The opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front said it will meet Governor Arif Mohammad Khan on Thursday with a request not to sign the ordinance.People close to the Governor’s office said he will seek legal experts’ opinion on the ordinance passed by the cabinet and submitted to him for his assent on last Saturday. As per the main amendment, even if Lokayukta found a person guilty and barred him from holding the government position a “competent authority” can ignore the verdict after conducting a hearing within three months of the verdict and it can either reject or accept the verdict of the Lokayukta.Interestingly, the government’s move surfaced at a time when left parties were demanding that all high offices including the prime minister should come under the ambit of Lokpal. Once the ordinance is passed it is not binding on the government to go by the verdict of the anti-corruption body, last word on the verdict will rest with a “competent authority,” the chief minister or the cabinet, says the ordinance.The amendment now arms the “competent authority” to either to accept or reject the verdict of the Lokayukta after conducting a final hearing. The “competent authority” can go through the verdict in detail and can take a decision within three months of the verdict, it says. The decision was taken at the last cabinet on Jan 19 and sent it to the Governor’s approval two days back discreetly. The government rushed with the ordinance when the assembly is set to meet in two weeks.Amid the controversy CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan strongly defended the move. “Kerala Lokayukta norms are stringent and usually there is no appeal for its verdict. In a state, elected government is supreme but some of the verdicts of Lokayukta are posing a threat to very existence of the government,” he said, adding the decision to promulgate ordinance was taken last year.But opposition leader VD Satheesan said the Lokayukta Act was there for last 25 years and the government got panicked after four cases against the government came up before the anti-corruption body. “These cases forced the government to curtail powers of the body. We will not allow this to happen. The CPI(M) central leadership owe an explanation whether they agree with the ordinance or not,” he said.Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan also criticised the move. “It seems the government is scared of the anti-corruption body and set to weaken it fearing some adverse verdicts from it,” he said in New Delhi.Lokayukta is probing three complaints against the CM for allegedly abusing his position to grant financial help to three “ineligible persons” from his disaster relief fund. Complaints say he misused funds meant for disaster relief and distributed lakhs of rupees to former party MLA KK Ramachandran’s family to clear his debts, help to the family of former NCP leader Uzhavoor Vijayan and relief to the family of a gunman who died on escort duty of CPI(M) state secretary Balakrishnan.Similarly, higher education minister R Bindhu is also feeling the heat of the Lokayukta. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala had moved the body last month citing two letters she wrote to the Governor recommending the re-appointment of Kannur vice- chancellor Gopinath Raveendran. Chennithala said the minister has no right to send such letters to the Governor and it was a clear case of nepotism and misuse of power.Last year, higher education minister K T Jaleel was forced to resign after the Lokayukta found him guilty of nepotism. Jaleel was found to have lobbied for a relative to be appointed as the general manager of state minority welfare corporation. He allegedly diluted some of the qualifications required for the post. Jaleel moved the high court but it refused to entertain his plea against Lokayukta’s ruling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/left-front-in-tizzy-over-lokayukta-ordinance-101643224789440.html
27-01-2022||India||Guv lauds state on labour practices, Covid-19 control in maiden speech||Praising the BJP government, Karnataka governor Thaawarchand Gehlot on Wednesday said that a total of 12,946 inspections were carried out by the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government under the Labour Act and 2018 cases were filed.Delivering his address after unfurling the national flag on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day here, he also complimented the state government for succeeding in reducing the effect of Covid-19 efficiently.Gehlot said that ₹ 21.19 lakh was collected in 2,033 cases disposed of in different labour courts. “The government has taken right decisions in maintaining the interest of migrant labourers and other workers. As many as 26.73 lakh labourers have been registered by the Karnataka Building and Other Constructions Workers Welfare Board. The Board has distributed ₹628.16 crore among 14,527 organised workers and their dependents,” he said. “Under 15 state-government schemes, 10.10 lakh beneficiaries have been paid (a) subsidiary amount of ₹1,136.05. A sum of ₹8,390 crore has been collected as customs. As many as 11.82 lakh labourers have been paid ₹2,000/per person amounting to ₹236.46 crore during the second lockdown,” he said.Incidently, the governor’s statements come at a time when labour activists in Karnataka carried out a candle-light vigil in support of the 57th day of the struggle by workers of ITI, a public sector enterprise.“On Republic Day, we stand in vigil with those who build the republic. We demand that the Management of @ITILTDINDIA stop violating the constitutional rights of workers (sic),” read a Twitter post by the All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) on Wednesday.Cautioning about the third wave of Covid-19, Gehlot also called on the citizens to handle the situation with “total seriousness” and said there should be no room for negligence.This is Gehlot’s first Republic Day as the governor of Karnataka.Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, few of his cabinet colleagues and top government officials were among the select invitees, who attended the low-key event held at the Manekshaw Parade Ground here, by following the Covid protocols.The governor said different fields like management of Covid war room, telemedicine, identifying the infected and quarantine observation were managed efficiently with advanced technology and this has resulted in less number of deaths in Karnataka when compared to other parts of the world.The governor also said that fresh tenders have been called to upgrade the water distillation units in Koramangala and Challaghatta valley to stop pollution in Bellandur and Varthur lakes.The two lakes, which were once a lifeline for Bengaluru’s irrigation and drinking water needs, have gained global notoriety for foaming and toxic content. Over the years, thousands of crores have been spent on reviving these lakes which continue to remain in a pitiable state.Gehlot also said that several roads in Bengaluru have been taken up under the Smart City Project.“Under the Bengaluru Smart City Project, 77 roads covering 158.27 kms have been selected for white topping. Out of these 83.91 km of road is completed and 31 main roads have been developed and made available for public transportation,” he said. “To provide pedestrian friendly experience, 12 roads covering 17 km in the first phase and 35 roads covering 16 km in the second phase have been taken up and 10 roads covering 12.37 km in the first phase and 29 roads covering 10.27 km have been completed,” the governor said.He also highlighted the government’s focus on watershed development, mobile and technology based crop survey, among others.With Agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guv-lauds-state-on-labour-practices-covid-19-control-in-maiden-speech-101643224788088.html
27-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu, Bengal showcase rejected tableau at state functions||Chennai/Kolkata: The Tamil Nadu and West Bengal governments on Wednesday displayed the Republic Day tableaus rejected by the Central government at state-level functions in the respective state capitals.Chief ministers of both states have lodged a strong protest with Prime Minister Narendra Modi against the rejection by a Defence ministry committee. However, a Defence ministry spokesperson had said that the state government proposals were rejected as per the criteria specified in the guidelines.Also Read | Rajnath writes to Bengal, TN CMs on tableaux row, says selection process transparentThe Tamil Nadu tableau features freedom fighters from the state –Rani Velu Nachiyar, the Marudu brothers, V O Chidambaraman Pillai and others– in the Indian Independence movement.One tableau depicts Velu Nachiyar riding a horse with a sword in hand to recall her valiant fight against the British. She was the Queen of Sivagangai region from 1780 to 1790 and the state government says that she was the first Indian Queen to wage a war with the East India Company in India. She is hailed as “Veeramangai” meaning brave woman. She blew up an ammunition storage of East India Company by arranging a suicide attack.Marudhupandiyar brothers (known as Marudu Brothers)--who were also depicted in the tableau offered protection to Velu Nachiyar and helped her win the war against the East India Company and win back Sivagangai. They also became Kings of Sivagangai and were later executed by the East India Company after they were defeated.The tableau depicts the hanging of the Marudu Brothers. It also portrays V O Chidambaram Pillai who was charged with sedition by the British Government as well as poet Subramania Bharathi.Governor R N Ravi unfurled the national flag at the Marina Beach in Chennai in the presence of chief minister M K Stalin.The West Bengal government showcased its tableau depicting Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose in Kolkata at the state level function presided over by Governor Jagdeep Dhankar. The function was the first time in recent days where chief minister Mamata Banerjee was present in the same event as Dhankar.
27-01-2022||India||Governor’s language remarks sparks row with Tamil Nadu government||Tamil Nadu governor R N Ravi’s speech on the eve of Republic day wherein he urged students to learn new languages, and his stand on the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) has come under criticism from the government. Reacting to the speech, Tamil Nadu school education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Wednesday told reporters that the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has maintained a two-language policy (Tamil and English) since the time of C N Annadurai (DMK’s first CM in 1967). He further said that they have opposed the three-language policy of the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020. “We will never backtrack from our two-language policy,” said Poyyamozhi. “We have opposed four main points in NEP and this is one of them. Our stance will not change. He (governor) has said his opinion.”The previous regime led by the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), an NDA ally, had also opposed the three-language formula. After the DMK government took over in May last year, the state said that it would come out with its own state education policy and has opposed the NEP on a few fronts. Amidst these developments, this is the first time that the governor has expressed his thoughts on the contentious language issue, which has been causing friction with the central government.On Tuesday, the governor praised Tamil as the oldest language in the world while stressing that students here should also learn other languages. “While it is important that the Tamil language is given a wider spread in the rest of the country, it is also important that our school students learn other Indian languages like students in other states,” the governor said.“Depriving our students of knowledge of other Indian languages is unfair to all. Besides fostering brotherliness and better mutual appreciation, a linguistic intellectual and cultural cross-pollination will enrich all of us and also open several opportunities for our harmonious growth,” former Nagaland governor Ravi said.The governor’s statement came on the day when chief minister M K Stalin said that he was only against the imposition of Hindi while addressing a virtual conference on the sacrifices of the language martyrs during the anti-Hindi agitations in Tamil Nadu. “We are not opposing Hindi. We are opposing Hindi dominance and imposition, not the language. We are lovers of Tamil, but not haters of any language,” Stalin had said. In his 7-page statement, the governor said that “improving the quality of education in our government schools is the crying need of the time”, pointing out that the learning outcomes different from private schools are worrisome. Minister Poyyamozhi responded that Stalin and the education department were pulling all stops to improve government schools. “We cannot change a system overnight. It will take time. We will make a lot of changes step by step,” Poyyamozhi said. Ravi also spoke on the NEET, saying that before its introduction, the share of students from government schools to government medical colleges was hardly 1%.The previous AIADMK sought an exemption from NEET for the state but that bill was rejected by the president. In August 2020, the then AIADMK regime passed a 7.5% reservation for government school students in medical colleges.“Thanks to the affirmative action of 7.5% reservation for government school students that number has improved significantly. However, there is an urgent need to improve the quality of education also in the Government schools,” the governor said.The governor’s statement comes when the DMK government has passed similar legislation in the assembly in September last year seeking exemption from NEET and Ravi is already under severe criticism for not forwarding this bill to the President for four months.“As admitted by the Governor, it was only 7.5 % inner reservation that paved the way for the entry of government School students and not NEET. The inner reservation was not in pre NEET days, and the comparison is not just and fair,” said Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary, state platform for the common school system. “The governor is using the Republic Day message to justify his silence on the Medical Course Admission Bill pending with him for more than four months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/governors-language-remarks-sparks-row-with-tamil-nadu-government-101643224548047.html
27-01-2022||India||UP elections: Congress releases third list of candidates||The Congress on Wednesday released its third list of 89 candidates, including 37 women, for the Uttar Pradesh elections which are scheduled to take place in seven phases starting February 10.Among those fielded by the party are Poonam Kamboj (Behat, Saharanpur) and Sandeep Rana (Saharanpur assembly seat). The two seats were earlier held by Naresh Saini and Masood Akhtar who recently quit the party and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Samajwadi Party, respectively. The party has also decided to field its west Uttar Pradesh women wing chief Mamta Rajput from Bhogaon assembly seat of Mainpuri.Other women candidates declared by the party include Tara Rajput from Marhara, Neelima Raj from Jalesar (SC) and Divya Sharma from Amanpur assembly seat. Of the 89, the party also declared the candidates for 17 seats in west Uttar Pradesh, which will go to polls in the second phase and whose nominations can be filed till January 28. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-elections-congress-releases-third-list-of-candidates-101643224487904.html
27-01-2022||India||‘A celebration of democracy’: World leaders pay tribute on Republic Day||New Delhi: Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, and Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina were among world leaders who greeted the Indian government on Republic Day and pledged to strengthen bilateral ties and cooperation in diverse areas.Also Read | From Siachen to TN, Tricolour soars as India celebrates R-DayIn a brief video message, Morrison noted that India’s Republic Day celebrations coincided with Australia Day, and said that the journeys of the two nations had been very different but, “we do share much in common, in particular, a common road ahead”.He said the two sides have a shared vision for “an open and resilient and free Indo-Pacific region”, and are partners on many fronts, working together to “secure peace and freedom for our world and our region”.Morrison added: “We share a wonderful friendship between the Australian and Indian peoples. We join with you in celebrating democracy today, India’s and ours too, in celebrating the fantastic contribution of people with Indian heritage right here in Australia and all around the world.”Johnson said in a special message that the UK and India are “tied by deep bonds that span through the generations and across some of the greatest modern-day challenges we have faced”.Also Read | ‘Bonds that span over decades’: UK PM Boris Johnson greets India on Republic DayWhile sending his best wishes to the people of India and to all British Indians in the UK, Johnson spoke of the UK’s plans to forge stronger ties in future. “As two diverse democracies, I am proud of our strong friendship, demonstrated by the launch of free trade negotiations this month and our partnership manufacturing the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. I look forward to fortifying those bonds as we bring our ambitions, people and economies together to prosper for the next 75 years and beyond,” he said.In a message sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Hasina referred to the special relationship between India and Bangladesh and said: “The unique ties of close friendship, cooperation and trust between our two countries have flourished and grown from strength to strength in recent years. Many new frontiers of cooperation alongside all traditional areas have been identified, particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic.”Also Read | B'desh PM Hasina greets India on R-day, recalls Modi's visit to Dhaka last yearExtending her wishes to the people of India, Hasina said 2021 was a historic year for bilateral relations as it was marked by celebrations of “epochal events” and engagements at the highest levels. She recalled Modi’s visit to Dhaka in March 2021 to join celebrations marking the golden jubilee of Bangladesh’s independence, the birth centenary of the father of the nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and 50 years of diplomatic ties.“I take the opportunity to recall with gratitude the support rendered by the Government and the People of India during our Liberation War in 1971, that set the foundation of our unique relationship. The joint celebration of ‘Moitri Dibosh’ across the globe, held on 6th December, the day when India recognised Bangladesh as a sovereign and independent state in 1971, projected this special relationship,” she added.Bangladesh looks forward to working with India “in the next fifty years and beyond towards realising the shared vision of building a peaceful and prosperous region”, Hasina said.Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid also sent a message of greetings to his Indian counterpart Ram Nath Kovind, saying his country’s “unique relationship with India is rooted in our shared history, culture and tradition”.In a brief video message, Maldivian foreign minister Abdulla Shahid sent his greetings to the Indian people and said: “For 73 years, the Constitution of India has provided a framework of governance and guaranteed rights to over a billion people comprising the world’s largest democracy. This monumental achievement provides inspiration and hope to countries all over the world undertaking their own democratic journeys.”The strong partnership between India and the Maldives is rooted in long-standing historical ties and has been strengthened through bilateral cooperation, and the many gestures of goodwill, humanitarian aid and friendship provided by India is a “true testament to the special partnership between the Maldives and India”, he said.Shahid added: “The government of the Maldives appreciates India’s ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy and we will continue to uphold an ‘India First’ policy, which has worked to the mutual benefit of both our countries.”
27-01-2022||India||Hijab row: Karnataka govt sets up expert committee||Karnataka government on Wednesday set up an expert committee to resolve the controversy at the government pre-university college in Udupi district. The decision comes after a controversy erupted over six students being denied entry to the classroom for wearing hijab, since the last week of December, 2021. The government order informing the setting up of the committee stated that all the students at the college should adhere to the uniform rule till the committee decides on the issue and maintain “status quo” till the issue is discussed and resolved by the expert committee. The order was issued by SR Umashankar, principal secretary of the primary and education department to Rudra Gowda principal of the Women’s Government Pre-University College on Tuesday. “…students in Udupi are asking to wear a dress of their choice despite knowing and accepting the college’s dress code. The issue that was not there till now has been created and it is not from an educational perspective,” read the order. The committee will study the dress code and uniform norms being followed in various states and the orders passed by several courts before submitting its report to the state government, as per the order. The order, however, doesn’t mention a timeline for the submission of the report and what the status quo would be since there is no uniform code issued by the government for students at pre-university colleges. The government’s order comes a day before the college is set to reopen on Thursday. The college was shut for six days after six students tested positive for the Covid-19. The committee has been set up after Udupi MLA Raghupati Bhat and the chairman of the college development committee had written to the state government regarding the issue and demanded its intervention in the matter. Bhat said that everyone should obey the government’s order and attend the classes. “The high-powered committee constituted by the government will study the existing norms regarding multiple orders passed by the courts in the past about dress code and uniform,” he said. “The committee will study the dress code and uniform norms being followed in different states before submitting its report to government. Till that report is received by the state government from the committee, status quo will have to be followed at the Women’s Government PU College, Udupi and hijab will not be allowed,’’ he added. On Tuesday, Karnataka minister for home affairs Araga Jananendra and education minister BC Nagesh had hinted at bringing a uniform code for government colleges in the state. “If students start behaving like religion is more important, then what sort of future are we building? There must be a universal feeling in our schools and colleges that we all are Indians. So, they should all follow the uniform code set by colleges,” the home minister had said. Education minister BC Nagesh too hinted at possible changes in the uniform code in the state. “We will look into the decisions of other states in such matters (allowing hijab) and court verdicts, following which we will take further steps. Till then, all colleges /schools will continue with the current norms they have set, including the one in Udupi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hijab-row-karnataka-govt-sets-up-expert-committee-101643224367207.html
27-01-2022||India||CM Bommai: Military school to be named after 19th century commander||Karnataka chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday announced a series of programmes honouring Sangolli Rayanna, including naming a military school as well as installation of statues, during an event to mark the 191st Remembrance Day of the valiant warrior.“The state government is set to establish a military school in the name of Sangolli Rayanna at a cost of ₹180 crore,” Bommai said.“(the) state government has already released ₹55 crore for the purpose. Construction work of the school would be completed this year. Discussions are on with the defence ministry to adopt the school. The defence ministry is almost likely to convert it into a military school. Hostel and all the required facilities are coming up on around 100-acre land,” Bommai added.“State government is committed to keep alive Rayanna’s ideals of patriotism, integrity and valour in the present society,” Bommai said, reiterating how the BJP was trying to revive and preserve the warrior’s legacy.“Orders would be issued today itself to have Rayanna’s portrait displayed in all schools and colleges,” Bommai said. The chief minister said that necessary programmes would be formulated to spread Rayanna’s principles and ideals. BJP MP from Bengaluru central, PC Mohan on Wednesday submitted a proposal to name--or rename--some of the roads in the city after freedom fighters on which Bommai has said that a suitable decision would be taken shortly.The BJP is also proposing to install a statue of Rayanna in New Delhi.“There is a statue of Kittur Rani Chennamma in New Delhi. Rayanna should be present where Chennamma is. A letter has been written to the concerned authorities to install Rayanna’s statue at a suitable spot in New Delhi,” he said.The chief minister has already announced the installation of the statues of Rayanna and Chenamma at the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi district.Rayanna was the military commander of Rani Chennamma of Kittur and is believed to be one of the first rebellious leaders in the country to wage war against the British in 1824.Rayanna is an icon of the politically influential Kuruba community.The announcements by BJP are seen as a possible move to bag votes from the Kuruba community. Former chief minister and incumbent leader of the Opposition, Siddaramaiah as well as senior BJP leader and Cabinet minister, KS Eshwarappa among others belong to the Kuruba community. Both national parties have tried to earn favour from the community, which holds key votes that could swing elections in several of the state’s assembly constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-bommai-military-school-to-be-named-after-19th-century-commander-101643224187890.html
27-01-2022||India||Mumbai Police book Google CEO Sundar Pichai for copyright violation||A First Information Report (FIR) has been registered here on court orders against Google, its CEO Sunder Pichai and five other employees of the company in an alleged copyright violation case, city police said on Wednesday. The search engine giant said in its reaction that it has a set mechanism which copyright owners can use to protect their content on platforms such as YouTube.As per a police official, the case was registered at the MIDC Police Station in suburban Andheri on the orders of a magistrate’s court on Tuesday evening.Film director and producer Suneel Darshan had approached the court seeking registration of a case against Google and its top officials over alleged copyright infringement, he said, without giving more information about the nature of the copyright violation.When contacted for reaction, a Google spokesperson in India said the company relies on copyright owners to notify it of unauthorized uploads and offers them “rights management tools, such as YouTube’s Content ID system that gives rights holders an automated way to identify, block, promote, and even make money from uploads of their content.” “When a copyright holder notifies us of a video that infringes their copyright, we remove the content promptly in accordance with the law, and terminate the accounts of users with multiple copyright strikes,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-police-book-google-ceo-sundar-pichai-for-copy-right-violation-101643224130552.html
27-01-2022||India||Rumblings in Congress after Padma honour for Azad||The Union government’s decision to confer Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad with the Padma Bhushan award , and former Union minister and the Congress’s chief whip in the Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh’s swipe at Azad, who is part of a group of Congress leaders who have ben demanding changes in how the party is run, have resulted in a flood of support for the leader, and not just from the so-called “G-23”.Soon after the award was announced, another member of G-23, senior Congress man Kapil Sibal tweeted, “Ghulam Nabi Azad conferred Padam Bhushan. Congratulations bhaijan. Ironic that the Congress doesn’t need his services when the nation recognises his contributions to public life.”Also Read | ‘Ironic Cong doesn’t need him’: Kapil Sibal on Ghulam Nabi Azad’s Padma BhushanHis reference was likely to Azad’s omission from the star campaigners’ list for West Bengal, Kerala and Assam, which had elections last year. Some Congress leaders also believe that the party did not try too hard to get Azad re-elected to the Rajya Sabha, despite the obvious challenges in this given its diminished political footprint. To be sure, Azad was included as a star campaigner for Uttar Pradesh elections in a list released by the party this week Azad led the G-23, the group of 23 senior Congress leaders ,who, in August 2020, wrote a letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi seeking an overhaul in the party.Another G 23 member and former Union minister, Anand Sharma, tweeted, “Heartiest congratulations to Ghulam Nabi ji for well-deserved recognition of his lifelong enriching contribution to public service and Parliamentary democracy.’’ And so did Shashi Tharoor, another G-23 leader: “Warm congratulations to Shri @ghulamnazad on his Padma Bhushan. It is good to be recognized for one’s public service even by a government of the other side,” Tharoor tweeted.Manish Tewari, also part of G-23 tweeted, “I congratulate @ghulamnazad on being conferred the Padma Bhushan for his public Service. It is a well-deserved recognition.”The rally of support came after Rajya Sabha MP Ramesh’s harsh words soon after the awards were announced. Referring to former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee’s refusal to accept the Padma Bhushan, he tweeted, ‘’ Right thing to do. He wants to be Azad (free) not Ghulam (a slave).’’Also Read | ‘Be Azad, not Ghulam': Jairam Ramesh lauds Buddhadeb move to decline Padma awardThe party remained silent and didn’t comment on this exchange. However, the episode was criticised by the old guard of the party, even those who aren’t a part of the G23. Former Union Minister Ashwani Kumar said, “Congress Rajya Sabha Whip’s criticism of Ghulam Nabi Azad for receiving the Padma award is nothing less than a shameful innuendo intended to rob both the award and its recipient of the deserved dignity . Such a mindset does not to justice to the dignitarian ethos of the Congress.’’The award and the aftermath resulted in speculation about Azad leaving the Congress party, and perhaps forming a regional outfit in J&K , with support from the Bharatiya Janata Party. He issued a clarification that he had not changed his bio on twitter: “Some mischievous propaganda being circulated by some people to create confusion. Nothing has been removed or added to my Twitter profile. The profile is as it was earlier.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rumblings-in-congress-after-padma-honour-for-azad-101643224128028.html
27-01-2022||India||UP: 6 dead in Rae Bareli hooch tragedy; govt says accused to be booked under NSA, Gangster Act||Six people died after consuming liquor at Pahadpur village in Uttar Pradesh’s Rae Bareli district late on Tuesday night, police said, adding that 20 others were taken ill and admitted to the district hospital. Promising stringent action, the state government on Wednesday decided to book all those involved in the incident under the National Security Act and Gangster Act. According to the police, there was a function organised in the village by a 40-year-old woman, Sukhrani, on Tuesday night during which people had consumed alcohol, reportedly procured from a local government-approved liquor outlet. The condition of some villagers deteriorated soon after, police said.They were rushed to a community health centre after their condition turned serious. While doctors declared two people as brought dead, four died during the course of treatment, police added.Sukhrani was among the six people who died in the incident. Others were identified as Saroj Yadav, Pankaj Singh, Chandrapal, Ram Sumer and Banti, police said.“Samples have been seized and an FIR (first information report) has been lodged against the liquor vendor and salesperson. It was a government-authorised liquor outlet,” Lakshmi Singh, inspector general of police, Lucknow range, said.“Raids have been carried out at the contractor’s (proprietor of liquor outlet) residence. Several liquor bottles have been seized and sent for forensic examination,” Singh added.A team of doctors is camping in the village and visiting every house to examine people, she added.Meanwhile, Sanjay Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary, excise, Uttar Pradesh government, said excise inspector Ajay Kumar and constable (excise) Dhirendra Srivastava were suspended with immediate effect. District excise officer, Rae Bareli, Rajeshwar Maurya will be suspended and made an accused in the case, he added. Some seriously ill patients were rushed to the Rae Bareli district hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up6-dead-in-rae-bareli-hooch-tragedy-govt-says-accused-to-be-booked-under-nsa-gangster-act-101643223947842.html
27-01-2022||India||PM Modi writes to global academics, cricketers with ‘Indian connect’||New Delhi: A select group of people, including academicians and cricketers of international repute, received a letter from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the occasion of India’s 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday.According to a person aware of the details, the letters are in line with the ongoing programme to celebrate 75 years of India’s Independence. The government of India has launched the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ to mark India’s freedom struggle.The letters from PM Modi acknowledge the achievements and contribution of the receivers to their respective areas of expertise and acknowledges their connection to India.“…26 January this year is even more special because it is happening at a time when India mark 75 years since freedom from colonial rule. Thus, I decided to write to you and a few other friends of India with a sense of gratitude for your affection towards India and hope that you continue to work closely with our nation as well as our people,” the letter says.Among the recipients of the letter are Amrita Narlikar, professor and president of the German Institute for Global and Area Studies. In the letter to Narlikar the PM wrote, “ Academics, researchers and teachers play a crucial role in pushing the boundaries of knowledge by constantly venturing into new frontiers as well as sharing it with society. The world’s future is being written by people like you who enhance its intellectual capital and ensure upcoming generations benefit from it.”In the letter to author and academic Vivek Wadhwa, the PM said India is witnessing a series of historic socio-economic transformations, which he is confident will empower lives and contribute to the global good.“I appreciate your deep understanding of the tech sector, its utility and possible dangers. The digital infrastructure that India is building, is aimed at bringing the fruits of technology to every citizen, while at the same time providing the necessary and requisite protection of privacy and data. I am confident that your expertise in policy prescriptions will help India to work better in this regard,” the letter further said.Writing to Anuradha Doddaballarpur, captain of Germany’s women’s cricket team and a cardiovascular scientist, the PM said, “… The remarkable dexterity with which you handle two starkly diverse worlds of being a cardiovascular scientist and a cricketer is indeed commendable. Taking a double hat-trick and becoming the first female international cricketer to do so in the T20 match against Austria was indeed a remarkable feat... You also share a special bond with India.”Gad Saad, professor and evolutionary behavioural scientist, also received a letter from the Prime Minister. Tweeting about the letter Saad wrote, “ I just received an official letter from a very high representative of the prime minister of one of the leading democracies in the world. I am not at liberty to share any additional information but it is truly incredible.”Tel Aviv-based novelist Ashley Rindsberg also received a letter. “Public intellectuals, policy analysts and researchers play an important role in democracy by understanding complex policy dynamics and communicating it to the people. In helping design policy as well as intersecting policy outcomes, they bring people and policymakers closer,” the PM said in his letter.Cricketers Jonty Rhodes and Chris Gayle also received the letter acknowledging their connection with India. In his letter to Rhodes, the Prime Minister said,”Over the years, you have developed a profound connection with India and its culture. This special bond was truly reflected when you name your daughter after this great nation. You are truly a special ambassador of the strong relations between a nations.”Gayle also tweeted about the letter but did not disclose the contents. He tweeted about the letter “reaffirming” his “close personal ties with him (PM) and to the people of India.”Trinidadian actor and singer Machel Montano also tweeted his thanks to the PM for the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-writes-to-global-academics-cricketers-with-indian-connect-101643223828694.html
27-01-2022||India||Karnataka health dept flags concern over surge in self-testing kits||A surge in demand for at-home antigen testing kits is becoming a cause of concern for the authorities, as several Covid-19 cases are untraced due to lack of reporting, Karnataka health officials said on Wednesday. Senior officials of the health department said that the issue has been flagged to concerned authorities. Compared to the RT-PCR test, which costs between ₹600-1000 in the market, at-home antigen testing kits cost between ₹200-300 apiece. A recent state government guideline asked people not to visit hospitals for testing (testing is free at government hospitals) if they have mild or no symptoms. According to pharmacy owners, these factors make the home test kits popular. “We sell around 10 kits a day,” said Suresh Murthy, who runs a pharmacy in Bengaluru’s Frazer Town. “There are no instructions for us to take the details of the persons who are buying these tests or ask them to upload the details on the government portal if they test positive. We tell people to do it (upload results), but we are not sure how many uploads it,” he added. As per the protocol, each of these easy-to-use testing kits has a unique QR code to ensure traceability and genuineness. A user is instructed to log into the app of the respective brand after entering their mobile number. “Then they have to scan the unique QR code. After running the test, they have to take a photo of the test on the card through the app to confirm the result,” Murthy said. However, to know the results, there is no need to upload the data on the mobile application. A simple internet search shows what the results mean. As the test results are already available without uploading them on the app, users could keep away from doing so to avoid quarantine. Dr KV Trilok Chandra, health commissioner (BBMP) said that the government has made uploading the results easier for the people. When a person purchases the home test kit, they are expected to report the result on the CoviSelf application. “If it is positive, the results go directly into the ICMR portal, which connects to every state and district, and BU (Bengaluru Urban) numbers are assigned,” said Chandra. The official also added that as per the current guidelines only those with severe symptoms have to be admitted to a hospital, and those with mild symptoms can home isolate. He said that people should come forward and report the test results. He said if the patient shares the test results, the zonal team then calls the person, assesses their condition and categorises them as one who could stay in home isolation or move to a Covid Care Centre or hospital. He added that monitoring would help the person in case the situation gets worse while they are in home isolation. Meanwhile, waste collectors employed with various dry waste management centres of the civic body claim that the number of used Covid kits are increasing over time. Besides demanding better protective gear, these frontline workers in Bengaluru also appealed to residents to segregate waste at home and dispose of medical waste separately. “It (medical waste) should be wrapped in paper. People should now segregate three kinds of waste – wet waste, dry waste, and sanitary waste; and masks should be thrown in sanitary waste,” said Mansoor, supervisor of one of the waste management centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-health-dept-flags-concern-over-surge-in-self-testing-kits-101643223647850.html
27-01-2022||India||At 77, Kaajee Singh becomes first Gorkha-Nepali musician to receive Padma Shri||SILIGURI: Hours after the Centre announced on Saturday that he has been honoured with the Padma Shri award, 77-year-old percussionist Kaajee Singh said he could have earned more laurels and money had he not left the Mumbai film industry 39 years ago to return home and study Gorkha and Nepali music and Shree Maadal, a traditional drum. “I never worked for awards and laurels. I returned from Mumbai thinking that Shree Maadal should be preserved and made popular among people of the coming generations,” said Singh. Credited with popularising the traditional Maruni dance and the Shree Maadal, Singh lives in the Kalimpong hills of north Bengal. Based in Darjeeling, the family has been contributing to music for three generations. The father of two children invented the classical notations for Shree Maadal in 1974. He also published more than five books on the instrument and local folk music. Though maadals are commonly used in traditional Indian music, the Shree Maadal is a typical part of Nepali and Gorkha folk music. Born in 1945, Singh developed an interest in folk culture and music during his childhood under the influence of his parents. Singh started with the Maaruni dance form in 1952. As he grew up, he took to Maadaley Geet, a traditional song, and also started taking lessons in Shree Maadal from his father Indrajeet Singh Sardar who was one of the pioneering exponents. Singh went to Mumbai in 1974 and worked with legendary composer duos such as Laxmikant-Pyarelal, Kalyanji-Anandji and Shankar-Jaikishan and composer Ram Laxman for nine years. He returned to Kalimpong in 1983. “Though my father was doing very well in Mumbai, he never forgot his roots. He always thought of popularising our traditional music through books. This was the primary reason for his research,” said the veteran’s son Nishaant Singh who is a guest professor of Pakhawaj, another old percussion instrument, at the department of cultural affairs of the Ramakrishna Mission at Belur Math, Howrah. Kaajee Singh still works for more than eight hours a day, doing research or writing books. He also runs the Sanskriti Sangrakshan Sansthan in Kalimpong. 
27-01-2022||India||Controversy rages as two more return Padma awards||A day after former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee refused one of India’s highest civilian awards, legendary singer Sandhya Mukherjee and tabla exponent Anindya Chatterjee too refused the awards, although their refusal, unlike Bhattacharjee’s, which was prompted by a seeming disdain for state-awards, has more to do with the stature of the award.Also Read | Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee declines Padma Bhushan award after MHA announcementAmong the awards announced on January 25 was a Padma Shri , India’s fourth-highest civilian honour to 90-year-old Sandhya Mukherjee whose career spans over 70 years. The student of Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali Khan, Mukherjee has sung thousands of songs for Indian cinema and produced albums of modern, classical and semi-classical music. She received the national award in 1970 for play-back singing.Mukherjee’s relatives told the media that she expressed her refusal when an official called her on Tuesday afternoon, telling him that accepting the Padma Shri would be demeaning for her.She found support on Wednesday, but the matter has acquired distinctly political overtones.Also Read | Bhattacharjee is latest among those who’ve refused Padma honours. Here’s a list“This was intentionally done to insult her because she is a Bengali. A few people, who are not even fit to be Sandhya Mukherjee’s students, have been awarded the Padma Bhushan. I wish I could leave this country because the government has no respect for its people,” said singer and former Trinamool Congress (TMC) Parliament member Suman Chatterjee who won the national award a few years ago.“The Centre has proved that it is run by people who have no idea about those being honoured. The Centre would have felt honoured had it chosen the right award for Mukherjee,” added writer Abul Bashar.The same allegation was made by Anindya Chatterjee on Tuesday. He said he was awarded the Padma Shri by people who know nothing about him or his career.Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee refused to accept the Padma Bhushan (India’s third highest civilian honour) on Tuesday itself, saying in a statement: “I do not know anything about the Padma Bhushan award. Nobody said anything to me about this. If I have been given the award then I refuse it. ”Among the 17 people selected for the Padma Bhushan, 77-year-old Bhattacharjee and veteran actor Victor Banerjee were the only ones listed as Bengal residents. Another Padma Bhushan recipient, Hindustani classical singer Rashid Khan, was listed as a resident of Uttar Pradesh, where he was born, although he has been living in Kolkata since the age of 10. “This is an honour for Bengal,” Khan told the media.But he too commiserated with Mukherjee“The awardees should be selected judiciously. Sandhya Didi (elder sister) did the right thing. I felt bad for her” Khan told a television channel on Wednesday.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that the refusals were an expression of the anti-Centre stance of Bengal’s people.“People of Bengal always seem to believe that they are not a part of India. This was prevalent during the Left Front era and things have not changed during the TMC regime. What is the harm in accepting an award from the government? The TMC is doing politics over the Padma awards,” said BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh.Countering the BJP, the TMC alleged that politics influenced the selection process.“Why was Bhattacharjee awarded the Padma Bhushan in a year when former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, whose tenure witnessed the demolition of the Babri Masjid, was honoured posthumously? This is a political strategy to keep the CPI(M) in good humour because the BJP has grown in Bengal with Left votes,” said TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh.The Congress and CPI(M) targeted the BJP as well.“I feel that Bhattacharjee did not want to be honoured by a government that has created divisions among people of this nation,” said Congress Rajya Sabha member and former state president Pradip Bhattacharya even as the CPI(M) maintained that its leaders never accept such awards.“By refusing the awards, Sandhya Mukherjee and Anindya Chatterjee have brought more honour upon themselves. The Centre’s decision proves that the awardees are chosen at random, not through an evaluation of their life and work,” said CPI(M) Rajya Sabha member and former Kolkata mayor Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/controversy-rages-as-two-more-return-padma-awards-101643223590418.html
27-01-2022||India||CM Bommai assures to protect rights of minorities||A day after eminent personalities of the state wrote a letter to Karnataka chief minister concerning attacks on minorities, Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that the rights of minorities and other vulnerable sections of society are protected in the state.“As far as Karnataka is concerned, all the rights of minorities and others which are enshrined in the Constitution are protected to the hilt. If there is any excess, immediate action has been taken,” Bommai said.At least 34 eminent personalities, including historians, academics, poets and activists, shot off a letter to the chief minister, expressing grave concerns over the rising number of cases relating to moral policing, religious intolerance and attacks on minorities in the state.While one letter condemned the actions to target minority groups, another letter sought support against the persecution of Christians, who are being targeted for alleged forcible religious conversions.“We will protect minority rights and also other vulnerable sections in the society,” Bommai added. Bommai further said that the minority groups will not just be protected, but also supported with state-sponsored programmes to empower them to become active participants in nation-building.“I believe in three ‘Es’ which is education, employment and empowerment of these sections. We are committed to that,” he said.The letter stated that recent acts like anti-conversion and anti-cattle slaughter among others “are pogroms against the economic and cultural rights of religious minorities”.“We are a group of senior scientists, writers, academics, artists, and lawyers, and we write with concern about Karnataka’s deteriorating governance and the frequent violence against religious minorities. Over the past few months, the state has witnessed the brutal killing of youths in several districts, rampant ‘hate speeches’, public threats and disruptions of worship by religious minorities, ‘honour killings’, ‘moral policing’, misogynistic statements by legislators, and incidents of hostile and violent encounters between various religious groups. “These trends have been encouraged by the callous and un-constitutional statements made by legislators and the inability of the state machinery to rein-in fringe anti-social groups,” stated the letter.The list includes Prof. Vinod Gaur (former secretary, department of science and technology and geophysicist), Flavia Agnes (lawyer and author), Mumbai, Prof. Janaki Nair (historian),Prof. Vidyanand Nanjundiah (scientist), Dr Ramachandra Guha (historian and commentator), K.P.Suresha (poet, essayist, and translator), Dr Yellappa Reddy (forester and environmentalist), Bezwada Wilson (human rights’ specialist) and Prof. A.R.Vasavi (social anthropologist), among others.“Such trends go against the long history of Karnataka as a progressive state that facilitated social harmony of a plural society and initiated model welfare programs for all sections of the population,” the letter added.The restriction on allowing six students in a Udupi school with a Hijab into the classroom is one of the latest instances of attacks on minority rights in Karnataka. In recent times, there have been several instances of moral policing from right wing groups as well as hardline Muslims who have accosted and attacked people from different faiths in any kind of interaction.A report by the Association for Protection of Civil Rights (APCR) in December last year, indicated that there were at least 305 incidents of violence in the 273 days of 2021 between January and September in their report ‘Christians Under Attack in India”.Of this Karnataka had accounted for around 32 instances, which was one of the highest in the country.“We note with both sadness and alarm that these traditions of tolerance and shared well-being are being torn asunder. Instead, the state is losing its identity on multiple fronts. On the fiscal, administrative, and political fronts Karnataka is losing its federal strength. Recent legislation such as the ‘cow protection’ and ‘anti-conversion’ acts are pogroms against the economic and cultural rights of religious minorities. No longer are harmony, peace, and tolerance the hallmarks of the state. It also needs to be stressed that if the above issues are not addressed, even Karnataka’s reputation as a business destination is bound to be impacted negatively as all types of economic activity depend upon an atmosphere of social peace and harmony.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-bommai-assures-to-protect-rights-of-minorities-101643223589230.html
27-01-2022||India||LTTE using fake ID documents in revival bid: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is investigating a case where forged Indian identity documents are being procured by “active cadres” of Sri Lankan Tamil separatist group, Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), to use a bank account here to revive its activities, according to senior officials familiar with the matter. This is the second probe launched by NIA into LTTE’s activiies in the country in the past 10 months. The arrest of a Sri Lankan woman , Letchumanan Mary Franciska, by Tamil Nadu police on October 1 last year revealed the involvement of LTTE, following which the Centre has now handed over the probe to the central anti-terror probe agency to investigate whether there is a larger conspiracy, said one of the officials cited above.Along with Franciska, four other suspected LTTE workers, Kenniston Fernando, K Baskaran, Johnson Samuel and L Sellamuthu are under the scanner in the case, registered by NIA on January 18. “The preliminary investigation has revealed multiple Indian identity documents such as Indian passports being obtained by submitting forged documents and these documents were being used to withdraw money from Indian Overseas Bank, Mumbai Fort branch to further the activities of LTTE,” said a NIA senior official, who asked not to be named. The development comes at a time when NIA is already investigating an arms and drugs smuggling racket having direct links with LTTE members. In October last year, NIA had arrested a former intelligence officer of LTTE , Satkunam alias Sabesan in its probe into the seizure of five AK47 rifles, thousands of rounds of 9 mm ammunition and 300 kg of heroin from fishing vessel Ravihansi, which was intercepted by the Coast Guard off the coast of Minicoy in Lakshwadeep on March 18. “Sebastian played a crucial role in routing the proceeds of drugs trafficking to former LTTE cadres in Sri Lanka for the revival of LTTE,” the agency said in a statement in October 2021. In the latest case, Franciska obtained an Indian passport, valid till December 2030, from Regional Passport Office (RPO) Chennai, using fake documents. She was arrested on October 1 at Chennai domestic airport while travelling to Bengaluru, with her final destination mentioned as Mumbai. The officer cited above said Franciska came to India in December 2019 using her Sri Lankan passport on an electronic tourist visa, which was valid till December 2020 only. Initially, she claimed that she could not go back due to the pandemic and obtained Indian passport using details of a gas connection in her name and rent lease agreement . She had also obtained an Indian Voter-ID card during her stay here. A thorough investigation revealed that active cadres of LTTE are involved in the racket, according to another official cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ltte-using-fake-id-documents-in-revival-bid-nia-101643223527928.html
27-01-2022||India||At UNSC meet, India seeks ‘concrete progress’ by Taliban on terror group support||NEW DELHI: India on Wednesday called for “concrete progress” by the Taliban setup in Afghanistan to ensure that UN-sanctioned terror groups do not get support from Afghan soil or from terrorist sanctuaries in the region, an apparent reference to Pakistan.India’s ambassador to the United Nations, TS Tirumurti, outlined the country’s position while addressing a meeting of the UN Security Council that discussed the situation in Afghanistan in the aftermath of the takeover of Kabul by the Taliban. Tirumurti said the world community’s expectations regarding Afghanistan and the Taliban setup were clearly outlined in UN Security Council resolution 2593, which also laid down the requirements in terms of the fight against terrorism. As a contiguous neighbour and long-standing partner of Afghanistan, India is concerned by recent developments in Afghanistan, especially the deteriorating humanitarian situation, he said. India also shares the world community’s concerns on issues such as providing humanitarian aid, ensuring formation of a truly inclusive and representative government, combating terror and preserving the rights of women, children and minorities. “Terrorism continues to pose a serious threat to Afghanistan and to the region,” he said. Resolution 2593 noted the Taliban’s commitment not to allow the use of Afghan soil for terrorism, including terrorists and groups designated under UN Security Council resolution 1267, he added. “However, we need to see concrete progress in ensuring that such proscribed terrorist entities do not get any support, tacit or direct, either from Afghan soil or from the terrorist sanctuaries based in the region,” Tirumurti said in an apparent reference to Pakistan. Resolution 2593 also laid down the world community’s expectations regarding an inclusive and representative political settlement with meaningful participation of women and minorities and diverse political-ethnic groups in the country, the importance of upholding human rights, including those of women, children and minorities, and the need to provide humanitarian aid to the Afghan people. “Peace and security in Afghanistan is a critical imperative that all of us need to collectively strive for. The recent developments in Afghanistan will have a significant impact on the neighbouring countries and the wider region with global implications,” Tirumurti said.“India calls for an inclusive dispensation in Afghanistan which represents all sections of Afghan society. A broad based, inclusive and representative formation is necessary for internal legitimacy,” he added. India has committed to provide 50,000 tonnes of wheat, lifesaving medicines and one million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to the Afghan people. “We have already dispatched three shipments of humanitarian assistance consisting of medicines and Covid medicines,” Tirumurti said. Tirumurti also briefed the same meeting as the current chair of the 1988 sanctions committee, which monitors UN sanctions on Taliban leaders and entities linked to the group. He noted that the committee on December 22 extended the three-month travel ban exemption for 14 listed Taliban members to continue attending talks. He said that while the committee fully supports the travel ban exemption so that the UN-sanctioned Taliban leaders can attend talks aimed at promoting peace and stability in Afghanistan, UN member states should remember that the exemption is only for this purpose. Tirumurti said more than 30 UN-sanctioned Taliban members are occupying senior cabinet positions and humanitarian aid providers should use reasonable efforts to minimise the accrual of benefits to these designated individuals. He further noted that ties “between the Taliban, largely through the Haqqani Network, and the Al-Qaida and foreign terrorist fighters remain close and are based on ideological alignment and relationships forged through common struggle and intermarriage”. The continued presence of the Islamic state and its activities in Afghanistan remain a matter of concern, and the group was using terror attacks to “demonstrate its power and influence in the country and abroad”, he said.
27-01-2022||India||From Siachen to TN, Tricolour soars as India celebrates R-Day||From Siachen to Tamil Nadu, the Republic Day was marked across the country on Wednesday with people from different walks of life taking part in the celebrations.Security forces deployed at inhospitable forward areas and high altitudes across the country paid homage to the Tricolour to mark the day. Videos shared by various paramilitary forces showed troops braving the freezing temperatures not only in Ladakh but different peaks of the Himalayas near the India-China border to unfurl the national flag.Also Read | Grandeur marks 73rd R-DayThe Indo-Tibet Border Police said its personnel posted at heights ranging from 12,000 to 17,500 feet unfurled the national flag in the border areas of Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, where the minimum temperatures at places were minus 45 degrees Celsius.Indian Army jawans deployed at Line of Control (LoC) in Baramulla and Poonch sectors of Jammu and Kashmir unfurled the Tricolour.The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) celebrated the Republic Day at Chatha, Jammu and Kashmir, by organising a cultural event. “We reiterate our steadfast commitment to serving the nation with courage, valour and devotion,” CRPF tweeted.Also Read | Rare on-board footage adds to flying displayThe celebrations this year are special as Republic Day falls in the 75th year of Independence, being celebrated as ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ across the country.The Border Security Force (BSF) exchanged sweets with Border Guards Bangladesh (BGB) at Phulbari (Jalpaiguri, West Bengal) and at Indo-Pakistan border and with Pakistani Rangers at Wagah border in Punjab.Almost all formations of the border guarding force – including units at Rajasthan border, Kashmir, West Bengal and in the northeast – unfurled the national flag at their respective headquarters.BSF also launched a boat ambulance service in the Balimela reservoir for the people of Swabhimaan Anchal in Odisha’s Malkangiri district to mark the 73rd Republic Day. BSF DIG Sanjay Singh inaugurated the boat ambulance service near Gurupriya bridge. The ambulance will facilitate in providing emergency medical services to around 10,000 people of the area, he said.Also Read | How DD got visuals of fly-past on live TVWhile the main event was held in the national Capital, states and Union territories across the country celebrated the day with great fervour. Governors and chief ministers extended their greetings to the people on the occasion, called upon them to reaffirm the pledge to uphold the ideals enshrined in the Constitution, and made several announcements and promises for the welfare of the public.In poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath congratulated the public while emphasising on the importance of the Indian Constitution. “Our Republic is an integrated expression of our lofty democratic values and unwavering allegiance to the Constitution of India and our unity in diversity. Let us resolve to build ‘Ek Bharat- Shreshtha Bharat-Self-reliant India’,” he said.In Maharashtra, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari led the celebrations in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other ministers and officials at an event in Mumbai’s Shivaji Park.In Tamil Nadu, governor RN Ravi unfurled the national flag at an event in the presence of chief minister MK Stalin at Marina Beach in the state capital. After the event, Stalin tweeted: “Let us reaffirm to uphold the secular ethos of the constitution on this Republic Day and be proud of the great achievements to uplift the people of our nation in all spheres.”In West Bengal, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and chief minister Mamata Banerjee led the Republic Day celebrations at Red Road in Kolkata. “Heartiest greetings to all on the Republic Day. On this day, let us once again take pledge to protect the basic structure of the Indian Constitution, including and particularly its federal character,” Banerjee tweeted.In Jammu and Kashmir, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha greeted the people of the Union territory on the occasion. “Heartiest greetings and best wishes to all on the auspicious occasion of 73rd Republic Day. My homage to the great men and freedom fighters of India, who sacrificed their lives for the country. Tributes to the Jawans and officers of Jammu & Kashmir Police, Army and other Central Security Forces, who continue to make supreme sacrifice for unity & integrity of the motherland,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-siachen-to-tn-tricolour-soars-as-india-celebrates-rday-101643223288193.html
27-01-2022||India||India-Central Asia Summit: Trade, Afghanistan in focus at key talks today||Connectivity, trade, forging an institutionalised framework for cooperation and the situation in Afghanistan will be on the agenda when India hosts the first summit with the five Central Asian states on January 27 as part of New Delhi’s engagement with the extended neighbourhood. The virtual summit is being held after the leaders of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan were unable to attend India’s Republic Day celebrations on Wednesday because of a surge in Covid-19 infections. The five leaders were invited to be chief guests at the event, though no formal announcement was made by any of the countries. The summit is expected to discuss several proposals that focus on trade and connectivity, development partnerships, institutionalised frameworks for cooperation, culture and people-to-people contacts, people familiar with the matter said. Among these proposals are suggestions for making the India-Central Asia Summit a regular event, the creation of a permanent secretariat to drive cooperation and coordination, and greater engagement at the ministerial level in fields such as trade, connectivity, defence, security and tourism, the people said. Currently, the six countries have a mechanism at the level of foreign ministers called the India-Central Asia Dialogue and its third meeting was hosted by New Delhi in December. India has sharpened it focus on the Central Asian states both to counter China’s growing presence in the region and to strengthen cooperation on Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover of that country. Top national security officials of all five Central Asian states participated in the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan hosted by India in November. Three of the states , Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan, share borders with Afghanistan. The summit will be the first engagement of its kind between Indian and Central Asian leaders, and the external affairs ministry has said the meet indicates the importance attached by all six countries to a comprehensive and enduring partnership. India also has strong bilateral ties with all the five Central Asian states. Kazakhstan is a key supplier of uranium to India and also the country’s largest trade partner in the region. Two-way trade, mostly comprising oil, was worth $1.9 billion during 2020-21. As part of a unique experiment in UN peacekeeping, Kazakh troops are part of an Indian battalion in the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon and the sixth rotation is currently underway. The two sides also have a regular joint military exercise called Kazind, and Kazakhstan is home to around 8,000 Indians, including 5,000 medical students. India has a strategic partnership with Kyrgyzstan, where it has established five telemedicine centres. India provided the country a line of credit of $200 million in 2019 and the two countries have an annual joint military exercise called Khanjar. Kyrgyzstan also is home to more than 15,000 Indian students. The India-Tajik Friendship Hospital is a symbol of India’s strong cooperation in defence with its strategic partner Tajikistan, and the two countries have a very similar position on Afghanistan. Uzbekistan, also a strategic partner of India, is part of a trilateral working group for the development of Chabahar port. It has been provided a line of credit of $1 billion in 2018, and four projects worth $450 million have already been approved. Several Indian universities and pharmaceutical companies have established a presence in Uzbekistan. 
27-01-2022||India||Over one-third of ward member candidates elected uncontested in Odisha||BHUBANESWAR: Candidates in little more than one-third of the 91890 posts of ward members in the forthcoming panchayat polls in Odisha were declared elected uncontested by State Election Commission on Wednesday, repeating a trend that was seen in 2017 panchayat polls. The Commission in a notification on Wednesday said 36523 candidates for the post of ward members, the lowest-ranked functionaries of the three-tier panchayatiraj system, were declared winners as they were the only candidates. Similarly, of the total 6,793 posts of sarpanch in as many grampanchayats, 126 candidates were declared uncontested winners. In the case of panchayat samitis, 326 candidates out of the total 6,793 panchayat samiti posts have been elected without contest. However, only one candidate for the zilla parishad member’s post out of the total 853 posts was elected unopposed. The Biju Janata Dal (BJD) candidate Kalpana Pradhan from zone II of Ambabhona block of Bargarh district was declared the winner. Officials said the percentage of ward members declared winners without contesting will be higher as the Commission has called for fresh nomination in at least 4000 such posts where there were no nominations. The trend of large number of ward member candidates getting elected uncontested was seen in 2017 when 36222 candidates won the polls without a single vote being cast. Panchayatiraj department officials said the election of a large number of ward members without any contest may be happening as they are largely powerless. “Though every ward member of the Gramapanchayats have the right to access to the records of the Gramapanchayat and inspect all works undertaken by the panchayat as well as all the institutions, controlled, managed and directed by the Gramapanchayat, in reality they wield little control. So there is little interest,” said the official. BJP leader Sajjan Sharma alleged that not just the ward members, even Zilla Parishad chairpersons and panchayat samiti chairpersons don’t enjoy much freedom as the bureaucracy takes all the crucial decisions. “In Odisha the district collectors take major decisions for the zilla parishads and the BDOs for the panchayat samitis. In case of gram panchayats, the panchayat extension officer is the real authority,” alleged Sharma. When it comes to salaries, the ward members get paltry sum compared to other functionaries of the panchayatiraj system. While the sarpanchs in the state get monthly salary of ₹2,350, panchayat samiti members and their chairpersons get ₹3,530 while the Zilla parishad members and their chairpersons get ₹7,040 and ₹9,380 respectively. However, the ward members get no monthly salary and are paid just ₹240 per sitting of their respective panchayats towards allowance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-one-third-of-ward-member-candidates-elected-uncontested-in-odisha-101643222627881.html
27-01-2022||India||Rare on-board footage adds to flying display||NEW DELHI: A flying display by 75 military aircraft marked the grand finale of the 73rd Republic Day parade, with breathtaking aerial shots and cockpit footage treating the viewers of India’s biggest ceremonial event to a rarely-seen visual delight, the best in many years.Also Read | Grandeur marks 73rd R-DayFrom five Rafale fighter jets flying in the Vinash formation to three Sukhoi-30s roaring across the sky in the Trishul formation (both arrowhead patterns) to 17 Jaguars coming together to draw ‘75’ above Rajpath to commemorate India’s 75th year of Independence, the Indian Air Force lived up to its reputation --- it delivered the highlight of the parade despite cloudy conditions.“The fly-past coverage (aerial and cockpit footage) was the best it’s been in years, especially given the miserable weather,” said defence analyst Angad Singh.The aircraft which took part in the fly-past, that lasted around 15 minutes, took off from several airbases in north India, including Ambala, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer and Hindan. The rehearsals lasted two weeks. The logistics involved aircraft and aircrews arriving to bases in north India from different parts of the country to practice for the fly-past.It featured flying formations to commemorate some glorious moments of India’s decisive victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war, including the historic Tangail airdrop and the Meghna operation.While the Tangail formation involved a vintage Dakota aircraft flying in lead with two Dornier 228 planes, the Meghna formation featured a CH-47F Chinook helicopter and four Mi-171V choppers. The painstakingly restored Dakota, the only one in IAF now, was gifted to IAF in 2018 by Rajeev Chandrasekhar, MP and now the Union minister of state for IT, whose father served in the force.The Tangail airdrop north of Dhaka --- the biggest airborne operation mounted by Indian paratroopers --- set the stage for surrender by the rival army.The aim of the operation was to capture the Poongli bridge on Jamalpur-Tangail-Dhaka road and the ferry site on Louhajang river to intercept Pakistani army’s 93 Brigade that was retreating from the north to defend Dhaka. Around 750 men of the 2nd Battalion of the Parachute Regiment were involved in the successful mission.The paratroopers defeated a force that was three times numerically superior and shattered the will of the Pakistani army to defend Dhaka.The Meghna formation commemorated a critical heli-borne operation during the 1971 war. IAF helicopters played a critical role in moving troops across the Meghna river in erstwhile East Pakistan.Other flying formations included Baaz (consisting of one Rafale, two Jaguars, two upgraded MiG-29s and two Su-30s) and Varuna (one naval P8-I aircraft and and two MiG-29Ks).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rare-on-board-footage-adds-to-flying-display-101643222328869.html
27-01-2022||India||Iran’s foreign minister to visit India next week||Iranian foreign minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian is set to visit India next week for discussions that are expected to focus on the situation in West Asia and Afghanistan and regional connectivity, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. A planned trip to India by Abdollahian last November was put off for various reasons and this will be his first visit to India since he assumed office last year. He is expected to hold talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar on January 31 before travelling to Sri Lanka. Ahead of the visit, Abdollahian greeted Jaishankar and the people of India on India’s Republic Day and said in a tweet that Iran will “continue to work towards further expansion of all-out relations, bilaterally, regionally and at international fora”. Jaishankar responded by tweeting that he was looking forward to his Iranian counterpart’s visit. Two key issues that are expected to figure in Abdollahian’s interactions in New Delhi are the situation in Afghanistan, especially the urgent need for humanitarian assistance, and measures to boost the development and use of Iran’s Chabahar port, the people cited above said. The Indian side has been considering the option of using Chabahar to ship wheat and other essential items to Afghanistan in light of Pakistan’s reluctance to allow the use of land routes passing through its territory for transporting humanitarian aid. Though India proposed using the Wagah land border crossing to send 50,000 tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan in October last year, shipments via this route are yet to start. During a phone conversation with Jaishankar on January 8, Abdollahian said Iran will cooperate with India in shipping humanitarian aid, including wheat and medicines, to Afghanistan, and also stressed the need for an inclusive government in Kabul. Jaishankar also said in a tweet that he and Abdollahian had discussed the difficulties the challenges in Afghanistan and “prospects of Chabahar”. Iran’s top national security official participated in the Delhi Regional Security Dialogue on Afghanistan hosted by India last November, reflecting the growing convergence between the two countries on the situation in Afghanistan. Abdollahian is also expected to discuss the Iranian nuclear issue while in New Delhi. Iran and the US have held indirect talks on the issue for almost two months amid hopes of a breakthrough despite persisting differences. The US and European allies said last week there were just weeks to salvage the 2015 Iran nuclear deal or the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). Iran is also engaged in direct talks on the nuclear issue with the “P4+1”, or Germany and permanent UN Security Council members France, China, the UK and Russia. India has consistently backed a negotiated settlement of the issue. India has been pressed to strike a balance between Iran and other key players in West Asia such as the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, especially in the wake of drone and missile attacks by Yemen’s Houthi rebels on Abu Dhabi. Two Indians were killed in a recent attack, which Jaishankar condemned as a terrorist incident. Seven Indian crew members of a merchant vessel seized by the rebels are currently in the custody of the Houthis. Several reports have suggested that the drones and missiles used by the Houthis were supplied by Iran. 
27-01-2022||India||Green clearance:Housing in forest areas could get nod||New Delhi: The Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) has decided it will consider residential projects of up to 1 hectare (10,000 sq m), roughly an area larger than a football field, in forest areas under exceptional circumstances -- a significant change from its earlier position on such projects.In a note to all state governments dated January 24, the environment ministry’s forest conservation division said the issue of residential projects was considered by the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) in its meeting held on September 17, 2021. Based on the recommendation of FAC, and consideration of the recommendations by the competent authority in the ministry, it added, clarification was being issued and changes were being made to guidelines issued under the Forest Conservation Act published in the Handbook of Forest Conservation Act and Guidelines 2019.Independent experts said the relaxation in guidelines for residential projects could be misused leading to large scale loss of forests.“This entire note is completely against the government’s own policy that forest land shouldn’t be diverted for residential, housing and agricultural purposes. One hectare is a very large area for any residential project. Under the Forest Rights Act, exemption is already given for certain activities related to forest dwelling communities. So, is this exemption for city dwellers? The note is dangerous in every way,” said environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta.Another expert said such residential projects may be considered for rehabilitation of forest dwellers or tribals, who are displaced from forest land for various projects. “There are two points that require further enquiry. First, the requirement of forest land for rehabilitation of displaced persons continues to be understood as same way as disposal of fly ash or setting up of a manufacturing unit. This has implications when historical rights of communities living in forest areas are acquired or extinguished. The second is the need to justify why the residential colonies are limited to only 1 hectare. This is important because there is huge demand for deemed and recorded forest lands in peri urban areas, where high value residential colonies may be planned or be in existence. This change may have implications for such projects,” said Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research.The relevant part of the changed text in the handbook now reads: “Utilisation of forest area for establishing industries, construction of residential colonies, institutes, disposal of fly ash, rehabilitation of displaced persons, etc. are non-site-specific activities and cannot be considered on forest land as a rule. For that matter, no non-site specific proposal can be entertained for considering approval under the FCA 1980. In exceptional circumstances, residential projects up to one ha, can be considered for approval under FCA 1980 by the MoEFCC, subject to appropriate justification and recommendation by the concerned State Government and the Regional Officer of the IRO of MoEFCC.”IRO stands for Integrated Regional Offices, which comes under the MoEFCC, and deal with state-level infrastructure and development projects.The letter also added that Clause 11.1 of the guidelines is now deleted. Clause 11.1 stated that infrastructure projects requiring diversion of forest land under the forest conservation act 1980 fall under following categories (in addition to the General Approval granted by the Central government for the specified public utility services and critical/strategic defence infrastructure for the specified periods) -- road widening and construction, including widening in existing right of way; construction of railway lines including conversion of metre-gauge railway line; repair and maintenance of roads constructed on forest lands prior to October 25, 1980; residential projects in forest lands; construction of residential buildings in private forests; non-site-specific projects like industries, residential colonies, institutes, disposal of fly ash and rehabilitation of displaced persons; ecotourism in forest areas; ropeways etc.The ministry’s explanation is that the change actually ensures that fewer residential projects will be built in forest area, by clarifying a change that was made in 2019 in the handbook, which was not being followed because an earlier, 2004 edition of the handbook was ambiguous about locating residential projects in forests. “The reason we had to issue this clarification is because people were building in forest areas and saying these are residential facilities linked to the main project. The cumulative impact of such constructions is big. Now we have almost closed the window and kept it very narrow for exceptional cases with permission and scrutiny by the ministry. We are clarifying this misinterpretation,” said a senior environment ministry official who asked not to be named. Now, any construction will be allowed only in “exceptional cases which will be verified by both regional and central teams of MoEFCC”, this person added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-clearance-housing-in-forest-areas-could-get-nod-101643222268821.html
27-01-2022||India||Virat, the President’s star charger, rides into the sunset||New Delhi: One of India’s best-known military horses, Virat, on Wednesday rode into the sunset after nearly two decades of presidential service -- and he couldn’t have asked for a better sendoff.Also Read | Grandeur marks 73rd R-DayAfter the Republic Day parade ended, President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and defence minister Rajnath Singh walked up to the charger and tenderly petted him -- the gesture an unmistakable acknowledgement of Virat’s military service, especially his role in India’s biggest ceremonial event over the years. It was Virat’s 13th and final appearance at the Republic Day parade as the horse of the commandant of the elite President’s Bodyguard, or PBG, raised in 1773 and one of the oldest regiments of the army.At the Republic Day parade, the President traditionally arrives at Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhawan escorted by PBG. On Wednesday, the horsemen escorting Kovind were led by PBG commandant Colonel Anup Tiwari, who was mounted on Virat.Virat, a Hanoverian horse, was issued to PBG in 2003 by the army’s Remount Training School and Depot at Hempur in Uttarakhand.“He was barely four years old then. He was among the five horses I chose for PBG. What struck me most about Virat was his height, elegance, and the way he moved. I knew he was born to serve PBG,” said Honorary Captain Sajjan Kumar (retd), who brought the charger to Rashtrapati Bhawan.Presidential horses have to be at least 157.5 cm tall -- Virat’s height is a little over 170 cm. A horse’s height is measured to the highest point of the withers on its back. PBG horses have to be tall to complement the men from the regiment who have to have a minimum height of six feet.Virat was honoured with the army chief’s commendation card for outstanding service on Army Day (January 15).“It was an emotional moment to see the President and the PM bid farewell to Virat at Rajpath. He served the country like any other soldier. Virat is still physically fit and will spend his retirement at some army paddock where he will be looked after,” said Colonel Rajesh Pattu (retd), a champion rider and former commandant of 61 Cavalry, one of the world’s last remaining horse-mounted regiments.Virat’s retirement has turned the spotlight on animals in military service in India. The army has at least 5,000 mules, 1,500 horses and 1,000 dogs.On the edges of London’s iconic Hyde Park is a monument that pays tribute to the thousands of animals that served alongside the British and Allied forces in 20th century wars. The memorial depicts horses, dogs, mules, elephants, camels and pigeons.India does not have an animal war memorial -- an earlier proposal to build one at the Remount and Veterinary Corps Centre and College in Meerut has not moved forward.Recognising the contribution of animals, the army in 2017 named an officer’s mess lounge in Delhi cantonment after the longest serving army mule, Pedongi, who carried military loads in forward areas for more than 30 years.The army’s animal transport units, equipped with mules, are assigned the responsibility of supporting some of its remotest outposts located at heights of up to 19,000 feet. Mules played a crucial role during the 1999 Kargil war with Pakistan.Dogs also play an important role in counterterrorism operations. One such dog, Mansi, was posthumously mentioned in dispatches (the highest honour that a dog can get in military service in India) six years ago for her role in a counter-infiltration operation in north Kashmir.Her handler, Bashir Ahmed War, was posthumously awarded the Sena Medal for gallantry. The highest award won by a dog handler is Shaurya Chakra, India’s third highest peacetime gallantry honour.Army dogs are trained for a variety of roles such as detecting mines and explosives, tracking, assault, and search and rescue.
27-01-2022||India||How DD got visuals of fly-past on live TV||New Delhi: If the Indian Air Force made this year’s Republic Day memorable with a unique fly-past, then Doordarshan (part of Prasar Bharati) outdid itself with the coverage, including videos from the cockpits.GoPro cameras in the cockpits helped DD capture the fly-past (and the terrain) from the air, taking them to millions of viewers watching the live telecast of the parade.Also Read | Rare on-board footage adds to flying displayUnion minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur congratulated the team for achieving the feat.“To make the live telecast of the grand celebrations of the 73rd Republic Day reach the masses, the team of @prasarbharati and @DDNewslive did many technical experiments which were quite successful,” he tweeted. “The live telecast of an aerial view of the fly-past including the pilot’s cockpit was breathtaking. Congratulations to the whole team.”Also Read | Grandeur marks 73rd R-DayAccording to Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar Vempati, the team used GoPro cameras inside the cockpit to capture the images. “It was basically a joint effort of Doordarshan, ministry of defence and the Indian Air Force this time. We provided the team with cameras in the cockpit to intersperse footage and ensure a comprehensive perspective.”“The figures of 59 Cameras and 160+ personnel deployed for the coverage of Republic Day celebrations this year don’t even begin to scratch the surface of the colossal arrangements made by Doordarshan on the entire stretch from Rashtrapati Bhawan to National War memorial at India Gate through Rajpath,” a Prasar Bharati statement said. This included the traditional camera atop India Gate.But it was the fly-past, and the aerial coverage of it, that stole the show -- and the audience’s hearts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-dd-got-visuals-of-fly-past-on-live-tv-101643222267018.html
27-01-2022||India||CVC again revises SOP for implementing Integrity Pact||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has revised, for the second time in eight months, the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for adopting and implementing the Integrity Pact, the first step in ensuring transparency in public procurements. The changes are expected to provide a larger pool of Independent External Monitors (IEMS) for examining government contracts. The change in rules says that the Independent External Monitors (IEMs), who are appointed by the apex vigilance body to look into issues relating to execution of contract(s) and any irregularities, will only be picked from a panel of eminent persons/officers who have held the post of additional secretary or equivalent or any other position at a higher pay scale in the government of India at the time of retirement. Existing rules, issued in June 2021, only considered officials at the rank of secretary to government of India, chief secretaries in the states or officials at equivalent pay scale at the time of retirement. This change, experts said, will provide a larger pool of officers retired from various government departments who can be appointed IEMs in case there is shortage of officers. The latest SOP, which CVC shared with all departments and ministries on Tuesday, has also removed retired director generals of police from the list of eminent persons to be considered for IEMs. Officials said all changes in eligibility criteria has been made after taking feedback from Chief Vigilance Officers (CVOs) and other officials.For retired officers of armed officers, too, only those officers equivalent to the ranks of additional secretaries or higher in the government of India will now be eligible to become IEMs. Earlier, this was allowed only for officers in apex pay scale. “The SOPs have been changed after receiving feedback and suggestions from the CVOs (chief vigilance officers) of various organisations and other individuals, regarding the eligibility criteria,” said a senior government official, requesting anonymity. Persons who have held the post of CMD/MD or CEO of public sector banks, insurance companies, and other state-owned financial institutions at the time of retirement will continue to be included in the list of IEMs, an advisory role considered important to examine the process of integrity in award of government contracts. The Integrity Pact (IP), which is mandatory for all government organisations, public sector enterprises, public sector banks, insurance companies, and other financial institutions and autonomous bodies etc, essentially envisages an agreement between the prospective vendors/bidders and the buyer, with both sides pledging not to resort to any corrupt practices. After a contract is given in a government organisation, CVC rules say, IEMs will have access to all the documents/records pertaining to the contract for which a complaint or issue is raised before them, except the documents having national security implications. IEMs will examine all complaints received and give their recommendations to the chief executive of the organisation. In case of suspicion of serious irregularities requiring legal or administrative action, IEMs are supposed to send a report to the Chief Vigilance Officers (CVOs). CVC in its revised SOPs has also stated that the proposal for nomination of IEMs in respective organisations should be sent by the concerned department responsible for ensuring implementation of Integrity Pact in the organisation, after taking approval of the competent authority. It said the proposal should be sent within three months of completion of tenure of existing IEMs, failing which CVC itself would nominate IEM (s) on its own from its panel. Former Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) chairman RS Sharma said including additional secretary rank officers must have been done to create a larger pool of officers as IEMs. “IEMs play a key role in resolving issues raised by any party regarding any aspect of the tender. They are one step before anyone wants to take legal route.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cvc-again-revises-sop-for-implementing-integrity-pact-101643222208669.html
27-01-2022||India||Grandeur marks 73rd R-Day||New Delhi: India ushered in its 73rd Republic Day on Wednesday in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic with an imposing display of its military strength and rich cultural diversity during a 90-minute parade that included soldiers on horseback, elite commandos, tanks, infantry combat vehicles, missiles and artillery guns, with fighter jets roaring across the sky in the grand finale.The parade began with President Ram Nath Kovind posthumously awarding Ashok Chakra to assistant sub inspector Babu Ram of the Jammu & Kashmir Police, India’s highest peacetime gallantry honour. Babu Ram’s wife, Reema Rani, and son, Manik, received the award. The police officer killed three terrorists during an operation in Srinagar on August 29, 2020.Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the country in paying tribute to India’s fallen braves at the National War Memorial (NWM), a monument dedicated to soldiers killed in post-Independence wars and operations.“On Republic Day, we recall the great women and men who worked towards the making of our Constitution. We also reiterate our commitment to fulfil their dreams for our nation,” the PM tweeted.
27-01-2022||India||Two protesters arrested in UP, six cops suspended for assault on students||Two people were arrested by police in connection with the alleged rioting and blocking of the railway track at Prayag Junction by some job aspirants, police said on Wednesday, adding that a case was lodged against around 1,000 unidentified persons. Six policemen were also suspended with immediate effect for using unnecessary force during the incident, which took place on Tuesday.Also Read | Railways pauses exam as protests turn violentAccording to the police, job aspirants in large numbers tried to stop a train at the local railway station here on Tuesday, alleging anomalies in the results of non-technical popular category (NTPC) exam conducted by the Railway Recruitment Board last year.Also Read | Aspirants allege anomalies in RRB exam results, protest in PrayagrajA senior police official, however, told reporters that it appears that the arrested accused had taken “money from some political parties” to create unrest. A police team has been constituted to probe the incident from this angle. Police said the two arrested people have been identified as Pradeep Yadav and Mukesh Yadav while the search for the third suspect, Rajesh Sachin, is on. They had made inflammatory remarks on social media, police added.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Ajay Kumar said a video of the incident surfaced on social media late on Tuesday night, in which some policemen were seen using unnecessary force. The policemen, identified as Rakesh Bharti, SI Shailendra Yadav, SI Kapil Kumar Chahal and constables Mohammad Arif, Achhe Lal and Durvesh Kumar, have been suspended with immediate effect and departmental action is being taken against them, the SSP said.The SSP said there is no quarrel between police and students and those who play with students’ future won’t be spared. He said in connection with the Tuesday’s incident, they have registered a case against 1,000 unidentified miscreants under 13 serious sections. The SSP said it appears that the miscreants “took money from some political parties to create unrest”.“A team of 11 policemen along with local intelligence officials is identifying elements who were involved in creating ruckus and violence and inciting youths. Primary investigations have revealed that Rajesh Sachan played an important role in inciting youths through social media platforms. Rajesh has affiliation with some political organisations and it is suspected that the protest was funded. Protests were organised as a conspiracy for political gains during upcoming polls,” the SSP added.On late Tuesday night, police launched search in Salori and Baghada areas where students stay in rented lodge. The widely circulated videos are purportedly of the police action in these areas, in which cops can be seen breaking doors of lodges and assaulting students with sticks.A large number of students had gathered on the railway track but were chased down by police. The SSP said some of them pelted policemen with stones and hid in their hostel nearby. Police were trying to catch the culprits and some of the personnel used unnecessary force, which is visible in the video, he said.“Police will not take action against innocent students but the trouble makers who in disguise of students caused violence will not be spared. They will be identified through available video footages and more of them will be arrested in coming days,” SSP said.On Wednesday, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav slammed the state government over alleged mishandling of protesting students by police in Prayagraj. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday accused the state police of assaulting students and vandalising their hostels. Sharing a purported video of the incident on Twitter, she said, “It is highly condemnable that police in Prayagraj are thrashing students and vandalising their lodges and hostels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-protesters-arrested-in-up-six-cops-suspended-for-assault-on-students-101643222087653.html
27-01-2022||India||Railways pauses exam as protests turn violent, 4 bogies set on fire||The railway ministry on Wednesday suspended the Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC) and the Level 1 exams after job aspirants in Bihar, Jharkhand and some parts of Uttar Pradesh staged massive protests and burnt four bogies of an empty train.Also Read | Railways' exams suspended amid violent protests: All you need to knowThe ministry also set up a high-power committee to address the issues raised by job applicants over the result of the (first stage) computer-based test (CBT), held last year.Railway minister Ashwini Vaishnav said the committee will submit its report before March 4. “The committee will give recommendations on results and methodology used for short-listing candidates for second stage CBT without affecting shortlisted candidates,” he said.Postponing the NTPC exams that were scheduled for next month, the Centre gave three weeks (till February 16) to job aspirants to submit their concerns.The decision came amid reports of candidates going on a rampage over alleged irregularities in RRB’s NTPC exam 2021 by the public transporter.In Bihar, four bogies of an empty train were set on fire on Wednesday while train services were disrupted in many parts for the third successive day, police said.
27-01-2022||India||Rahul blames Twitter for restricting followers ‘under govt pressure’||New Delhi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has written to Twitter, saying that his reach appeared to have been limited on the social media company’s platform amid unsaid restrictions on the number of his followers after “pressure by the government to silence my voice”, people aware of the matter said on Wednesday.One of Gandhi’s tweets was recently banned for violating Twitter’s content guidelines.“I want to bring your attention to what I believe is Twitter’s unwitting complicity in curbing free and fair speech in India… I have been reliably, albeit discreetly, informed by people at Twitter India that they are under immense pressure by the government to silence my voice,” Gandhi wrote in his letter to Twitter CEO Parag Aggarwal in December. HT has seen a copy of the letter.A spokesperson of the ministry of electronics and information technology did not respond to a request for a comment on the matter.“The ideological battle between liberal democracy and authoritarianism across the world is being shaped on social media platforms. This places a huge responsibility on those that are at the helm of companies such as Twitter,” Gandhi added.The development was first reported by The Wall Street Journal. Gandhi added that it was perplexing that the growth in Twitter followers had suddenly been “suppressed”. “With nearly 20 million followers, my Twitter account has been active, adding an average of nearly eight to ten thousand new followers every day. This had been the case for every year until July 2021.”In August, Gandhi shared a photograph and a video with the parents of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered, with the Bharatiya Janata Party launching an attack against him for being “insensitive” and attempting to “gain political mileage”. Gandhi was temporarily suspended from accessing his account. Twitter subsequently blocked the post in India, though it remains accessible outside the country, and his access to his account was restored. Gandhi later revealed that he had permission from the girl’s parents to post their picture.In his letter, Gandhi said that, since August, his average monthly followers fell to zero. “There is an inflection point after which my Twitter account seems to have been paralysed,” he said. “Perhaps not so coincidentally, it was in these same months that I raised the plight of a rape victim in Delhi. I have been reliably, albeit discreetly informed, by people at Twitter that they have been under immense pressure by the government to silence my voice.” He added that many other accounts, including government accounts, tweeted the same photograph but no action was taken against them. In its response to HT, Twitter said: “As part of our ongoing and global efforts to encourage healthy conversation on Twitter, every part of the service matters. Follower counts are a visible feature, and we want everyone to have confidence that the numbers are meaningful and accurate. Twitter has a zero-tolerance approach to platform manipulation and spam. We fight spam and malicious automation strategically and at scale with machine learning tools, and as part of those consistent and ongoing efforts to ensure a healthy service and credible accounts, follower counts can and do fluctuate.”It added: “We remove millions of accounts each week for violating our policies on platform manipulation and spam. You can take a look at our latest Twitter Transparency Center update for more context. While some accounts notice a minor difference, in certain cases the number could be higher.”“This is neither a fully explanatory nor a satisfactory response,” said Srivatsa YB, incharge of digital communication for Gandhi’s office.According to associate litigation counsel at Internet Freedom Foundation, Krishnesh, the allegations posed a grave concern. “If Twitter is engaging in shadow-banning, it is acting contrary to Rule 4(8) of IT Rules, 2021, which mandates Twitter to inform the user prior to removing/disabling the account of that user. It is also worth noting that Twitter in 2018 had stated that they do not shadow-ban. Thus, Twitter ought to explain why there was a sudden reduction in the average monthly followers of Mr Gandhi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-blames-twitter-for-restricting-followers-under-govt-pressure-101643221967613.html
27-01-2022||India||Hindustan Times launches NFTs pegged on crucial events from India’s history||With close to a hundred-year-old legacy, Hindustan Times has witnessed and set forth India’s most iconic moments to its citizenry. With the advent of technology and the constant-evolving digital space, HT is foraying into web 3.0 by launching NFTs (non-fungible tokens) that will include digitised versions of original historic creatives which were published in Hindustan Times through the decades under the banner of “HT Timeless Tokens”.Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) are a digital certificate of ownership of a piece of digital asset that can be bought and sold. These exclusive digital artworks launched by HT, which can be purchased with cryptocurrency and Fiat currency. A rare opportunity for collectors and enthusiasts to claim a piece of India’s glorious history filtered through the lens Hindustan Times. To begin with, HT has launched NFTs that celebrate India’s Republic Day on January 26, 2022, which are available on beyondlife.club, an NFT marketplace and platform that facilitates the creation, sale, and purchase of ownership rights to digital works of art via NFTs.Powered by GuardianLink.io – beyondlife.club is also responsible for launching two of the greatest NFT drops so far - Amitabh Bachchan’s rare exclusive NFT and Marvel creator Stan Lee’s exclusive NFT collection ‘Chakraverse’.Kamesh Elangovan, COO & Co-Founder, GuardianLink.io, said, “With industries like tech, finance, lifestyle, music and media advertising companies moving into the crypto/NFT ecosystem, new opportunities are set to be unlocked in the space of Web3. The secondary marketplace for NFTs at GuardianLink.io will see more and more collectors investing with knowledge on the future monetization of their NFTs. The partnership with Hindustan Times, opens yet another avenue to explore the world of NFTs in the media and marketing industry.”The NFTs launched by HT include the iconic cover page of first republic day HT edition. Among other NFTs, which are inspired by pertinent events and moments in India’s history such as success of the first missile launch to the nation’s first historic win at the World Cup in 1983 against the West Indies. Many such iconic timeless tokens are being put up for an auction on January 26. For any further details on this please log on www.nft.hindustantimes.com and stake your claim to a piece of history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindustan-times-launches-nfts-pegged-on-crucial-events-from-india-s-history-101643213895426.html
27-01-2022||NA||Republic Day 2022 Highlights: Parade ends with splendid flypast, celebrations go on||India is celebrating the 73rd Republic Day today as part of the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav commemorating 75 years of independence. The Republic Day parade this year is showcasing India's military might, cultural diversity and many unique initiatives to mark the celebration of the 75th year of independence.The grand Republic Day parade started at 10:30am today amid foggy weather. As per tradition, the national flag was unfurled followed by the National Anthem with a booming 21-gun salute, presented by Ceremonial Battery of 871 Field Regiment.The celebrations commenced on January 23 as Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on the occasion of Netaji's 125th birth anniversary, unveiled the hologram statue of the freedom fighter at India Gate in Delhi on Sunday.Also Read | Republic Day 2022: History, significance, why the day is celebrated and all you need to knowAs many as 75 aircraft of the Indian Air Force conducted a flypast showcasing the India's military prowess at the event. For the first time, the defence ministry presented videos from the cockpit as the helicopters and aircraft flew over Rajpath. The Centre also installed 10 large LED screens, five on each side of Rajpath, for spectators at the location. The guest list was cut short this year to ensure necessary Covid protocols.On the eve of Republic Day celebrations, President Ram Nath Kovind approved awards of 384 gallantry and other defence decorations to armed forces personnel and others.The Centre also announced the Padma awards on Tuesday. The President approved the conferment of 128 Padma awards this year, including two duo cases, in which the award is counted as one. The list comprises four Padma Vibhushan, 17 Padma Bhushan and 107 Padma Shri awards.Follow all the updates here:Watch PM Modi greet Republic Day spectators; Gives warm farewell to President's horse ViratBSF 176 Battalion, Bangladesh border guards exchange sweets at FulbariWest Bengal: BSF 176 Battalion and 18 BGB (Border Guard Bangladesh) exchange sweets at Fulbari at the India-Bangladesh border near Siliguri.#RepublicDay pic.twitter.com/azv9FJLSDX176 Battalion of the Border Security Force (BSF) and 18 BGB (Border Guard Bangladesh) exchanged sweets at Fulbari at the India-Bangladesh border near Siliguri.President's bodyguard horse Virat retires from servicePresident’s bodyguard horse Virat retired from service today after being awarded the Chief of the Army Staff Commendation Medal this year. President Kovind, PM Modi and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh bid him farewell on the occasion. Read moreSpectacular performance of BSF's Seema Bhawani team at RajpathSeema Bhawani motorcycle team of the Border Security Force (BSF) wow crowds at the Republic Day parade pic.twitter.com/W2K77CvbJXIn a first, ministry of civil aviation presents tableau in Republic Day paradeMinistry of Civil Aviation's tableau participates in #RepublicDayParade for the first time. It showcases Regional Connectivity Scheme UDAN. Today, 403 UDAN routes connect 65 underserved/unserved airports, incl helicopters & water aerodromes & over 80 lakh people have benefitted pic.twitter.com/coJuE4yGIFRepublic Day parade ends with splendid flypastThe grand parade of the Republic Day 2022 at Rajpath comes to an end with a splendid flypast of the Indian Armed forces. President Kovind leaves, Prime Minister Narendra Modi waves as he walks past the refurbished Rajpath.Watch | Cockpit video of ‘Baaz’ formation by Rafale, Jaguar, MiG-29 UPG, Su-30 MI in 7 aircraft arrowhead#WATCH Cockpit view of 'Baaz' formation comprising one Rafale, two Jaguar, two MiG-29 UPG, two Su-30 MI aircraft in seven aircraft 'Arrowhead' formation flying at 300m AOL#RepublicDayParade(Source: Ministry of Defence) pic.twitter.com/1qNvM4GpnwFive Rafale in ‘Vinaash’ formation, fly over Rajpath in arrow shape'Vinaash' formation compromising five Rafale flying in Arrowhead formation at Republic Day parade pic.twitter.com/0KCWSX0YWy75 aircraft, helicopters fly past Rajpath in different formations#WATCH The cockpit view of the Rudra formation led by Col Sudipto Chaki of 301 Army Aviation Special Operations Sqn with National Flag comprising two Dhruv helicopters and two ALH Rudra Helicopters#RepublicDayParade (Video source: Ministry of Defence) pic.twitter.com/2Hac9YbPqbTo celebrate India's 75th year of Independence, 75 aircraft, helicopters make different formations as they fly past Rajpath.Vintage as well as current modern aircraft/helicopters like Rafale, Sukhoi, Jaguar, Mi-17, Sarang, Apache and Dakota display various formations, including Rahat, Meghna, Eklavya, Trishul, Tiranga, Vijay and Amrit.For the first time IAF has coordinated with Doordarshan to show cockpit videos during the fly past.In a first, dancers perform during Vande Bharatam Nritya Utsav at RajpathFor the first time, dancers who perform during the cultural programme at the parade have been selected through a nation-wide competition ‘Vande Bharatam’, jointly organised by Ministries of Defence and Culture.Haryana presents its tableaux with theme 'number one in sports'With the theme 'number one in sports', the tableau of Haryana participates in the #RepublicDayParade.Out of the 7 medals won by India in Tokyo Olympics 2020, Haryana bagged 4. Similarly, in Paralympics 2020, out of the 19 medals won by the country, the players of Haryana got 6. pic.twitter.com/XAMsJyD6nWHaryana's tableau showcases a life-sized statue of Olympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra. Notably, Haryana had bagged 4 out of the 7 medals India won in Tokyo Olympics 2020. In Paralympics 2020, too, out of the 19 medals won by the country, Haryana's players bagged 6.Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka and J&K tableaux at Republic Day paradeThe tableaux of Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka and Jammu & Kashmir at Rajpath during #RepublicDayParade pic.twitter.com/lwL7McGPT4Goa's tableau presents ‘symbols of Goan Heritage’Goa tableau participating in the #RepublicDayParade, is based on the theme 'symbols of Goan Heritage'.The tableau showcases Fort Aguada, Martyrs' Memorial at Azad Maidan in Panaji and Dona Paula. #RepublicDay pic.twitter.com/CqWDjJzcXCUttarakhand showcases models of Hemkund Sahib Gurudwara, Dobra-Chanti Bridge and Badrinath TempleUttarakhand tableau at the 73rd Republic Day parade depicts Hemkund Sahib Gurudwara, Dobra-Chanti Bridge and Badrinath Temple pic.twitter.com/3d3QAjAZxOGujarat showcases ‘tribal movement’ of ancestorsThe tableau of Gujarat showcases the theme of the 'tribal movement of Gujarat'.The front part of the tableau represents the freedom fighting spirits of tribals' ancestors. #RepublicDayIndia pic.twitter.com/4eAlARpjf9Meghalaya pays tribute to women-led co-operatives in its tableaux#RepublicDayParade | Meghalaya's tableau shows a woman weaving a bamboo basket and the many bamboo & cane products of the State pic.twitter.com/QpVxWKPWObBSF's camel-mounted band contingent parades on RajpathThe Camel-mounted band of the Border Security Force at the 73rd Republic Day at Rajpath pic.twitter.com/Lusl6VOUPTTableaux of 12 states march down RajpathThe contingents are followed by tableaux of 12 States/Union Territories and nine Ministries/Departments, which have been prepared on various themes under ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’. Air Force presents its prowess with scaled-down aircraft, helicopter models#RepublicDayParade | Indian Air Force tableau displays the theme 'Indian Air Force Transforming for the future'. It showcases scaled-down models of MiG-21, Gnat, Light Combat Helicopter (LCH), Aslesha radar and Rafale aircraft. #RepublicDay pic.twitter.com/t1iaU7OsTXThe Air Force tableau, titled ‘Indian Air Force, Transforming for the Future’, showcases scaled down models of MiG-21, Gnat, Light Combat Helicopter and Rafale aircraft, as well as the Aslesha radar.Indian Navy contingent showcases multi-dimensional capabilities, key inductions under ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’Indian Navy tableau participates in the #RepublicDayParade at RajpathThe tableau is designed with an aim to showcase the multi-dimensional capabilities of the Navy as well as highlight key inductions under 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' also finds a spl mention pic.twitter.com/70zAoOXHL3Indian Navy's contingent comprised of 96 young sailors and four officers led by Lt Cdr Aanchal Sharma as Contingent Commander. The Naval Tableau showcases the multi-dimensional capabilities of the Indian Navy and highlight the key inductions under 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. The ongoing 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' also finds a special mention in the tableau.J&K Light Infantry, in Indian Army Uniform of 1970s, marches down RajpathThe contingent of J&K Light Infantry (JAK LI), led by Maj Ritesh Tiwari of 5th Battalion of JAK LI, marches down the Rajpath.The contingent is attired in the Indian Army Uniform of 1970s and carrying weapon 7.62mm SLR. #RepublicDay parade pic.twitter.com/F257jk0aBeAssam Regiment contingent comprises troops from all 7 north eastern statesDelhi | The Assam Regiment contingent marches down the Rajpath on Republic DayThis contingent comprises troops from all seven North Eastern States.It has been a three-time winner of Republic Day Parade pic.twitter.com/rMHU0yeHxAIndia's military might at the Republic Day parade75/24 Pack Howitzer MK-I indigenously developed gun system in front of the saluting dais during Republic Day parade at Rajpath pic.twitter.com/ItwOYciFBiIndia showcases its military might at the Republic Day parade Detachments of Centurion Tank, PT-76, MBT Arjun MK-I, and APC Topaz participate in the #RepublicDay parade at the Rajpath in Delhi. pic.twitter.com/dKUJTS0QFTFirst contingent showcases world's only serving active Horse Cavalry RegimentThe first contingent is of the 61 Cavalry, showcasing the only serving active Horse Cavalry Regiment in the world.Parade begins with flypast by Mi-17V5 helicoptersFour Mi-17V5 helicopters of the 155 helicopter unit flying in a wineglass formation at Republic Day parade.National flag unfurled with booming 21-gun saluteAs per tradition, the national flag was unfurled followed by the National Anthem with a booming 21-gun salute, presented by Ceremonial Battery of 871 Field Regiment.'Shubh swagatam' for President Kovind as he arrives at Rajpath, parade to begin shortlyPresident Ram Nath Kovind arrives at the saluting base at Rajpath. The Republic Day parade will begin shortly.PM Modi arrives at Rajpath for the grand paradePrime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at Rajpath for the Republic Day parade.President Kovind leaves for Rajpath, parade to begin shortlyPresident Ram Nath Kovind leaves for Rajpath. The grand parade will begin at 10:30am.BSF, Pakistan Army exchange sweets and greetings at Attari-Wagah borderBorder Security Force & Pakistan Army exchange sweets and greetings at Attari-Wagah border on India's 73rd Republic Day pic.twitter.com/SZxooZZhkUPM Modi lays wreath at National War MemorialPrime Minister Narendra Modi laid a wreath at the National War Memorial, paid tribute to the fallen heroes of the Indian Armed Forces with a two-minute silence.He will then walk towards Rajpath where the Republic Day parade will begin shortly.PM Modi, along with Rajnath Singh, arrives at National War Memorial to pay tributes to fallen heroesDelhi | Prime Minister Narendra Modi lays wreath at the National War Memorial on 73rd #RepublicDay pic.twitter.com/tQZiHlTTqA'To all those brave soldiers...': Rajnath Singh unfurls national flag at his residence, pays tribute to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh unfurls national flag at his residence on the occassion of Republic Day."I extend my greetings to all Indians on this Republic Day. I also pay tributes to all those brave soldiers who laid their lives for the country," he says, speaking to reporters at his residence.DRDO to display two tableaux todayThe Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will have two tableaux at the Republic Day parade today. The first one, titled ‘Suite of Indigenously Developed Sensors, Weapons and Electronic Warfare Systems for LCA Tejas’, will display an indigenously-developed Advanced Electronically Scanned Array Radar; five different aerial launched weapons and an Electronic Warfare Jammer to further enhance the capabilities of fourth generation LCA (Light Combat Aircraft) Tejas.The second one, titled ‘Air Independent Propulsion System’, will showcase the indigenously-developed AIP System for propelling the Indian Naval submarines underwater, powered by indigenously-developed fuel cells with a novel onboard hydrogen generator.BJP chief JP Nadda unfurls national flag at party headquarters in Delhi#RepublicDay | Bharatiya Janata Party president JP Nadda unfurled the national flag at party headquarters in Delhi pic.twitter.com/yvrDr0DdNKIndia celebrates a Republic Day of many firstsThe 73rd Republic Day will have many first time events and celebrations at the grand parade. Here are a few:Read more hereITBP celebrate Republic Day at 11,000 feet, minus 20 degrees Celsius#WATCH Indo-Tibetan Border Police 'Himveers' celebrate the 73rd Republic Day at 11,000 feet in minus 20 degrees Celsius at Auli in Uttarakhand pic.twitter.com/1nhbrOWSp3PM Modi to visit National War Memorial to start Republic Day celebrationsThe Republic Day Parade ceremony will commence with Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi visiting the National War Memorial.This is the first time the Prime Minister will not pay tributes at the Amar Jawan Jyoti or the eternal flame as it has been merged with the National War Memorial.PM Modi, Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh extend greetings on Republic Dayआप सभी को गणतंत्र दिवस की हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। जय हिंद!Wishing you all a happy Republic Day. Jai Hind! #RepublicDay“Happy 73rd Republic Day to all. I bow down to the jawans who gave their all to keep the pride, unity and integrity of the Republic of India. Let us all today resolve to ensure our commitment to the democratic values of freedom. Jai Hind,” said home minister Amit Shah.Rajnath Singh extended wishes saying, “This is an occasion to celebrate our democracy and cherish the ideas and values enshrined in our Constitution. Praying for the continued progress and prosperity of our country.”Nepal President, PM extend Republic Day greetingsNepal President Bidya Devi Bhandari, PM Sher Bahadur Deuba, and Foreign Minister Dr. Narayan Khadka, extend felicitations on the occasion of the 73rd Republic Day.Security beefed up in Delhi ahead of Republic Day paradeSecurity arrangements have been tightened in Delhi ahead of the grand celebrations amid a warning regarding drone attacks in the national capital. Multi-layer security systems, including an anti-drone system, have been installed and are searching for suspicious people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/73rd-india-republic-day-2022-live-updates-president-kovind-to-give-speech-security-beefed-up-at-rajpath-parade-at-10-30am-today-101643158420304.html
