28-01-2022||India||DCGI approves trials for internasal booster dose||India’s drugs regulator on Friday approved advanced clinical trials for Bharat Biotech’s intranasal Covid-19 vaccine candidate (BBV154), including as a booster dose for those who have been earlier jabbed with either Covaxin or Covishield, according to people familiar with the development.The trials for the adenovirus vectored vaccine, to be used as a spray to the nose, will be conducted at nine sites across the country with almost 900 participants in all.The trial sites identified are All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi and Patna (Bihar), Aatman Hopsital, Ahmedabad (Gujarat), Oyster and Pearl Hospitals, Pune, and Acharya Vinobha Bhave Rural Hospital, Wardha (Maharashtra), PGIMS, Rohtak (Haryana), and Prakhar Hospital, Kanpur, and Rana Hospital, Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh), and Jeevan Rekha Hospital, Belagavi (Karnataka).The approval letter, issued to the Hyderabad-based company by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI, VG Somani, laid down certain conditions for conducting the trials in the country. HT has seen the approval letter.The phase 3 trials will be conducted as randomised open label multi-center study to compare immunogenicity and safety of BBV154 with Covaxin.“Firm should submit the safety data of sufficient duration post second dose. Firm is required to constitute a data safety and monitoring board to review the safety data. The formulation intended to be used in clinical trials shall be manufactured using validated procedures under good manufacturing practices conditions and shall have ongoing stability programme…,” reads the approval letter.Another condition for approval is that the company will be using only Kasauli (Himachal Pradesh) based central drugs laboratory certified batches in the clinical trials. The company in a statement confirmed the development.“BBV154 (Nasal covid vaccine) has received approval for phase 3 clinical trials. The trials will evaluate BBV154 nasal vaccine for both the 2 dose primary schedule and booster dose schedule. Intra nasal vaccines are easier to administer in mass immunization campaigns and help reduce / stop transmission,” read the statement.Suchitra Ella, joint managing director, Bharat Biotech, tweeted, “Covid vaccines are headed for a booster dose( 3rd dose). BBV 154 will be administered as nasal drops instead of a JAB, pain free!!”Scientists around the world are racing to develop a viable and effective nasal vaccine, which could offer superior protection by creating immunity in the nasal passageway, where the Sars-CoV-2 first takes hold during an infection. Known as mucosal immunity, experts have likened such a protection to “placing guards outside the gates to stop the coronavirus”, as Yale professor Akiko Iwasaki explained while speaking at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit in December.Bharat Biotech in a statement added that such vaccines are helpful because they are non-invasive (needle-free), easy to administer and do not require trained health care workers; and are scalable as far as manufacturing is concerned.In September, 2020, Bharat Biotech had inked a licensing agreement with Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis for a novel chimp- adenovirus, single dose intranasal vaccine for Covid-19.In January, last year, the company applied to the central drugs regulator to allow it to start clinical trials in humans.
28-01-2022||India||Health minister reviews Covid situation in southern states||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday held a virtual meeting with officials from the southern states and three union territories to review the public health measures for Covid-19 and the progress of the vaccination campaign, according to a statement. The minister urged the regions to utilise before March 31 funds released by the Centre as part of the emergency Covid relief package, which is meant to help states strengthen their health infrastructure. The health minister also urged the states to provide relevant data on time so that sturdy and efficient Covid policies can be drawn up.“It is important to have a sturdy and resilient health infrastructure and the ECRP-II package under which the funds have been provided to states and UTS needs to be utilised before 31st March, 2022… While some states have expedited effective utilisation of the approved funds for health infra creation, other states may also review the physical and financial progress under ECRP-II and expedite the progress,” said Mandaviya in a statement.The states and union territories that participated in the review were Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Puducherry, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, and Lakshadweep.The health minister reiterated that the five-fold strategy of ‘Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate and Adherence to COVID Appropriate Behaviour’ was key for Covid management.States and UTs were advised to keep a close watch on emerging clusters and hotspots; and states with a lower share of RTPCR in Covid-19 testing were advised to review the testing ratio. Adequate and timely testing will help in prompt identification of the infected cases and prevention of a sudden surge, he said.The states were also asked to focus on expediting vaccination coverage.The directive came at a time when the third nationwide wave of Covid-19 has been raging, although there are now signs that it may be levelling off in some regions. India recorded 233,779 new cases on Friday, 6.8% down from the 250,762 cases recorded a day before, HT’s tally of cases showed.
28-01-2022||India||Data a must for quota in promotion, says SC||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Friday turned down the Union government’s plea to dilute the requirement of collecting quantifiable data by the Centre and states to determine the representation of people belonging to Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) while implementing reservation in promotion.A three-judge bench, headed by justice L Nageswara Rao, declared that the government shall have to collect empirical data with respect to each cadre of the public employment, emphasising that adequacy of representation cannot be gauged either on the basis of data on representation of SCs/STs with reference to the entire service or in proportion of their population. “Before providing for reservation in promotions to a cadre, the state is obligated to collect quantifiable data regarding inadequacy of representation of SCs and STs. Collection of information regarding inadequacy of representation of SCs and STs cannot be with reference to the entire service or class/group but it should be relatable to the grade/category of posts to which promotion is sought,” held the bench, which also comprised justices Sanjiv Khanna and BR Gavai. A cadre should represent a grade or category of posts to which promotion is sought, it said. The court further ruled that there should be a periodic review of the data collected to determine inadequacy of representation for the purpose of providing reservation in promotions, leaving it to the Centre and states to decide what should be a “reasonable” time gap for such an exercise. The top court was hearing a clutch of petitions arising out of judgments from 11 different high courts, which had delivered rulings on various pertinent reservation policies in the last 10 years. Some of the states from where these judgments arose included Maharashtra, Bihar, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, and Punjab. Meanwhile, declaring cadre as a unit for the purpose of collecting quantifiable data in relation to promotional posts, the court on Friday negated a 2019 judgment by the two-judge bench, which upheld the validity of a reservation law in Karnataka , and the method of taking a sample or the entire service as the unit to determine adequacy of representation for SCs/STs. The three-judge bench held that the 2019 judgment in BK Pavitra-II case was contrary to the law laid down by Constitution bench judgments in M Nagaraj (2006) and Jarnail Singh (2018). In 2006, a Constitution bench ruling in the M Nagaraj case made it incumbent upon the state to collect quantifiable data showing inadequacy of representation of a section of people in public employment in addition to maintaining overall administrative efficiency. The aspect of quantifiable data was endorsed by another Constitution bench in its 2018 ruling in the Jarnail Singh case which also mandated the exclusion of the “creamy layer” before providing for reservation in promotions. Lending credence to the two Constitution bench judgments, the court further declined the Centre’s request to lay down judicial yardsticks for determining inadequate representation of SCs/STs, stating that it should be left to the discretion of the state since such determination depends upon myriad factors which a court cannot envisage.“Laying down of criteria for determining the inadequacy of representation would result in curtailing the discretion given to the state governments. In addition, the prevailing local conditions, which may require to be factored in, might not be uniform,” highlighted the court, adding that the validity of laws or policies made by state governments to provide reservation in promotions shall be decided on a case-to-case basis to ascertain whether the inadequacy of representation is supported by quantifiable data. Another submission by attorney general KK Venugopal on behalf of the Union government regarding proportionate representation as the test of adequacy failed to cut ice with the bench. “The attempt of the learned Attorney General to impress upon this court that the proportion of SCs/STs in the population of India should be taken as the test for determining whether they are adequately represented in promotional posts, did not yield results,” noted the bench.In its judgment, the court also clarified that the Nagaraj judgment would have a prospective effect in order to “avoid chaos and confusion” that could ensue from unsettling seniority of thousands of employees who availed reservation in promotions without there being strict compliance of the conditions prescribed in this judgment.That judgment was delivered in 2006, interpreting Article 16(4-A) of the Constitution (which introduced the provision of reservation in matters of promotion with consequential seniority) that came into force in 1995. Between 1995 and 2006, thousands of employees in central government and state services had been promoted without complying with the conditions laid down in this verdict. “Making principles laid down in Nagaraj effective from the year 1995 would be detrimental to the interests of a number of civil servants and would have an effect of unsettling the seniority of individuals over a long period of time. It is necessary that the judgment of Nagaraj should be declared to have prospective effect,” held the court. The bench refused to express any opinion on discontinuing reservation, as was pressed by some petitioners representing general category candidates. “We are not inclined to express any view on discontinuation of reservations in totality, which is completely within the domain of the legislature and the executive,” said the court, adding it is in favour of a periodic review of the data on inadequacy of representation. “Collection of quantifiable data for determining the inadequacy of representation of SCs/STs is a basic requirement for providing reservation in promotions, as laid down by this court in Nagaraj. The unit for the purpose of collection of data is a cadre, according to Nagaraj and Jarnail Singh. For the purpose of collection of quantifiable data for providing reservation in promotions, the entire service cannot be taken to be a unit and treated as a cadre, as already stated,” concluded the court in its judgment.After laying down the principles of law, the court said that it would consider examining individual cases arising from the high courts on February 24.During the arguments of the case, the Union government pressed for reservation in promotion proportionate to the population of SCs and STs as per a 1995 judgment by the top court in the RK Sabharwal case. Venugopal argued that it should be left open to the Centre and states to decide on promotional avenues for SCs and STs, contending the condition regarding collection of quantifiable data to show inadequacy of representation of SCs/STs is “vague”. According to Venugopal, there was a roster system in place in every cadre of the government departments to ascertain the posts required to be filled up by SCs/STs, and therefore the prerequisite of quantifiable data, as was laid down by two Constitution bench judgments of the apex court, should not remain – a plea shot down by the bench in its judgment.When asked what should be a time period for the government to revisit the reservation policy after ascertaining the percentage of posts occupied by SCs/STs, the AG said that a periodic review should happen after every 10 years when a census is done. The court, in its judgment, has left it to the Centre and states to determine the time period for review. Representing general category candidates, senior advocates Rajeev Dhavan, Meenakshi Arora, Gopal Sankaranarayan and lawyer Kumar Parimal argued that the reservation cannot be for an indefinite period and that it must stop as soon as the upper ceiling has been reached. Further, they emphasised that reservation in promotion should be cadre-based only after quantifiable data is collected and the creamy layer has been excluded. Additionally, the general category candidates have said that posts meant for SCs/STs cannot be kept vacant indefinitely and should be filled up by other candidates after three years, as laid down in the Nagaraj judgment. 
28-01-2022||India||In talks with India over sanction risk due to S-400 Russia deal: US||Washington: The United States is continuing to talk to India about the risks of sanctions for its acquisition of the S-400 missile system from Russia under the Countering America’s Adversaries through Sanctions Act (CAATSA), but hasn’t made a determination “with regard to this transaction”, the State department said on Thursday.Speaking at a regular press briefing, the State department spokesperson Ned Price was asked whether, given the US’s renewed tensions with Russia, India’s purchase of the missile system will affect the India-US bilateral relationship.He said, “In many ways, this doesn’t change the concerns that we have with the S-400 system. I think it shines a spotlight on the destabilising role that Russia is playing not only in the region, but potentially beyond as well. When it comes to CAATSA sanctions, you’ve heard me say before we haven’t made a determination with regard to this transaction, but it’s something we continue to discuss with the Government of India, given the risk of sanctions for this particular transaction under CAATSA.”Price added that whether it was India or any other country, the US continued to “urge all countries to avoid major new transactions for Russian weapon systems”. When asked if the US had a timeline on the decision on CAATSA, Price said, “I don’t have a timeline to offer, but these are issues that we continue to discuss with our partners in India.”CAATSA came into force in 2017, at a time when the political mood in Washington DC was hostile to Russia for its actions in Ukraine, Syria and alleged interference in the 2016 US presidential elections. The Act seeks to deter countries which engage with Russia, especially in the realm of defence purchases, through punitive measures. Under the Act, sanctions were imposed on Turkey — a NATO ally — for its acquisition of the S-400 system from Russia. India has a long-standing defence relationship with Russia — and has pursued its acquisition of the S-400 missile system. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) has maintained that India’s decisions are guided by its own national security considerations. In November, MEA spokesperson Arindam Baghci said, “India and the US have a comprehensive global strategic partnership and India has a special and privileged strategic partnership with Russia. We also pursue an independent foreign policy. This applies to our defence acquisition and supplies which are guided by our national security interests.” Most observers of the India-US relationship in Washington believe the US is likely to recognise India’s defence imperatives with regard to China, and waive off sanctions. But the renewed tensions over Ukraine have created a strong bipartisan mood in Washington against Russian actions, and added to India’s challenge in balancing ties. New Delhi issued a statement on Friday hoping for a peaceful resolution of the situation in Ukraine. Commenting on the broader challenge for India as US-Russia tensions deepen, Ashley J Tellis, the Tata chair for strategic studies at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and among the foremost experts on Asian geopolitics in the US, said, “There are already anxieties in the Congress about India, including vis a vis its relationship with Russia. If Delhi feels compelled to mildly sympathetic to Russia, or even excessively neutral, it will not find a receptive audience for its position in Washington DC. India is admittedly in a hard place.” 
28-01-2022||India||India, Philippines sign $375-million BrahMos missile deal||New Delhi: India’s BrahMos Aerospace and the Philippines on Friday signed a deal worth almost $375 million for the Philippine Marines to acquire three batteries of the BrahMos cruise missile, a shot in the arm for New Delhi’s efforts to emerge as an exporter of major defence hardware.Philippine defence secretary Delfin Lorenzana, who signed the contract with BrahMos Aerospace chief Atul Dinkar Rane, said the supersonic missiles will “certainly beef up the firepower of the Philippine Navy”.
28-01-2022||India||PM Modi stresses on ‘nation first’ spirit at NCC annual event||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lauded the contribution made by India’s youth in fields ranging from sports to startups, saying that no power can stop a country whose youth works with the spirit of “nation first”.Addressing the annual National Cadet Corps (NCC) rally at Cariappa ground in national Capital, Modi said, “Today, India is among the top three startup countries in the world. The number of unicorns that have been developed amid the Covid-19 pandemic is a show of strength of the youth of India…”He added, “No power in the world can stop the country whose youth starts moving ahead with the thinking of nation first. India’s success in the field of sports and startups ecosphere exemplifies this very clearly.”Underlining the key role youth can play in the government’s ‘vocal for local’ campaign, the PM said, “If today’s youth resolves to use only those goods that have been created with the labour and sweat of an Indian, India’s destiny can be transformed.”
28-01-2022||India||‘Unconstitutional’: Supreme Court sets aside suspension of Maharashtra BJP MLAs||New Delhi/Mumbai: The Supreme Court on Friday scrapped the one-year suspension of 12 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLAs from Maharashtra assembly, calling the Speaker’s action against the lawmakers “unconstitutional” and “irrational”.The judgment created a political stir in Maharashtra.State parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab said “revoking of the suspension can only be done through a resolution,” indicating that a tussle between the state’s ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi and the judiciary may be on the cards. The minister, however, added that the government will study the detailed order before deciding on revoking the suspension.Also Read | After SC squashes suspension of 12 BJP MLAs from Maha assembly, Sena’s Raut says ‘speaker will decide’The BJP, meanwhile, said that the apex court’s ruling is a “tight slap” in the face of the “arrogant” MVA government.The court also observed that Parliament and Legislative assemblies have become more intransigent places with jeering and personal attacks replacing erudite and constructive debate.A three-judge bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar said that any suspension beyond the concerned session of the House was “illegal” and cannot have a basis in law. “Suspension beyond the session would be bordering on punishing not only the member concerned, but also inevitably impact the legitimate rights of the constituency,”added the bench, also comprising justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar.The 12 BJP MLAs were suspended after a commotion erupted in the two-day monsoon session of the Maharashtra assembly on July 5, 2021. The legislators were suspended for a year over the alleged use of abusive language against the presiding officer, Bhaskar Jadhav, and misconduct.The Court noted that while the legislature had inherent power under its rules to suspend any member to ensure proper exercise of the functions of the house but this power is protective and self-defensive and not punitive.“Suspension beyond the remainder period of the ongoing session would not only be grossly irrational measure, but also violative of basic democratic values, owing to unessential deprivation of the member concerned, and more importantly, the constituency would remain unrepresented in the Assembly,” held the bench as it set aside the suspension and declared that the 12 MLAs would be entitled to all consequential benefits on and after the expiry of the concerned monsoon session of the assembly in July, 2021.Closing the judgment with an epilogue, the bench said, “This case has thrown up an occasion for all concerned to ponder over the need to evolve and adhere to good practices befitting the august body and appropriately denounce and discourage proponents of undemocratic activities in the House, by democratically elected representatives.”The court referred to Rule 53 of Maharashtra legislative assembly rules which gave power to Speaker to suspend a member for a day or in case of repeated misconduct, for the entire session. The bench said, “If the House takes upon itself to discipline its members, it is expected to adopt the same graded (rational and objective standard) approach on the lines predicated in Rule 53.”Such actions by the house would impact the democratic set-up as a whole “by permitting a thin majority government (coalition government) to manipulate numbers of the Opposition party in an undemocratic manner,” the court added. And opposition members will not be able to effectively participate in debates owing to constant fear of being suspended for long terms, the court said. MVA laders questioned the delay of nearly one and a half years to approve 12 names for the state’s legislative council by the governor. “On one hand the ruling was given saying that legislators cannot be kept away from representing the constituencies above six months, but the appointment of 12 members to the Legislative Council has not been done for nearly a year and half. How can there be two laws? This is nothing be double standards,” said Parab.Constitutional expert and law professor Ulhas Bapat said that the government will not be able to overlook the ruling as the order will be binding on them. He said that suspensions fall under Article 194 of the Privileges of Parliament in the Constitution and the basic structure of the Constitution cannot be touched by anyone.Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis welcomed the verdict calling it a historic decision. “I would like to thank the Supreme Court for its decision. It has rightly pointed out that the government had acted ‘illegally’ and ‘irrationally’. The government feels they are above the Constitution and hence they had suspended the 12 MLAs on a false narrative based on events in the presiding officer’s [Shiv Sena leader Bhaskar Jadhav] chamber that never occurred,” Fadnavis said in Goa.Jayant Patil, Maharashtra NCP chief and cabinet minister, said that the suspension was done in the framework of the law. “The assembly Speaker and legislature office will study the order.The authority to suspend members lies with the Speaker. there have been incidents where members have been suspended for a longer duration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unconstitutional-supreme-court-sets-aside-suspension-of-maharashtra-bjp-mlas-101643391724384.html
28-01-2022||India||Punjab, UP to see severe cold wave in 24 hrs; rain in Delhi as Feb arrives: IMD||Several states of northwest and central India, including Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh will witness cold to severe cold wave conditions in the next 24 hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted in its latest bulletin. However, the conditions will begin to abate gradually starting January 30.The Met department has also predicted no change in minimum temperature over the northwest and central parts of India in the next 24 hours, with the same rising by four to six degrees Celsius thereafter. The maximum temperature over these regions is very likely to rise by three to five degrees Celsius till February 2 starting Sunday (January 30) but will again fall thereafter.Meanwhile, light to widespread rainfall has been forecasted over Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi between February 2 and 4.Also Read | IMD alerts: Severe cold wave, rainfall and snowfall in these states till February 4The latest IMD weather alert comes even as the minimum temperature in few places of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Bihar, Assam, Meghalaya and central Maharashtra saw departure from the normal by 1.6 to three degrees Celsius on Friday. Delhi's Safdarjung observatory (the official weather recorder of the national capital) recorded a minimum temperature of 6.4 degrees Celsius on Friday, while the maximum temperature reached 20.6 degrees Celsius, according to IMD data.Here are the key IMD alerts for cold wave and rainfall till February 5:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-up-to-see-severe-cold-wave-in-24-hrs-rain-in-delhi-as-feb-arrives-imd-101643388052874.html
28-01-2022||India||‘Release 7 Indian sailors held captive since Jan 2’ India messages Yemen’s Houthis||NEW DELHI: India on Friday said the seven Indian sailors taken captive by Yemen’s Houthi rebels when they seized a UAE-flagged merchant vessel on January 2 are safe and reiterated the demand for their immediate release.Eleven crew members, including the Indian nationals, of the vessel Rwabee were held by the Houthis when they seized the vessel Rwabee in the Red Sea. The rebels claimed the vessel was carrying “military supplies” and entered Yemeni waters off the coast of Hodeidah “without authorisation”. The Saudi Arabia-led coalition fighting the Houthis described the vessel’s seizure as an act of “armed piracy”, and India and the United Arab Emirates had demanded the release of the crew. “As per the latest information received from the shipping company based in the UAE as well as from other sources, the seven Indian sailors are safe, in good health and are being provided regular meals,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a virtual weekly media briefing.“However, their captors have not been allowing them to communicate with their families,” he said in response to a question on the status of the seven Indian sailors. The Indian government is in touch with multiple sources, including the UN Mission to support the Hudaydah Agreement or UNMHA, to “enquire about the safety and well-being of our sailors as well as to reinforce our message to the Houthis that our sailors should be released at the earliest”, Bagchi said.The civil observer mission, with headquarters at Al-Hudaydah, has facilitated dialogue between Yemeni parties and also looks at ways to ensure the full implementation of the Hudaydah Agreement, including a ceasefire and redeployment of forces.The hostilities occurring more than 3,000 kilometres away have had consequences for India twice this month. Besides the seizure of the Rwabee, two Indians were killed and two more injured in a drone attack by the Houthis on Abu Dhabi on January 17. The attack was carried out in apparent retaliation for the UAE’s role in the coalition fighting the Houthis.The rebels have also threatened to expand their operations against the UAE and Saudi Arabia, are home to nearly six million Indians.Bagchi said external affairs minister S Jaishankar condemned the “terror attack” of January 17 in the strongest terms during a telephone conversation with his UAE counterpart. “Subsequently, the UN Security Council, of which we are currently a member, in a press statement condemned in the strongest terms the heinous terror attack in Abu Dhabi...on January 17. We are closely monitoring developments,” he said.
28-01-2022||India||Punjab Congress leader comments on claims of Sidhu's sister; says new low in Punjab politics||Punjab Congress leader Sunil Jakhar, who is also a frontrunner to be Congress chief ministerial candidate in the upcoming Punjab Assembly Elections 2022, commented on the allegations of Navjot Sidhu's sister and said this is a new low in Punjab politics. Blaming political rivalry for whatever unfolded on Friday, Sunil Jakhar tweeted, "It is despicable that to settle political scores, even the most pious relation between a sister and brother has not been spared." Politics hits a new low in Punjab!It’s is despicable that to settle political scores even the most pious relation between a sister and brother has not been spared. एक तहज़ीब है दोस्ती की एक मय्यार है दुश्मनी का दोस्तों ने मुरव्वत न सीखी दुश्मनों को अदावत तो आएSuman Toor, who claimed to be the sister of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, brought sensational allegations against Sidhu claiming that after their father's death in 1986, Sidhu deserted their mother and elder sister. In 1989, Sidhu's mother, as Suman Toor claimed, dies at Delhi railway station as a destitute.Watch | ‘Cruel…’: Sidhu’s sister makes shocking charge; Says ‘abandoned mother for money’US-based Suman Toor said she has come to Chandigarh to meet Sidhu, who does not keep any contact with her. She said she had intimated to Sidhu that she would be visiting him on January 20, but he refused to meet her.Sidhu will be filing his nomination on Saturday for Amritsar (East) assembly seat, which he announced on Twitter amid the raging controversy over his sister's complaints.Sidhu's wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu said she does not know Suman Toor. "I don't know her. His (Navjot Singh Sidhu's) father had two daughters with his first wife. I don't know them," she said.With the election approaching, Sidhu has been dragged into several controversies. Former Punjab chief minister and Punjab Lok Congress chief Amarinder Singh recently claimed when he was the chief minister, he got a message from Pakistan PM Imran Khan to reinstate Sidhu as a Cabinet minister. "I got a message that Prime Minister of Pakistan has sent a request that of you can take Sidhu in your cabinet, I will be grateful, he is an old friend of mine. If he does not work, you can remove him," Amarinder said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-congress-leader-comments-on-claims-of-sidhu-s-sister-says-new-low-in-punjab-politics-101643386294799.html
28-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Over 60% in 15-18 age group jabbed with Covid first dose in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 60% in 15-18 age group jabbed with Covid first dose, says health minister MandaviyaMore than 60% of those between 15 and 18 years of age have been administered the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine under the country’s immunisation drive, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Friday and also lauded the feat. Read MoreOn NeoCov, Maharashtra Covid task force expert says, 'Everything else is hype'Maharashtra Covid task force member Dr Shashank Joshi on Friday demystified the hullabaloo over NeoCov, the new coronavirus variant found identified by Wuhan scientists. Read MoreBiden is a 'damp sock puppet in human form': Tesla CEO Elon MuskTesla CEO Elon Musk on Friday slammed US President Joe Biden saying he treats the "American public like a fool" after Biden met executives from General Motors but not Musk. Read MoreIndia ready to engage Pakistan on expanding list of shrines for pilgrimsIndia on Friday said it is ready for discussions with Pakistan on expanding the number of religious shrines that can be visited by pilgrims of both sides and their mode of travel, against the backdrop of a Pakistani proposal for allowing pilgrims to travel by air. Read More'Kohli, Rahul are equally good but when Rohit plays...': Harbhajan reserves massive praise for India's white-ball leaderHis captaincy stint with Mumbai Indians (MI) helped him reap a lot of success in his career and Rohit Sharma is now set to lead the Indian white-ball set up in the upcoming home series against West Indies. Read MoreKapil Sharma says Harbhajan Singh criticised him after flop show in front of Nita Ambani, reveals how he took revengeActor-comedian Kapil Sharma's first Netflix stand-up special released on Friday. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evening-brief-with-ht-over-60-in-15-18-age-group-jabbed-with-covid-first-dose-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101643383502726.html
28-01-2022||India||India ready to engage Pakistan on expanding list of shrines for pilgrims||NEW DELHI: India on Friday said it is ready for discussions with Pakistan on expanding the number of religious shrines that can be visited by pilgrims of both sides and their mode of travel, against the backdrop of a Pakistani proposal for allowing pilgrims to travel by air.The development comes at a time when ties between the two countries are at an all-time low, with trade and most forms of travel suspended since a terror attack at Pulwama in 2019 brought the two countries close to war.The Pakistani mission in New Delhi recently forwarded to the external affairs ministry a proposal from the Pakistan Hindu Council that permission be granted for two chartered flights of the Pakistan International Airlines to carry pilgrims from Lahore and Karachi to India. Currently, pilgrims are only allowed to travel via the Wagah land border and the Kartarpur Corridor.External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a virtual weekly media briefing that India is prepared to discuss the expansion of the list of shrines that can visited by pilgrims of both countries under the terms of the bilateral “Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines” of 1974.With Covid-related travel restrictions currently in place, he suggested these talks could be held before the situation normalises.“As you are aware, under the 1974 protocol between India and Pakistan, visits to religious shrines are being facilitated regularly. There is an interest on both sides to expand the agreed list of shrines and mode of travel. It naturally needs to be discussed under the protocol,” he said.“You are also aware that currently restrictions are in place on movement and gatherings in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. As the situation normalises, we expect that this time can be utilised to hold discussions under the bilateral protocol,” he added.India hopes to facilitate the “early exchange of visits to all shrines of interest to pilgrims”, Bagchi remarked. “Let me underline that India has a positive approach on this matter and is willing to engage the Pakistani side,” he said.The protocol currently includes five Muslim shrines on the Indian side and 15 shrines on the Pakistani side, a majority of them gurdwaras.Ramesh Kumar Vankwani, the patron-in-chief of the Pakistan Hindu Council and a lawmaker from Prime Minister Imran Khan’s Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf party, had suggested the two proposed chartered flights could carry about 170 Pakistani pilgrims, most of them Muslims, to India to visit Ajmer Sharif, Nizamuddin dargah and other shrines.He said he also suggested that Air India flights could be allowed to carry Indian pilgrims to Pakistan so that they could visit shrines such as the samadhi of Parihans Maharaj at Teri village in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Hinglaj Mata mandir in Balochistan. These flights would be part of what the Pakistani side is describing as a “faith tourism” initiative.Vankwani suggested the first flight from the Pakistani side could operate on January 29, and contended the plan was “postponed for a few days” to obtain the required clearances and also because of the pandemic. “I am hopeful this will happen next week and this programme is intact. We hope to take up to 340 pilgrims to India,” he said. 
28-01-2022||India||What ex-vice prez Ansari said is wrong: Law minister Kiren Rijiju on IAMC event||Law minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday hit out at Hamid Ansari for his remarks over Hindu nationalism, saying what the former vice president has said is "wrong" and as a member of the minority community he can proudly say that India is the safest nation.At a virtual panel discussion organised by the Indian American Muslim Council on Wednesday, Ansari and four US lawmakers had expressed concern over the current human rights situation in India."What Hamid Ansari ji said is wrong…I belong to a minority community and I can proudly say that India is safest nation. Minorities facing trouble in any of our neighboring countries prefer to seek refuge in India because India is safe. Let's be grateful to our great nation," Rijiju said in a series of tweets.Participating in the panel discussion from India, former vice president Ansari had expressed his concern over the rising trend of Hindu nationalism.    "In recent years, we have experienced the emergence of trends and practices that dispute the well-established principle of civic nationalism and interpose a new and imaginary practice of cultural nationalism.... It wants to distinguish citizens on the basis of their faith, give vent to intolerance, insinuate otherness, and promote disquiet and insecurity," he had alleged.Countering Ansari, Rijiju said some isolated incidents do take place at individual-community level "but Indian culture is always inclusive. Prime Minister  Narendra Modi ji's mantra is sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas, sabka prayas".Before 2014, communal riots and violence were regular but India is more peaceful now, the Union minister said."Why some people who enjoy the best freedom and privilege in India join the anti-India propaganda peddled by foreign based anti India forces? What's the satisfaction that they acquire by defaming India? At least, people in remote villages without facilities are loyal to motherland," Rijiju said in a dig at Ansari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-ex-vice-prez-ansari-said-is-wrong-law-minister-kiren-rijiju-on-iamc-event-101643382267444.html
28-01-2022||India||On NeoCov, Maharashtra Covid task force expert says, 'Everything else is hype'||Maharashtra Covid task force member Dr Shashank Joshi on Friday demystified the hullabaloo over NeoCov, the new coronavirus variant found identified by Wuhan scientists. Dr Joshi said NeoCov is an old virus closely related to MERS Cov which enters cells via DPP4 receptors. Explaining whether there is an immediate reason to worry, Dr Joshi said NeoCov can use ACE2 receptors of bats but they can't use human ACE2 receptors unless a new mutation occurs.Experts have said NeoCov has only been found in bats and it has never infected a human being. If it ever infects humans, then it might be potential to kill one in three people, as it has a close resemblance to the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS). There is no such finding that NeoCov may be jumping from bats to humans. Neo Cov demystified 1 NeoCov is an old virus closely related to MERS Cov which enter cells via DPP4 receptors 2. What's new : Neo cov can use ace2 receptors of bats but they can't use human ace2 receptor unless a new mutation occursEverything else is hype 🙏The researchers from the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Wuhan University who have brought NeoCov to the notice of the world also said that in teh current form, NeoCov does not infect humans., It may become potentially harmful if there are further mutations."In this study, we unexpectedly found that NeoCoV and its close relative, PDF-2180-CoV, can efficiently use some types of bat Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) and, less favourably, human ACE2 for entry," the authors of the study noted.The World Health Organization said further study is required to find out whether the virus poses any threat to humans. "Animals, particularly wild animals are the source of more than 75% of all emerging infectious diseases in humans, many of which are caused by novel viruses. Coronaviruses are often found in animals, including in bats which have been identified as a natural reservoir of many of these viruses," WHO said to Russian news agency Tass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-neocov-maharashtra-expert-says-everything-else-is-hype-101643381562768.html
28-01-2022||India||Over 60% in 15-18 age group jabbed with Covid first dose, says health minister Mandaviya||More than 60% of those between 15 and 18 years of age have been administered the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine under the country’s immunisation drive, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Friday and also lauded the feat. The announcement came within a month since the vaccination drive began for this age group from January 3 this year.“Young India Showing the Way! Congratulations to all my young friends who have got vaccinated. More than 60% children in the age group of 15-18 got the first dose,” Mandaviya tweeted.Young India Showing the Way!Congratulations to all my young friends who have got vaccinated 💉60% से अधिक 15-18 आयुवर्ग के बच्चों को लगी कोरोना की पहली डोज।#SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/MU1bViqNkOMeanwhile, the cumulative number of doses administered under the country’s inoculation drive stood at 1,649,548,939, as per the dashboard. This also included the 10,513,987 precautionary third doses given to healthcare workers, frontline workers and those above 60 years of age with comorbidity conditions.Also read | Bharat Biotech gets DGCI nod for intranasal Covid booster dosesEarlier in the day, Mandaviya reviewed the public health preparedness and the progress of the Covid vaccination drive in eight southern states and Union territories of Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep.During the meeting, he asked the states and UTs to increase the pace of the vaccination among those in the 15 to 17 age group and also the second dose coverage for whom it was still pending.On Thursday, the minister said that more than 95% of the country’s eligible population have been administered with the first dose of the vaccine, a year after the immunisation drive against the pandemic started in January last year.“India has achieved the record of administering the first dose of [Covid-19] vaccine to more than 95% of its adult population,” Mandaviya tweeted.As many as 251,209 people tested positive for the disease on Friday while 627 more lost their lives. The active caseload declined by 96,861 cases since Thursday and stood at 2,105,611.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-60-in-15-18-age-group-jabbed-with-covid-first-dose-says-health-minister-mandaviya-101643377710827.html
28-01-2022||India||Indian who met Pakistani brother at Kartarpur after 74 years gets Pakistan visa||The Indian man who had an emotional reunion with his Pakistani brother after 74 years during a visit to Kartarpur gurdwara was on Friday granted a visa by Pakistan to meet his relatives across the border.Sika Khan was a toddler when he was separated from his elder brother Muhammed Siddique and other family members at the time of the partition of the subcontinent into India and Pakistan in 1947. The two brothers established contact with each other through a video call in 2019 because of the efforts of a popular Pakistan-based YouTube channel, Punjabi Lehar, which highlighted their story. Earlier this month, the same YouTube channel facilitated a meeting between the brothers during a visit to the Kartarpur Gurdwara in Pakistan’s Punjab province. Indian nationals are able to visit the Sikh shrine without visas by travelling through a special cross-border corridor.A video of the two brothers embracing while fighting back tears caused waves on both sides of the border. It was at this meeting that Khan, who lives in Phulewala village at Bathinda in India’s Punjab state, learnt he had been christened Habib Khan at the time of his birth. On Friday, the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi granted Khan a visa to visit his brother and other family members across the border.“The story of the two brothers is a powerful illustration of how the historic opening of the visa-free Kartarpur Sahib Corridor in November 2019 by Pakistan is bringing people closer to each other,” the high commission said in a tweet along with a photo of a beaming Khan.Sika Khan met Pakistani chargé d’affaires Aftab Hasan Khan and other officers of the high commission and thanked them for their cooperation.Sika Khan also met with CDA Aftab Hasan Khan and interacted with Mission's officers. He appreciated his interaction and thanked the CDA for the cooperation extended to him. pic.twitter.com/ZS4zSpia9jPunjabi Lehar, which is run by Nasir Dhillon and Lovely Singh, focuses on reuniting families from the two sides of Punjab that were separated at the time of Partition, which resulted in the migration of almost 12 million people – more than 6.5 million from the Indian side and nearly five million from the Pakistani side.Dhillon and Singh learnt about Siddique and his long-lost brother during visit to Bogran village near Faisalabad in Pakistani Punjab in 2019.“Punjabi Lehar is endeavouring to bridge a gap between the people of East and West Punjab, created by the partition of 1947,” says a message on the channel’s YouTube page.“Most of the people have passed away with an unfulfilled ardent desire in their heart to see their birthplace and meet their childhood friends. Punjabi Lehar is attempting to fulfil the desire of remaining Partition-era Punjabis, who will be gone in the next five to seven years.”
28-01-2022||India||V Anantha Nageswaran becomes new chief economic adviser||Dr V Anantha Nageswaran has been appointed as the chief economic advisor after former CEA Krishnamurthy Subramanian returned to academia completing his three-year term. Dr Nageswaran has taken the charge on Friday. He has worked as a writer, author, teacher and consultant. He has taught at several business schools and institutes of management in India and in Singapore. The prestigious post of the chief economic advisor had also been held by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and former central bank governor Raghuram Rajan. Every year, the chief economic advisor presents the economic survey which is presented by the finance minister in Parliament just before the Union Budget. It is an annual document of the ministry.From 2019 to 2021, Dr Nageswaran remained a part-time visiting member of the economic advisory council to the Prime Minister of India. A post-graduate of the  Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, Nageswaran completed his doctorate from the University of Massachusetts in Amherst. He was the Dean of the IFMR Graduate School of Business and a distinguished Visiting Professor of Economics at Krea University.He served as an executive with Credit Suisse Group AG and Julius Baer Group.Dr Nageswaran recently wrote about the need to open educational institutions as he argued that the cost of schools remaining closed is exceeding the gains of Covid safety. In 2021, Krishnamurthy Subramanian completed his three-year tenure and said he decided to return to academia. He took charge as the CEA in 2018 after his predecessor Arvind Subramanian stepped down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/v-anantha-nageswaran-becomes-new-chief-economic-adviser-101643375301920.html
28-01-2022||India||Don't know them; Sidhu's father had 2 daughters with 1st wife, says Sidhu's wife||Navjot Kaur Sidhu, wife of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu on Friday said she doesn't know Suman Toor who lobbed several serious allegations against Sidhu ahead of the Punjab Assembly Election 2022. "His father had two daughters with his first wife. I don't know them," Navjot Kaur Sidhu said.Suman Toor held a press conference in Chandigarh on Friday and claimed to reveal shocking details of their family. Calling Sidhu a cruel person, Suman said she and their mother were driven out of their house, soon after their father passed away in 1986. Sidhu's sister claimed their mother died in 1989 at Delhi railway station like a destitute as Sidhu severed all ties with both his mother and sister to grab his father's property alone. Suman Toor also mentioned that they are siblings from the same mother, Nirmal Bhagwant. #WATCH | Amritsar: "I don't know her. His (Navjot Singh Sidhu's) father had two daughters with his first wife. I don't know them," says Navjot Kaur Sidhu, Congress leader and wife of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu as she responds to Suman Toor's allegations. pic.twitter.com/3gOvKzy66ASuman alleged that after the death of their father in 1986, Sidhu harassed their mother and elder sister and drove them out of the house. There have been many legal cases over Sidhu claiming in media that his parents were separated when he was a child. Calling Sidhu a habitual liar, Suman Toor said she came to know of this ordeal from her niece, the daughter of the elder sister who was driven out from the house along with the mother. Her elder sister has also passed away, Suman said.Cricketer Balwant Sidhu was Sidhu's father. In old interviews, Sidhu claimed that he was very close to his father. His parents got separated when he was two, he had claimed. Sidhu has not yet commented on the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-know-them-sidhu-s-father-had-2-daughters-with-1st-wife-says-sidhu-s-wife-101643369527398.html
28-01-2022||India||Evening brief: What WHO says on NeoCov, new coronavirus variant found among bats and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan TimesNeoCov: What WHO says on this new coronavirus variant found among bats in WuhanNeoCov stands for new coronavirus, which Wuhan scientists have claimed to have found in bats in South Africa. This is not SARs-CoV-2 or a variant of that. This is associated with MERS Coronavirus. Read more Akhilesh Yadav alleges ‘conspiracy’; says helicopter not allowed to fly from DelhiAlleging a conspiracy by ruling-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday claimed his helicopter is not being allowed to fly from Delhi to Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh.Read more 'Can't have captain who gets injured at start of Test series': Ex-BCCI selector on Rohit leading India in all 3 formatsA fit-again Rohit Sharma is set to lead India in their upcoming home ODI and T20I series against West Indies. Read more  How obesity can impact your child's mental healthApart from the many physical health risks that the obesity poses, its impact on mental health is no less severe. Read more  Kapil Sharma I’m Not Done Yet review: Comedian's Netflix special is low on laughs but wins on storytellingKapil Sharma I’m Not Done Yet review: Comedian's Netflix special is low on laughs but wins on storytelling. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evening-brief-what-who-says-on-neocov-new-coronavirus-variant-found-among-bats-and-all-the-latest-news-101643366357454.html
28-01-2022||India||Actress Shweta Tiwari booked for insulting religion as remark sparks controversy||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh Police late on Thursday booked actress Shweta Tiwari for insulting religion and hurting religious feelings over a controversial comment that she made during a press conference in Bhopal on Wednesday as part of the promotion of a web series.The actress had made a remark referring to her innerwear and god.State home minister Narottam Mishra earlier asked the Bhopal Police commissioner to inquire into the matter and take action. On Friday, he said Tiwari has been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage reli­gious feelings of any class by insulting religion or reli­gious beliefs).A video of Tiwari’s comment went viral on social media and members of Sanskriti Bachao Manch staged a protest in Bhopal and demanded action against her on Thursday. Later, Bhopal resident Sonu Prajapati filed a complaint against her.Deputy police commissioner Riyaz Iqbal said they filed the case against Tiwari on the complaint of Prajapati. “Now we have asked the manager of the hotel, where the press conference was held to share the video footage so that we can investigate the matter. Further action will be taken after the investigation.”
28-01-2022||India||NIA to move Supreme Court over acquittal of 2006 Kerala twin blast accused||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) plans to move the Supreme Court against the Kerala high court’s acquittal of the accused in the 2006 Kozhikode twin blasts case and observations against the agency, said an official. The NIA charge-sheeted seven accused in 2010 and another was killed in Jammu and Kashmir. Two accused are still at large and a trial court acquitted as many.The trial court convicted Thadiyantavida Nazeer, who was arrested from a village along the India-Bangladesh border in 2009, and S Shafaz and awarded them double life term in 2013.This was the first case the NIA took over in Kerala. A division bench of Justices K Vinod Chandran and Ziyad Rahman acquitted the two and dismissed an appeal challenging the acquittal of two other accused earlier, Abdul Halim and Abubacker Yousef. “There is no reliable evidence on the preparation or commission of the crime that incriminates the accused beyond a reasonable doubt,” the court observed in a 101-page verdict.The court said the agency failed to discover anything related to the crime. The approver in the case is not a reliable witness and his role in the crime is very suspect and cannot be believed, it added. The court observed the investigators were groping in the dark for almost four years until the third accused confessed about his role after being arrested in another blast case. One of the accused in the case turned approver during the trial and the court found that the case was built on his disclosures.“In the present case, there is no lengthy statement, but the disclosure record confession linking the accused with the crime so unabashedly that none could escape innuendo. This is flagrant violation of Section 25 and 26 of the Evidences Act and tends to impress upon the court the need to convict, even without proof beyond reasonable doubt,” said the court. The agency said the first and third accused carried out “two experimental blasts” on a beach in the city earlier but there was no discovery of material objects from the site.After planting two low-intensity bombs, the accused were said to have informed the district collector and media about them. Two people including a policeman were injured when one of the bombs went off. Initially, the case was investigated by the state police but later handed over to the NIA. The NIA said blasts were carried out by the accused to protest the denial of bail to the accused in a communal riot case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/acquittal-of-kerala-twin-blast-accused-nia-to-move-top-court-101643365744481.html
28-01-2022||India||Trouble for Sidhu; NRI sister Suman Toor alleges Sidhu had abandoned mother||Ahead of the Punjab Assembly Election 2022, a fresh controversy erupted as Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu's sister Suman Toor alleged that Sidhu is a cruel person who had driven his elder sister and their mother out of the house in 1986, after the demise of their father. Their mother died in 1989 at the Delhi railway station as a destitute.Here's the video of Suman Toor addressing media and breaking down: Channi or Sidhu? Rahul Gandhi says party workers will decide CM face for Punjab electionSuman Toor who is in Chandigarh brought the allegations against Sidhu in a press conference. She said that she has documents to prove her allegations that Sidhu had been lying about their parents. Sidhu's elder sister said Sidhu earlier claimed that their parents were separated when he was two years old, but that is a lie. She also showed a photo of the family and said, "Does he look two years old here?" Tur said their mother asked him why he was lying about the relationship of his parents to which he said he denied saying those things.Sidhu's sister revealed that soon after their father passed away, Sidhu drove their elder sister and their mother out of their house to grab the property. Suman came to know about all this long after her elder sister died. Sidhu had cut all ties with Suman as well and denied acknowledging her. Suman said she went to Sidhu's residence on January 20 with prior information but Sidhu refused to meet.Sidhu has not yet responded to the allegations yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trouble-for-sidhu-nri-sister-suman-toor-alleges-sidhu-had-abandoned-mother-101643359857433.html
28-01-2022||India||Bharat Biotech gets DGCI nod for intranasal Covid booster doses||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) on Friday gave its permission to Bharat Biotech for conducting trials of intranasal booster doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to an input from news agency ANI, the trials will be held at nice different sites.A day ago, the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company's anti-Covid vaccine Covaxin was recently granted regular market approval for use in the adult population subject to certain conditions. A similar nod has also been given to Serum Institute of India's Covishield. Both the widely used vaccines in the country's fight against the pandemic had so far been grante restricted use in emergency situations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-gets-dgci-nod-for-intranasal-covid-booster-doses-101643357875490.html
28-01-2022||India||Carcasses of migratory birds found in Tripura, investigation underway||AGARTALA: Tripura’s forest department has started an investigation after carcasses of migratory birds were found near Sukhsagar Lake at Udaipur in the state’s Gomati district, nearly 50 kilometres from the capital Agartala. The rare migratory birds arrive in the state during winter.Forest department officials said that they recovered a few carcasses of birds on Thursday. Some of them were those of local species as well.“We have already started our probe into the matter. All the carcasses would be sent to a local hospital for post-mortem. We will get to know more details after getting the reports, “ said Udaipur’s sub-divisional forest officer Kamal Bhowmik.A resident of the area said that they have never seen carcasses of birds there before. “We are surprised at this incident. It might have happened due to the pesticides used in the field near the lake,” said the resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/carcasses-of-migratory-birds-found-in-tripura-probe-ordered-101643355182666.html
28-01-2022||India||Lala Lajpat Rai birth anniversary: PM Modi leads tributes to 'Punjab Kesari'||Leaders across the political spectrum on Friday paid rich tributes to revolutionary, author and politician Lala Lajpat Rai on his birth anniversary. Rai had played a central role in the country's independence struggle against the British Raj.Popularly known as Punjab Kesari, Rai was one of the three in the famoued -Lal Bal Pal’ trio, the others beings Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Bipin Chandra PalTaking to Twitter, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Rai's courage, struggle and dedication in the freedom movement will always be remembered."Tributes to 'Punjab Kesari' Lala Lajpat Rai on his birth anniversary. The story of his courage, struggle and dedication in the freedom movement will always be remembered by citizens of the country," Modi's tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.पंजाब केसरी लाला लाजपत राय को उनकी जयंती पर सादर नमन। स्वतंत्रता आंदोलन में उनके साहस, संघर्ष और समर्पण की कहानी देशवासियों के लिए सदैव स्मरणीय रहेगी। pic.twitter.com/T3bm5dZMJ9Union home minister Amit Shah said Rai wrote a golden chapter in the history of the freedom movement. “Salute to the virtuous memory of the hero of our freedom movement!”Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said Rai is a source of inspiration for a generation of young revolutionaries.“One of the bravest freedom fighters to be born on our land, his (Rai's) contributions to achieve freedom continues to inspire generations,” the Congress said in its official Twitter handle.On his birth anniversary, we pay our sincere tribute to Punjab Kesari, former Congress President & a true son of Bharat Mata, Lala Lajpat Rai.One of the bravest freedom fighters to be born on our land, his contributions to achieve freedom continues to inspire generations. pic.twitter.com/qUZWR7FYWIRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that Rai's courage and sacrifices shall inspire generations to come.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Rai's thoughts and dedication towards the country “still inspire us all”.Born in 1865 in the Ludhiana district of Punjab, Rai pursued his education in law and was a founding member of the Bar council of Hisar. He also founded many other organisations including the Hisar congress, Hisar Arya Samaj and was head of the Lakshmi Insurance Company.In 1928, Rai led a non-violent march against the Simon Commission set up by the British and gave the movement a slogan 'Simon Go Back'. He suffered severe injuries after police lathi-charged the protesters and died in November 1928.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lala-lajpat-rai-birth-anniversary-pm-modi-leads-tributes-to-punjab-kesari-101643351905438.html
28-01-2022||India||Afternoon brief: Ahead of budget session, Congress holds parl strategy meet and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress holds virtual parl strategy group meet ahead of Budget sessionThe Congress’ parliamentary strategy group held a meeting, chaired by interim party president Sonia Gandhi, via video conferencing on Friday. The meeting was held in view of the commencement of the Budget session of Parliament next week. Read more  After U'khand Brahmakamal cap and Manipuri stole, PM wears turban at NCC RallyPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday inspected the National Cadet Corps rally at Cariappa Ground in New Delhi. He was seen wearing a turban as he inspected the Guard of Honour and reviewed March Past by NCC contingents. Read more'If you stick with the same, adjustments will be difficult': Shastri's advice for Dravid amid IND's 'transition period'The Indian cricket team is going through one of its most difficult period which began in October last year with the Men in Blue incurring a forgettable T20 World Cup in the UAE before the Virat Kohli captaincy row unfolded and subsequently followed with a Test and ODI series defeat against a rebuilding South Africa side. Read more The Afterparty review: A delightfully ambitious yet uneven genre-hopping comedy seriesPhil Lord and Chris Miller are among Hollywood’s most distinctive voices. After years of writing, directing and/or producing delightfully zany comedies on the big screen (21 Jump Street, The Lego Movie, Spider-Man: Into The Spider-Verse, The Mitchells Vs The Machines), the duo return to their TV roots. Miller is the creator and director of Apple TV’s The Afterparty with Lord serving as producer and one of the writers.Read more Amid LAC standoff, China says will work closely with India; slams Biden govtChina on Thursday said it will work ‘closely’ with India to properly handle the ongoing border tension. Read more Man plays flute for raven, bird sings along with him. WatchThe Internet is filled with videos that show members of the corvid family, like ravens and crows, showcasing signs of intelligence. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afternoon-brief-ahead-of-budget-session-congress-chairs-parl-strategy-meet-and-all-the-latest-news-101643351375098.html
28-01-2022||India||After U'khand Brahmakamal cap and Manipuri stole, PM Modi wears turban at NCC Rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday inspected the National Cadet Corps rally at Cariappa Ground in New Delhi. He was seen wearing a turban as he inspected the Guard of Honour and reviewed March Past by NCC contingents. During Republic Day celebrations, PM Modi donned a Brahmakamal cap from Uttarkhand and a stole from Manipur, both poll-bound states.The NCC Rally is the culmination of the NCC Republic Day Camp and is held on January 28 every year. He witnessed the NCC cadets displaying their skills in army action, slithering, microlight flying, parasailing as well as cultural programmes. He also awarded medals and batons to the best NCC cadets.Addressing the NCC Rally, the Prime Minister said as the young country is celebrating the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' of its independence, there is a different enthusiasm in celebration of such a historic occasion."I am proud that I have been an active cadet of the NCC just like you. The training I got in NCC, what I have learnt, today I get immense strength from the discharge of my responsibilities towards the country," he added.PM Narendra Modi inspects National Cadet Corps (NCC) rally at Cariappa Ground in Delhi pic.twitter.com/LAc6sKpAKgIndia celebrated its 73rd Republic Day on January 26 this year when the country is celebrating "Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav" as part of 75 years of Independence from the British Raj. The Republic Day celebrations will culminate with the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, observed nationwide as Martyrs Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-wears-turban-as-he-inspects-guard-of-honour-at-ncc-rally-in-delhi-101643353181290.html
28-01-2022||India||Congress parl strategy meet: Covid package, Air India deal to be raised during Budget session||The Congress’ parliamentary strategy group held a meeting, chaired by interim party president Sonia Gandhi, via video conferencing on Friday. The meeting was held in view of the commencement of the Budget session of Parliament next week.According to reports, it was decided at the meeting, issues like a relief package to victims of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Air India disinvestment, inflation, the border row with China and farmers' concerns will be raised in the upcoming session. It was also decided the Congress will coordinate with like-minded parties on the issues.The Congress parliamentary strategy group meeting was attended by senior party MPs AK Antony, KC Venugopal, Mallikarjun Kharge, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Anand Sharma, Gaurav Gogoi, K Suresh, Jairam Ramesh, Manickam Tagore and Manish Tiwari among others.(With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-holds-virtual-parl-strategy-group-meet-ahead-of-budget-session-101643352281313.html
28-01-2022||India||Quota in promotions: SC rejects plea to do away with quantifiable data collection||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday turned down the Union government’s plea to do away with the requirement of collecting quantifiable data by the Centre and states to determine the representation of people belonging to Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) while implementing reservation in promotion.“State is obligated to collect quantifiable data as per the court’s judgment in M Nagaraj (2006) and Jarnail Singh (2018). Collection of data has to be for each category of posts for the entire service,” ruled a bench led by justice L Nageswara Rao.The bench, which also comprised justice BR Gavai, said the Central government must determine a time period to revisit the reservation policy after ascertaining the percentage of posts occupied by SCs/STs.“Review has to be conducted for inadequacy of representation for SC/STs. The period of review has to be a reasonable period and it is left to the government to decide this period,” said the court.It added that assessment on the inadequacy of representation of the reserved categories in promotional posts should be left to the states.The bench declared as bad in law a 2019 judgment by the Supreme Court in BK Pavitra–II, which upheld the validity of the 2018 Reservation Act that introduced consequential seniority for SC/STs in Karnataka public employment.The top court held that Pavitra-II was decided in breach of the constitution bench judgment in Nagaraj’s case in affirming the state’s policy on consequential seniority on the basis of cadre strength.In 2006, a Constitution bench’s ruling in the M Nagaraj case made it incumbent upon the state to collect quantifiable data showing inadequacy of representation of a section of people in public employment in addition to maintaining overall administrative efficiency. The aspect of quantifiable data was endorsed by another Constitution bench by its 2018 ruling in the Jarnail Singh case which also mandated the exclusion of the “creamy layer” before providing for reservation in promotions.The top court was hearing a batch of petitions arising out of judgments from 11 high courts, which delivered rulings on various pertinent reservation policies in the last 10 years. Some of the states from where these judgments arose included Maharashtra, Bihar, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, and Punjab.The Union government pressed for reservation in promotion proportionate to the population of SCs and STs as per a 1995 judgment by the top court in the RK Sabharwal case. Attorney General KK Venugopal argued that it should be left to the Centre and states to decide on promotional avenues for SCs and STs. He added there was a roster system in place in every cadre of the government departments to ascertain the posts required to be filled up by SCs/STs, and therefore the prerequisite of quantifiable data, as was laid down by two Constitution bench judgments of the apex court, should not remain.The roster system, the Centre submitted, was based on the proportionate population of SCs/STs, and had been working quite well in all government departments, and that the condition of collecting quantifiable data on the inadequacy of representation of SCs/STs may not be required at all.About the aspect of overall administrative efficiency, Venugopal said that government employees are promoted only on the basis of their ACRs (annual confidential reports) and that there is no need to lay down any additional criteria.When asked what should be a time period for the government to revisit the reservation policy after ascertaining the percentage of posts occupied by SCs/STs, Venugopal said that a periodic review should happen after every 10 years when a census is done.On the other hand, representing general category candidates, senior advocates Rajeev Dhavan, Meenakshi Arora, Gopal Sankaranarayan, and lawyer Kumar Parimal have contended that the reservation cannot be for an indefinite period and that it must stop as soon as the upper ceiling has been reached.They emphasised that reservation in promotion should be cadre-based only after quantifiable data is collected and the creamy layer has been excluded. Additionally, the general category candidates have said that posts meant for SCs/STs cannot be kept vacant indefinitely and should be filled up by other candidates after three years, as laid down in the M Nagaraj judgment.
28-01-2022||India||Defence export boost: India, Philippines to ink $375mn deal for BrahMos missiles||NEW DELHI: India’s BrahMos Aerospace and the Philippines are set to sign a deal on Friday for the Philippine Marines to acquire three batteries of the BrahMos cruise missile in a deal worth almost $375 million, people familiar with the matter said.The development will be a major shot in the arm for India’s efforts to become an exporter of defence hardware, and could pave the way for more Southeast Asian nations to acquire the missile jointly developed by India and Russia.The people cited above said the deal would be inked at an event to be held at the Philippines’ department of national defense in Quezon City. Philippine defence secretary Delfin Lorenzana will be among those attending the ceremony.Lorenzana said on January 14 he had signed the “notice of award” – or the acceptance of India’s proposal for supplying the missile – for the Philippine Navy’s shore-based anti-ship missile acquisition project.The defence deal will not go down well with China, whose aggressive behaviour in the disputed South China Sea has taken relations with the Philippines to a fresh low. The Philippine Marines intend to use the BrahMos as a shore-based anti-ship missile, and the South China Sea is one of the potential areas where the system could be deployed.The deal includes the delivery of three batteries, training for operators and maintainers and an integrated logistics support (ILS) package. The deal for the BrahMos was conceptualised as far back as 2017, and the office of the Philippines president approved its inclusion in the military’s “Horizon 2 Priority Projects” in 2020.Hindustan Times first reported in December 2019 that the Philippines was set to become the first country to buy the BrahMos missile system. Both sides were keen on signing the deal during a proposed visit by President Rodrigo Duterte early in 2021, but the plan fell through because of widespread disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.The notice of award signed by Lorenzana on December 31, 2021 put the value of the BrahMos deal at $374.962 million. Last month, the Philippines government allocated 2.8 billion pesos ($55.5 million) for initial funding for the weapon system.A team from the Philippine Navy visited the production unit of BrahMos Aerospace in Hyderabad in December as part of the acquisition process.Lorenzana has said the Coastal Defense Regiment of the Philippine Marines will be the primary user of “this modern strategic defense capability of the Armed Forces of the Philippines”.The BrahMos deal is being seen as a game changer as India’s defence exports so far have been items such as avionics, coastal surveillance systems, spares for radars, personal protective items, and offshore patrol vessels.The deal with the Philippines could open the door for further sales of the BrahMos – which has a range of 290 km and can carry a 200-kg warhead – to other Southeast Asian countries such as Vietnam and Indonesia, which have been engaged in negotiations for the weapon system for several years.
28-01-2022||India||SC quashes indefinite suspension of 12 BJP MLAs from Maharashtra assembly||The Supreme Court on Friday set aside the Maharashtra Assembly's decision to suspend 12 legislators of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for a one-year period beginning July 5, 2021. The apex court held the suspension beyond the remainder period of the session of the Assembly was ‘non-est’ in law, substantially unconstitutional and irrational. Calling the resolution illegal, the top court said it was "beyond the powers of the assembly".The MLAs will now be entitled to all consequential benefits after the conclusion of the session in July, last year.The legislators were suspended for a year for allegedly misbehaving with the presiding officer in the Assembly. A batch of petitions were filed challenging the Maharashtra Assembly's resolution on July 5, 2021, suspending the BJP MLAs for a year over alleged disorderly behaviour in the House.Soon after the ruling, senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis thanked the Supreme court in a seand said the ruling is another tight slap on the face of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress.“Since the beginning, we were saying that it was completely unconstitutional & gross misuse of power to suspend our MLAs for such a long period to create artificial majority & that too for no valid reason & the Hon SC has upheld our stand,” he said.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-quashes-indefinite-suspension-of-12-bjp-mlas-from-maharashtra-assembly-101643346483296.html
28-01-2022||India||11 trains cancelled after goods train derails at Kerala's Aluva railway station||Four wagons of a goods train going towards Kollam in Kerala derailed at Aluva railway station on Thursday night which affected train services on the route but no injuries were reported, railway officials said.The freight train was carrying cement from Andhra Pradesh.The second, third, fourth and fifth wagons of the train derailed while entering the third platform of the Aluva station around 10.30 pm.Following the incident, some trains were stranded for hours at different stations leading to a disruption in services.Four up trains and two down trains that were affected due to the incident. However, traffic through one of the tracks was restored at 2.15 am."We hope to restore services soon. Already some services are on. One line is already working. Second line, we hope to restore services by 9 am," said R Mukund, Railway Divisional Manager, Thiruvananthapuram Division."Disruption resulted in some cancellations, some trains have become short termination. Some trains have been rescheduled. We are trying to restore services quickly. There will be some late running. It will get adjusted by evening. Right now we are busy with completing the balance works. We hope to do it in another two-three hours," he added.A total of 11 trains have been cancelled including Guruvayur - Thiruvananthapuram Express, Ernakulam - Kannur Express, Kottayam - Nilambur Express, Nilambur - Kottayam Express, Guruvayur - Ernakulam Express Special, Thiruvananthapuram - Tiruchchirappaffi Intercity Express, Ernakulam - Alapuzha Express special, Alappuzha - Ernakulam Express special, Palakkad - Ernakulam MEMU Express special, Ernakulam - Palakkad MEMU Express special, and Shoranur - Ernakulam MEMU Express special.Reportedly, the accident happened while the train was switching tracks. However, the railway official said, "I can't pinpoint a single reason for the incident. There are many aspects. There will be an inquiry."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-trains-cancelled-after-goods-train-derails-at-kerala-s-aluva-railway-station-101643344785360.html
28-01-2022||India||Bihar bandh: Roads blocked, tyres burnt in Patna during Railway job exam stir||Protesters on Friday blocked roads and burned tyres in Patna in support of a bandh called by student-backed groups and political parties over alleged discrepancies in railway recruitment examinations.Several students’ organisations, including the Left-affiliated All India Students Association (AISA), have joined the bandh call to protest against the alleged irregularities in the Railway Recruitment Board's Non-Technical Popular Categories (RRB-NTPC) exam 2021.Bihar: Protesters block roads in Patna in support of bandh called by various political parties over alleged discrepancies in RRB NTPC results pic.twitter.com/BKXMH3KaxlAmid reports of vandalism during the ongoing protests that began earlier this week, at least four persons have been arrested for vandalism, while several others, including teachers of prominent coaching institutes, have been booked for inciting and indulging in violence.Also read | Protests over railway jobs are a grim reminder of state of India’s job marketMeanwhile, the grand alliance of Opposition parties in the state have expressed their support to the student-led bandh call, while several constituents of the ruling Nitish Kumar-headed NDA government have urged the authorities to withdraw all complaints against the protesters.The agitators, mostly railway job aspirants, allegedly torched four empty coaches of a stationary train in Gaya and blocked rail traffic between Gaya and Jehanabad on Wednesday. Many of them were also involved in stopped trains like Rajendra Nagar-New Delhi Tejas Rajdhani express, the Sampoorna Kranti express, South Bihar Expres, and Mumbai-bound Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Express.Protests were also held in Patna, Bhagalpur and Sasaram, Gaya, Bhojpur, Buxar, Muzaffarput and Samstipur distrcits, for nearly five hours on Tuesday and Wednesday.The Railways ministry has formed a committee which will examine grievances of protesting aspirants. This came a day after the ministry issued a public notice on January 25, 2022 stating that ‘Railway job aspirants who have indulged in vandalism/unlawful activities may face lifetime debarment’ from government jobs.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-bandh-roads-blocked-tyres-burnt-during-railway-job-exam-stir-101643336950655.html
28-01-2022||India||Centre likely to issue advisory on reopening of schools soon: Report||The central government is likely to issue an advisory soon on the reopening of schools as the vaccination drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for children aged 15 gathers pace. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya has asked the National Expert Group to suggest ways on reopening the schools nationwide and work on the modalities, reported news agency ANI citing people familiar with the development."Covid-19 has affected children of all age groups. However, the mortality rate and severity of disease in children are negligible. Health experts believe that it is high time children return to schools," one of the people cited above said, as quoted by ANI.Physical classes have mostly remained shut since the Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020, with some states opening it partially amid widespread apprehensions among parents to send their unvaccinated kids to school. The Centre wants to reopen schools in a staggered manner after the Covid vaccination drive was opened up for children aged 15-17 amid the emergence of the highly contagious Omicron variant, reported ANI."However, it will be up to states to decide whether they are ready to open schools or not," ANI quoted a source as saying.Omicron likely to make vaccine update inevitableIndia rolled out its vaccination drive for healthcare and frontline workers on January 16, 2021, and gradually opened up for all adults. The next phase of vaccinating adolescents in the age group of 15-18 years started from January 3, 2022, a week before additional ‘precaution doses’ for healthcare, frontline workers, and at-risk groups kicked off. More than one crore Covid booster doses for the identified categories of beneficiaries have been administered so far.About 95% of the eligible population has been administered with the first dose of Covid-19, Mandaviya said on Thursday. As of Friday morning, India’s cumulative vaccination figure has crossed the 164.44 crore mark.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-likely-to-issue-advisory-on-reopening-of-schools-soon-report-101643342715265.html
28-01-2022||India||Meenakshi Lekhi releases book on unsung women heroes of freedom struggle||NEW DELHI: Union culture minister Meenakshi Lekhi released a pictorial book on unsung Indian women heroes of the freedom struggle as part of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrating 75 years of Independence. The book has been published in partnership with Amar Chitra Katha. Speaking at the launch of the book on Thursday, Lekhi said Indian culture celebrates women and there is no place for gender discrimination.In a statement, the culture ministry said the book celebrates the lives of some of the women who led the charge and lit the flame of protest and rebellion throughout the country. “It contains the stories of queens who battled colonial powers in the struggle against imperial rule and women who dedicated and even laid down their lives for the cause of the motherland.”Rani Abakka, the Queen of Ullal, who fought against the Portuguese in the 16th century, is among those who have been featured in the book.The culture ministry said the second edition of the book will cover 25 unsung heroes of the freedom struggle while the third and final edition 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lekhi-releases-book-on-unsung-women-heroes-of-freedom-struggle-101643342762069.html
28-01-2022||India||At 2,51,209, India sees near 35-k dip in new Covid cases, positivity rate falls to 15.88%||India registered a significant dip in Covid-19 casecount with 2,51,209 fresh infections being registered on Friday. This is a little over 35,000 less than Thursday’s figures when 2,86,384 cases were reported. The current active caseload currently stood at 21,05,611, which is 5.18 per cent of the total cases, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in its updated bulletin. The daily positivity rate also registered a dip at 15.88 per cent. This was at 19.59 per cent a day ago.As many as 627 patients lost their battle to the disease, while 3,47,443 were declared cured, pushing the overall deaths to 4,92,327 and recoveries to 3,80,24,771.Also read | Cinema hall, schools, markets: What's open, what's closed in Delhi from todayAs part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the country has so far administered 1,64,44,73,216 doses against the coronavirus disease, including first, second and precautionary jabs.The ministry said More than 163.96 crore (1,63,96,46,725) vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories so far for free and through direct state procurement category.Also read | Centre likely to issue advisory on reopening of schools soon: ReportIt said another 13 crore (13,00,84,651) balance and unutilised doses are still available with the states/UT authorities that are yet to be administered.The government said 72.37 crore total samples have been tested so far for the virus. Of these, 15,82,307 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours.States have slowly started reopening the economy and easing restrictions that were imposed over the past one month amid the latest resurgence of cases, driven by the fast-spreading Omicron variant. The government is also likely to advise states on reopening of schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-2-51-209-india-sees-near-35-k-dip-in-covid-cases-positivity-rate-at-1588-101643342219700.html
28-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Centre's Covid review meet with southern states, UTs, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mandaviya to hold Covid review meeting today with southern states, UTsUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will chair a high-level meeting today with the health ministers of southern states, Union territories to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. He will also review public health measures taken in view of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. Read more…Dear guests...: A special message for Air India flyers today with Tatas back on pilot's seatFlyers on Air India flights will receive a special message during in-flight announcements as the Tata Group gets back to the airline’s business on Friday. According to an official order, the airline's pilots will make a specific announcement after the door closes on every flight departing during the day. Read more…Indian Army clears the air after China hands over Arunachal teen9 days after going missing, the Chinese Army handed over the missing Arunachal teen to the Indian Army yesterday. The Indian Army had earlier reached out to the Chinese Army on hotline to trace and secure the teen's safe return. However, in an important clarification, the army stated that this wasn't a case of abduction by the Chinese army. Watch the video for more‘Doesn’t look like he has been in the team for just 12 months’: Warne says he is a ‘big fan’ of 27-year-old India quickFormer Australia spinner Shane Warne is in awe of India's fast bowling contingent, reserving a special praise for one of their most successful pacers, Mohammed Siraj. In just inside a year, Siraj has emerged to become a potent part of India’s bowling line-up and overtaken Ishant as the third pacer in the Test team behind Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami. Read more…'Hrithik Roshan came in a Maruti, she in Mercedes': Ameesha Patel addresses her bratty image in early 2000sActor Ameesha Patel has spoken about the ‘snobbish, rich b**ch’ image that was propelled of her by the media in the early days of her career. Ameesha, who belongs to a prominent Gujarati family, says people would deem her arrogant because she would stay immersed in her book on sets. Read more…Alaya F demonstrates two of her 'favourite ways' to use turmeric. Watch videoAlaya F is on a spree of sharing snippets loaded with health benefits, which can be used in our day-to-day lives. The actor recently started sharing aesthetic videos of demonstrations on how to make healthy face packs and health drinks. A day back, Alaya shared yet another video of herself making a face pack and a drink with turmeric. Watch video here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-s-covid-review-meet-with-southern-states-uts-and-all-the-latest-news-101643338580994.html
28-01-2022||India||Union health minister Mandaviya to hold Covid review meeting today with southern states, UTs||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will chair a high-level meeting today with the health ministers of southern states, Union territories to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. He will also review public health measures taken in view of the Omicron variant of coronavirus. The Covid-19 review meet will be held virtually at 2.30pm.The state health ministers from Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andaman and Nicobar Islands are expected to attend the meeting, reported ANI citing people familiar with the matter. Senior health officials will also attend the meeting.Mandaviya held a high-level Covid review meeting with nine northern states and UTs on Tuesday where he advised to share Covid testing and vaccination data in a timely manner. He asked the states witnessing a decline in Covid-19 testing to ramp it up through RTPCR.Mandaviya asks states to ramp up tests, share timely vax data at Covid meetAdvising the states and UTs to ensure efficient monitoring of those in home isolation in line with the national guidelines, the minister said, "This will ensure that the vulnerable categories of active cases in home isolation get the required medical help in a timely manner."He reminded them to keep a close watch on the emerging clusters and hotspots of Covid-19 and monitor the trend of hospitalisations and virus-related deaths. Mandaviya said that with our past experience, 'Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate and Adherence to Covid Appropriate Behaviour' along with monitoring of cases remains crucial for Covid management.In order to expedite the implementation of activities under the ECRP-II package, he asked the "health ministers and the state authorities to plug the existing gaps by efficiently utilizing the amount sanctioned for various infra projects.”(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-health-minister-mandaviya-to-hold-covid-review-meeting-today-with-southern-states-uts-101643329664136.html
28-01-2022||NA||Highlights: Haryana eases Covid-19 curbs for educational institutions||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Haryana eases Covid curbs for educational institutions, cinemasGovt of Haryana: All cinemas/multiplexes are allowed to open with 50% seating capacity. Universities, colleges, schools for classes 10th to 12th; coaching/training institutes both govt and private are allowed to open with effect from February 1 pic.twitter.com/gS6rRb572fHaryana government eased some Covid-19 related restrictions as it allowed cinemas and multiplexes to open and function with 50% seating capacity. Universities and colleges and classes 10 and 12 will be allowed to open from February 1.Ukraine calls on Russia to ‘prove’ it has no intentions to invade, reports AFP#BREAKING Ukraine president Zelensky calls on Russia to 'prove' its claims it has no intention of invading pic.twitter.com/YCYx1powxHUkraine president Volodymyr Zelensky called on Russia to 'prove' its claims that it does not intend an invasion, reports AFP. Akhilesh Yadav blaming BJP for chopper delay due to frustration: Keshav Prasad MauryaUttar Pradesh deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya said that SP leader Akhilesh Yadav was blaming the BJP for his chopper delay because of frustration, reports ANI. “Neither Akhilesh Yadav's election plan nor his plane is taking off. It is his failure and frustration due to which he is blaming BJP for this. People in UP indicated to him in 2014 that he is not capable to be the CM when BJP won 73 seats in LS polls,” he said.‘Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi will visit soon’, says Manipur Congress in-chargeManipur Congress in-charge Bhakta Charan Das said that party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi would “soon” visit the poll-bound state, reports ANI.  “Whatever work can be done is being done, we don't need to advertise it in the country,” he said. 31,198 new Covid-19 cases, 50 deaths in last 24 hours in KarnatakaKarnataka reported 31,198 new Covid-19 cases and 50 related deaths in the last 24 hours and the active caseload in the state reached 288,767. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 20.91%.Maharashtra logs 24,948 new Covid cases, 103 deathsMaharashtra reported 24,948 new Covid-19 cases and 103 deaths as the total caseload reached 7,655,554 and the death toll climbed to 142,461.Mumbai reports 1,312 new Covid-19 cases, 10 deaths; active caseload at 14,344Mumbai reported 1,312 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths in the last 24 hours and the city's active caseload reached 14,344, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation showed.Centre to review Covid-19 situation in 5 states on SaturdayUnion Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya to review the COVID-19 situation, public health preparedness, and response measures being taken in the view of Omicron variant in Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand. West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, via video conferencing at 3 pm tomorrow pic.twitter.com/ITYetA0lqzUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will hold a Covid review meeting with Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh at 3pm on Saturday, following a similar discussion with eight southern states and UTs, earlier today.Delhi sees 4,044 new Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths, active cases at 29,152With 4,044 new Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi's total caseload reached 1,819,332 and the death toll climbed to 29,152. The daily positivity rate was at 8.60% and the active caseload stood at 29,152.Centre appoints V Anantha Nageswaran as the chief economic advisorCentre appoints V Anantha Nageswaran as the chief economic advisor, said an official statement by the finance ministry.‘Over 60% in 15-18 group given Covid vaccine first dose’: MandaviyaYoung India Showing the Way!Congratulations to all my young friends who have got vaccinated 💉60% से अधिक 15-18 आयुवर्ग के बच्चों को लगी कोरोना की पहली डोज।#SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/MU1bViqNkOUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that more than 60% of youngsters between 15 and 18 years of age have been administered with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. ‘Wouldn’t come to you for votes next time if we don't work': Arvind Kejriwal in PunjabDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal requested the people of Punjab to vote for the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and said his party wouldn't go to the people of Punjab asking for votes if they don't work for the next five years, reports ANI. “Vote for AAP and let us work for 5 years. If we don't work, next time neither I nor Bhagwant Mann would come to you for votes,” he said. ‘Closely following developments in Ukraine, call for peaceful resolution’: MEAThe spokesperson for the ministry of external affairs Arindam Bagchi said that India has been closely following the developments in Ukraine, including the high-level disucssion between Russia and US, reports ANI.“We call for a peaceful resolution for long term stability and peace in the region and beyond,” he said.‘BJP made it possible’, says Amit Shah on admission of girls in Sainik schools“Earlier, only boys were eligible for Sainik school, girls could not apply, but we (BJP) made it possible...Today our daughters can become pilots, join NDA and match shoulder-to-shoulder (with boys),” Union home minister Amit Shah said in Rudraprayag, Uttarakhand, reports ANI.Delhi govt resumes driving license skill test, learning license testDelhi government resume Driving License Skill Test and Learning License Test activities which were suspended due to COVID19 pic.twitter.com/GJHSTUFpXhThe Delhi government resumed driving license skill test and learning license test activities which were suspended due to Covid-19, reports ANI. DCGI gives permission to Bharat Biotech for intranasal Covid booster dose trialsThe Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has given permission to Bharat Biotech for intranasal booster dose trials. The trials will be done at 9 different sites.Over 1 crore booster doses administered in India in 19 days: Mansukh MandaviyaOver 1 crore precautionary doses have been administered to the eligible population in just 19 days, says Union health minister Dr Mansukh Mandaviya.Goa polls: Seoula Vas replaces TMC vice-prez Luizinho Faleiro from Fatorda assembly seatTMC fields Seoula Vas as its candidate from Fatorda constituency after Luizinho Faleiro announced the withdrawal of his candidature from the constituency.‘Wine is not liquor’: Sanjay Raut hits back at BJP, says sale of wine in supermarket to benefit farmers“Wine is not liquor. If wine sale increases, farmers will get benefit from it. We have done this to double farmers' income. BJP only raises opposition but does nothing for farmers,” said Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut after former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis objected the govt's decision to allow sale of wine in supermarkets and walk-in stores in Maharashtra. Read moreSupreme Court refuses to dilute conditions for providing reservation in govt job promotions to SCs/STsSupreme Court refuses to dilute conditions for providing reservation in promotion for SC/STs; rules collection of quantifiable data is mandatory apart from assessment of inadequacy of representation after a periodic review. Review period should be determined by the Union Govt.SC quashes indefinite suspension of 12 BJP MLAs from Maharashtra assembly, calls it 'unconstitutional and arbitrary'SC sets aside the Maharashtra assembly's decision suspending 12 BJP MLAs for a one-year period beginning July 5, 2021. The court held that the suspension beyond the remainder period of the session of the Assembly was non-est in law, substantially illegal and irrational. The MLAs will now be entitled to all consequential benefits after the conclusion of the session in July.TMC national vice-resident Luizinho Faleiro withdraws as Goa TMC candidate from Fatorda“I announce my withdrawal as Goa TMC candidate from Fatorda and hand over the baton to a young woman, a professional. That has been the policy of the party - to empower the women,” says AITC national vice-president Luizinho Faleiro, in Panaji.“My earlier experience says that when I fought the election last time, we could not do justice to them. To replace me, we have a very able Flora, who will represent the Fatorda constituency,” he adds.RRB NTPC result: Protesters block roads in support of Bihar Bandh over alleged irregularitiesProtesters have blocked roads in Patna in support of bandh called by various political parties over alleged discrepancies in RRB NTPC results, reports news agency ANI.India reports 2,51,209 new Covid cases, 627 deaths in 24 hours; positivity rate at 15.88%India has reported 2,51,209 new Covid-19 cases and 627 deaths in the last 24 hours. There were a total of 3,47,443 recoveries in the last 24 hours.94% samples tested in Kerala positive for Omicron, says health minister“Continuous sequencing of Covid positive samples is being done. Almost 94 per cent of samples have tested positive for Omicron and 6 per cent for Delta,” said Kerala health minister Veena George, speaking to reporters.Budget 2022: Centre likely to revise duty on electronicsThe government is likely to rejig customs duties on components or sub-parts of consumer electronics and mobile phones in the upcoming Union budget, two people familiar with the development said. Read moreFire breaks out at godown in Bhiwandi, spreads to 3 more godowns; fire dousing underwayA fire broke out at a furniture godown at Sumaras Chamunda Complex in Bhiwandi area in Thane and spread to 3 more godowns. Four fire tenders are present at the spot. No injury or casualty reported, fire dousing still underway, says Bhiwandi fire department.Delhi set to reopen restaurants, cinema halls from today as Covid cases declineThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday decided to relax the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions and allow dining services at restaurants, bars with 50 per cent seating capacity. Cinema halls have been allowed to reopen at 50 per cent capacity, while the weekend curfew has been lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-january-28-2022-101643328547295.html
28-01-2022||India||China hands over missing teen||Nine days after he went missing, Miram Taron, a teenager from Arunachal Pradesh was on Thursday handed over to the Indian Army by China’s Peoples’ Liberation Army, Union minister Kiren Rijiju said.Also Read | Missing boy from Arunachal found, China's PLA informs ArmyIn a series of tweets, Rijiju, the BJP MP who represents the Arunachal-West seat, thanked the Indian Army and said that due process, including medical examination of the young man, were ongoing. “The Chinese PLA handed over the young boy from Arunachal Pradesh Shri Miram Taron to Indian Army at Wacha-Damai interaction point in Arunachal Pradesh today,” said the minister for law and justice. “I thank our proud Indian Army for pursuing the case meticulously with PLA and safely securing our young boy back home. Due procedures are being followed including the medical examination,” he added.The Indian Army had earlier sought assistance from its Chinese counterpart after Miram Taron, a 17-year-old from Zido village in Upper Siang district, went missing near the LAC on January 18. Initially, the teen, was believed to have been abducted by the PLA when he and a few others had gone hunting in the bordering region. A tweet by BJP MP from Arunachal-East, Tapir Gao, alleging Taron was abducted from inside Indian territory.But Indian Army clarified on Thursday that it was not the case, and that he “inadvertently strayed and went missing”.“Today Indian Army took over Miram Taron at Border Personnel Meeting point at Damai across Kibithu Sector in Lohit district of Arunachal Pradesh after completing all the formalities. He is being handed over to his parents at the earliest,” Lt. Col. Harsh Wardhan Pande, PRO (Defence), Tezpur, Assam said.
28-01-2022||India||Marital rape case: Can’t fold hands and just sit back, says Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday said that it cannot fold its hands and sit when people are approaching it with a problem in a particular legislation.The court’s remark came during an ongoing hearing on a batch of petitions seeking to decriminalise marital rape when an NGO argued that criminalising marital rape has a social impact which has to be decided by the legislature, and not by courts due to lack of their competence in the matter.Also Read | Marital rape hearing: Forced sex in marriage ‘abuse’ at best, NGO tells HCA bench of justices Rajiv Shakdher and Hari Shankar, while hearing a bunch of pleas seeking to criminalise marital rape, said the argument by the NGO, Men’s Welfare Trust, is “vague” as the bench is examining the legal aspect of the problem and not the social or psychological impact.The court said that it can only “look into” the factors that have gone into the framing of a particular legislation, but ultimately the provision has to be tested on the anvil of the Constitution.“This argument is vague… It is a legal issue before us… Events have happened… Legislatures steps in frames an Act, Rules whatever is required. What goes into the framing of the legislation is something we can look at while looking at a provision or statute. But for us it is that provision that we are examining and testing it against the Constitution. That’s all to it,” justice Shakdher remarked.Also Read | ‘Half-hearted reply an injustice’: Centre asks time in marital rape hearingSaying that one of the petitioners is a live example where she has alleged abuse against her husband but could not proceed due to the exception in the rape law, the court remarked, “…Forget about the PIL, she says that she is not being able to proceed further because of the exception in Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code. So are we to tell her no we can’t examine whether you are right or wrong? We can’t…We need to examine it.”Exception 2 of Section 375 IPC decriminalises marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under 15 years of age, is not rape.The court asserted that it is not saying that its decision will not have an impact, but when it has a matter, the same has to be decided against Article 14 and Article 21 of the Constitution.The bench is currently hearing PILs filed in 2015 by NGO RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association and two individuals who have sought to strike down the exception in the Indian rape laws on the grounds that it discriminated against married women who were sexually assaulted by their husbands.Earlier during the hearing, advocate J Sai Deepak, appearing for the NGO, said that the issue of criminalising marital rape should be kept out of the domain of the courts for the purposes of judicial legislation because the court is not in a position to accommodate or at least share multiple points of view for multiple reasons.“In any case, this is a matter which requires people who undertake gender studies to contribute to it,” he said.Justice Shakdher said, “How many years has this provision been there in the statute? There has to be a perspective and a sense of proportion. What do people do when they say that they are suffering, where do they go? That is in every legislation no? You can’t shut your doors no.”“If the argument has to be accepted, then we must fold our hands and say that this is the job of the legislature….we will do nothing,” the judge added.The matter will continue on Friday.
28-01-2022||India||‘Petty issues’: Conrad Sangma responds to criticism over Covid-19 protocol breach||SHILLONG: Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, who has been hugely criticised for turning up at the state’s Republic Day function just five days after testing positive for coronavirus, on Thursday said he didn’t violate any Covid-19 protocol after testing positive on January 21.“I as CM have got full responsibility and know what to do. I’ve always followed protocol I’ve been somebody who’s always been careful. I can assure you I have not violated any protocol,” he told reporters soon after chairing a cabinet meeting in the state capital on Thursday.Conrad Sangma did not get into the details of the Covid-19 protocol. The union health ministry’s guidelines say: “Patient under home isolation will stand discharged and end isolation after at least 7 days have passed from testing positive and no fever for 3 successive days and they shall continue wearing masks.”Sangma tweeted on January 21 evening that he has tested positive for Covid-19. “I have tested positive for Covid-19. I am isolating myself for the required time. I have mild symptoms. All those who came into contact with me last few days are requested to observe their symptoms and test if necessary,” he said in a Twitter post.Meghalaya Raj Bhavan announced that governor Satyapal Malik, who tested positive for Covid-19 on January 20, will not attend the Republic Day function and cancelled the ‘At Home’ event.On January 26, Sangma, however, showed up as the chief guest at the state’s Republic Day function.Congress legislature party leader Ampareen Lyngdoh said it was “a big shock” to see Conrad Sangma at the function since he had announced his Covid positive status on January 21. “Public testing positive or those that will test positive in the future will be confused while following these instructions. Urgent clarification from the CM is important now so that protocols in place aren’t disrupted or flawed in this crucial time,” Lyngdoh said.Sangma, who turned 44 on Thursday, was upset about such criticism. He wondered why people were wasting their time on such a frivolous issue.“While we are talking about border issues, while we talk about important aspects like 50 years of statehood, it is really sad to see that some people are finding such petty issues to look at,” Sangma rued. He added: “For anybody to question my integrity and my commitment to the entire issue is quite sad and I think these people have nothing better to do. Over the last few days, I have been extremely responsible, that’s all I have to say.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petty-issues-says-conrad-sangma-on-criticism-that-he-violated-covid-protocol-101643316960008.html
28-01-2022||India||SC asks Centre, state for Tihar reforms deadline||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed the Centre and the Delhi government to hold a meeting within a week and suggest timebound steps to plug security lapses at the Tihar jail where prison officials allegedly colluded with former Unitech promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra to help them carry out their illegal activities from within the jail.Also Read | SC orders probe into collusion of Tihar jail officials with Ex Unitech ownersAfter going through an affidavit submitted by the ministry of home affairs (MHA) that produced communications exchanged in this regard between the Centre, Delhi government and Tihar authorities, a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said, “We are not interested in this paperwork. You should come up with corrective measures to ensure such incidents do not happen in future.”On August 26, the Supreme Court ordered shifting of the Chandra brothers to separate jails in Mumbai, and sought a report from Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana. The top cop proposed 23 actionable points to be carried out at Tihar jail.On October 6, the court directed the Centre to suggest corrective steps based on Asthana’s recommendations, which included call blocking, surveillance by CCTVs, changes in service roster of jail employees, and training of staff.Also Read | 28 Tihar officials suspended, 2 sacked, for helping ex-Unitech bossesHowever, unsatisfied with the progress made in the matter, the bench on Thursday directed the Union home secretary to chair a meeting with Delhi chief secretary and DG (Prisons), Tihar within a week where Delhi Police commissioner, who prepared the reform road map, shall be an invitee. “The meeting to be held within one week shall take concrete decision on the report of commissioner of Delhi Police and file a comprehensive affidavit on the manner in which implementation (of the report) is to be carried out,” the bench said, posting the matter after three weeks.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Madhavi Divan, appearing for the Centre, informed the court that the Centre endorsed each of the reforms contained in the report, but since prisons was a state subject, it could not impress upon the Delhi administration to implement the steps. She said that on December 7, Director General (Prisons) wrote to the Centre about steps taken under each of the 23 points suggested by Asthana.The court asked additional solicitor general (ASG) KM Nataraj, representing Delhi Police, on the progress on each step. Nataraj said, “The administration of jail falls under Delhi government. We can still seek instructions.”Upset over this attitude, the bench said, “What on earth is happening? Tihar authorities say the jail is not our baby but of Delhi government.” Nobody represented Delhi government.The bench in its order said, “We are of the view that passing of buck between the MHA at the level of DG-Prisons and Delhi government must be dealt with by effective coordination. The report of the Commissioner of Delhi Police will gather dust unless effective steps are not taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-centre-state-for-tihar-reforms-deadline-101643315859806.html
28-01-2022||India||Will closely work with India to handle ongoing border tension, US should not meddle: China||Beijing: China on Thursday said it will work “closely” with India to properly handle the ongoing border tension as it strongly criticised the United States for saying it was concerned by Beijing’s attempts to coerce its neighbours, including India.The Chinese defence ministry said the border problem is a bilateral matter and both China and India oppose interference from a third party.Beijing: China on Thursday said it will work “closely” with India to properly handle the ongoing border tension as it strongly criticised the United States for saying it was concerned by Beijing’s attempts to coerce its neighbours, including India.The Chinese defence ministry said the border problem is a bilateral matter and both China and India oppose interference from a third party.|#+|Chinese defence ministry spokesperson Wu Qian said, “…some American politicians are so fond of using the word ‘coerce’ that they seem to have forgotten that the US is the inventor and master player of ‘coercive diplomacy’.”China neither “coerces” nor is “coerced” by others, and strongly opposes the US forcing “coercive diplomacy” on other countries, Wu said at the monthly defence ministry press conference on Thursday.Wu was referring to comments made by the White House press secretary, Jen Psaki, ahead of the 14th round of military talks between India and China on January 12 to resolve the ongoing tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.“We’ve been pretty clear how we view Beijing’s behaviour in the region and around the world. We believe it can be destabilising. And we’re concerned by the People’s Republic of China’s attempt to intimidate its neighbours,” Psaki said.“We continue to support dialogue and peaceful resolution of these border disputes,” she said, adding, “We’ll continue to stand with our partners on that.”Referring to the China-India border issue, Wu stressed that the Chinese side believed that the last round of talks were positive and constructive.“…China will work closely with the Indian side to properly handle the border issue through negotiation and consultation,” Wu was quoted as saying by the official China Military Online website.Referring to the joint statement issued after the talks, Wu said the two sides agreed that they should follow the guidance provided by the leaders of the two countries and work for the resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest.“Second, the two sides agreed to consolidate the previous outcomes and take effective efforts to maintain the security and stability on the ground in the western sector including in winter,” Wu said.“Third, they agreed to stay in close contact and maintain dialogue via military and diplomatic channels and work out a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest,” he said, adding that the two sides also agreed that the next round of the Commanders’ talks should be held at the earliest.Indian and Chinese border troops have been locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 2020, when a violent clash in Pangong lake area led to both sides gradually deploying tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry along the border.Several rounds of military and diplomatic talks have only resulted in partial disengagement of troops until now.India has repeatedly and consistently rejected China’s allegations that Indian troops crossed over to the Chinese side of the LAC in eastern Ladakh, asserting that New Delhi has always taken a responsible approach towards border management and maintaining peace and tranquility in the border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-closely-work-with-india-to-handle-ongoing-border-tension-us-should-not-meddle-china-101643312699667.html
28-01-2022||India||Lok Sabha secretariat launches Digital Sansad app for ease of use, access to proceedings||New Delhi: The Lok Sabha secretariat has launched a new app, Digital Sansad, that will make it easier for people to follow proceedings in Parliament, and also their own lawmakers. In addition, it will also help members of parliament access services such as checking personal updates like status of their notices, House bulletins, etc. As MPs are barred from using laptops inside the House, the app comes handy for parliamentary information for MPs during a debate in the House. In future, the MPs can log in for attendance, give questions for the Question Hour or submit notices for debates or adjournment motions.The Digital Sansad app is available in both android and IOS platform and carries nearly all major content of the interlinked portal of Indian Parliament. A senior official claimed that the Digital Sansad is one of the few apps of a parliament internationally that offer a 360-degree view of legislative activities as well as services for members. It is a brainchild of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla who has sought to make parliamentary proceedings more accessible to people.In addition to proceedings in the current House, people will also be able to access archival data related to all Lok Sabhas . They will be able to access speeches, debates, etc.“It is the task of a committed legislature to keep its constituents apprised of its routine proceedings. This objective has required the Parliament to keep its communication channels up-to-date with the rapidly changing technological landscape. In keeping with this view, the Parliament too started to expand its digital footprint. Parliament’s official ’Digital Sansad App’ is an initiative in that direction,” added a top functionary who asked not to be named.Aimed to be Indian Parliament digital interface with the younger generation, the app has already seen more than 8000 users from India and countries including the US and Saudi Arabia.The App, planned by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, will help people get all Parliamentary updates. “It becomes easier for citizens to access general information on MPs, on budget speeches since 1947, House discussions from 12th Lok Sabha to 17th Lok Sabha. The App will also contain the live telecast of Sansad proceedings, the major news of the day, etc. Apart from a virtual tour of the Parliament, the 2022 Budget session too can be watched live on the App,” said the functionary.The latest effort fits in with a larger digital plan which has seen a reduction in use of papers in Parliament . “Now members give notices mostly online. We have been able to cut down paper usage in parliament up to 98%. Important documents including the upcoming budget papers’ physical copies will be restricted and they can be accessed online,” said a top functionary.Opposition leaders, however, pointed out that Parliament should have gone completely digital and allowed online meeting of its House panels during the pandemic . Several appeals by Opposition lawmakers to allow digital meetings in past two years were not accepted.
28-01-2022||India||Govt, Oppn begin preparation for Budget session||New Delhi: The government and the Opposition have kicked off their preparations for the upcoming Budget session of Parliament with internal meetings and a series of consultations, after the previous session ended amid acrimony over the suspension of 12 lawmakers and the passage of some bills without debate. Congress president Sonia Gandhi will chair a meeting of the party’s parliamentary strategy group on Friday to will decide the broad plans for the session, including key issues to be raised and the nature of floor coordination with other opposition parties and allies. On January 31, the day the session is slated to begin, Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi has called an all-party meeting where the government would lay out its legislative plan, the bills in wants to clear in this session, and seek the Opposition’s support. The Budget session, slotted in two halves between January 31 and April 8, assumes significance coming in the backdrop of the elections in five states -- Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. The political stakeholders of these polls, such as the BJP, Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Akali Dal, and Trinamool Congress, might see an opportunity in this session for manoeuvring with an eye on these polls. Parliament’s winter session started with massive protests and daily disruptions after the Upper House suspended 12 Opposition MPs for their conduct on the last day of the monsoon session, and when the government cleared the bill to repeal three contentious farm laws without debate. Lawmakers were later working overtime to partially salvage the lost hours, but both sides continue to blame each other for the disruptions even after the session was called to a close. For the Congress, the larger issues in this session are effective floor coordination with like-minded parties, and rasing raging issues such as price rise, while it also struggles with internal dissent and with key leaders leaving the organisation to join the BJP or other rival parties. The Congress will also take a call in the meeting on what its equation is going to be with the Trinamool Congress after their recent spat over Goa elections, where the Congress refused to enter into a pact over the TMC’s ostensible attempts to emerge as a national force by poaching leaders from the grand old party.The session will start with the President’s address to the joint sitting of both Houses, and the Union Budget will be presented on February 1. The government is expected to push the personal data privacy bill, mediation bill, amendments to the wildlife act, and amendments to the cost and chartered accountants bills, apart from the Budget and the Finance Bill. The government, according to an official, may also bring the much-awaited bill to regulate cryptocurrency in India. The national anti-doping bill and the biological diversity amendment bill may also be cleared during the session.On Thursday, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee held a meeting with party MPs for the budget session. A senior TMC leader said, “She told us to protest against the proposed changes in the IAS rule that gives upper hand to the Centre in the matters of central deputation from a state. We will also question the schedule of the session that coincides with the election in five states. The party will also raise issues related to our state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-oppn-begin-preparation-for-budget-session-101643312099687.html
28-01-2022||India||Kerala high court acquits two in 2006 twin blasts case||In a setback to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), the Kerala high court on Thursday acquitted two prime accused in 2006 Kozhikode (north Kerala) twin blasts. A trial court had sentenced the two, Thadiyantavida Nazeer and S Shafaz, to double life imprisonment in 2012.A division bench of Justices Vinod K Chandran and Ziyad Rahman also dismissed the plea of the NIA questioning the acquittal of two other accused, Abdul Haleem and Abubaker Yousef, in the case. Nazeer, once a reported protégé of jailed Muslim cleric Abdul Nassar Madani, later fell out with him and joined the Lakshar-e-Taiba and was the self-styled south Indian commander of the terror outfit. Allegedly involved in many cases, he was arrested from a village along the India-Bangladesh border in 2009.The twin blasts took place in Kozhikode on March 3, 2006 at a private bus stand and the state road transport corporation terminal. After planting two low-intensity bombs, the accused later informed the district collector and media houses about them. Two people, including a policeman, were injured when one of the bombs went off while searching for them. Initially the case was investigated by the state police but later handed over to the NIA. The NIA had charge-sheeted seven people in 2010 and one of the accused was later killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir. Two accused are still at large.The Special Court for NIA Cases had found both Nazeer and Shafas guilty of the offences under various sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1967 (UAPA) and they were sentenced to imprisonment for life.The court found that some of the corroborative evidences against accused were not strong and the prosecution failed to substantiate crime against them.“We do understand the inherent difficulty of an investigation, in a case taken over by the NIA, almost four years after the incident. The Investigating Officers were groping in the dark for almost four years, till the arrest of third accused (A3) in another blast case,” the Court observed.The court said it has dealt with each of the evidence tendered including the approver’s deposition as also the disclosure statements and the evidence of other witnesses to find that the case against A1 to A4 was not proved beyond reasonable doubt.“The Investigators, we cannot but say, did not make a concerted effort to ‘go out in the sun’ to collect independent evidence of whatever version the accused told them....”“In their anxiety to wrap up the case; we say anxiety since we do not think the Officers of the NIA would be ignorant of the law on the subject, they even recorded the confessions made by the accused, clearly inadmissible under Section 25 & 26 of the Evidence Act,” the court ruled.According to the prosecution, nine accused including Nazeer and Shafas were alleged to have conspired, planned and executed the twin blasts, for reason of bail having been denied to the accused in the second Marad incident (communal riot case), in which 136 of the 142 accused remained imprisoned, as undertrials, for about four and a half years.After the lower court verdict, both Nazeer and S Shafaz moved the high court saying that they were implicated by the NIA. Nazeer, undergoing jail in connection with Bengaluru stadium blast in Karnataka, appeared in person in the high court to argue his case.With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-acquits-two-in-2006-twin-blasts-case-101643311799705.html
28-01-2022||India||Omicron detected in 94% Covid cases in Kerala: Minister||At least 94% of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Kerala are triggered by the new Omicron variant and next three weeks are crucial for the state after which cases will flatten, health minister Veena George said on Thursday.Kerala reported 51,739 fresh Covid cases on Thursday with a test positivity rate of 44.6 per cent after 116,003 samples were tested. The state also reported 11 deaths and added 57 previous undocumented deaths, taking total fatalities to 52,434. “Genome sequencing tests show 94 per cent cases are triggered by Omicron and 6 per cent by Delta variant. Among the new cases, only 3.6 per cent patients need hospitalisation and use of ICU dropped considerably,” said the minister in the state capital. “Unlike the second wave there is no pressure on hospital infrastructure this time. More than 90 per cent of the affected are confined to their homes and people with serious co-morbidities are getting hospitalised,” the minister said, adding that strict action will be taken against private hospitals if they turn away Covid patients. An analysis of the hospital statistics shows that during the peak of the second wave (May 2021), more than 80 per cent of total beds were occupied but this time it is below 30 per cent. Similarly more than 60 per cent of the oxygen beds were occupied during the second wave but this time it is below 20 per cent. “Though Omicron is more infectious, its intensity is low when compared to Delta. We found that many people are taking antibiotics across the counter and this is really bad. Affected people with simple fever can remain at their home and take enough water to check dehydration,” said the minister. Of the 51,739 fresh cases reported on Thursday, Ernakulam logged the highest (9,708), followed by Thiruvananthapuram (7,675) and Kozhikode (5,001). As the cases mounted, the government has asked local bodies to start community kitchen across the state. Since many families are getting affected completely, they face shortage of food forcing the government to start community kitchen, which was a hit during two earlier waves. The health department has also set up Covid war rooms in every district and a minister will be made in-charge to take speedy decisions. It also decided to ramp up Covid first-line treatment centres and seek the help of health volunteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omicron-detected-in-94-covid-cases-in-keralaminister-101643311620011.html
28-01-2022||India||Kerala high court defers actor Dileep’s bail plea till Feb 2, gives protection from arrest||The Kerala high court on Thursday deferred the anticipatory bail petition of Malayalam actor Dileep till February 2 in the case related to an alleged conspiracy to kill a police officer. The cop in question, Baiju Paulose, was investigating the role of Dileep and his aides in a female actor’s abduction and sexual assault, which took place in 2017.The single bench of Justice P S Gopianthan ordered the crime branch that he should not be arrested till then and asked officials to submit details of the three-days of questioning of the actor and other accused. Meanwhile, the prosecution has sought more time from the court to examine digital evidences seized from the house of Dileep and others. He was questioned for over 33 hours from January 23 to 25. The other accused in the case are Dileep’s brother P Anoop, his brother-in-law T N Sooraj, his friends Baiju Chengamanad and K Appu. A fresh case was registered against them following the disclosure of film director Balachandra Kumar. Last month, Kumar had claimed that Dileep was in possession of the woman actor’s assault video and had tried to influence case witnesses. He also claimed to have met the main accused, Pulsar Suni, at Dileep’s residence in 2016. After Kumar’s revelations the Kerala government had approached the Supreme Court to extend the trial for six more months but the same was turned down by the court on Monday. Kumar also claimed that he was privy to a conversation — to eliminate the investigating officer — that allegedly took place at the actor’s house in Aluva in Ernakulam district. But Dileep dismissed the allegations saying Kumar was blackmailing him citing frivolous charges. Later, crime branch had registered a fresh case under Sections 116 (abetment of offence), 118 (concealing design to commit an offence), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A leading woman actor was waylaid, kidnapped and sexually assaulted by a criminal gang in Kochi while she was returning home after a shooting assignment. Six months after the incident, Dileep was arrested in the case. Prosecution alleged that the attack was planned at the behest of Dileep to settle an old score with the woman.BLURB Prosecution has sought more time from the court to examine digital evidences seized from accused persons’ house||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-defers-actor-dileep-s-bail-plea-till-feb-2-gives-protection-from-arrest-101643311499399.html
28-01-2022||India||Visakhapatnam Steel Plant: 1 year on, privatisation makes no headway||The proposed privatisation of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), better known as Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), has made no headway, a year after the Centre made an announcement to that effect, even as the public sector steel giant, according to its management, has registered record turnover and is all set to make profits this financial year.It was on January 27 last year that the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) gave an in-principle approval for 100 per cent strategic disinvestment of government of India shareholding in the RINL along with management control by way of privatisation.A week later, department of investment and public asset management (DIPAM) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted the decision of the CCEA to privatise RINL, as part of the Central government’s efforts to raise ₹1.75 lakh crore through strategic disinvestment of loss-making PSUs.“Former steel minister Dharmendra Pradhan and finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman, in their replies to the queries raised by Andhra Pradesh MPs in parliament, asserted that there is no question of going back on the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. But there is little progress in that direction,” a senior official of the RINL said on the condition of anonymity.A few months ago, he said, the Central government had finalised multinational accounting firm Ernest and Young as its consultants to oversee the privatisation process, and prominent solicitors Chandhiok and Mahajan to look after legal issues. “Both the companies were selected through a competitive bidding process, but they are yet to commence the process,” the senior official said.The prime reason cited by the Centre for privatisation of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant was the huge loss it was incurring over the years. The steel plant with a capacity of 6.3 million tonnes incurred a loss of ₹3,910 crore during 2019-20 and the revenue from operations was around ₹15,910 crore, according to the results announced by the management.Even as the Centre announced the privatisation process triggering protests by about 17,000 regular employees and workers, the company started earning profits. During 2020-21, the net loss of the company was reduced to ₹789 crore and the company achieved a sales turnover of ₹17,980 crore, a growth of 14 per cent over the previous year, according to the results disclosed by the management.“This was despite the fact that the steel plant was shut down for a couple of months and later with 50 per cent staff due to Covid-19. It only shows how strong the company is and how dedicated the workers are,” Ayodhya Ramu, a senior employee of the company and convener of Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Samithi (Committee to protect Vizag Steel), told HT.This financial year, the RINL achieved best-ever sales value of ₹19,357 crore in the first three quarters, ending December 31, according to the results declared. This is the highest during the nine months of a financial year for the company since its inception.“Going by this growth, we are expected to achieve the sales turnover of ₹28,500 crore by this financial year-end. The company is all set to achieve a net profit of ₹1,000 crore,” Ramu claimed.“The company’s lands and assets are worth over ₹1.50 lakh crore. But the government would not get even 25 per cent of it through privatisation,” he claimed.Ramu said this year alone, the company would be paying ₹5,000 crore to the government in the form of Goods and Services Tax. “Besides, the government would also indirectly get tax money from the employees. Where is the need to privatise it?” he asked.The Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Samithi is planning a series of agitations in the next one month to bring pressure on the Centre to drop the privatisation move. “We commenced our agitation on February 12 last year against the privatisation under this banner. To mark the completion of one year of our agitation, 365 employees would take up day-long hunger strike on February 12,” Ramu said.The committee would take up a signature campaign against the privatisation move. “We shall mobilise one crore signatures of the people across the state and send the same to the Centre. We are planning to storm the BJP offices all over the state on February 13 to register our protest. We have called for a statewide shutdown on February 23,” he said.
28-01-2022||India||Actor Vijay’s fans plan to contest urban local body polls||Buoyed by their debut performance of winning over a hundred seats in rural body polls last year, Tamil actor Vijay’s fans will once again use the name Thalapathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam to contest the upcoming urban local body elections.These moves are being seen as the actor testing the waters before taking the political plunge himself.The development comes a day after the state election commission on Wednesday announced that polls to the urban local bodies across Tamil Nadu will be held in a single phase on February 19. Counting of votes will be on February 22. Previously, actor Vijay had allowed his fans to use his picture during poll campaigning when they were contesting as independent candidates. “This time also he has permitted us to contest in the name of Thalapathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam, use his picture and use the same association flag.We will contest as independent candidates again,” said Bussy Anand, general secretary of the outfit.Vijay, who enjoys a tremendous following in the state, has been hinting at his entry into politics for a decade now. In 2021, his fans entered the fray under the Thalapathy Vijay Makkal Iyakkam in the rural body polls held last October. They won 115 out of the 169 seats from where they contested—a 68% strike rate. Though the number is not big but in their debut election they managed to outdo actor Kamal Hassan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) and Seeman’s Naam Thamizhar Katchi (which emerged as the third largest party in the assembly elections) as they both drew a blank. The ruling DMK swept the rural body polls held in nine newly carved districts. The upcoming urban body polls will again see a fight between the two Dravidian majors-the DMK and AIADMK. Earlier this week, Vijay also received a relief from the Madras high court which expunged scathing remarks made against him by another single judge in the Rolls Royce case where he had sought exemption from paying entry tax. The actor paid the entry tax but had filed another petition seeking adverse comments against him to be expunged, which was granted this Tuesday.BLURB Vijay, who enjoys a tremendous following in the state, has been hinting at his entry into politics for a decade now.
28-01-2022||India||Padma Shri awardee from Telangana sings Tribals’ histories to drum beats||Like many unsung artistes, the name of Telangana-based Ramachandraiah in the list of Padma Shri awardees under the ‘Arts’ category didn’t ring a bell for many. But, fame was never a motivation for Sakine Ramachandraiah, instead devoting himself towards preserving the rich legacy and history of the tribal warlords was.Living in a remote tribal hamlet of Kunavaram of Manuguru block in Bhadradri Kothagudem district, Ramachandraiah, belongs to Doli subsect of Koya tribe.The 62-year-old Adivasi has the unique ability of singing the histories of the tribal warlords eloquently, in a typical style, using a percussion instrument called Dhol.“It is a dying art form of the Koya tribes. Ramachandraiah is perhaps the last Doli artiste who can perform this art. It is a pleasant surprise that the Centre has acknowledged the presence of this rare art and chosen Ramachandraiah for Padma Shri award,” said Jayadher Tirumala Rao, a researcher of tribal art forms, who played a major role in unearthing Ramachandraiah’s hidden talent.According to Rao, Dolis are a sort of priests for the Koya tribes.They attend the tribal rituals like marriages and funerals and perform rituals in the form of songs, carrying narration of their histories. “There are hardly any Dolis left among the Koya tribes now. And Ramachandraiah is the only one sustaining this culture,” he said.Ramachandraiah has mastered the art of singing about the history of the tribals, which are inscribed in the form of signs and pictures on ‘Pagide’ or ‘Dolu gudda’, a conic shaped red-coloured cloth of 6-10 metres in size.“These Pagides are preserved in tree burrows and are opened only on specific occasions. The Dolis narrate the history by looking at these Pagides and playing drum like musical instrument. They go into trance while narrating the genealogy of the tribes. It is a typical pahadi music,” Rao said.Ramachandraiah’s work came into limelight for the first time in 2014, when he narrated the history of Sammakka-Saralakka, two tribal women (mother and daughter) who fought against Kakatiya rulers in 13th century. “It became an instant hit. He has also popularized other ballads such as Boponamma Katha, Godi Kama Roaju Katba, Gooderoju Katha, Chekku Chedialamma Katha, Guli Musalamma katha,” said Rao, whohas recorded and documented Ramachandraiah’s oral narrative of Sammakka Saralamma history.While Ramachandraiah could not be contacted, his son Babu Rao said his father was not even aware of importance of Padma Shri initially. “When he realized that it was a rare honour given by the Centre, he was pleased. He wants the government to take steps to preserve such dying art forms,” Babu Rao said.
28-01-2022||India||Compliance report a sham: Karnataka HC pulls up BBMP over potholes||The Karnataka high court on Thursday took strong exception to the claims made by the city’s civic body Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) that it has filled up all the potholes in the city and called its compliance report a “total sham”.“We feel that you have not done anything..Don’t say anything which we ourselves feel is wrong,” stated a report by LiveLaw on Thursday.A division bench of chief justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and justice Suraj Govindraj heard the case that was filed by Vijayan Menon.“We are concerned with why potholes develop after every rain? What kind of technology you (BBMP) are using? What procedure are you adopting to fill potholes? Why can’t it be for a longer duration by using better technology? Why after every rain these potholes erupt on every road in the city? That shows the quality of the work you are performing,” LiveLaw reported, attributing it to the judges.The observations come at a time when the Karnataka government and the BBMP have been criticised for spending thousands of crores of taxpayers money with no accountability.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, during the monsoon session of the state legislature in September last year, had said that over ₹ 20,000 crores was spent by the administration on road-related works in Bengaluru over the last five years.The court observations come a day after Karnataka governor Thaawarchand Gehlot, in his Republic Day address on Wednesday, lauded the state government for its work to develop Bengaluru.Gehlot had said that several roads in Bengaluru have been taken up under the Smart City Project.“You cannot get away by saying that when the roads were constructed the load on the roads was less. Now you have to come out with solutions! Some method you have to come out with to ensure that roads bear the load,” the court observed.The next hearing for the case is scheduled for February 7.The Bommai government has been trying to increase allocations to Bengaluru to earn favour in the upcoming BBMP elections, expected to be held later this year.The BJP has been in power at the BBMP since 2010 but there has been no elected council for over one year now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/compliance-report-a-sham-karnataka-hc-pulls-up-bbmp-over-potholes-101643310479834.html
28-01-2022||India||‘Miffed’ Cong leader parts ways with party||Senior Congress leader and former union minister, CM Ibrahim on Thursday said he will part ways with the grand old party after he was snubbed for the role of Opposition leader in the Upper House of the Karnataka legislature.The developments come at a time when the Congress is staring at more exits from the party ahead of crucial elections like zilla and taluka panchayat, Bengaluru city corporation and 2023 assembly polls.“Dk Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah are big people, why will they talk to me? I had no expectations that they would speak to me. I was in the party because of Siddaramaiah,” Ibrahim said.He also said that he had huge financial debts which have accumulated over the last 25 years and had to take this time to leave the party and not get overwhelmed. Meanwhile, Siddaramaiah said that he will speak to Ibrahim and not to the media who were trying to rake up “controversies”. “Ibrahim is a senior leader. Earlier when the Congress government was there, he was a minister. When Siddaramaiah was there, he had removed a sitting MLA and got him (Ibrahim) a ticket. After he lost also, he was given Cabinet status and made planning commission chairman. He was also given a chance to be MLC twice,” Shivakumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/miffed-cong-leader-parts-ways-with-party-101643310479223.html
28-01-2022||India||Karnataka legislature joint session from Feb 14, Budget in March||Karnataka chief minister (CM) Basavaraj Bommai will present his first Budget in March first week, allowing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) just one year before the state heads for elections in 2023.“Joint session of the state legislature will be held from February 14 to 25 and the Budget session will be held in the first week of March,” Bommai said on Thursday. The sessions will be held at Vidhana Soudha, the seat of state legislature and secretariat in Bengaluru.The development comes a day before Bommai completed six tumultuous months in the top office. Bommai had inherited several challenges from his predecessor, BS Yediyurappa, who was forced to step down in July last year.During the Bommai regime in state, the BJP has witnessed it all, from the already existing divide within leaders to discontentment over Cabinet.The Covid-19 pandemic and consequent lockdowns only added to the saffron party’s burden by impacting the state’s once booming economic outlook and contributing to the apprehensions of job losses and lack of developmental works.The joint session of the legislature is also expected to take up the pending anti-conversion law which has been passed so far only by the Lower House, said an official privy to the developments.Later briefing reporters about the Cabinet meeting, law and parliamentary affairs minister J C Madhuswamy said, the joint session will begin with the governor’s address to members of both legislative assembly and council on the first day.The CM also said that he would release a booklet to highlight the achievements in the last six months.While Bommai faces external challenges as the head of the government, his bigger problems are from within his own party members who have aired their discontentment in public over being overlooked for the Cabinet and lack of funds for works in their respective constituencies.The Congress had also alleged that Bommai made discriminations while allocating the funds. “The very purpose of Congress is to make allegations. Let them recall what they did when they were in power,” he said.As of now, there are four vacant berths in the Cabinet and Bommai is yet to make a decision on the same as he awaits further instructions from the party high command which is focused on assembly elections in at least five states, including Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Goa.“Ours has been a responsive government. We have appropriately addressed any and every problem that we faced.The state will also be formulating more developmental programmes for the welfare of the people,” Bommai said. However, with news of more defections, aggravated dissent and a long list of corruption charges, including the multi-billion dollar Bitcoin scandal, Bommai faces an uphill task in the next one year in office, if he is not removed before it.The chief minister also aspires to be the face of the 2023 assembly elections but recent defeats in his home district (Hanagal bypolls) and a poor show in the December 10 MLC polls will not make things any easier for him. He now faces at least two more crucial tests, including the zilla and taluka panchayat as well the Bengaluru city corporation elections.With Agency Inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-legislature-joint-session-from-feb-14-budget-in-march-101643310361408.html
28-01-2022||India||Air pollution higher in Bengaluru than WHO standards: Report||A new global environment advocacy group report has indicated that all 10 air quality monitoring stations in Bengaluru have recorded pollution that is higher than World Health Organisation (WHO) standards, emphasizing the growing problem of pollution in the country’s technology capital.According to the Greenpeace report, titled ‘Are cities in South India breathing safe air?’, the situation in Bengaluru and other south Indian cities is alarming, and pollution is suspected to have claimed at least 12,000 lives in 2020.In September last year, WHO released a revised Global Air Quality Guidelines, announcing more stringent limits for six pollutant categories —particulate matter (PM), ozone (O3), nitrogen dioxide (NO2) sulfur dioxide (SO2) and carbon monoxide (CO), HT reported. The WHO’s revised guidelines prescribe annual PM2.5 average at 5 ug/m3, bringing it down from 2005 limits set at 10 ug/m3. PM10 annual average is now 15 ug/m3 in comparison to the earlier norm of 20 ug/m3. NO2 levels, which are primarily attributable to vehicular emissions, have been revised to 10 ug/m3, in comparison to 40 ug/m3 in 2005.“The annual average values of PM 2.5 and PM 10 show that at all the locations, the values are higher than WHO revised standards. Apart from that, all the station’s PM 2.5 values are within the NAAQS (national ambient air quality standards of India) standards and eight stations PM 10 values are higher than NAAQS standards,” according to the report.With over 12 million population, Bengaluru has nearly 10 million vehicles that are squeezed in an area of around 800 square kms. The city gained global notoriety when it was adjudged to have the world’s worst traffic, according to a report by the Netherlands-based TomTom index in 2019, emerged top of the list by beating 415 other cities across 57 countries.“Bengaluru takes the top spot this year with drivers in the southern Indian city expecting to spend an average of 71% extra travel time stuck in traffic,” TomTom had said in its report.Bengaluru and Pune were included for the first time in 2019, while Mumbai and New Delhi became part of the study for the first time since 2017. Mumbai was top of the list for two preceding years, while New Delhi fell from second place in 2017 to fourth in 2018.Vehicular emission is the top contributor to air pollution, followed by construction in Bengaluru.“The data shows that lockdown is not a solution to air pollution. Relatively lesser economic activity and vehicles are also putting us in a dangerous position. We have to prioritize the immediate shift to clean energy and clean transport to stop more damage. If we look at Bengaluru’s PM10 data, the annual average in most stations is exceeding not only WHO guidelines, but NAAQS levels too,” Avinash Chanchal, Campaign Manager, Greenpeace India, said in a statement.The findings of the report come at a time when more and more people in cities are taking to private vehicles to mitigate the possibility of contracting Covid-19 in public transport.“In India, cities across the country are breathing polluted air. Air pollution is not limited to north Indian cities. GreenpeaceIndia’s report Airpocalypse IV highlighted that more than 80% of cities/towns had PM10 levels exceeding the 60µg/m3 limits for PM10 prescribed under National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) by CPCB in 2018,” the report added.In November last year, the city air quality and pollution tracking service from IQAir, a Switzerland-based climate group that is also a technology partner of the United Nations Environmental Program, showed that there are as many as three cities (Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai) from India on the list of ten cities with the worst air quality indices.There are also concerns that there is a low number of monitoring stations in India that does not capture the true extent of the pollution. According to data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), State Pollution Control Boards and Pollution Control Committees are monitoring ambient air quality at 804 locations, covering 344 cities/towns in the country, whereas the requirement far exceeds that.The Greenpeace report added that despite the repeated lockdowns on account of the Covid pandemic, the annual average values of PM2.5 and PM10 of all studied ten south Indian cities exceed the WHO revised standards.State pollution control board officials could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-pollution-higher-in-bengaluru-than-who-standards-report-101643310180705.html
28-01-2022||India||Hijab row: NHRC issues notice to state, seeks response in a month||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sought response of the Karnataka government in connection with the controversy over six students not being allowed to attend classes, at a government pre-university college in Udupi district, since the last one month for wearing a hijab. The Muslim girls have alleged that the institution has barred them from entering classrooms while wearing a hijab sincelast week of December 2021.The first-year students have also alleged that the institution is not allowing them to even meet their classmates on campus. On Wednesday, NHRC issued a notice to the state government and demanded a report within a month. The commission said the incident in Udupi “involves a grave violation of the human rights” of the students. The notice has been issued to the Udupi district magistrate and the principal secretary of the department of higher education. “Facts of the case are disturbing. The allegations made in the complaint are serious in nature involving ‘Right to Education’. The case, therefore, involves a grave violation of human rights of the victim students,” the notice read. The notice was issued based on a complaint lodged by Mohammad Riyazuddin, a resident of Kalaburagi district. Karnataka education minister BC Nagesh refuted the claims made in the complaint, saying the government has not violated any human rights. “We have not taken away any rights of the students. What we have told the students is to attend classes with the uniform code that has been followed so far. The School Development Management Committee has given the uniform code many years ago. 99% of the students in the college are following this rule and only six students don’t want to follow a rule, which they had followed for more than one and a half years,” the minister told reporterson Thursday. Local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Raghupathi Bhat, on Wednesday, reiterated that the students will not be allowed to enter classes with a hijab. Bhat, who is also the chairman of the School Development Management Committee of the Pre-University College, added that students will be allowed to attend classes only in online mode if they insist on wearing a hijab. “We will request the six students and their parents to desist from wearing hijab to the classrooms. If they do not agree, they can attend the classes online and take their examinations,” Bhat said. Discipline is mandatory in an educational institute, he said. “Parents must understand this and ask their children to follow the uniform code. We are not going to budge from our stand under any circumstance.” On Wednesday, the Karnataka government said an expert committee has been set up to resolve the controversy. The government said that all students at the college should adhere to the uniform rule till the committee decides on the issue. “If we yield to their demands here, this will begin in every other college. And then, in retaliation to this, saffron shawls and turbans will make it to the campus,” Bhat said, referring recent protest against hijab by some students backed by right-wing organisations, who wore saffron shawls to the college. “We have requested the community leaders to ensure that harmony is not disrupted in the district. They have assured me to hold a dialogue with the parents of the six students and revert in two days. The college principal will call the parents and request them to retract their stand on hijab,” Bhat added. On Thursday, the protesting students, however, reiterated that wearing a hijab is a right provided by the Constitution of India. “We are not committing any crime. We are not doing any indiscipline. We are just putting on a scarf, which is in the same colour as our college shawl. We are not covering our faces,” said one of the protesting students, requesting anonymity. Bhat said if the parents and students did not agree to remove the hijab, they can take admission in another private college. “Earlier, the agitating students have attended the classes without hijab for a good one and a half years. It’s just a matter of another one month. The classes will get over and examinations will be held. If they are stern on their hijab decision, they may consider attending the classes online. We will allow them to write the examination. Next year they can take admission in any other college of their choice but under no circumstance, we will allow them inside the classroom with hijab,” he said. “Why should we go to a different college? If a government college where the constitutional values should be upheld is doing this, you can imagine what will happen in a private college. Unity in diversity is taught in schools but it is not practised,” said one of the protesting students, requesting anonymity. 
28-01-2022||India||Former bureaucrats oppose proposed IAS rules changes||A group of former civil servants said on Thursday that the proposed amendments to the All India Service (AIS) cadre rules have not been thought through and are being rushed out without adequate federal consultation.The signatories, members of the Constitutional Conduct Group (CCG), issued a statement on Thursday that said, “The proposed set of amendments to the cadre rules of the three AIS are arbitrary, unreasonable and unconstitutional. They interfere with the basic structure of the Constitution of India as a Union of States and can cause irreparable damage to the one institution which Sardar Patel held as being the most critical to the unity of the country.”Also Read | IAS cadre issue: Enforce central deputation rulesThe proposed changes in rules pertain to deputation of civil servants from state cadres to the Centre. The Union government has claimed there is a shortfall in this deputation, which has meant vacancies in key positions in the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) as well as the Indian Police Service (IPS). Most states are not meeting their Central Deputation Reserve, or CDR, the Union government has said.Among the amendments proposed is one that says the Centre will arrive at the number of officers on CDR in consultation with states; another proposes that in case of any difference of opinion between the Centre and the state, the latter will have to go with the decision of the former, and within a specified time; a third proposal states that the Centre could pick a specific officer from a state in public interest.The CCG on Thursday said if passed, there is a likelihood that states will consider the state civil services as more amenable to them and may treat AIS officers with suspicion and distrust.It also feared that the rules will allow greater scope for abuse of power by the Union government so that whenever it is unhappy with the state government, it can target AIS officers occupying strategic posts, such as chief secretary, home secretary, director general of police, principal chief conservator of forests, district magistrate, superintendent of police, among others. The Centre may then withdraw such officers from their posts and place them elsewhere, thereby effectively derailing the functioning of the state administrative apparatus, the CCG said.The rules have also been opposed to by at least 11 states, with most arguing that they would kill the federal compact. The 11 states opposing the changes are Rajasthan, Telangana, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Bihar and Karnataka.Also Read | 17 states respond to proposed amendments to IAS cadre rules, 11 not in favourThe CCG in its statement said that the proposed amendment to the Cadre Rules “fundamentally alters” the relationship of the political executive and the bureaucrats, and makes a mockery of the delicate federal balance that the AIS are designed to maintain.“The whole idea of the Centre not having a ‘cadre’ of its own but having to ‘borrow’ the services of an officer for specific periods at key senior management levels is destroyed if the State as a ‘lender’ has no authority on what it lends and on what terms and conditions, but the borrower, on the other hand, exercises superior rights over the lender. This is turning the federal arrangement upside down,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bureaucrats-oppose-proposed-ias-rules-changes-101643309219576.html
28-01-2022||India||Covid cases plateauing but don’t lower guard: Govt||Coronavirus cases are plateauing in some regions of the country and the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2 is now dominant across the country, Union health ministry officials said on Thursday.They added that the Delta variant, which was predominant during the second wave of the pandemic in the country, is still circulating and urged people not to be complacent.Also, weekly case positivity may remain as high as about 18% nationally, officials said, adding that certain states were showing a positive trend of decline in weekly case positivity as well as new cases.“It is not that we are only getting cases of the Omicron variant; which means that the delta outbreak is not yet over, including in the Delhi-NCR region. It must be noted that the clinical severity or hospitalisations that we are seeing, can also be attributable to delta along with the omicron variant,” said SK Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), which is also the nodal centre for the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG).Sharing the genome sequencing results for December and January, Singh said that the percentage of omicron shows significant growth in January (this year) as compared to the month of December (last year).In December, we got 1,292 omicron samples, and more than 17,000 delta and its sub-lineage variants. In January, if we see, we got 9,672 Omicron positives, which are roughly 75% of the samples sequenced in the month so far. The delta and AY series data show, it is 3,201 samples of AY series and 1,578 of delta.According to government data, Odisha, West Bengal and Maharashtra are largely reporting cases of the delta variant and its sub-lineages.“As for the sub-lineages of Omicron, namely BA.1 and BA.2, India earlier reported most cases infected with BA.1 among travellers, and the trend that we are getting now is that of gradual increase in cases of BA.2, that is being reported from within community,” Singh added.The country has not reported the third sub-lineage of omicron, BA.3, yet.As for hospitalisations and deaths, Singh said analysis so far showed most cases were of those who were either unvaccinated or were suffering from certain co-morbidities.“If we look at the recent Delhi data, nearly 64% deaths reported are due to the unvaccinated ones and the volume of those having co-morbidities is also significantly large, making this population group extremely high-risk,” said Singh.Experts also said people need to be cautious; adhere strictly to Covid appropriate behavior; and get vaccinated.“Getting a vaccine shot is important as it has been established that vaccines prevent severe disease and death related to Covid-19 to a large extent. There is a population group that is at-risk that needs to be extra careful. Hospitalisation rate may be lower, but there are patients that are landing in hospitals; therefore, all preventive measures needed to be taken strictly along with taking the vaccine,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.According to government data, 5% of the country’s eligible adult population is yet to take the first Covid-19 vaccine dose while 74% of the eligible population is fully vaccinated, according to the government data.As for Covid-19 spread, the number of districts reporting weekly case positivity of 5% and above during the week ending January 26 went up to 551, as compared to 527 districts reported in the earlier week.Eleven states are currently reporting at least 50,000 active cases; 14 states between 10,000 and 50,000; and 11 states have less than 10,000 cases.Top five states in terms of volume of active cases are Karnataka (2,67,679), Maharashtra (2,68,484), Kerala (1,69,109), Tamil Nadu (1,70,661), and Gujarat (90,726). Barring Maharashtra, all other states are showing an increase in overall case positivity.“We are in touch with these states; disease containment and management related activities are being discussed and action plan drafted accordingly,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare.However, certain states have also reported a decline in weekly positivity, and those include Maharashtra (from 23.7 to 23.3%), Uttar Pradesh (8.7 to 7.3%), Delhi (29.1 to 14.7%), Odisha (16.1 to 13%), Haryana (31 to 27%), and West Bengal (23.8 to 9.5%).There is also a declining trend observed in certain states; wherein not just weekly case positivity has gone down but there is also a decrease in the number of new cases that are being reported, which is a positive trend. These districts include Bengaluru (urban), Chennai, Gurugram, Thane, Lucknow, Mumbai, Khorda, and Gautam Buddh Nagar.“For there to be an overall decline, rural areas also have to be saturated; and that has not happened yet. It will take some time before it can be said that the third wave has ebbed,” said T Jacob John, former head, department of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore (Tamil Nadu).
28-01-2022||India||India recorded 172% excess rain in Jan: IMD||It’s been a wet January across India: 172% excess rain over the country till January 27, with 183% excess rain over northwest India, 261% excess over central India, 154% over the southern peninsula, and 58% excess over northeast India.The reasons for the large excess were three active western disturbances (WDs), including two that came in quick succession, which affected northwest India between January 5 and 9 and then January 21 and 24.The disturbances originated over the North Atlantic Ocean before December 23 and moved eastwards towards the Indian Himalayas, although, in general, most of the western disturbances which affect India originate over the Caspian and Mediterranean seas.“The WDs between January 5 and 9 and January 21 and 24 brought widespread rains not just to northwest India but to central, east and northeast India also. Even parts of peninsular India including Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Rayalseema, Tamil Nadu got widespread rains between January 11 and 14 as the system travelled south. It’s uncommon for WDs to have such widespread impact, they were very intense and had features of polar systems because they originated over the North Atlantic Ocean. The WD between January 21 and 24 was so intense that it remained as a well-marked low over the land,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre at IMD.Widespread and heavy rain and snowfall over the hills and plains also led to markedly low day and night temperatures over most parts of the country including Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, and Odisha. “Both the rainfall and low temperatures are linked to these WDs that affected northwest India and travelled to central India. There was advection of very cold air from the upper reaches of Himalayas which is leading to below normal day and night temperatures in Mumbai, Pune and other parts of Maharashtra also. There was advection of cold wind from north to south. Additionally, there was a cloud cover which was obstructing sunshine over northwest India leading to record low day temperatures over Delhi,” explained DS Pai, who heads the climate research and services at IMD, Pune.A fresh feeble western disturbance is very likely to affect the Western Himalayan region from January 29 and another western disturbance is likely to affect northwest India from February 2.Under the influence of the fresh western disturbance, light isolated rainfall/snowfall is likely over Jammu-Kashmir-Ladakh-Gilgit-Baltistan-Muzaffarabad from Saturday to Monday. Under the influence of another western disturbance, scattered to fairly widespread rainfall or snowfall is likely over Western Himalayan region and light isolated rainfall over adjoining plains from February 2 to 4.There is likely to be a gradual rise in minimum temperatures over northwest India by 2-3 degree C thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-recorded-172-excess-rain-in-janimd-101643308619073.html
28-01-2022||India||MHA to states/UTs: Impose, lift local curbs based on Covid case positivity and hospitalisation status||The Central government on Thursday extended the Covid-19 guidelines across the country till February 28 and asked states/UTs to lift or impose local curbs on the basis of Covid-19 positivity and hospitalisation. Issuing an order under the Disaster Management Act, union home secretary Ajay Bhalla said the guidelines issued on December 27, 2021, to ensure compliance to the normative framework for taking evidence based Covid-19 containment measures at district/local level will remain in force till end of February. Bhalla separately wrote to the chief secretaries of states/UTs asking them to issue necessary directions to districts and local authorities concerned to take measures for prompt and effective management of Covid-19, strict compliance of various advisories issued by the central health ministry and strict enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour . “Due to the current Covid wave, led by the new variant – Omicron, there has been a steady increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country and the active cases have increased to over 22 lakhs. Though a majority of active cases are recovering fast and a low percentage of cases are in hospitals, it is still a matter of concern that 407 districts in 34 states and UTs are reporting a positivity rate of more than 10%”, Bhalla’s letter read. Therefore, he added, looking at the current trends of Covid virus, there is a need to exercise caution and vigilance. The home secretary said that “In this background, I would like to reiterate that all the states/UTs must observe all precautions and not let the guard down.” He asked the authorities to continue to take prompt and appropriate action. “Imposition and lifting of local curbs should be dynamic and should be based on case positivity and hospitalization status at the local level”. The ministry has also told the states to focus on the five-fold strategy of Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour to avoid any surge in Covid-19 cases, especially keeping in view Omicron. The government has already clarified through previous orders that any person violating the guidelines will be “liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, besides legal action under Section 188 of CrPC, and other legal provisions, as applicable.” India reported 2,86,384 new Covid-19 cases and 573 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry bulletin on Thursday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-to-states-uts-impose-lift-local-curbs-based-on-covid-case-positivity-and-hospitalisation-status-101643308559206.html
28-01-2022||India||Number Theory | Protests over railway jobs are a grim reminder of the state of India’s job market||The protests over problems with recruitment for railway jobs in the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, may well be India’s first large-scale unemployment riots. The protests have taken place across a large number of places in these two states. News reports suggest that at least 10 million applicants were hoping to get the roughly 40,000 jobs which were on offer. The politics on the protests notwithstanding – opposition parties have attacked the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over both the issue and police’s handling of it – they ought to be treated as a bellwether for the socio-economic unrest which India’s job markets can generate. Here are four charts which put this in perspective.India has among the worst labour market outcomes for young peopleAn international comparison of some of India’s peers and neighbours using World Bank data shows that India has among the worst labour market outcomes for the young (the 15-24-year-old population). This can be seen in persistence of high youth unemployment rates despite a very low labour force participation rate (LPFR) among this cohort. LPFR is defined as the share of economically active population – either working or looking for a job – in the given age group. This number was just 27.1% for the 15-24-year-old population in India, which is significantly lower than other countries. Despite such a low LFPR, youth unemployment rate is among the highest in India. Unemployment rate is defined as the share of unemployed persons in the labour force. A time-series analysis shows that things have become worse on this front in India in the last 15 years. The mismatch between education and employability has made matters worseThe mismatch between educational levels and employability has long been a running refrain in Indian labour markets. Statistics from the 2018-19 Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) (the 2019-20 PLFS includes three quarters of pre-pandemic data and one quarter of the harshest lockdown, which does not reflect either the pre-pandemic situation or the post-pandemic one completely) underline the centrality of this problem, which is likely to have become worse since the pandemic. While enrollment levels, both in school and higher education, have been rising in India, this education has not given any special labour market skills to most young Indians.In fact, one could make the counter-intuitive claim that higher education (of the kind which has been given) has actually harmed the job prospects of the young population because they are averse to taking up blue collar jobs and cannot find the kind of jobs they want. This is best seen in the fact that unemployment rate actually increases with education level. In the 15-29 age group the unemployment rate for the most educated is twice the value for all age groups. The reason there is a large demand for low-end government jobs in India is that their qualification and testing criterion are often set at general educational levels such as a higher secondary or graduate degree.
28-01-2022||India||Covishield, Covaxin get conditional market nod||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), India’s pharmaceuticals regulator, granted a conditional market authorisation for Covishield and Covaxin, the two coronavirus vaccines widely used in the country, officials said on Thursday.The approval is an upgrade from the emergency use authorisation and largely represents a regulatory endorsement of the safety doses, which are now classified at par with pharmaceutical and biological products that take years of vetting to authorise.Also Read | Panel pitches full market nod for Covaxin, CovishieldThe development will not make a difference on the availability of doses just yet.“The @CDSCO_INDIA_INF has now upgraded the permission for Covaxin and Covishield from restricted use in emergency situations to normal new drug permission in the adult population with certain conditions,” announced the Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Twitter soon after the approval was granted. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), India’s pharmaceuticals regulator, granted a conditional market authorisation for Covishield and Covaxin, the two coronavirus vaccines widely used in the country, officials said on Thursday.The approval is an upgrade from the emergency use authorisation and largely represents a regulatory endorsement of the safety doses, which are now classified at par with pharmaceutical and biological products that take years of vetting to authorise.The development will not make a difference on the availability of doses just yet.“The @CDSCO_INDIA_INF has now upgraded the permission for Covaxin and Covishield from restricted use in emergency situations to normal new drug permission in the adult population with certain conditions,” announced the Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Twitter soon after the approval was granted.|#+|A person aware of the decision said the approval does not mean the vaccines can be sold over-the-counter by pharmacies, in the way that fully approved doses are. “Conditional access does not permit that; in fact, people wanting to take the shot will still have to approach a covid vaccination centre. Pharmacies will not be able to stock it just yet,” said this person, a senior government official, asking not be to named.“Regular market authorisation may be granted later on probably once the entire eligible population is covered; for now, however, the sale and administration of doses will be closely monitored through the government system,” this person added.One of the ways in which the access to these doses will continue to be how it has been is due to the condition that these doses will need to be delivered under the Co-WIN vaccine management system.The health ministry said there authorisation was based on three preconditions: “firm shall submit data of overseas ongoing clinical trials of the product with due analysis on six monthly basis or as and when available, whichever is earlier; the vaccine shall be supplied for programmatic setting and all vaccinations done within the country to be recorded on Co-WIN platform; and Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI), Adverse Event of Special Interest (AESI) shall continue to be monitored. The firm shall submit the safety data including AEFI and AESI with due analysis on six monthly basis or as and when available, whichever is earlier as per NDCT Rules, 2019.”The vaccine will therefore continue to be supplied only through the vaccination programme, and the conditions on eligibility and timing of doses will continue to be as per the Co-WIN enforced policy. For instance, people under the age of 60 cannot take a booster, or “precaution” dose, unless they are in an at-risk job having completed nine months since their primacy vaccination.As on Thursday, over 1.4 billion doses of Covishield and 229 million doses of Covaxin have been administered.The key change will be for vaccine makers, who were previously required to submit to the drugs regulator rolling data from their clinical trial and adverse events during real-world vaccination follow-ups every 15 days. Now, they need to submit this data every six months. The conditions, however, will apply only for use of these vaccines within India.“Conditional Market Authorisation is a new category of market authorisation that has emerged during the current global pandemic of Covid-19. The approval pathways through this route are fast-tracked with certain conditions to enhance the access to certain pharmaceuticals for meeting the emerging needs of drugs or vaccines,” said the health ministry statement cited above.Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare, explained during the Covid media briefing that the vaccines will still have to be administered under the government programme.“From monitoring point of view, it is pertinent to track each dose that’s being administered through the Co-WIN platform; and both AEFI and AESI data to be submitted after every six months to the national drugs controller,” he said.Commenting on receiving the conditional market authorisation, Adar Poonawalla, chief executive of Serum Institute of India, which makes Covishield, said: “We are delighted to receive the Conditional Market Authorisation for Covishield from the DCGI. With this, our focus should be to reduce the gap between the 2nd and the 3rd dose to six months, as it is done globally. Our objective must be to get the population fully vaccinated to curb the spread of the pandemic.”
28-01-2022||India||Omicron likely to make vaccine update inevitable||The evolution of the Sars-CoV-2 into the Omicron variant appears to represent a turning point long expected by scientists: coronavirus vaccines will need to be updated. The most significant endorsement of this understanding came after a meeting on January 12 when a coalition of medical regulators from 37 countries and regions (including all of EU, UK, US and India) agreed that there was now a need to reconsider the current vaccine design. In a statement after the meeting, the International Coalition of Medical Regulatory Authorities (ICMRA) along with the World Health Organization (WHO) urged the scientific community to begin exploring what are called multivalent or bivalent vaccines, which in other words refers to shots that are designed on the basis of not one but two or more configurations of the virus.The evidenceThere are several studies but they can largely be whittled down to observations in two settings: the lab and the real-world. Lab results from early on in the Omicron outbreak have shown that the antibody response from two shots is almost completely sidestepped by the new variant. A more detailed analysis of why there is such a drop in the ability of antibodies from a primary vaccination course was published this week after peer-review in the journal Cell. Carried out by researchers from La Jolla Institute it found that memory B cells, which churn out antibodies, could recognise only 42% of the heavily mutated virus.And this has been borne out in real world data: in its latest variant surveillance report, the UK Health Security Agency last Friday said protection from symptomatic infection drops to 18-20%. Booster doses helped lift this protection to 65-70%, but even that begins to fall, reaching just under 50% teen weeks after a third shot.The WHO has set 50% as the floor for effectiveness against symptomatic disease for a successful vaccine – a bar that all shots clear when it comes to the ancestral virus that spread of Wuhan. But variants mean that bar has become tougher to reach.What about current doses?They are still extremely effective against severe disease or death. For instance, the UKHSA data showed that even when they had just 18-20% against illness, they offered a much higher 65% protection against needing to visit a hospital. This rose to 92% right after a booster dose of the current vaccine.The LA Jolla study explains why this happens. T cells, which root out the virus from the body after an infection, retain up to 85% of their ability even against the Omicron variant. In other variants, even if current vaccines don’t stop an infection as well, they are significantly more capable in protecting against the worst of Covid-19.What next?Israel is now among the first nations to roll out a second booster shot – a fourth dose – to combat the erosion in protection by the Omicron variant. The ICMRA said repeated boosters are not a feasible approach and vaccine makers should begin work on multivalent or bivalent doses.What strengthens the ICMRA’s position is not only evidence like the waning of boosters even after 10 weeks, but also the signs that Omicron’s further evolution may offer. The mutant is, expectedly, evolving into offshoots like the BA.2. Although it is not a concern yet, it is under investigation and underscores the inevitability of more mutations that could further erode the efficacy of current vaccines.The good news is that vaccine makers have been testing multivalent and bivalent vaccines since last year. Moderna has developed and is testing the mRNA 1273.211 – a combination of its original vaccine and one designed on the Beta variant – and the mRNA 1273.213, which is based on the Beta and Delta variants. Similarly, Pfizer-BioNTech is testing the BNT162b2 (B.1.1.7 + B.1.617.2), which is based on the Alpha and Delta variants. Both companies are also working on Omicron-specific shots.Omicron may finally be too far removed from the evolutionary path that other variants followed, necessitating a new design for vaccines, which till now were almost as good against most variants as they were against the Wuhan-origin virus.
28-01-2022||India||Former V-P expresses concern over rights’ situation in India, govt rebuts||WASHINGTON: Criticising India’s recent record on protecting human rights, civil liberties and religious freedom, a United States (US) senator, three US Congressmen, the chair of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), and India’s former vice-president Mohammad Hamid Ansari have warned that the country is steering away from its constitutional values.At a virtual event held in Washington DC on Wednesday, to coincide with Republic Day, on the theme of “Protecting India’s Pluralist Constitution”, the speakers focused, in particular, on what they termed as the rise in hate speech against religious minorities, the “misuse” of the Unlawful (Activities) Prevention Act, and the detention of a Kashmiri activist, Khurram Parvez.
