29-01-2022||India||Nadal chases history at Aussie Open today||MumbaiFor the second straight Grand Slam, one of the three greatest tennis players of the modern era (and perhaps of all time) will take a shot at redefining the boundaries of success, at rearranging the pecking order, and at rescripting the GOAT (greatest of all time) debate.Thirteen years after the first and the last time he won a title at Melbourne Park, Spain’s Rafael Nadal takes on Daniil Medvedev in the final on Sunday with an eye on a second Australian Open and a record-breaking 21st Grand Slam trophy. The number 21 has been the overriding figure in all tennis talk since Novak Djokovic put himself level with Nadal and Roger Federer by winning his 20th Major at Wimbledon last year. To be sure, women’s tennis has had its own number, and for a bit longer -- 24. While the World No. 1 Djokovic missed the chance to be the first to 21, by losing at the 2021 US Open, the Spaniard now has a chance to get there with one more victory at the 2022 Australian Open. Across the net is the same man who stopped Djokovic from creating history in New York, Russian Medvedev, who is gunning for a bit of history to become the only player in the professional era to win a second Grand Slam immediately after the first.But the similarity between Djokovic’s charge in New York, and Nadal’s at Melbourne, stops there. Djokovic went to the US Open last year after winning Wimbledon, the Australian Open, and the French Open titles. Buzz around the impending record and a so-called Calendar Slam reached a crescendo in the months leading up to the US Open. The Serb too was happy to add to the chatter. Eventually, Medvedev dashed the hopes and the hype. In contrast, Nadal started the year without having played a competitive match since August 2021. Making a comeback after recovering from a troublesome foot injury and a Covid-19 infection in December, the 35-year-old didn’t expect a whole lot from himself going into the season-opening Slam. No. 21 in Australia? Quite a long shot, the pundits would have said before the tournament began. Nadal himself downplayed the number; not that anyone was paying too much attention to him before the Slam; Djokovic’s off-court antics and drama hogged the headlines. As he went from one round to another, raising his level of play and digging deep, all that Nadal spoke about was how happy he was just to be playing tennis. Looking ahead to one of his most significant matches, Nadal reiterated that sentiment—feeling “alive” once again in his tennis career meant more than any probable Grand Slam record. “Being very honest, for me it’s much more important to have the chance to play tennis than win the 21, no?” Nadal said after his semi-final win against Italian Matteo Berrettini.Whether or not the GOAT contenders like to talk about it, Medvedev, who is rapidly acquiring a reputation as a talker, sure loves standing in their way. “I’m happy to have the chance to try to stop one more time somebody from making history,” he said.Sunday’s clash will be the 25-year-old World No 2’s fourth Grand Slam final appearance; his previous three have come against either Djokovic or Nadal. While he was blown away by Djokovic in the Australian Open title clash last year, Medvedev returned the favour at the US Open. The last time the Russian played Nadal at this stage was his first taste of it, losing a tight five-setter at the 2019 US Open final. Back then, Nadal was seeded No.2. And the Russian was seeded No.5. This time, Nadal is seeded No.6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadal-chases-history-at-aussie-open-today-101643480948104.html
29-01-2022||India||Karnataka eases Covid curbs, Bengaluru schools to reopen||The Karnataka government on Saturday decided to lift the night curfew and start regular classes in schools and colleges, after considering low hospitalisation among Covid-19 patients in the state.Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said the new guidelines will come into effect from Monday. The decision was announced after the CM held a meeting with senior ministers and experts. “It is observed that there has been a steady decline in new Covid-19 cases in the state. Further, 97% of the active cases are in home isolation and only 3% are requiring hospitalisation. The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended opening up of more activities on assessing the current situation,” read an order from the government. The government also decided to reopen physical classes in schools and colleges in the state capital from Monday. Schools in Bengaluru Urban district can start physical classes for classes 1 to 9 from Monday, said Karnataka education minister BC Nagesh. “From Monday, all classes will open in compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour. If any positive case is found, only that particular class will be closed, not the entire school. All students in that class will be tested for Covid-19,” Nagesh told reporters. “Depending on the total number of positive cases, the deputy commissioner (of the district concerned) will decide how long the class should remain shut.”According to the revised guidelines, government offices will be allowed to function at full capacity. The government allowed hotels, pubs, bars, restaurants, and clubs to remain open completely and allow 100% occupancy. They are currently operating at 50% capacity.However, only 50% of the occupancy will be allowed in the cinema halls, multiplexes, auditoriums, swimming pools, gyms, sports complexes and stadia.The Metro rail and other public transport will be allowed to accept passengers as per the sitting capacity. “Marriage functions are permitted with 200 members indoors and 300 outdoors while religious places can open to 50% capacity. However, no permission has been given for social, religious and political rallies, dharnas, conventions and protests,” the order said. It was also decided in the meeting to reserve 25% of beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients and instructions were issued to ensure proper treatment for non-Covid patients, the guidelines said. On January 21, the Karnataka government had lifted the weekend curfew, but retained other restrictions like the night curfew and 50% occupancy in commercial establishments. With the latest announcement, most restrictions imposed to combat Covid-19 in the state have been withdrawn. Though experts predicted that the state would report 70,000 to 150,000 Covid-19 cases per day during the peak of the third wave, the current trend shows a possible decline in the number of cases in the state. The data released by the Karnataka State Covid War Room said that out of the 30 districts in the state, 24 have a case positivity rate higher than 10%. The state’s average positivity rate is 20.63% and more than half of the districts have reported a positivity rate greater than the state average as of last week, the data suggests. Even though the number of cases has been higher than the first two waves, hospitalisations have remained low. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Friday said that Omicron was the dominant variant in the third Covid-19 wave. He also released data backing his claim. “A total of 67.5% of cases in the third wave were of the Omicron variant while 26% were of the Delta variant. In comparison, 90.7% of the cases in the second wave were of the Delta variant,” the minister added. Out of 7,512 cases sent for genome sequencing till January 22 (since the beginning of the pandemic), 4,431 were of Delta variant, while Omicron accounted for 1,115 cases. A further break-up of the data showed that till December 2021, 5,659 samples were sent for sequencing, of which 4,027 tested positive for the Delta variant. During this time, 66 cases of Omicron variant were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-eases-covid-curbs-bengaluru-schools-to-reopen-101643479569111.html
29-01-2022||India||Odisha village decides to boycott panchayat polls over monkey menace||Ahead of next month’s three-tier panchayat polls in Odisha, voters in a village of coastal Bhadrak district have a strange demand from all candidates - drive away the monkeys on prowl or else the villagers would boycott the polls.In Gopagadadharpur village under Talapada gram panchayat of Bhadrak district, villagers have decided to boycott the panchayat polls next month after a dozen people were injured, half of them seriously in simian attacks in the last 2 months. Many of the unsuspecting victims were going through their daily chores when they were attacked leading to major injuries and subsequent hospitalisation. Villagers said the monkeys in a group of 30 have ganged up to attack the villagers.Chintamani Das, Zilla parishad member, who is contesting for the post of member of Tihidi panchayat samiti said, people want a firm word on respite from the monkeys or else they will not vote. “Though the monkeys earlier used to devour vegetables or fruits, over the last 2 months they have become too violent. A middle-aged woman was walking to her home when a monkey grabbed her and pressed its teeth into her shoulders. She was in hospital for several weeks,” said Das.Former member of Tihidi panchayat samiti, Harischandra Mishra said it is impossible to walk on the road without a monkey chasing villagers. “We are lucky that schools are closed and hence children are safe. Otherwise, there is every danger of kids being attacked. We want a commitment from any candidate that the monkey menace will end and then we will vote in the panchayat polls,” said Mishra.In Talapada village, the birthplace of Laxmikanta Mohapatra, who wrote Odisha’s state anthem ‘Bande Utkal Janani’, his grandson and daughter-in-law too have been at the receiving end of monkey attacks. “If we forget to close the doors the monkeys take away vegetables from our kitchen,” said Banikalyan Mohapatra, the poet’s grandson.Bhadrak Divisional Forest Officer Adhir Behera said his department has put up cages in the gram panchayat to capture the monkeys, but admitted that it’s a daunting task. “There have been several efforts in the past in other districts to drive away the monkeys, but they have not been very successful. We have to keep trying,” said Behera.In Odisha’s Deogarh district, villagers of Jharagogua, Gandam, Parposhi, Dimirikuda and Jharmunda gram panchayat in Tileibani block have decided to boycott polls over the absence of mobile network. The villagers said they have used a vehicle to canvas in the areas with a poster, ‘No Network, No Vote’. The five GPs comprising 27 villages have over 13,516 people and absence of mobile connectivity has deprived them from availing online education and healthcare services.In Bijipur village of Kendrapara district, people have decided to boycott the polls over closure of village schools protesting the school merger policy of the state government. The primary school at Bijipur village was closed two years ago under the merger policy of the state government and merged with the school at nearby Sana Adhanga village. The villagers said they have been protesting the decision since last two years and submitted a grievance to the office of the CM, but no action has been taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-village-decides-to-boycott-panchayat-polls-over-monkey-menace-101643479450171.html
29-01-2022||India||HT This Day: January 31, 1949 -- World pays homage to Gandhiji||India observed January 30 - the first anniversary of the death of Mahatma Gandhi-at crowded but solemn functions with the people’s thoughts turned to prayer and to the teachings of the Father of the Nation. The focal point was Rajghat, in Delhi, where the Governor-General and the Prime Minister with hundreds of thousands of others went on pilgrimage to pay homage at the sacred ‘samadhi.’ After prayers and recitation of the Bhagwadgita in the morning, there was a programme of congregational spinning. In the afternoon, almost exactly at the time when Gandhiji fell while going to his daily prayer meeting, over 200,000 people joined in a special prayer service conducted by Acharya Vinoba Bhave. Later, the whole gathering repeated “The Message” after the Congress President, Dr Pattabhi Sitaramayya. “The Message” gratefully recalled the leadership of Bapu and said: “It was the particular teaching of Gandhiji that service should be directed more specially towards promoting amity and goodwill between all the people of India, abolishing class distinctions and those based on birth or caste or religion, and working for a classless democratic society in a peaceful manner. Above all the lesson Gandhiji taught was the adherence at all costs and in all circumstances to the moral values which give meaning to life.” The most touching moment during the day came when a passage from a recorded speech of Gandhiji was relayed by A.I.R. at the prayer meeting. Several people broke down and there was a hush as long as the familiar voice spoke of non-violence. The ceremonies in the capital were rounded up with a function at night at Government House. A bust of Mahatma Gandhi bedecked in flowers which had been presented to His Excellency Mr Rajagopalachari, Governor-General, in Calcutta by a Bengali artist, was placed in the centre of a shamiana pitched in the gardens while the families of all Government House staff sat around it. Bhajans and kirtans were sung and then the Governor-General addressed the gathering.In addition to the Government House staff, some of the Ministers and Secretaries to the Government as well as the Egyptian and Afghan Ambassadors were present on the occasion which was a unique “family gathering.” Long before daybreak, people in their thousands began to converge on Rajghat. Men and women of all communities organized in prabhat pheris parties of children carrying flowers and National Flags and groups of villagers from the surrounding countryside thronged all approaches to the Rajghat grounds. Over a million went on pilgrimage today. All morning there were long queues of devotees waiting their turn to pay their homage. Scores of thousands went round the flower-bedecked samadhi. The flowers on the sacred platform were arranged to form Hey Ram. the last words spoken by Gandhiji. Flower offerings made by people were piled around the platform. Among those who placed wreaths and flowers were Ministers and a number of members of the diplomatic corps. In a temple-like atmosphere, with incense vessels at the four corners of the samadhi, special prayers -began at 6 a.m. when a group of women also started non-stop spinning to last 36 hours. Recitation of the whole text of the Gita followed.Later congregational spinning continued from 11-30 a.m. to 1 p.m. The Prime Minister was among the 503 men, women and children who took part in it. The Rajghat area was a mass of humanity when the prayer meeting began at 5 p.m. On a high platform sat the Governor-General, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, members of the Cabinet and others. Members of Gandhiji’s family and a number of close associates and Ashramites were also there. The service began with Ramdhun the singing of which was led by Kanu and his wife, Abha Gandh and Tara Gandhi. Kanu then recited a verse from the Gita, and was followed by Miss Amtus Salam, who recited a verse front the Quran. More verses from the Gita were recited and a Mira bhajan was sung by Shrimati Indulekha Bose before Acharya Vinoba Bhave addressed the gathering. Since the service was being relayed by A.LR. Acharya Vinoba read a written address.The service concluded with Jana-Gana-Mana. Many local organizations arranged their own programmes of meetings and prayers. At various educational institutions the portrait of Gandhiji was unveiled and students and staff pledged to follow the teachings of Gandhiji in the spheres of social Work and educational reconstruction. Mr Kala Venkata Rao, General Secretary, A.I.C.C. addressing a meeting on “The Life and Teachings of Gandhiji” at the College of Commerce, urged students to divert all intellectual pursuits for the social benefit of the whole country. Mr Rao said that the greatness of Gandhiji lay not in merely arousing the conscience of the people for demanding rights but in action. Through action he wanted realization of his dream of Ram Rajya. The country had won freedom but it was not of the type Gandhiji wanted. It was for the coming generation to create that atmosphere in which the dream of Ram Rajya would be realized.He said the loss of Gandhiji could be compensated if the nation on the occasion of his first death anniversary dedicated itself to fulfil his mission. Ideals Of Service Speaking at the Delhi School of Social Work, Mr Venkata Rao urged the students to follow the ideals of social service preached by Gandhiji. He said a certain amount of control over society was needed to enable it to elevate itself to the high ideals of service. At Yoga Ashram, a special programme of physical exercises was arranged. Speaking on the occasion, Mr R. R. Diwakar, Minister of State for Broadcasting and Information, referred to Gandhiji as the greatest yogi who controlled his body, mind and emotions and utilized them for the service of God in man. Yoga is of great importance and it has reached perfection in India as a means of controlling physical and vital powers in man. Gandhiji was a practical yogi and his life was a blend of both -meditation and action. Message Of Love Presiding over a meeting organized by the Karnataka Sangha, Mr Diwakar spoke on the significance of the Mahatma’s message. It was a strange irony of fate that leaders of mankind such as Socrates and Jesus Christ had also met death at the hands of their fellowmen. Mahatma Gandhi, he added, was no more with us, ‘but his message of love and the unity of human spirit would live for ever and inspire mankind to build a better social order. Students of the Lady Irwin College held a congregational prayer in the morning which was followed by a procession to Rajghat. Most of the students observed fast. A purse of Rs. 2,000 was presented to Mr Radha Raman, President of Delhi Provincial Congress Committee, at a meeting at Ajmeri Gate by the Delhi Coal Merchants’ Association for the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Fund. The association pledged to remove black-marketing and corruption within their ranks.Appeal To Traders Mr Radha Raman exhorted all traders to remove malpractices and live up to the high ideals which Gandhiji wanted them to follow. The S. N. Das Gupta College held a meeting under the presidentship of Mr Bhimsen Sachar who performed lie flag-hoisting ceremony. Addressing students, he advised them to follow the doctrine of love and brotherhood which was the guiding factor of the philosophy of Gandhiji. Workers of the Hindustan Times observed silence for a minute at 5-17 p.m. At a meeting they pledged to follow Gandhiji’s teachings. The Balkan-ki-Bari organized a children’s procession which terminated at Rajghat. The Delhi Provincial Students’ Congress organized a torch-light procession which started from Red Fort. Parading the main localities, the procession terminated at Rajghat. Prayers and meetings in their respective localities were also organized >y the Delhi Provincial Mehtar Mazdoor Federation, the Delhi Women’s League, the Timarpur Youths’ Association, the Delhi Karnataka Sangha, Andhra Club, Delhi Tamil Sangham, the Pusa Students’ Union and the Delhi and Punjab Youth Congress. A mass parade of Delhi Rovers and ‘atrol Leaders was held at the H.Q. ad prayers were held. D.P.C.C. PROGRAMME FOR FORTNIGHT The Delhi Provincial Congress Committee has chalked out the following programme for the fortnight January 31-February 11:A study circle will be organized at Beadon Club at 6 p.m. daily. Gandhiji’s mission will be explained by Acharya Vinoba Bhave on January 31, constructive programme and Congress economic policy by Mr Shankerrao Deo on February 1, the economics of Khadi by Mr Cishendas Jaju on February 2, communal unity by Gopi Nath Aman on February 3, untouchability by Mr Byogi Hari and Thakkar Bapa on February 4, labour organization - by Kr Khandubhai on February 5, basic education by Maulana Shafiq-ultehman on February 6, Kisan organization by Mr Kala Venkata Rao on February 7, political parties in Indiab y Mr K. Santhanam on February 8, Congress economic programme by Prof. Kumarappa and Mr Shankerrao Deo on February 9, Congress organiation by Dr Pattabhi Sitaramayya n February 10 and our duty towards Bapu by Mr Jairamdas Daulatram on February 1L||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-january-31-1949-world-pays-homage-to-gandhiji-101643476688652.html
29-01-2022||India||Treat for sky gazers: Celestial events that will be visible in 2022||A series of celestial events, including meteor showers, eclipses and planets coming together among others, are expected to light up the sky in 2022. Here is a list of events that you can expect to see in the coming months. Eclipses: This year’s first partial solar eclipse on April 30 will, however, not be visible from India. It would be visible mostly from South America and best visible from Argentina, said Debiprosad Duari, former director (research and academic) of MP Birla Planetarium in Kolkata. The first total lunar eclipse of the year on May 16 would also not be visible from India as the eclipse would end before the moon rises. On June 14 around 5:22 pm, however, a super moon would be visible from India. Around that time the full moon would be at perigee (closest to the earth). Such a phase of the full moon would again be visible on July 14 just after midnight. A partial solar eclipse would be visible from India on October 25. The maximum obscuration of 55% - 60% may be seen from Jammu and Kashmir. “People in northwest India would witness up to 35% obscuration and those in central India may see up to 22% obscuration. In south India the obscuration would be just around 13%,” Duari added. On November 8, a lunar eclipse would be visible. While it would be a full lunar eclipse for people living in north-eastern part of India, West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and eastern parts of Odisha and Uttar Pradesh, the rest of India will see only the partial phases. Meteor showers: On April 22 and 23 one may watch out for the Lyrids Meteor Shower, produced by Comet C/1861 G1 Thatcher. During its peak there would be at least 20 meteors per hour. On May 6 and 7 one may watch out for the Eta Aquarids Meteor Shower, produced by dust particles left by Comet Halley. There could be at least 30 meteors per hour in the northern hemisphere.“A meteor shower occurs when the earth passes through debris shed by a comet or asteroid,” said Duari. Made of tiny space debris from the comet Swift-Tuttle, the Perseids meteor shower is expected around August 12 and 13. It could produce around 60 meteors per hour. On October 21 and 22 one may watch the Orionids meteor shower produced by Comet Halley. It is expected to produce around 20 meteors per hour. The Leonids meteor shower, produced by the Comet Temple Tuttle, would hit around November 17 and 18, while Geminids meteor shower, produced by debris of Asteroid 3200 Phaethon, will light up the sky with around 120 meteors per hour on December 13 and 14. Planets: Mercury, the innermost planet of our solar system, remains most invisible as it never strays away from the sun. But on February 16, the planet would be at the greatest elongation. This means it would swing to one side of the sun allowing us to see it just before sunrise. On August 14, the planet Saturn with its rings would be in opposition around 10:30 pm. “Opposition of a planet happens when earth comes between that planet and the sun. During that time the planet is generally closest to our earth and brightest for that year. It is the best time to observe that outer planet,” said Duari. Likewise, on September 27 the planet Jupiter would be at opposition around 1 am and would be visible throughout the night. On December 25 Mars would be at its opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/treat-for-sky-gazers-celestial-events-that-will-be-visible-in-2022-101643475848465.html
29-01-2022||India||Harsimrat asks who picked Rahul Gandhi's pocket; Congress denies any such incident||Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday posted a tweet that implied that Rahul Gandhi was pickpocketed during his recent visit to Amritsar's Golden Temple. Claiming that only Charanjit Singh Channi, Navjot Sidhu and Sukjhinder Singh Randhawa were accompanying Rahul Gandhi, the former Union minister questioned whether this was an attempt to 'bring bad name' to the shrine.The Congress denied any such incident. हरसिमरत जी,जब ऐसा कुछ हुआ ही नहीं तो ऐसी झूठी खबरें फैलाना पवित्र गुरु घर की बेअदबी है। चुनावी गतिरोध चलेगा पर आपको जुम्मेवारी व परिपक्वता दिखानी चाहिये।हाँ, मोदी सरकार की कैबिनेट में बैठ काले क़ानूनों पर मोहर लगवाना मेहनती किसानों की जेब काटने जैसा ज़रूर है। https://t.co/QTgvPwtNolCongress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said nothing like this happened and spreading such false news is a disgrace to the shrine. Political conflict will go on, but one needs to be more responsible while levelling such charges, Surjewala wrote."Yes, being in the cabinet of the Modi government and stamping the farm laws is definitely like pickpocketing hardworking farmers," Surjewala added. Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned from PM Modi's cabinet in protest against the farm laws which have now been repealed.On Thursday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi paid a visit to Golden Temple and had lunch in the langar. "As always, it felt good to bow my head at the Darbar Sahib. I felt a sense of belonging." Rahul Gandhi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsimrat-asks-who-picked-rahul-gandhi-s-pocket-cong-denies-any-such-incident-101643474737513.html
29-01-2022||India||Bihar’s second rail tunnel, 903-feet long becomes operational||Bihar has got its second rail tunnel – nearly 903-feet long. The first one built in 1861-1865 period between Jamalpur-Bhagalpur-Sahebganj loop lines was in Munger district and the second one is also located in Munger, but built 157 years later adjacent to the earlier one.The work on the new tunnel cutting through Bariakol hill near Jamalpur railway station started on October 22, 2019 and was completed in 2022. This rail tunnel will present the glorious story of Munger. A side wall has been made at both its entrance and exit. The historical, religious heritage of the district has been presented through paintings on these walls. After an inspection by the Commissioner of Railway Safety (CRS) AM Choudhary and Malda divisional railway manager (DRM) Yatendra Kumar, a trial run was conducted through the tunnel.Officials said, a special train with nine bogies passed through the tunnel at a speed of 125 km per hour, the highest ever achieved on the route. In the first trial, a speed of 121 km per hour was achieved. After the successful trial run, train services have been started through the new tunnel, said Malda DRM on Saturday. He told HT that a six-feet pathway will also be built on both sides inside the tunnel for peddlers.Railway officials said that the tunnel would be of immense help in maintaining schedule of trains, as there will be no problem of level crossings any more. Earlier, a train coming on the Up-line meant that another train coming from the other side had to be stopped at Jamalpur or Ratanapur, as only one train could pass at a time. Now, the Rajdhani Express can also run through the route due to its ability to handle a high speed of 125 km per hour. Before coming from Bariarpur towards Jamalpur, a huge canvas has been made on the left side of the entrance of the new tunnel. More than a dozen historical pictures were displayed on it. In the picture, dozens of historical monuments such as Haveli Kharagpur Lake, Sri Krishna Setu, Munger Gang Bridge, Kash Harni Ghat, Bhima Dam, Munger Fort, Chandikasthan, have been depicted. After exiting the tunnel, many historical monuments including Munger’s Karna Chauraha, Yoga Ashram are shown through the picture.The 903-feet tunnel took two years to complete, costing ₹45-crore. The work had started in 2019 and the tunnel was dug by December 2020 December. Officials said that this is a hi-tech tunnel under Malda division falling under the Eastern Railway. Deputy chief engineer of Malda rail division Ranjit Kumar told HT that the second tunnel in Bihar is made with Australian technology. Passengers will not experience darkness inside this tunnel. Lights have been installed inside the tunnel. Due to this, the passengers will not even know when they are entering the tunnel and when they are exiting it.Bhagwan Prasad Yadav, 88, a former loco pilot of Jamalpur said that the old tunnel has become rather risky and the new one will facilitate faster movement of trains both on up and down tracks. The new rail tunnel has a length of 341 metres, width of 7 metres and height 6.10 metres
29-01-2022||India||CBI changes entire team probing death of Dhanbad Judge||Two weeks after the Jharkhand high court reprimanded the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for not conducting the investigation properly into the death of Dhanbad Judge Uttam Anand, the central agency has changed the entire probe team in the case.A Superintendent of Police (SP) rank officer - Vikas Kumar from Delhi has already reached Dhanbad to replace the current investigating officer ASP (Additional SP) Vijay Shukla and has already sought permission from the court to once again interrogate the two arrested accused - Rahul Verma and Lakhan Verma. A 20-member SIT team has been investigating the case since August last year. People familiar with the development confirmed to HT that the members of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Dhanbad Judge’s mysterious mowing down on the morning of July 28 last year, when he was out jogging, have been changed “to probe the larger conspiracy”. One of the officials cited above said CBI Joint Director Sharad Aggarwal will continue to supervise the investigation in the case, but all other officers from existing team have been replaced. It has been learnt that the new team led by SP Kumar from Delhi-based Special Crimes Unit-2 already visited the Randhir Verma Square on January 26 to recreate the crime scene. The new team has also sought permission from the court to interrogate the accused for three days inside the prison. Judge Uttam Anand was mowed down by an auto-rickshaw on July 28, an incident which sparked off security concerns in the entire judiciary. The vehicle, which was stolen from Dhanbad, was recovered from neighbouring Giridih district that night. Two persons — auto driver Lakhan Verma, 22, and his accomplice Rahul Verma, 21 — were arrested two days later.The Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court took suo motu cognisance of the hit-and-run incident in which Anand, 49, was killed after CCTV footage showed a three-wheeler swerving on an empty road to knock him down as he was jogging outside the Magistrate Colony near Randhir Verma Square in Dhanbad. The apex court also later expressed distress over rising incidents of verbal and physical attacks on judges throughout the country. The central agency filed a charge sheet against the two in October last year for murder and destruction of evidence but the Jharkhand high court is unhappy with the CBI probe. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad had on January 14 pulled up the CBI for not properly conducting the probe in the matter while saying that a larger conspiracy needs to be unearthed. The bench observed that the murder has not happened because of any mobile phone theft or any other trivial matter, while asking the CBI to produce the narco tests reports of the accused men. Earlier, in October last year, the high court rapped the central agency for filing a stereotype chargesheet in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-changes-entire-team-probing-death-of-dhanbad-judge-101643472548460.html
29-01-2022||India||30-years of India-Israel friendship: PM Modi says 'time to set new goals' to take forward ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday praised the decades-old relationship between India and Israel as he asserted that the cooperation between the two countries has played a key role in the growth stories of the two nations. He issued a special video message, marking 30 years of the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Israel."The history of the relationship between our countries is very old. There has been a strong relationship between the people of India and Israel for centuries," the Prime Minister said.PM Modi this period has been very important for both countries and there cannot be a better time to set new goals for taking forward India-Israel relations. "Today, when the world is witnessing important changes, the importance of India-Israel relations has increased even more. I am fully confident that the India-Israel friendship will achieve new milestones in mutual cooperation in the coming decades," PM Modi addedThough India had recognised Israel on September 17, 1950, full-fledged diplomatic relations between the countries were established on January 29, 1992. Since then, the bilateral relations between both countries have developed into a multifaceted strategic partnership.Earlier this week, Israel's envoy to India Naor Gilon also emphasised that the 30th anniversary of India-Israel diplomatic ties is a good opportunity to look ahead and shape the next 30 years of relations.Emphasising that "friendship and trust" are not only positive traits but also "real assets", the foreign ministers of India and Israel in a joint op-ed for an Israeli daily on Friday said the two countries have worked together to "deepen their roots" for the last three decades, delving together to find solutions to common challenges, including in the security sector.Meanwhile, the Teen Murti Haifa Chowk in the national capital lit up in Indian and Israeli colours on Saturday to celebrate 30 years of friendship between India and Israel.Earlier known as Teen Murti chowk, it was renamed as Teen Murti Haifa Chowk on January 2018 during the former Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visit to India.The three bronze statues at Teen Murti represent the Hyderabad, Jodhpur and Mysore Lancers, who were part of the 15 Imperial Service Cavalry Brigade, which carried out the victorious assault on the fortified Israeli city of Haifa on September 23, 1918, during World War I.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30years-of-india-israel-friendship-pm-modi-says-time-to-set-new-goals-to-take-forward-ties-101643471480594.html
29-01-2022||India||India sends 3 tonnes of medicines as fourth tranche of aid to Afghanistan||India on Saturday supplied three tonnes of life-saving medicines to Afghanistan, the fourth tranche of aid since last month to help the Afghan people cope with a growing humanitarian crisis that has been compounded by a harsh winter. The medicines were handed over to the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health in Kabul, the external affairs ministry said. “In the coming weeks, we would be supplying more batches of humanitarian assistance consisting of medicines and food grains for the people of Afghanistan,” the ministry said in a statement. India had earlier supplied 3.6 tonnes of medicines and 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines to Afghanistan. An offer to provide 50,000 tonnes of wheat via land routes passing through Pakistan has been held up since October last year as Islamabad is yet to finalise the modalities for shipping the grains. India has also pledged to send another 500,000 doses of vaccines in the coming weeks. “India stands committed to continue our special relationship with the people of Afghanistan and provide humanitarian assistance. In this endeavour, we had already supplied three shipments of medical assistance, consisting of 500,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine and essential life-saving medicines to Afghanistan,” the statement said. All these supplies were handed over to the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a media briefing on Friday that the Indian government is committed to provide humanitarian aid, including food grains, Covid-19 vaccines and life-saving medicines, to the Afghan people. “The process to procure the wheat and to arrange its transportation is currently underway. Naturally, this takes some time,” he said, referring to the offer to supply 50,000 tonnes of wheat. The Taliban, whose regime in Kabul has not been recognised by New Delhi, have so far welcomed the aid provided by India. The group’s Twitter accounts and spokesmen have expressed gratitude for the assistance. The UN has sought close to $8 billion dollars for humanitarian activities in Afghanistan during 2022, including $4.4 billion in additional humanitarian assistance. The UN has said about 23 million Afghan people are in a state of humanitarian emergency, and UNICEF estimates more than one million children are at risk of dying from malnutrition and hunger-related disease. 
29-01-2022||India||J&K: Terrorists shoot policeman dead in Anantnag district; probe underway||A police constable lost his life after being shot by terrorists in Bijbehara area of Anantnag district in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday. According to reports by multiple news agencies, the deceased policeman was identified as head constable Ali Muhammad.He was immediately rushed to a local hospital, where he succumbed to the injuries.A case has been registered by police under relevant sections of law. "Investigation is in progress and officers continue to work to establish the full circumstances of this terror crime," the police said.Meanwhile, the area has been cordoned by security officials, while a search operation to nab assailants is underway in Hassan Pora locality.Further information regarding the incident is awaited.On December 29, three terrorists were killed in the overnight operation in Nowgam Dooru area of Anantnag, and three others were gunned down in Mirhama village of Kulgam.All the terrorists, two of whom were foreign nationals, were associated with the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) terror group, the police had informed. Three of them were involved in the December 13 attack on a police bus in Zewan, in which three policemen were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-terrorists-shoot-policeman-dead-in-anantnag-district-probe-underway-101643466343111.html
29-01-2022||India||'We got really lucky with Omicron because...': Virologist Gagandeep Kang||Virologist Gagandeep Kang on Saturday said though Omicron has the potential to get transmitted at a rate never seen before, it did not lead to severity like Delta did because of a phenomenon called epistasis where the background of mutations influences how genes actually work. Talking in a webinar 'Omicron: Enigma or End?', Dr Kang said, "When Omicron was first sequenced, there was a lot of concerns over Omicron because of the number of mutations and also because we did not understand how a virus with so many mutations could have evaded surveillance around the globe. There are multiple theories about how Omicron came."‘Risk persists despite plateauing Covid-19 cases in India’: WHOOmicron, the variant first detected in South Africa in November 2021, drove a fresh surge of the pandemic across the world. Omicron was a cause of worry because it seemed to have all the most dangerous mutations seen in previous variants. "We got really lucky with Omicron because of a phenomenon known as epistasis where the background of mutations influences how genes actually work. We wound up with the virus while it was capable of immune evasion of a level we have never seen before. But it did not result in the severity that we saw before. That's not to say nobody got sick but the proportion was less," Dr Kang said."When people talk about protection from contracting Covid, they must understand that it is nearly impossible for a mucosal pathogen. We have seen this flu, influenza. We are relearning those same things with SARS-CoV-2," Dr Kang said.IIT professor Maninder Agarwal, who has been tracking the movement of the waves, said the peak of the third wave in India is already behind us. Now the wave will go down. Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, West Bengal have already peaked. Some southern states have not yet peaked. “The projection was very difficult as there was a sudden increase in the number of cases in the first week. We did not have adequate data required for projection,” Prof Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-got-really-lucky-with-omicron-because-virologist-gagandeep-kang-101643462709759.html
29-01-2022||India||VK Singh calls NYT ‘supari media’ after report on Pegasus spy tool row||Union minister Gen V K Singh on Saturday called The New York Times "Supari Media" over its report which claimed that the Indian government bought the Pegasus spy tool in 2017 as part of a deal with Israel.The Israeli spyware Pegasus and a missile system were the "centrepieces" of a roughly USD 2 billion deal of sophisticated weapons and intelligence gear between India and Israel in 2017, according to the report in The New York Times.A massive controversy erupted last year when the NSO Group hit the headlines with the alleged use of its Pegasus software by some governments to spy on journalists, human rights defenders, politicians and others in a number of countries, including India, triggered concerns over issues relating to privacy.Reacting to NYT's report, Singh, Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways and Civil Aviation, said on Twitter: "Can you trust NYT?? They are known "Supari Media"."Singh is also a former Indian Army chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vk-singh-calls-nyt-supari-media-after-report-on-pegasus-spy-tool-row-101643458002550.html
29-01-2022||India||Law needs to be framed against wrongful religious conversions, says Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that a law should be made against religious conversions but added that nobody should be wrongfully harassed by the misuse of such laws. Kejriwal was addressing a session with traders and industrialists in Jalandhar on Saturday where he was questioned by a trader and asked to clear his stand on the religious conversions taking place in the country.Responding to the query, Kejriwal said that that everybody has a right to worship as per their choice but conversions done by scaring or through any offering is totally wrong. A law should definitely be made against religious conversions but nobody should be wrongly harassed after the passage of the law.On the issue of the release of Sikh prisoner Prof Davinderpal Bhullar, Kejriwal said that it was a very sensitive matter and condemned Shiromani Akali Dal for doing dirty politics on the issue. Further he added that there is a sentence review board comprising of officials, judicial officers and others, in the Delhi government. “When the matter was brought to the knowledge of the Lieutenant Governor, he asked the home secretary of Delhi to call a meeting of the sentence review board immediately and whatever decision the panel takes will be filed and immediately put before the LG for further action,” the AAP chief said. 
29-01-2022||India||Kejriwal declares 10 guarantees for Punjab’s urban areas, no new taxes if voted to power||After announcing several guarantees for various sectors in the state, Aam Aadmi Party national convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced 10 new guarantees, including no new tax and no hikes in the existing taxes, for cities in poll-bound Punjab. Kejriwal accompanied by AAP state president and party’s chief ministerial face, Bhagwant Mann addressed a press conference in Jalandhar on Saturday. Earlier, Kejriwal had also addressed a session with traders and industrialists.Arvind Kejriwal said that after the party had announced several guarantees for various sectors then people from the urban areas approached them and questioned the party’s guarantees for them. Kejriwal announced that there was a serious issue of cleanliness across cities including Ludhiana, Bathinda, Amritsar and Jalandhar. If AAP was voted to power, it would provide best cleanliness facilities including proper sewage, drainage, solid management, in the cities so that they look beautiful. He further added that AAP had started door-step services related to various government offices in Delhi where people did not need to make various rounds to government offices, and they could make a call on a helpline number. A Delhi government official would visit their home to collect documents and the service would be delivered in a week or 10 days. Similarly, the party would replicate the system in Punjab also. He further said Mohalla clinics and civil hospitals would be revamped; there would be improvement in government schools so that the middle class should not bear the hefty fees of private schools, 24 hours power supply and 24 hours drinking water facility would also be provided. To woo traders and businessmen, Kejriwal announced that the AAP government will not impose any tax or not enhance any existing taxes in the coming five years. “We will cover the entire state with CCTV network for women’s safety and to control crime as Delhi has more CCTV cameras than New York, London and other big cities of the world,” added Kejriwal. In the last guarantees, he said that the roads in the existing markets in the cities of Punjab were in shambles and had no facility of public toilets or proper parking, so the AAP would create proper infrastructure including parking, public toilets and other facilities for the markets. 
29-01-2022||India||Watch: IIT-Delhi's drone show illuminates Delhi sky at Beating Retreat ceremony||The Beating the Retreat ceremony marking to end of the Republic Day celebrations has begun at Vijay Chowk in the presence of PM Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, defence minister Rajnath Singh.The main attraction of today's ceremony is the 10-minute drone show of 1,000 drones, commemorating the 75 years of Independence. The drone show has been organised by startup 'Botlab Dynamics' and supported by the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and the Department of Science and Technology, the ministry said.Beating Retreat 2022: How drones lit up sky, military music enthralled I Watch key highlightsIn the drone and laser show, the glorious history of India's freedom was remembered as the drones formed different formations pertaining to India's history. All these drones are made in India.  The 10-minute show has been conceptualised, designed, produced and choreographed under the Centre's 'Make in India' initiative.Watch Beating Retreat Live “It's a matter of pride that for the first time 1,000 drones will light up the sky during the beating retreat ceremony. India will become the 4th country in the world after UK, Russia and China to have achieved this feat,” Union Minister Jitendra Singh said. “I am also happy to share that the entire funding was done by the science and technology ministry. IIT alumni have worked on it (drones) for 6 months,” the minister said. The entry band was Massed Band playing the 'Veer Sainik' tune. This was followed by Pipes and Drums Band, CAPF Band, Air Force Band, Naval Band, Army Military Band and Massed Bands. The principal conductor of the ceremony is Commander Vijay Charles D'Cruz. The hymn 'Abide With Me' has been dropped from the event creating a row as the hymn, said to be Mahatma Gandhi’s favourite, has been a decades-old tune featuring at the Beating Retreat ceremony. Beating the Retreat is a military tradition that marks the disengagement of troops from the battle at sunset.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-beating-retreat-ceremony-to-mark-end-of-r-day-celebrations-begins-101643456471448.html
29-01-2022||India||Shouldn’t blindly follow foreign countries on marital rape: Centre to Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: The union government has told the Delhi high court that just because other countries, mostly western, have criminalised marital rape does not necessarily mean India should follow them blindly. Opposing a bunch of pleas seeking to criminalise marital rape in the country, the Centre in its written submissions has told the high court that “India has its own unique problems due to various factors like literacy, lack of financial empowerment of the majority of females, mindset of the society, vast diversity, poverty, etc. and these should be considered carefully before criminalising marital rape”. Reiterating its earlier stand of 2017, the union government has said that there is a vast diversity in the cultures of Indian states and it is necessary to implead the state governments in the matter to know their opinion to avoid any complications at a later stage. It said that even in its 172nd report titled Review of Rape Laws, the Law Commission has examined the matter and did not recommend the criminalisation of marital rape. The government also said that the high court does not have the power to legislate in the issue, adding that the courts cannot usurp the power of the legislature. “Removal of exception 2 of Section 375 IPC which consciously would be akin to legislating a separate offence which can be done only by the legislature as per the doctrine separation of power prescribed in the Constitution of India,” the written submissions read. Repeating its 2017 apprehension of gross misuse of the offence of marital rape, the Centre said that the same cannot be “ruled out”. It said that adequate procedural safeguards will also have to be ensured to be put in place. “Furthermore, deletion of exception of Section 375 would make marital rape cognizable, non- bailable and non-compoundable offence. This would stop the chances of settlement between husband and wife which is possible under section 498A Indian Penal Code (domestic violence),” the union government said. Referring to the Supreme Court, the Centre said that the apex court has spoken about the misuse of 498A IPC and removing of the exception in the rape law can also open floodgates of false cases being made with ulterior motives. “Reasonable restrictions shall be imposed on the Fundamental Rights guaranteed under the Constitution,” it said. It said that the aspect of marital rape is sufficiently covered under “sexual abuse” under the definition of domestic violence. The offence as well as adequate remedies has been provided under the Act. Furthermore, any act of unnatural sex between man and his wife are also squarely covered under Section 377 IPC. The written submissions were filed on January 12 in response to a bunch of PILs filed in 2015 by NGO RIT Foundation, All India Democratic Women’s Association and two individuals who have sought to strike down the exception in the Indian rape laws on the grounds that it discriminated against married women who were sexually assaulted by their husbands. Exception of section 375 IPC decriminalises marital rape and mandates that sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under fifteen years of age, is not rape. Opposing the pleas further, Centre has said that in case exception 2 of Section 375 is removed, all such cases will be dealt with as per the jurisprudence applicable to the present offences committed under Section 375. “The testimony of the prosecutrix is sufficient to convict the accused under Section 376 IPC. There is no reason to insist on corroboration except from the medical evidence. The testimony of a woman who is victim of sexual violence must ordinarily be corroborated in material particulars except the rarest rare. There is rarely direct evidence of a person other than the prosecutrix is available,” the submissions read. It said that it will be difficult to determine as to when the consent was withdrawn by the married woman. “Most of the circumstantial and corroborative evidence will become futile in case of marital rape,” it added. In its August 2017 affidavit, the Centre said that the Supreme Court and various high courts have already observed the rising misuse of Section 498A (harassment caused to a married woman by her husband and in-laws) of Indian Penal Code (IPC). It further said that marital rape has not been defined in a statue or law and while the offence of rape is defined under section 375 IPC, defining marital rape will call for a broad-based consensus of the society. However, in mid-January, the Union government informed the high court that marital rape cannot be made into a criminal offence until the Centre’s consultation with all stakeholders is complete, paving the way for comprehensive amendments in criminal law instead of “piecemeal” changes. Submitting a fresh affidavit in response to a clutch of petitions to criminalise marital rape, the Centre maintained that it is examining the issue of broad changes in criminal law of the country and that the petitioner could also give their suggestions to the competent authorities. Underlining that amendment of criminal law is “a continuous process”, it added that suggestions have been invited from chief ministers of all the state governments and from Union territories, the Chief Justice of India, chief justices of all high courts, judicial academies, national law universities, Bar Council of India, Bar Council of all high courts and members of both Houses of Parliament. The affidavit, filed through the Union ministry of home affairs, however, does not mention the date when views were solicited. Later, on January 17, the Solicitor General, Tushar Mehta said that consultations are ongoing and the State would require time to respond on the issue. The time to respond was extended on January 24 (Monday), after the SG said that a half-hearted reply would affect the citizens of the country, adding that the dignity of a woman is at stake. He said criminalisation of marital rape involves “family issues” and cannot be looked at from a “microscopic angle”. He added that the matter can wait as nothing imminent is going to happen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shouldnt-blindly-follow-foreign-countries-on-marital-rape-centre-to-delhi-hc-101643455567504.html
29-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: PF rules change for Air India employees and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PF rules change for Air India employees as it becomes private. Details hereAround 7,453 employees of Air India will receive an extra 2% employer's contributions in the provident fund accounts at 12% of their wages as the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has onboarded Air India for the social security coverage. Read more‘Risk persists despite plateauing Covid-19 cases in India’: WHODespite the plateauing number of daily Covid-19 infections in India, the country is still not out of risk, World Health Organization’s regional director for South-East Asia Poonam Khetrapal Singh said. Read moreSBI suspends controversial circular on recruitment regarding pregnant womenThe State Bank of India (SBI) on Saturday temporarily withdrew the controversial circular calling pregnant women ‘unfit’ for recruitment after media reports highlighted criticisms against the notice's “discriminatory” nature. Read moreAsh Barty beats Danielle Collins to claim maiden Australian Open title, ends Australia's 44-year waitWorld number one Ashleigh Barty eased past America's Danielle Collins on Saturday with a straight-set victory to lift her maiden Australian Open title and third Grand Slam trophy at the Rod Laver Arena. Read morePriyamani says Bollywood portrayed South Indians as ‘people who didn’t speak Hindi the normal way’: ‘Aiyo kya bolta ji?’Priyamani, who featured in the web series The Family Man, has opened up about how South Indians 'used to' be portrayed in Hindi films. In an interview, she said that in Bollywood movies, people from Kerala or Chennai were shown just as those who spoke Hindi with an accent. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pf-rules-change-for-air-india-employees-as-it-becomes-private-and-all-the-latest-news-101643454241773.html
29-01-2022||India||‘Risk persists despite plateauing Covid-19 cases in India’: WHO||Despite the plateauing number of daily Covid-19 infections in India, the country is still not out of risk, World Health Organization’s regional director for South-East Asia Poonam Khetrapal Singh said on Saturday. The official also said that the country must now focus on reducing the spread of the virus, implement “situation-specific” public health measures and increase the vaccination against the pandemic.When asked about the Covid-19 cases in the country, Singh said that the risk of the infection still remained high and no country was “out of the woods” yet, irrespective of their current transmission scenario, news agency PTI reported.“Hence, even though some cities or states may be beginning to see plateauing of cases, the risk persists. We need to continue to remain vigilant. Our focus must be on reducing transmission. Implementing situation-specific public health and social measures and increasing vaccine coverage - that's the way forward for all countries in the ongoing pandemic," she told PTI regarding the situation in India.Also read | Covid-19 third wave peak over in Maharashtra: State health ministerThe remarks from the WHO official came after the Union health ministry on Thursday said that Covid cases have been stabilising in some regions within the country, however, cautioned that the trends needs to be observed.“Early indication of a plateau in cases are being reported in certain geographies. The trend needs to be observed and required precautions need to be continued,” joint secretary Lav Agarwal said during a press briefing.On Saturday, 235,532 more people tested positive for the disease, a slight decline from the 251,209 new cases reported on the previous day.Briefing on the Omicron variant which is attributed with the third Covid wave in the country, Singh said that the variant appeared less severe but also cautioned against increasing hospitalisations."There appears to be a lower risk of severe disease and death following Omicron infection as compared to other variants. However, due to the very high numbers of cases, many countries have seen a significant increase in the incidence of hospitalisation, putting pressure on healthcare systems," she said.Further, she also said that vaccination remained an effective method that helped in reducing the risk of severe illness after infection by the variant."There is growing evidence on vaccine effectiveness for Omicron, but we still have a lot to learn. So far, we think that vaccines are less effective against Omicron infection and symptomatic disease compared to Delta. Having a booster shot seems to increase protection," she said.She also stressed on the importance of non pharmaceutical interventions such as following distancing, avoiding crowds, wearing facemasks and regular hand sanitisation in checking the spread of the variant.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/risk-persists-despite-plateauing-covid-19-cases-in-india-who-101643453023428.html
29-01-2022||India||Goa: Michael Lobo remains among richest candidates, CM Sawant’s assets rise 300%||PANAJI: Former BJP minister Michael Lobo, who was the richest MLA of the outgoing Goa legislative assembly remains among the richest MLAs with assets worth upwards of ₹84.387 crore with his total assets having nearly doubled from the ₹49.47 crore he was worth back in 2017, information gleaned from the affidavit submitted before the Election Commission has revealed. Lobo, who has joined the Congress from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who has been representing the Calangute constituency, arguably the epicentre of Goa’s beach-centred tourism industry, owns a string of tourism properties including starred hotels, entertainment venues and clubs. A bulk of his assets are immoveable assets that are worth ₹59.24 crore having risen from ₹33.11 crore in 2017 while his moveable assets rose from ₹16.36 crore to ₹25.147 crore. His wife Delilah Lobo, who is the Congress candidate from the neighbouring Siolim constituency, has declared assets to the tune of ₹7.16 crore. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant’s assets have grown three-fold from ₹2.37 crore to ₹7.15 crore with his moveable assets rising the most from ₹75.43 lakh to ₹3.47 crore across the last five years. His moveable assets have grown from ₹1.62 crore to ₹3.68 crore. The BJP’s Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate and his wife Jennifer Monserrate, both of whom are contesting the elections from Panaji and Taleigao respectively, have declared that they jointly own assets to the tune of ₹48.48 crore, each claiming joint ownership of the assets under their possession which represents a rise of more than ₹18 crore from the ₹30.03 crore they jointly owned back in 2017. Monserrate contested on a ticket of the United Goans Party in 2017, losing to the BJP’s Siddharth Kuncaliencar, while his wife contested on a Congress ticket winning from the Taleigao constituency. Monserrate was elected from the Panaji constituency in 2019 in the by-election to fill the vacancy after Manohar Parrikar passed away. Other high net worth individuals contesting the upcoming assembly elections include Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane, who is worth ₹16.36 crore, his wife Deviya Rane who is worth ₹6.76 crore; Goa Trinamool Congress (TMC) president Kiran Kandolkar who is worth ₹6.69 crore and his wife Kavita Kandolkar, who is also contesting on the ticket of the All-India Trinamool Congress, has declared assets to the rune of ₹5.13 crore. Interestingly, Kiran has declared ownership of a Yamaha RX 135 motorcycle which he has said is worth ₹862, which is a steep fall from the ₹3,325 he said it was worth back in 2017. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat on the other hand has only seen his assets grow marginally from ₹9.71 crore to ₹10.08 crore. Manohar Parrikar’s son Utpal, who is contesting the elections for the first time, has declared assets to the tune of ₹8.84 crore while AAP chief ministerial candidate Amit Palekar, who is also contesting the elections for the first time, has declared assets to the tune of ₹11.42 crore including the ownership of a Maserati Coupé luxury car registered in Jharkhand, which, he has said, he is in the process of selling. Goa Forward supremo Vijai Sardesai has declared individual assets worth ₹4.06 crore not including that owned by his wife who is worth ₹31.09 crore including moveable assets worth ₹6.74 crore and immoveable assets worth ₹24.35 crore. “A combination of muscle power and money power has become a perfect recipe for winning assembly elections. It would be not out of place to mention that Goa had only 6 candidates (out of 249) in 2017 who had more than ₹10 crores each as declared wealth and also had on them serious criminal cases. All six were elected to the assembly by the voters,” Bhasker Assoldekar, the Goa State Coordinator for the Association of Democratic Reforms, said. In 2007, Goa had only 55% MLAs who were crorepatis, which rose to 93% in 2012 and touched 100% at the time of the 2017 assembly elections. A total of 587 candidates including dummies, have filed their nominations for the upcoming Goa assembly elections. The nominations will be scrutinised on January 29 while the last day for withdrawal is January 31. Goa goes to the polls on February 14 in a single phase along with Uttarakhand that will also be voting on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-michael-lobo-remains-among-richest-candidates-cm-sawant-s-assets-rise-300-101643453107769.html
29-01-2022||India||In Maharashtra’s Kalyan, water woes of 15 villages to end soon||The water woes of nearly 15 villages in Kalyan taluka will soon be resolved as the Maharashtra government has given the nod for a dedicated water supply project estimated at ₹24 crore for these villages. The water supply project, which involves a dedicated water supply network will ease water troubles of villages like Raita, Goveli, Bapsai, Mamnoli, Ghotsai, Aapti and others. The proposal for the water supply scheme for these villages was prepared by the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP). The proposal was then sent to the state government for approval, last week the state government approved and sanctioned the funds for the project. The proposal of the water supply scheme for these villages has been prepared considering the requirements for the upcoming 32 years. In the project every house will get a pipeline connection, while water tax will be imposed on the villagers. “Most of us are dependent on wells for water as there is no pipeline connection. Sometimes the well water is also not adequate for the daily chores. The water supply connection will help us a lot,” said Rukmini Bai, 65, a resident of Raita village. “The water woes in these villages will be eased once the project is imposed. Since the proposal has been sanctioned along with the funds the work for the same will begin soon. The tender will be published in a month. We will lift the water for these villages from Ulhas River,” said an officer of Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran, who did not wish to be named. 
29-01-2022||India||Covid-19 third wave peak over in Maharashtra: State health minister||The peak of the Covid-19 third wave is over in Maharashtra, state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday as daily cases of infection are stabilising. "Yes, I can say that peak of the third wave has over now," said Tope, adding, Covid-19 cases are reducing in areas like Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Palghar where the situation was the worst during the recent wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.However, some parts of the state cases are still showing an upward surge, Tope said. "In Nashik, Nagpur, Pune, Aurangabad, the number is still rising but there is no reason to worry even in these places," the minister said."Infected people are getting cured in 5 to 7 days with simple treatment and medicines," he added.Maharashtra was the worst-hit state during the third wave of Covid-19 with cases rising exponentially every day. However, with the situation now stabilising, daily Covid positive numbers are going down, the minister said. "We were at 47,000 per day once, which has now gone down to around 25,000 per day. Simultaneously 92 to 96 per cent beds are vacant and less than one per cent patients are on oxygen, ICU or ventilators," he said.The state currently has 2,70,444 active Covid-19 cases. The cumulative recoveries stood at 72,42,649. While the cumulative deaths stood at 1,42,461.On Friday, the state reported 24,948 new coronavirus cases including 110 Omicron infections and 103 pandemic-related deaths. On Thursday, the state had recorded 25,425 cases besides 42 fatalities.The overall caseload in the state now stands at 76,55,554, while the death toll is at 1,42,461.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-third-wave-peak-over-in-maharashtra-state-health-minister-101643452437017.html
29-01-2022||India||SBI temporarily suspends controversial circular on recruitment regarding pregnant women||The State Bank of India (SBI) on Saturday temporarily withdrew the controversial circular calling pregnant women ‘unfit’ for recruitment after media reports highlighted criticisms against the notice's “discriminatory” nature. In an official release, the public sector bank clarified that “in view of public sentiments”, it is keeping its revised instructions regarding recruitment of pregnant women candidates “in abeyance”.Also Read | ‘Discriminatory, illegal’: SBI rebuked for calling pregnant women ‘unfit’ in new rules“SBI has recently reviewed the various fitness standards for recruitment in the bank, including norms for pregnant women candidates,” read the release issued on Saturday. “The revised guidelines were intended to provide clarity on various health parameters where instructions were not clear or were very old. In some sections of the media, the revision in norms in this regard has been interpreted as discriminatory against women.”SBI, the country's largest lender, said that it has “always been proactive towards the care and empowerment of its women employees”, who now constitute around 25 per cent of the total workforce.Press release relating to news items about required fitness standards for recruitment in Bank. Revised instructions about recruitment of Pregnant Women candidates stands withdrawn.@DFS_India pic.twitter.com/QXqn3XSzKF“During the Covid-19 period, as per government instructions, pregnant women employees were exempted from attending office and allowed to work from home,” it said.The press release added, “However, in view of the public sentiments, SBI has decided to keep the revised instructions regarding recruitment of pregnant women candidates in abeyance and continue with the existing instructions in the matter.”Earlier, a barrage of criticisms had been pilloried against the public sector bank after it tweaked its recruitment rules wherein it said that women candidates with more than three months of pregnancy will be considered “temporarily unfit” to join. The internet exploded with outrage on what it called “discriminatory” rules on part of the SBI, as netizens – ranging from politicians to corporate professionals – and human rights bodies took to their respective social media handles to request the country's largest lender to revoke its revised guidelines.The bank had said in its rules that woman candidates with more than three months of pregnancy will be considered “temporarily unfit” but can join service within four months after delivery.The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) had also issued a notice to the SBI earlier today, seeking withdrawal of the guideline. Swati Maliwal, the commission's chief, said that the rules are both “discriminatory” and “illegal” as they are contrary to the maternity benefits provided under ‘The Code of Social Security, 2020’.The move had also elicited criticism from other quarters, including from the All India State Bank Of India Employees' Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sbi-suspends-controversial-circular-on-recruitment-regarding-pregnant-women-101643450438812.html
29-01-2022||India||Karnataka lifts night curfew, Bengaluru schools to reopen from January 31||The Karnataka government on Saturday lifted the night curfew which will come into effect from January 31. The government has also done away with the 50% occupancy rules in hotels, bars and pubs. Cinema halls, however, will have to maintain the 50% occupancy guideline. Schools in Bengaluru will also start physical classes from January 31. Karnataka minister BC Nagesh said the departments concerned will come up with SOPs to be followed once the reopening starts. Swimming pools, gyms, sports complexes will also have to operate with 50% capacity. Government offices can work with 100% attendance of the staff. Temples will also allow prayers with 50% capacity. Protest, sit-ins, religious congregations, political gatherings will not be allowed.Karnataka has remained one of the worst-hit states in all the first, second and third waves of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the ongoing third wave too, Bengaluru's single-day Covid tally rose as high as 30,000. On Friday, Karnataka recorded 31,198 fresh cases with Bengaluru contributing 15,199 cases.As the third wave of the pandemic has now shifted to the southern states, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday conducted a high-level meeting with the health ministers of Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Telangana.Given the situation, the government has decided to go for more reopening, a week after it became the first state to ease the curbs as it withdrew the weekend curfew. Experts are of the opinion that schools should resume physical classes as students are bearing the brunt of online classes going on for almost two years now, intermittently. Reports said the government is planning to issue an advisory for reopening schools for students between the age of 15 and 18, as their vaccination against Covid has been going on. Maharashtra has already reopened schools and other states are also mulling to reopen schools in the first week of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-lifts-night-curfew-no-50-occupancy-rule-in-hotels-bars-101643446484856.html
29-01-2022||India||Ahead of Manipur polls, Congress leader resigns, likely to join a national party||IMPHAL: The opposition Congress party’s announcement of a pre-poll alliance with five political parties and their subsequent decision to support a common candidate in Khurai constituency in the upcoming Manipur assembly elections evoked sharp reaction from an aspiring candidate in the constituency. Veteran Congress leader Khuraijam Ratankumar Singh, who had been campaigning for Khurai seat under Imphal East district, resigned from the party on Thursday after being denied party ticket and announced his plan to join a national party to fight in the upcoming elections. After Ratankumar’s resignation from Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee, the Khurai Block Congress Committee (BCC) has been dissolved. Informing this, a key functionary of the Khurai BCC, who also later resigned from the party, told media that they had been working hard when the congress was not in a good position since the last few years. “But, in spite of all efforts, they failed to acknowledge it,” he said. On Thursday, MPCC president N Loken Singh in the presence of the representatives of political parties, announced a pre-poll alliance with CPI, CPI(M), Revolutionary Socialist Party, Janata Dal (S) and Forward Block. He also informed that the Congress will support their common candidate (CPI candidate) in Khurai seat while the party will have a friendly contest in Kakching seat. Earlier, another intending Congress candidate and a former congress legislator from Hiyanglam seat also strongly reacted to the grand old party’s decision when his name was excluded from the party’s first 40 candidates list. On January 22, the Congress announced names of 40 candidates for the assembly elections in Manipur. Out of them, 12 are sitting MLAs, 9 are ex-MLAs while the rest 19 are new faces. Similarly, the National People’s Party, a coalition party of the BJP-led government, also announced names of 20 candidates recently. But the ruling BJP and its ruling ally Naga People’s Front are yet to announce their list till date. Manipur will go to polls in two phases on February 27 and March 3. In the first phase, elections will be held for 38 constituencies and the remaining 22 constituencies will vote in the second phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-manipur-polls-congress-leader-resigns-likely-to-join-a-national-party-101643445547031.html
29-01-2022||India||Covid-19 patient killed as fire breaks out in hospital in Bengal||KOLKATA: A 60-year-old woman, who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in a state-run hospital at Burdwan in West Bengal, was killed on Saturday morning after a fire broke out in the hospital’s Covid-19 ward, said hospital authorities. The victim was identified as Sandhya Rani Mondol, a resident of the same district. The hospital authorities have formed a five-member committee to probe into the incident. A senior doctor said that the fire may have been triggered by a mosquito coil as only one bed was gutted. Three other patients who were undergoing treatment for Covid-19 in the general ward were rescued. They didn’t suffer any injuries. “It was around 5 am that the fire broke out in the ward. There were four patients in the general ward. Even though we managed to rescue three patients, one succumbed. Only one bed was affected in the fire,” said Dr Tapas Ghosh, medical superintendent and vice principal of Burdwan Medical College and Hospital. A relative of a Covid-19 patient first spotted the flames and raised an alarm. While the hospital staff rescued the three patients and started to fight the flames, the fire brigade was also informed. The fire was pit out even before the fire brigade could reach the spot. On Friday, 3,805 fresh Covid-19 cases were detected in West Bengal, taking the total number of active cases to 45,729. At least 34 patients died on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-patient-killed-as-fire-breaks-out-in-hospital-in-bengal-101643443566894.html
29-01-2022||India||‘Discriminatory, illegal’: SBI rebuked for calling pregnant women ‘unfit’ in new rules||After the State Bank of India (SBI) tweaked its recruitment rules wherein it said that women candidates with more than three months of pregnancy will be considered “temporarily unfit” to join, a barrage of criticisms has been pilloried against the public sector bank. The internet exploded with outrage on what it called “discriminatory” rules on part of the SBI, as netizens – ranging from politicians to corporate professionals – and human rights bodies took to their respective social media handles to request the country's largest lender to revoke its revised guidelines.Also Read | SBI tweaks recruitment rules for pregnant women candidatesReferring to the new rules as “discriminatory in nature”, Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi urged Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and the chairman of the bank to immediately revoke the guidelines.She posted from her official handle on Twitter, “SBI in its revised guidelines says candidates who are 3 months pregnant will be considered temporarily unfit&will be allowed to join 4 months after delivery of child. This is discriminatory in nature. I urge Hon @nsitharaman ji & CMD @TheOfficialSBI to revoke this immediately.”SBI in its revised guidelines says candidates who are 3 months pregnant will be considered temporarily unfit&will be allowed to join 4 months after delivery of child. This is discriminatory in nature. I urge Hon @nsitharaman ji & CMD @TheOfficialSBI to revoke this immediately. pic.twitter.com/AUmOaHbWzvSu Venkatesan, Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) MP from Madurai, also criticised the SBI guidelines and said “this is in clear violation of gender equality enshrined in our Constitution.”The SBI says that women who are 3 months pregnant are temporarily unfit to join their workforce. This is in clear violation of gender equality enshrined in our Constitution. Withdraw the order immediately.@nsitharaman @TheOfficialSBI #Women #Gender #Equality pic.twitter.com/KTuUqHmB8XNotably, the SBI has said in its new rules that woman candidates with more than three months of pregnancy, who the bank considers “temporarily unfit”, can join service within four months after delivery.“However, if pregnancy is of more than 3 months, she will be considered temporarily unfit and she may be allowed to join within 4 months after delivery of child,” as per the medical fitness and ophthalmological standards for new recruits and promotees dated December 31, 2021.The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Saturday also issued a notice to the SBI seeking withdrawal of the guideline that prevents women, who are over three months pregnant, from joining service.DCW chief Swati Maliwal said that this is both “discriminatory” and “illegal” as it is contrary to the maternity benefits provided under ‘The Code of Social Security, 2020’.The notice states that the commission has taken suo motu cognizance on media reports of SBI framing “new guidelines” for “new recruitments and promotions”.“It discriminates on the basis of sex which is against the fundamental rights provided under the Constitution of India,” the commission said.The DCW has asked the bank to provide a copy of the said rules/guidelines issued by it and a copy of similar rules/guidelines operational before issuing the new rules.It also asked the bank to provide information on the steps taken by the bank to ensure that the said guidelines are non-discriminatory to women and to amend/withdraw the said rules/guidelines and a detailed process through which these guidelines were formed along with the names and designations of the approval authority.The commission has also sought a detailed action taken report in the matter and the aforementioned information latest by February 2.The move has also elicited criticism from other quarters, including from the All India State Bank Of India Employees' Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discriminatory-illegal-sbi-rebuked-for-calling-pregnant-women-unfit-in-new-rules-101643440399783.html
29-01-2022||India||Afternoon brief: Schools and colleges in Pune to reopen from February 1 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Schools and colleges in Pune to reopen from February 1. Details hereMaharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday that schools and colleges in the Pune district will reopen from February 1, and provided further details on the gradual resumption of educational institutions amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read more  Anil Deshmukh cites Sachin Vaze’s U-turn in fresh bail pleaFormer Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has in his fresh bail plea cited the statements given by dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze before Justice KU Chandiwal enquiry commission, taking a complete U-Turn and denying that he collected money for the Nationalist Congress Party leader or handed any cash to his office staff. Read more Cold wave conditions over northwest, central India to abate: IMDSeveral states of northwest and central India, including Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have been reeling under severe cold wave conditions in the last few days. Read more 'He must be having some regrets, but time heals wounds': Ex-BCCI selector on rumoured rift between Kohli, RohitRohit Sharma is currently seen as the front-runner to lead India in the Test format after Virat Kohli's sudden exit from the position. The 34-year-old Rohit, who has already taken over the mantle of white-ball captaincy from Kohli, will be leading the Indian camp in the upcoming home series against West Indies.Read more Sushant Singh Rajput's absconding neighbour arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau in drugs caseThe Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested Sahil Shah, an alleged drug peddler who the agency claims is linked to the Sushant Singh Rajput death-drugs case.Read more Mahesh Manjrekar on obscenity complaint against new Marathi film: 'Today everyone objects to something in every film'Reacting to a complaint that his new Marathi film Nay Varan Bhat Loncha Kon Nay Koncha portrays women in an objectionable manner, Mahesh Manjrekar has said he cannot cater to every objection. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afternoon-brief-schools-and-colleges-in-pune-to-reopen-from-february-1-and-all-the-latest-news-101643438692329.html
29-01-2022||India||Anil Deshmukh cites Sachin Vaze’s U-turn in fresh bail plea||MUMBAI: Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh has in his fresh bail plea cited the statements given by dismissed Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze before Justice KU Chandiwal enquiry commission, taking a complete U-Turn and denying that he collected money for the Nationalist Congress Party leader or handed any cash to his office staff. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) registered the money-laundering case against Deshmukh on May 11, 2021, on the basis of an April 21 First Information Report (FIR) of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), based on allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In a letter written to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, Singh alleged that Deshmukh instructed certain Mumbai police officers to collect an amount of ₹100 crore every month from Mumbai’s restaurants and bars. ED claimed that on Deshmukh’s instructions Vaze, between December 2020 and February 2021, collected ₹4.7 crore from the owners of orchestra bars in Mumbai to avoid police interference. In his statement to ED, Vaze reportedly revealed that he handed over the “extorted money” in two instalments to Deshmukh’s aide Kundan Shinde. Subsequently, the agency said, Deshmukh’s son Hrishikesh got an amount of ₹4.18 crore routed through Delhi-based agents as donations to a Deshmukh-led charitable trust, Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha, Nagpur. However, while testifying before the Chandiwal Commission, set up by Maharashtra government to enquire into Singh’s allegations, Vaze took a U-Turn and denied the claims, purportedly made by him in his statements to ED. In this backdrop, Deshmukh has claimed that Vaze’s statements were “unreliable and had no creditworthiness whatsoever.” “The statements made by Vaze are wholly ‘unreliable’ and have no creditworthiness,” said Deshmukh’s plea. “The credibility of Vaze is a matter of serious concern as he has changed his statement before the Chandiwal Commission and has said that he never met Deshmukh nor have handed him any money till date. Vaze has several cases registered against him. ACP Sanjay Patil, whose message the agency has been relying on to claim that Deshmukh was demanding money from bar owners, has told the commission that he was forced by Singh to revert to his message. That ‘Number 1” for whom money was collected from bar owners by Vaze was not him but Singh, it has become clear in various statements.” Deshmukh has also claimed that Param Bir Singh, who made allegations against him, is “the mastermind of the Antilia explosives scare case whose name has also been taken by a cyber-expert working for Mumbai police for creating a fake threat note, has himself officially submitted a pursis before the Commission stating that all allegations were based on HEARSAY.” He too has submitted before the commission that all his allegations against Deshmukh were based on hearsay. Special PMLA judge Rahul Rokade has asked the ED to file a reply to the bail plea of Deshmukh filed through advocate Inderpal Singh and posted the matter for hearing on February 4. “I am a victim of gross persecution and harassment being meted out at the hands of certain unscrupulous vested interests for blatantly mala fide considerations. The instant case reflects shocking abuse of power and authority by the concerned officials who have virtually unleashed a reign of terror by subverting the process of law,” Deshmukh has said in his fresh bail plea. The NCP leader, who was arrested on November 1, 2021, has claimed that he is a popular leader and has devoted his life to public service. He has become the MLA for the fifth time from Katol assembly constituency and has toiled hard in life, his plea stated, adding that starting from the grassroots level, he has been fortunate to have held a responsible office of a minister, and in the course of his political career and rise, he has indeed become an eyesore for several vested interests for mala fide and extraneous considerations. He has also claimed to be suffering from several health ailments. Praying for bail in his petition Deshmukh has said the trial in his case is not likely to start immediately as the agency is further investigating the case. The CBI is yet to file a charge-sheet in the predicate offence. He cannot be considered at flight risk as he himself presented before the agency. He is ready to co-operate and follow all conditions put by the court and as all the evidence is on paper there is nothing he can tamper with if given bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anil-deshmukh-cites-sachin-vaze-s-u-turn-in-fresh-bail-plea-101643437927881.html
29-01-2022||India||Cold wave conditions over northwest, central India to abate: IMD||Several states of northwest and central India, including Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have been reeling under severe cold wave conditions in the last few days. However, the condition will start improving gradually from today, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The northwest, east and northeast India will witness a wet spell from February 2 to 4, the IMD further said in its forecast.National capital Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 6.4 degrees Celsius on Friday, three notches below normal. The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 19 degrees Celsius. According to the weather department, a bright and sunny day is expected on Saturday.The cold is showing its impact in as far as Odisha. The minimum temperature in the state will be 3-5 degrees Celsius below normal in many places in the next three days as northwesterly dry and cold winds are entering the state, the Bhubaneswar Meteorological Centre said in a bulletin.Cold wave conditions in isolated pockets are very likely over Madhya Pradesh and during the next two days, and over Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh during the next 24 hours and gradually abate thereafter.Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir saw intensely cold days as Srinagar recorded a temperature of 1.8 degrees Celsius, Pahalgam was at minus 2.8 and Gulmarg minus 9.2 degrees. The weather is expected to remain dry till January 31.Cold weather conditions is also prevailing in Rajasthan, where Karauli recorded a lowest minimum temperature of 0.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday night. The minimum temperature in the capital city Jaipur on Friday night was 7.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cold-wave-conditions-over-northwest-central-india-to-abate-imd-101643431744322.html
29-01-2022||India||Asom Sattra Mahasabha threatens to go to court over Assam-Meghalaya border deal||GUWAHATI: Asom Sattra Mahasabha (ASM), the umbrella organisation for Vaishnavite monasteries in Assam (called ‘satras’) has alleged two ‘satras’ and over 20 ‘naamghars’ (prayer houses) located in Assam will go to Meghalaya as part of the recent deal between the two states to sort out border disputes. Last week, chief ministers of Assam and Meghalaya met union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and apprised him of the recommendations of regional committees of the two states which suggested division of 6 of the 12 disputed border areas between them with the help of a give-and-take formula of swapping land. The chief ministers also urged the Centre to take necessary actions so that the recommendations get implemented. As per the recommendations, of the total 36.79 sq km disputed land in six areas-Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilingkata and Ratacherra--Assam will get 18.51 sq km while Meghalaya will get 18.28 sq km. The recommendations, which sought to end the five-decade old border row between the two neighbours, were approved earlier by the cabinets of both the states. “We have learnt that due to this deal, two ‘satras’ and over 20 ‘naamghars’, which are very much part of Assam will be handed over to Meghalaya. This is totally unacceptable to us and we won’t allow it,” said Kusum Kumar Mahanta, general secretary of ASM. He added that the two ‘satras’, which could go to Meghalaya are Baberi Gosai Satra in Mohmorang and the other one is Netwajapa Satra in Longsai. Both the ‘satras’ and the ‘naamghars’ fall in Boklapara (one of the 6 disputed areas), which is part of West Guwahati legislative constituency. As per the details available of the deal between the two states, of the total 1.57 sq km disputed area in Boklapara, 1.01 sq km will be part of Assam while the rest 0.56 sq km go to Meghalaya. “It seems ASM has got it facts wrong. As part of the recent agreement, only one ‘naamghar’ would go to Meghalaya. This was discussed with residents of the area by the regional committee and over 70% of them said they wanted to be part of the neighbouring state,” West Guwahati MLA Ramendra Narayan Kalita, who represents the ruling Ason Gana Parishad (AGP), said. “Most residents of these areas have agricultural land in Meghalaya and when it was said that those plots can’t be merged with Assam, they decided to side with Meghalaya. We will have talks with ASM and apprise them about the factual position,” he added. Denying the assertions by Kalita, Bijoy Rabha, ‘satradhikar’ (head) of Netwajapa Satra, which was established nearly two centuries ago, said that the regional committee didn’t visit the area to take views of local residents. The ‘satra’ falls in Longsai village and has around 100 families, almost all of whom belong to the tribal Rabha community. “We are residents of Assam. We have been voting in Assam and sending our children to schools here. How can the government decide to hand our lands to Meghalaya, a Christian majority state with which we don’t share language and culture? We want to remain in Assam,” said Rabha. Informing that ASM won’t allow Assam’s land that covers ‘satras’ and ‘naamghars’ to be handed over to Meghalaya, Mahanta said the organization will soon approach Gauhati High Court seeking revocation of the deal and will also write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and union home minister Amit Shah. 
29-01-2022||India||Covid-19: India records 2,35,532 new cases in last 24 hours, deaths soar by 871||India continued a downward trajectory on the Covid-19 graph with 2,35,532 new cases of the coronavirus disease being recorded in the last 24 hours, while the deaths soared by 871, the Union health ministry bulletin showed on Saturday morning. The cumulative caseload surged to 40,858,241.The positivity rate for daily infections in the country dropped from 15.8 per cent to 13.39 per cent today.India's active caseload currently stands at 20,04,333, with cases dropping by 1,01,278 in the span of a day. Active cases now account for 4.91 per cent of the total infections.As many as 3,35,939 people recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total recoveries to over 38 million. The recovery rate surged to 98.89 per cent.A total of 1.6 billion vaccine doses have been administered so far under the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, the ministry data showed. This includes 56,72,766 doses in the last 24 hours, comprising 6,74,623 booster shots for the eligible population and 5,84,492 first doses in the 15-18 age group.India's crossed the one-crore mark in Covid-19 cases on December 19, 2020. It surpassed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 last year, subsequently crossing three crore on June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-records-2-35-532-new-cases-in-last-24-hours-deaths-soar-by-871-101643427334440.html
29-01-2022||India||1,000 drones to light up Delhi sky at ‘Beating Retreat’ ceremony today||A thousand drones will dazzle the sky above national capital Delhi for the first time ever, as part of a drone show which will be the highlight of the ‘Beating Retreat’ ceremony today, the Union defence ministry informed.The event, scheduled at Vijay Chowk in New Delhi on Saturday will be graced by President and Supreme Commander of the armed forces, Ram Nath Kovind. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will also be among the many dignitaries who will witness the show.According to the defence ministry, the 10-minute drone show will commemorate the 75 years of Independence, that is being celebrated this year as 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'. It has been conceptualised, designed, produced and choreographed under the Centre's 'Make in India' initiative.The drone show has been organised by startup 'Botlab Dynamics' and supported by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi and the Department of Science and Technology, the ministry stated.In the duration of 10 minutes, around 1,000 drones fabricated through indigenous technology will fly up with synchronised background music played during the drone show."Martial musical tunes with Indian fervour will be the flavour of the ceremony this year. A total of 26 performances will enthral the spectators with foot-tapping music played by the bands of Indian Army, Navy, Air Force and Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF)," the ministry said.The first band to perform at the event will be Massed Band, playing the 'Veer Sainik' tune, followed by Pipes and Drums Band, CAPF Band, Air Force Band, Naval Band, Army Military Band and Massed Bands. The principal conductor of the ceremony will be Commander Vijay Charles D'Cruz, the ministry stated.The event will come to a close with the ever-popular tune of 'Sare Jahan Se Acha'.'Beating Retreat' is a centuries-old military tradition that dates back to the days when troops disengaged from the battle at sunset. As soon as the buglers sounded the retreat, the troops ceased fighting, sheathed their arms and withdrew from the battlefield.This custom of standing still during the sounding of retreat has been retained to this day. Drumbeats sounded on the occasion recall the days when troops were called on to their quarters in the evening. Colours and standards are cased and flags lowered at retreats.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1000-drones-to-light-up-delhi-sky-at-beating-retreat-ceremony-today-101643421400254.html
29-01-2022||India||Morning brief from HT: Delhi Metro to resume as per routine weekend timetable from today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi Metro to get back to routine weekend schedule from todayThe Metro trains in Delhi will run as per their routine weekend timetable from Saturday as the national capital has eased Covid-19 restrictions in view of an improvement in the number of infections, officials said. Read moreCovid-19: Gujarat extends night curfew in 27 cities till Feb 4The Gujarat government has extended the ongoing night curfew - imposed to check the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases - in the state's 27 cities till February 4. Read moreConfident of BJP's victory in BBMP election: Karnataka CM BommaiExpressing confidence that the BJP would register a victory in the forthcoming civic body election in Bengaluru, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has said, "the victory of BJP in BBMP election is as true as the sun rising in the east." Read moreChina plans 'megaconstellation' of 13,000 satellites, claims reportChina is embarking on a mission that has renewed concerns about spying. It plans to send upto 13,000 satellites in space - a ‘megaconstellation’ - that will encircle the Earth in the lower orbit, a report in the Daily Mail said. Read moreAnupam Mittal denies Sony funding Shark Tank contestants: ‘Amitabh Bachchan took half their money, Kapil took the rest’Shaadi.com founder and CEO Anupam Mittal, who is seen as one of the ‘sharks’ on Shark Tank India, denied speculation that they invest Sony Entertainment Television’s money in the businesses of the contestants instead of their own. Read more'Knew we were on way after losing those 2 series': Shastri recalls how IND beat AUS to become 'best travelling team'Former India head coach Ravi Shastri recalled being laughed at after his famous “best travelling team” remark back in 2018 following the England series loss, but feels that Team India did live up to it by turning the corner in Australia back in 2018/19 series. Read moreShehnaaz Gill shines bright in sequin pink saree, Internet calls her a 'Bombshell': See viral pics hereActor Shehnaaz Gill is taking over social media one stunning traditional look at a time. The star, who rose to fame during Bigg Boss 13 and has a massive fan following, has been sharing breathtaking pictures of herself dressed in traditional attires fit for the modern Indian woman. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/morning-brief-delhi-metro-to-resume-as-per-routine-weekend-timetable-from-today-101643425649968.html
29-01-2022||India||Mandaviya to hold review meeting today with 5 states over Covid-19 situation||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya will virtually review the Covid-19 situation, public health preparedness as well as response measures being taken in the context of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 in Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh today at 3 pm.Earlier on Friday, Mandaviya conducted a high-level meeting with Southern states and UT's Health Minister's and stressed upon e-Sanjeevani, teleconsultation, Monitoring home isolation and increasing RTPCR in States which are reporting lower percentage testing.The State Health Ministers who joined the high-level review meeting included Dr K Sudhakar (Karnataka), Dr Veena George (Kerala), Ma Subramaniam (Tamil Nadu) and Thanneeru Harish Rao (Telangana).He also requested the states to accelerate the pace of vaccination of the 15-17 years age group and those whose second dose is due.Earlier, he conducted a high-level meeting with nine Northern States and UTs and advised them to send Covid testing and vaccination data timely.The Union Health Minister also said that testing should be ramped up in the States where it has gone down.He also advised states and UTs to ensure that those in home isolation are efficiently monitored in line with the National Guidelines.He said, "This will ensure that the vulnerable categories of active cases in home isolation get the required medical help in a timely manner."Mandaviya said that with our past experience, 'Test-Track-Treat-Vaccinate & Adherence to Covid Appropriate Behaviour' along with monitoring of cases remains crucial for Covid management.The Union Health Minister also urged the States and UTs to adopt the hub and spoke model for teleconsultation.Mandaviya also urged the nine States and UTs to review and expedite the implementation of activities under the India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package: Phase-II (ECRP-II package) for strengthening the health infrastructure, an amount of ₹23,123 Crores which was approved by Union Cabinet in view of the second wave of the pandemic."Health Ministers and the State authorities to plug the existing gaps by efficiently utilizing the amount sanctioned for various infra projects. With strengthened health infrastructure, we can meet any health emergency and public health crisis with better preparedness," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandaviya-to-hold-review-meeting-today-with-5-states-over-covid-19-situation-101643420945824.html
29-01-2022||India||Covid-19: Gujarat extends night curfew in 27 cities till Feb 4||The Gujarat government has extended the ongoing night curfew - imposed to check the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases - in the state's 27 cities till February 4. The timings of the curfew are from 10pm to 6am.The decision was taken by chief minister Bhupendra Patel during the core committee meeting in the capital city of Gandhinagar, according to an official statement issued on Friday.The statement added that even though daily infections were declining in Gujarat, 12,131 people were detected as Covid-19 positive in the last 24 hours.Last week, the Gujarat government had extended the night curfew in 19 cities apart from eight metros where it was imposed earlier. These metros cities are - Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Junagadh, Bhavnagar and Gandhinagar.It was scheduled to end on Friday (January 29), so the decision was taken to extend it, an official told news agency PTI on Friday.During the curfew, shopping complexes, salons, beauty parlours, marketing yards etc are allowed to operate till 10pm. Home delivery from hotels and restaurants is allowed 24X7.Bus transport services have been exempted from night curfew, and they can operate with 75% seating capacity.A maximum of 150 people are allowed to attend political, social and religious gatherings at a venue in an open space. In enclosed spaces, the number should not exceed 50% of the area.The Gujarat government has also allowed establishments such as water parks, gyms, swimming pools, auditoriums, cinema halls and libraries to operate at 50% of their capacity.Gujarat has so far recorded more than 1.13 million cases due to Covid-19 which include 10,375 deaths, 1,014,501 recoveries and 107,915 active cases. Over 97.3 million vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state since the beginning of the vaccination drive in January last year.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-gujarat-extends-night-curfew-in-27-cities-till-feb-4-101643415499518.html
29-01-2022||India||First round of India-UK trade talks concludes||The first round of negotiations for an India-UK free trade agreement (FTA), formally launched on January 13, concluded after two weeks on Friday covering 26 areas such as trade in goods and services, investment, intellectual property, barriers to trade, small and medium enterprises, geographical indicators and digital.“Both sides acknowledge the importance of ensuring this first round – held virtually over 2 weeks - could proceed despite the challenges presented by the Covid pandemic,” commerce ministry said in a statement.The second round of negotiations is due to take place on March 7-18 March.“Both teams maintain a shared ambition to conclude negotiations by the end of 2022,” it said, adding that the two parties are making efforts to secure a comprehensive agreement even as chief negotiators would continue to consider the benefits of an interim agreement.India and the UK target doubling bilateral trade in goods and services to about $100 billion by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-round-of-india-uk-trade-talks-concludes-101643410347509.html
29-01-2022||India||‘State should decide IAS officer’s deputation, not Centre’: Jagan Mohan Reddy||HYDERABAD: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday spoke out against the central government’s proposal to amend the All India Service (IAS) rules that seeks to empower the Centre to post IAS, IPS and IFoS officers on central deputation without the consent of the state government concerned.The proposed changes have already been opposed by 11 of the 17 states that have so far responded, with most arguing that these would kill the federal compact. The 11 states which have communicated their reservations to the proposal are Rajasthan, Telangana, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Bihar and Karnataka (which is expected to revisit its stand).In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the evening, the chief minister welcomed the idea of taking the IAS officers to the Centre on deputation but stressed that the state government should have the option of deciding which officer should be sent on central deputation.“The state government is in a better position to assess who all can be spared for Government of India on deputation, keeping their professional as well as personal requirements in mind,” Jagan Mohan Reddy said.He said that a strong and sufficiently manned team of the AIS officers at the helm of affairs in the central government is essential to ensure smooth and seamless functioning of the government.“I strongly believe that states would benefit immensely from such well-functioning departments in the Government of India. Further, more IAS officers from the state cadre in different levels at central government will help the state in pursuing the issues pertaining to the state with Government of India,” he said.However, the chief minister opposed the proposed amendments to the AIS rules which state that the concurrence of the state government or the officer may not be necessary and the officers chosen by the central government for deputation may have to be relieved by the state government within the stipulated period irrespective of the willingness of the state government.He said IAS officers form the most important part of the state administration, handling various responsibilities. The state government generally gives no-objection certificates to officers requesting for central deputation, which gives some flexibility to the government to carefully plan such deputations without adversely affecting the state interests.“The proposed amendment may take away such an important flexibility from the state government. The sudden deputation of the officers would derail some critical projects taken up by the state and also their personal lives considering their families, children and their education,” he said.
29-01-2022||India||Bhaiyyu Maharaj suicide: 3 caretakers including Palak Pauranik get 6 years jail||BHOPAL: Three sewadars including his aide Palak Pauranik on Friday were sentenced to six years in jail for abetment to suicide and extortion that led to the death of self-styled spiritual guru Bhaiyyu Maharaj in Indore in 2018, the public prosecutor said.Indore’s additional sessions judge Dharmendra Soni convicted the three to six years imprisonment for abetting suicide and two years for extortion, said Gajraj Singh Solanki, the additional public prosecutor.According to the prosecution, Palak Pauranik, 25, was pressuring Bhaiyyu Maharaj aka Udaysingh Deshmukh, 50, to marry her and threatened to file rape charges against him if he didn’t complyDuring the investigation, police found that after Bhaiyyu Maharaj’s second marriage in 2017 - his first wife had died two years earlier - Palak was blackmailing Bhaiyyu Maharaj to marry her too. Palak had shot some explicit videos with Bhaiyyu Maharaj and threatened to implicate him in a rape case. And the two sewadars or caretakers, Vinayak Dudhade, 42, and Sharad Deshmukh, 34, were helping her extort moneyIn the case, forensic officer Tilak Raj of Bhopal presented 109 pages of chat records from Palak Purnik’s phone as the primary evidence to support the prosecution charge of abetment to suicide and extortion. As many as 32 eyewitnesses including Bhaiyyu Maharaj’s wife Ayushi and daughter Kuhu were examined by the prosecution during the trial.In one of the last messages that she sent, Palak told Bhaiyyu Maharaj to either marry her by June 16, 2018 or face rape charges. Bhaiyyu Maharaj shot himself with a licensed firearm on June 12, 2018, four days before the deadline was to end, said the prosecutor, Gajraj Singh Solanki. In a note, he said he was stressed out and fed up.According to the police, Palak Pauranik’s insistence on marrying Bhaiyyu Maharaj was linked to his wealth.Born Udaysingh Deshmukh in a farming family, Bhaiyyu Maharaj, as his followers called him, worked as a model for a textile company before styling himself into a spiritual leader, who led a flashy lifestyle, often seen sporting a Rolex watch and driving a Mercedes.Bhaiyyuji was popular in Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, and beyond, and had hosted high-profile visitors including former president Pratibha Patil, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat, singing legend Lata Mangeshkar, Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, former Maharashtra chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh, Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena leader Raj ThackerayIn 2011, the then Congress government even asked him to mediate on their behalf with social worker Anna Hazare – who was fasting at Delhi’s Ramlila Grounds to demand the Lokpal Bill. Later, in September, Narendra Modi (who was then the Gujarat chief minister) invited him to his three-day Sadbhavana fast in Ahmedabad.
29-01-2022||India||Parallels between riots, 9/11 terror attacks: Police in court during Khalid’s bail hearing||Opposing the bail petition moved by former JNU student Umar Khalid, an accused in the case of overall conspiracy behind 2020 northeast Delhi riots, the Delhi Police on Friday told a trial court that the accused tried to embarrass the government before the international media, and drew parallels between the planning for the 9/11 World Trade Centre attacks and the riots.“Just before 9/11 happened when all people were involved, they reached a particular place and took training. A month prior to that, they moved to their respective positions. That is what is relevant in this case also,” special public prosecutor Amit Prasad argued before additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat on Friday.He said Khalid’s lawyer Trideep Pais mentioned about the movie, The Trial of the Chicago 7, during his arguments. “However, what was more relevant to be referred to was probably the incident of 9/11 which is very well reflected here,” Prasad said. The Trial of the Chicago 7 was based on the countercultural protests in Chicago at the 1968 Democratic National Convention.The prosecutor said that the person who was behind the 9/11 attack never visited the US and the conspiracy meeting took place in Malaysia, claiming that Khalid and others met at another place and discussed the protests. “There is a foundation to show that violence is likely to happen,” Prasad argued.He said that Khalid and Sharjeel Imam were “two sides of the same coin”.“Issue was not CAA, NRC. Issue was you had to somehow embarrass the government and take steps, which would reflect in international media,” Prasad alleged.Earlier, in his arguments on behalf of Khalid, Trideep Pais told the court that the statement of the witnesses showed that he was falsely implicated and a case can’t be made against him on half truths.Pais said that police has written fanciful stories in the charge sheet and asked whether his client could be charged under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for calling road blockades in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parallels-between-riots-9-11-terror-attacks-police-in-court-during-khalid-s-bail-hearing-101643402368540.html
29-01-2022||India||BJP assets account for 69% of all national parties combined: ADR report||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has declared 69% or ₹4,847.78 crore of the total ₹6,988.57 crore of assets declared by seven national political parties for 2019-20, according to a report released by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR).The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) is a distant second with assets of ₹698.33 crore, followed by the Congress with ₹588.16 crore, the report added.The report, released on Friday, also highlights the significant increase in assets of the seven parties, from ₹3,260.81 crore in 2016-17 to ₹3,456.65 crore in 2017-18, ₹5,349.25 crore in 2018-19, and ₹6,988.57 crore in 2019-20.The seven parties are: BJP, BSP, Congress, CPM, AITC, CPI and NCP.The BJP declared ₹2,904.18 crore of assets in 2018-19, and while it saw a 67% increase in its assets to ₹4,847.78 crore in 2019-20, the Congress saw its assets in the same period fall from ₹928.84 crore to ₹588.16 crore, and the BSP from ₹738 crore to 698.33 crore.The assets declared by Political Parties fall under six major heads: fixed assets, loans & advances, FDR/ deposits, TDS, investments and other assets.According to the report, in 2019-20, 44regional parties declared total assets of ₹2,129.38 crore, with the top 10 regional parties accounting for 95.27% of this.“In FY 2019-20, among the Regional Parties, the highest assets were declared by the Samajwadi Party, worth ₹563.47 crore followed by Telangana Rashtra Samiti, worth ₹301.47 crore ,and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam worth ₹267.61 crore,” the report added.In 2018-19, the highest assets among regional parties were declared by SP ( ₹572.21 crore), Biju Janata Dal ( ₹232.27 crore), and the AIADMK ( ₹206.75 crore).ADR ‘s analysis further captures the asset categories declared by the parties. “During FY 2019-20, the National & Regional Parties declared maximum assets under FDR/Fixed Deposits which amounted to ₹5,970.59 crore (65.48% of total assets) followed by ₹1,363.87 crore (14.96%) under Fixed Assets and ₹946.57 crore (10.38%) under Other Assets,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-assets-account-for-69-of-all-national-parties-combined-adr-report-101643398086147.html
29-01-2022||India||In first statement on Ukraine, India calls for peaceful resolution through diplomatic efforts||NEW DELHI: India on Friday called for a peaceful resolution of the situation in Ukraine through sustained diplomatic efforts against the backdrop of concerns over a possible Russian invasion of the eastern European country. The remarks by external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi were the first official statement from the Indian side on the developments in Ukraine, which has become the main flashpoint in Moscow’s relations with the West. Russia has amassed some 100,000 troops on the border with Ukraine, prompting US President Joe Biden to warn there is a “distinct possibility” of an invasion next month. Though Russia has denied it is planning an attack, NATO forces are on standby to respond in case of such an eventuality. “We call for a peaceful resolution of the situation through sustained diplomatic efforts for long term peace and stability in the region and beyond,” Bagchi said in response to a question on the crisis in Ukraine during a weekly virtual media briefing. “We have been closely following the developments relating to Ukraine, including ongoing high-level discussions between Russia and the US. Our embassy in Kyiv is also monitoring local developments,” he said. The Indian embassy in Kyiv has asked all Indian nationals in Ukraine, including students, to register themselves with the mission by January 31 so that there can be effective coordination and swift dissemination of information. The mission also asked Indian nationals to follow the embassy’s website and Twitter and Facebook accounts for updates. According to the embassy’s website, there are about 18,000 Indian students studying medicine and engineering in Ukrainian universities and a small Indian business community in Kyiv. India had so far refrained from commenting on the situation in Ukraine in view of its close strategic relations with both Russia and the US. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla was briefed by US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman last week on Washington’s response to the crisis and “Russia’s concerning military build-up on Ukraine’s borders”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-first-statement-on-ukraine-india-calls-for-peaceful-resolution-through-diplomatic-efforts-101643397424604.html
29-01-2022||India||Descendant of royal family killed over property, say Odisha police||Killing of the granddaughter-in-law of the erstwhile ruler of Kanika royal estate by her 57-year-old son was over a property dispute of the family, the police said on Friday, a day after the crime.On Wednesday morning, Paresh Kumari Devi, the 75-year-old granddaughter-in-law of the erstwhile King of Kanika, Rajendra Narayan Bhanjadeo, was allegedly killed by her 57-year-old son Subhendra Narayan Bhanjadeo at their home in Srivihar Colony in Bidanasi area of Cuttack town.Paresh Kumari, who lived in the house with Subhendra and daughter Jayanti Samantray was battered to death by her son with the broken leg of a wooden chair and then a sharp object, the police said. Jayanti, who reportedly ran away seeing her brother attack her mother, later called up the police, who arrested him while he was trying to flee.Cuttack deputy commissioner of police Prateek Singh said Subhendra had a long-running feud with his mother as she controlled all the monetary and property transactions of their family. “He was allegedly not allowed to be part of any financial transaction due to which he nursed a grudge. He also had three bad marriages and used to blame his mother for all problems in life. He used to be under mental stress due to financial and personal issues,” said Singh, adding that the mother-son duo used to have regular quarrels over property matters,Samantray, the sister of the accused, said her brother had tried to strangulate her mother earlier, too, following which she advised staying with her on a floor above.Samantray said Singhdeo’s first wife had died while his second wife is living in New Delhi after divorce. He was currently in the process of separating from his third wife Bijaya Singhdeo. Bijaya said her husband was temperamentally very violent and used to beat her up at the slightest pretext.The Kanika feudatory estate was started around 1280 by Bhujabal Bhanj, brother of the then ruling chief of the princely estate of Mayurbhanj, spanned over several districts of Odisha, including the Bhitarkanika marine sanctuary in present-day Kendrapara district. Successive rulers of Kanika later extended the domain of the estate to Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, where they had thousands of acres, including the area where the Biju Patnaik International Airport exists in the Odisha capital city. After Independence, the estate merged with the Indian union, and the government annexed much of the landed properties.Rajendra Narayan Bhanjdeo, the last Kanika ruler, played a major role in formation of modern-day Odisha in the 1930s.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/descendant-of-royal-family-killed-over-property-say-odisha-police-101643395264561.html
29-01-2022||India||Congress to approach like-minded parties to corner govt in Budget Session||The Congress will coordinate with all like-minded parties in the upcoming Budget Session to raise questions on the government’s disinvestment process, including the sale of Air India, seek answers on the alleged Chinese incursions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and demand a compensation package for Covid-19 victims.The party’s parliamentary strategy group, which met on Friday, also decided to highlight “people’s issues”, including price rise, jobs and the economic situation, in the budget debates.“The party has decided to work with like-minded parties to raise issues like farmers distress, Chinese incursions, demand for relief package to Covid-19 victims, selling of Air India, and other key issues that affect the people at large,” said a party functionary, requesting anonymity.The party’s willingness to question the disinvestment process of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government found a new impetus just a day after the Centre and the Tata group completed the transfer of the ailing national carrier.A senior leader present in the meeting said, “We want to question the modus operandi of the government. How it waived off a large part of the debt and finally got just ₹2,700 crore from the buyers of Air India.”Another leader, requesting anonymity, said during the meeting, it was also discussed how so many contentious issues remain unresolved after the transfer of Air India has been completed. While the Congress is not opposed to disinvestment of perennially ailing PSUs, they have objections in the way it is being conducted now, the leader added.In the meeting, Congress’s president Sonia Gandhi sought opinion from all participants on picking issues. She also said that leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, will coordinate with other like-minded parties.A senior leader later added that the Congress will frame common strategies with its allies and other Opposition parties as it did in the Winter session but a direct coordination with the Trinamool Congress (TMC) is not guaranteed.“TMC maintains it is not an electoral ally of the Congress. We also don’t take it for granted that the TMC would fully coordinate with us in floor management. They might have their own issues too, while our focus would be different,” said the second functionary.The second leader also added that in the meeting, Gandhi spoke about the emphasis on people’s issues and how to raise such issues in the session which would have a short first half.“We decided that the price rise, job loss and the economic situation would be taken up during the debate on the union budget in the first half of the upcoming session. our entire focus would be on people’s issues,” the leader added.The budget session will start with the speech of the President on January 31, followed by presentation of Union Budget on February 1. The debates on the President’s speech and the general Budget will conclude before the two Houses go to recess and return for the second half of the session in March.The Congress Parliamentary Strategy Group meeting, chaired by Gandhi, was attended by Kharge, party’s Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and senior leaders lie AK Antony, KC Venugopal, Anand Sharma, Gaurav Gogoi, K Suresh, Manickam Tagore and Manish Tewari.The Congress wants to reiterate the farmers’ issues and demand a law on minimum support price (MSP) as they didn’t find any opportunity in the previous session. In the monsoon session, the bill to repeal the three contentious farm laws were passed without any debate in both Houses, denying the Opposition an opportunity to flag their concerns on farm issues and demand a law for MSP.
29-01-2022||India||Bihar bandh: Activists protest, disrupt traffic||Protesters blocked roads, disrupted train services and carried out processions in Patna and other parts of Bihar on Friday during a bandh called by students’ bodies against the alleged anomalies in the format of exams conducted by the Railway Recruitment Board. More than 500 RJD and Left party leaders and activists were arrested and later released in evening.A passenger train was set on fire and another was pelted with stones in Bihar on Republic Day as students took to streets against the Railway Recruitment Board’s Non-Technical Popular Categories (RRB-NTPC) exam 2021. Students have been opposing a decision by the railways to hold the exam in two stages, claiming that the second stage is unfair to those who have cleared the first stage, results for which were released on January 15.
29-01-2022||India||Why fears of ‘deadly’ NeoCoV may be greatly exaggerated||Multiple reports went viral over Thursday and Friday claiming Chinese researchers had found a coronavirus called NeoCoV that was on the verge of causing a new high-fatality pandemic, turning what was hypotheses typical of scientific lab studies into sensationalist doomsday predictions.The reports began snowballing following an initial story by Russian news agency Sputnik, which reported on a pre-print study, or yet to be peer-reviewed paper. It spoke of two coronaviruses, NeoCoV and PDF-2180-CoV that researchers from China said were like the Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome (Mers) coronavirus. Their lab studies showed that if NeoCoV picks up a certain mutation, it could use the same pathway to infect humans as the Sars-CoV-2 virus. The focus of the study is based on a simple premise: If NeoCoV picks up a particular mutation, can it become a larger threat? It is important to understand the nature of such studies. Virologists the world over explore multiple theories and test them using certain assumptions, engineered pathogens and modified cells made to represent a certain attribute or the other. While these can identify insights for where to look for threats, it important to remember these are hypotheticals. And the fact that this paper is yet to be peer reviewed makes it even more tentative since the assumptions, methods and conclusions can only be tested for robustness by other scientists.There are other factors to consider as well. NeoCoV is not a new coronavirus, and it – along with Mers – belongs to a distinctly different genera (a type of subclassification) of coronaviruses known as merbecovirus. This is separate from sarbecoviruses, the type that Sars-CoV-2 and Sars-CoV are, and embecovirus, the type to which the other common cold coronaviruses HKU1 and OC43 belong. Recombination among these is not impossible, but they have been rarely been observed.But one of the most key factors to remember is that the Chinese scientists themselves find that the NeoCoV does not infect human ACE2 at present, which means it cannot infect humans yet. What they stress on instead are the “latent potential” of such viruses in the future and the important of surveillance and research on these viruses. The nuance in the study and its main contention were missed out in news report headlines, some of which went to the extent of proclaiming “1 in 3 may die” in what can only be considered the combination of click-bait and ignorance.For many, it may have been the headline alone to conclude a new pandemic was on the horizon. A seminal study by Columbia University researchers showed in 2016 that 59% of the people who shared a story on social media never read it. Multiple studies have since corroborated this.
29-01-2022||India||Covid-19: Cases start to plateau in third national wave||The trajectory of India’s third wave of Covid-19 infections appears to have started receding, with new cases at the national level contracting over the past week – the first time a trend reversal has been witnessed since the start of the Omicron surge in late December.Experts say that if these trends hold it would be a crucial development as the onslaught of the third wave has been marked by a significantly smaller proportion of hospitalisations and deaths compared to the country’s first and second waves – a pattern consistent with global waves caused by the Omicron variant of Sars-Cov-2. A total of 233,779 new cases were reported on Friday, the lowest in 17 days, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. In fact, barring a minor uptick on Tuesday, daily infections have almost dropped every single day since January 20, when there were nearly 350,000 daily infections – the highest single-day tally so far in the third wave.The seven-day average of daily infections (a number that represents a region’s case curve) in India soared to 312,180 cases a day for the week ended Tuesday – the highest so far in this wave. This number has now dropped to 279,100 for the week ended Friday – a fall of around 10%. While this drop may be minor, it marks the first time that the seven-day average of cases has started contracting since the third wave started in the final week of December 2021.And while daily fluctuations in daily case tallies is not uncommon, particularly on weekends and holidays such as Republic Day, other statistical elements like test positivity rate – the proportion of samples tested returning positive for Covid-19 – appear to support the argument for a plateau. National daily positivity rate, which was 20.9% on January 23, has remained below that mark in the days that followed – on Wednesday, this number was 18%, and it fell further to 15.8% on Thursday.At the state level, the trend in contraction of daily cases becomes all the more apparent. Of India’s 36 states and Union territories, for the week ended Thursday, cases in the third wave appear to have hit a plateau, and have receded in varying degrees in 29 regions, data analysed by HT shows. A total of 16 states and UTs have witnessed their numbers drop by more than 20% from recent peaks.The biggest fall (with respect to the third wave peak) has been visible in West Bengal. The seven-day average of new cases in the state touched 17,523 for the week ended January 15, but has already dropped 72% to 6,135 for the week ended Thursday.In Delhi, where the infection curve touched a peak of 23,529 cases a day for the week ended January 15, cases have dropped 67% to touch 7,857 average infections a day for the week ended Thursday – the second highest recession in the country.These were followed by Jharkhand and Bihar, where cases have dropped 62% and 61% from third wave peaks, data shows.To be sure, even if the third wave appears to be waning in most regions, it is by no means true for all states. The surge appears to still rising through most of south India and the North-East, data shows. The case trajectory is currently at the highest point in the third wave (and still rising) in at least seven regions, data analysed by HT shows. These are Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tamil Nadu and Ladakh. Meanwhile, numbers in Telangana, Meghalaya, Manipur, Jammu and Kashmir, and Karnataka have only shown very minor recessions (under 3%).The plateau in numbers appears to be consistent with the preliminary projections by scientists who created Sutra – a mathematical model developed at IIT Kanpur and IIT Hyderabad to predict a peak in Covid-19 cases – which predicted a national peak around the final week of January.“According to number from our tracker (Sutra), we predicted a peak of around January 23, and we’re currently seeing a peak on January 25, so we do think the worst of this wave is over... especially in regions like Mumbai and Delhi,” said M Vidyasagar, SERB national chair, IIT- Hyderabad and member of the Sutra consortium. “An important point that we have to be mindful of is that when we started off our projections, we had to analyse the numbers from South Africa. We had to be more pessimistic with our estimates because our job was to help the government prepare for what may have been the worst that could happen. So there were some scenarios where we feared cases could be much higher, but so far we have either avoided those, or that a large proportion of mild or asymptomatic cases ended up going unreported.”He said in either case, it is better to track changes in statistics such as hospitalisation or ICU admission, because they represent the true on-the-ground situation, and as such should be used by policy makers as the statistic that should decide curbs.“We think there’s a possibility of raw case numbers being underreported in many regions because of the milder disease being apparent in this wave. Which is why I think that the real message to convey is that the overwhelming majority of cases are very mild, therefore, policy markers have to rethink their triggers from number of cases to hospitalisations or ICU admissions -- which truly represent the severity of the pandemic,” said Vidyasagar.He added that in both Mumbai and Delhi, almost 80% of hospital beds remained vacant even at the peak of the curve, and while many curbs applied in those regions made sense during previous waves when hospitalisations were soaring, they did not this time.India’s second wave, in particular, was marked by a soaring rate of hospitalisations which led to a record surge in daily deaths through the country.Another factor that appears to have played a role in keeping hospitalisation and deaths low in the country has been vaccinations, experts added. As per the latest data released by the Union health ministry, nearly 95% of all adults in the country have received at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine, with nearly 75% of India’s adult population has been fully vaccinated.
