30-01-2022||India||Four labourers killed in Telangana road accident||Four women labourers were killed and three others sustained injuries after a speeding car ploughed through their roadside huts near Kothirampur area, on the outskirts of Karimnagar town in Telangana on Sunday morning, the police said. Later in the evening, Karimnagar police arrested a 16-year-old boy, who was driving the car, along with his father and two of his friends, in connection with the accident.The deceased were identified as Fariyad, Sunitha, Latha and Jyothy. Their exact ages are yet to be ascertained, said police.Sub-inspector at Karimnagar Town-1 police station, Sandeboyina Srinivas, said an over speeding Hyndai Creta car (registration no. TS02EY 2121), on the way from Karimnagar to Hyderabad, ploughed through the huts of the pavement dwellers, early in the morning.“The accused teenager is a resident of Gayatrinagar area in the town. He took out the car from his house early morning and told his parents that he would be going to local Ambedkar stadium to play badminton. Instead, he picked up two of his friends, both 14, from the Kaman area in the town and proceeded towards Lower Manair Dam reservoir,” said Karimnagar commissioner of police V Satyanarayana. “As they were approaching the Kothirampur area, the boy lost control over the vehicle and ran over the people on the pavement, killing four people on the spot and injuring three others,” Satyanarayana said.The boy claimed that he was blinded by the smoke coming out of the huts, where women were burning charcoal and accidentally pressed the accelerator leading to the mishap, said the police.The police have registered a case under Section 304 (ii) (causing death by doing any rash or negligent act) of the Indian Penal Code against the teenager and his father. Karimnagar assistant commissioner of police Tula Srinivasa Rao, who is investigating the case, warned people of stern action against giving their vehicles to minor children.The labourers, who belong to Adilabad district, had put up huts on the roadside pavements and were involved in making knives and other kitchen appliances. “We will launch a special drive to remove encroachments from the pavements,” Rao added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-labourers-killed-in-telangana-road-accident-101643567204279.html
30-01-2022||India||Only party which keeps its poll promises, says Rajnath Singh on BJP||Advocating politics aimed at nation-building, and not only for government formation, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections will decide the fate of the state.Rajnath Singh was at Kasganj in Aligarh division of Uttar Pradesh to campaign for the BJP and address a gathering of prominent people.He claimed the BJP is the only party which keeps its promises and has got no corruption charges against it in either the state or at the Centre. The defence minister invoked former Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh governor and ex-UP chief minister the late Kalyan Singh, whose home district Aligarh is near Kasganj, and his contribution to the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. “No one can dare make any corruption charges against our governments or leaders at the Centre and in the state. Former prime minister and Congress leader the late Rajiv Gandhi had once said that only 15 paise out of every rupee reached the poor, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi ensured that the full amount allocated reaches the beneficiary,” claimed Rajnath Singh. “By paying mere lip service, one cannot weed out corruption, but the system requires change and that was done by the BJP. The BJP delivered what it promised, be it scrapping of Article 370 in Kashmir, a promise that the Bharatiya Jan Sangh led by Shyama Prasad Mukherjee had made in the 1950s,” he said. “We offered citizenship to Hindus from Pakistan and those facing atrocities in other nations. The Opposition always doubted our promise to build the Ram Temple at Ayodhya but we are doing it and have silenced the Opposition. If the Ram Temple does not come up in India, where else in the world would it be constructed?” asked Rajnath Singh, a former UP chief minister (2000-2002).“We are not only committed to development, but also to safeguarding our rich cultural heritage,” said Singh. He blamed the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for resorting to divisive tactics to try and attain power. “Uttar Pradesh developed in Yogi Adityanath’s regime. Expressways and airports are coming up in the state. But the Samajwadi Party caused riots and failed to safeguard the respect of women and girls. We were able to do so because our intentions were honest,” he said.“India is now recognized as a powerful nation worldwide, yet we have not attacked any nation nor encroached on their land. Nevertheless, some powers have bad intentions towards India and we warn them that India will reply in a befitting manner if even an inch of our land is encroached,” the defence minister said. Rajnath Singh mocked the “laal potli” (red packet) being carried by Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav these days and said that one has to perform to earn the confidence of the masses, adding that such gimmicks won’t work in elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-party-which-keeps-its-poll-promises-says-rajnath-singh-on-bjp-101643566223726.html
30-01-2022||India||Best time to ask Israel for advanced Pegasus software: Chidambaram in dig at Modi||Senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha lawmaker P Chidambaram attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, over his congratulatory message on the completion of the three-decade-long Indo-Israeli relationship, in connection with the reignited Pegasus controversy.“The PM said that it is the best time to set new goals in the India-Israel relationship. Of course, it is the best time to ask Israel if they have any advanced version of the Pegasus spyware,” tweeted the Rajya Sabha MP. In a follow-up tweet, he added, “The last deal was for $2 billion. India can do better this time. If we get more sophisticated spyware ahead of the 2024 elections, we can give them even $4 billion.”This tweet came after The New York Times, published a report, on Saturday, titled ‘The Battle of the World’s Most Powerful Cyber-weapon,’ that said Israeli firm NSO Group had for nearly a decade been “selling its surveillance software on a subscription basis to law-enforcement and intelligence agencies around the world, promising that it could do what no one else could do: consistently and reliably crack the encrypted communications of any iPhone or Android smartphone”.Not just Chidambaram, but the Congress party as a whole, has intensified its attack on the Modi government over the spyware controversy, accusing the government of treason for allegedly “tapping” phones of Opposition leaders, armed forces and the judiciary. Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi accused the Modi government of treason. In a tweet posted on Saturday, he said, “This is treason. Modi government has committed treason.”Congress has pledged to raise the issue in the Budget Session of Parliament starting on Monday, and demand accountability from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party government. Moreover, Opposition parties also urged the Supreme Court to take cognizance of the matter and initiate appropriate penal proceedings against the government for attempting to “deliberately and knowingly deceive” it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/best-time-to-ask-israel-for-advanced-pegasus-software-chidambaram-in-dig-at-modi-101643563763554.html
30-01-2022||India||Godse's ideology is becoming 'dominant' in country: Mahatma Gandhi's great-grandson||On the 74th death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, his great-grandson Tushar Gandhi on Sunday said that the number of people following Bapu's ideology is decreasing in the country, whereas the ideology of his assassinator Nathuram Godse is becoming increasingly dominant, according to a report by PTI.He also said that while the Central government is organising the Amrit Mahotsav of Azadi to celebrate the 75th year of independence, "poison of hatred" is spreading in society.Tushar Gandhi was speaking in a virtual programme 'Kar Ke Dekho' organised by the Gandhi Study Centre of JES College in Jalna district of Maharashtra. The event was organised to mark the 74th death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi."The government is celebrating 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' to commemorate 75 glorious years of progressive India and its rich history, but now 'amrit' has become poison of hatred and it is increasing and being spread," Tushar Gandhi said."The teachings of Mahatma Gandhi are on the wane and the ideology of his killer, Nathuram Godse, is dominating over it," he added."A section of people is distorting the history and rewriting it in their own way. But we have to revive the real history and raise voice against hatred and division in the society," Tushar Gandhi said.Earlier in the day, the Hindu Mahasabha paid tribute to Nathuram Godse and a co-accused in the Gandhi murder trial, Narayan Apte, in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior by observing "Godse-Apte Smriti Diwas".The right-wing organisation also bestowed “Godse-Apte Bharat Ratna” in Gwalior upon jailed religious leader Kalicharan Maharaj. He was arrested last December for allegedly making derogatory remarks against the Mahatma.Last November, the Hindu Mahasabha said it will sculpt a statue of Nathuram Godse using the soil brought from Haryana's Ambala Central Jail, where he was hanged to death in 1949.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/godses-ideology-is-becoming-dominant-in-country-mahatma-gandhi-s-greatgrandson-101643562894925.html
30-01-2022||India||Akhilesh Yadav to file nomination for UP’s Karhal assembly seat on Monday||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav will file his nomination papers for the Karhal assembly seat in Mainpuri (Uttar Pradesh) on Monday, the party said on Sunday. This is the first time the four-time Member of Parliament (MP) will contest an assembly seat. Karhal is scheduled to go to polls on February 20 in the third phase of the seven-phase Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.Akhilesh, the sitting Azamgarh MP, reached his ancestral village Saifai in neighbouring Etawah district on Sunday.“He will start from Saifai at 11 am to file nomination at the Mainpuri district collectorate,” the SP said in a statement.Ever since speculation of chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s candidature for assembly polls had surfaced, there was talk about Akhilesh, too, contesting the 2022 polls. The BJP has fielded Yogi Adityanath from the Gorakhpur urban seat.Yogi Adityanath and Akhilesh Yadav have been MPs, but they have never contested assembly elections. Both took the Vidhan Parishad route to become members of the UP legislature when they took oath as chief ministers.Karhal is a stronghold of the Samajwadi Party since 1993, with only one exception. In the 2002 assembly election, the seat went to the BJP. Sobaran Singh Yadav (Samajwadi Party) is the sitting MLA from Karhal. He was with the BJP when he won the seat in 2002. Since 2007, he has been contesting on the SP ticket. Mainpuri, in which the Karhal assembly segment falls, is SP chief patron Mulayam Singh Yadav’s Lok Sabha constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akhilesh-yadav-to-file-nomination-for-up-s-karhal-assembly-seat-on-monday-101643562443574.html
30-01-2022||India||Bhima Koregaon probe panel to resume hearings from January 31||The hearings of the Bhima Koregaon Inquiry Commission will resume at its Pune office on Monday with former Pune city chief Rashmi Shukla and former Additional Superintendent of Pune Rural Police Tejashwi Satpute are among the five people scheduled to record their statements before the commission, officials said. Shukla, Additional Director General with the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), was then Pune Police Commissioner while Satpute, who is now Superintendent of Police at Solapur, was posted at Pune rural unit. The two-member panel comprises of Calcutta High Court former Chief Justice Jayant Patel and State Chief Information Commissioner Sumit Mullick. The scheduled hearings were suspended in the second week of January owing to the rising numbers of Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra. The others on the current list of witnesses to be examined include Sambhaji Shivale, Balasaheb Jamadar, and ACP Ramesh Galande. The Commission, that was formed on February 19, 2018 by the Bharatiya Janata Party government led by then Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, has been granted nine extensions ever since. The current extension was granted in December 2021 and will last till June 30, 2022. During the riots that ensued in January 2018 during the 200 anniversary of the battle of Bhima Koregaon, one person died while scores were injured including some police officials. The commission was formed and tasked with finding out who was responsible for the violence while also suggesting policy changes to avoid such incidents in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhima-koregaon-probe-panel-to-resume-hearings-from-january-31-101643561303700.html
30-01-2022||India||Covid-19: Nasal vaccine could be a ‘game-changer’, says AIIMS epidemiologist||As Hyderabad-based drug maker Bharat Biotech has got regulatory approval to conduct Phase-3 clinical trials of its intranasal COVID-19 vaccine as a booster dose, senior epidemiologist in All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, Dr Sanjay Rai, on Sunday said the vaccine could be a game-changer in the fight against the pandemic if it provides mucosal immunity."If this vaccine gives mucosal immunity, then it would be a great achievement for the human race. There are 33 vaccines all over the world but none is effective in preventing the infection. We are hoping that this vaccine will provide mucosal immunity that can prevent further infection," Dr Rai told ANI here.As the Budget Session starts from Monday, the AIIMS Senior epidemiologist expects that need of the hour is to strengthen the public health system at all primary, secondary level and tertiary levels."This is not the last pandemic, we must prepare for future pandemics and to handle that, we need to strengthen the public health system," he said.The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted permission to Hyderabad-based biotechnology firm Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of India's first indigenous COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, for intranasal booster dose trials. The trials will be done at nine different sites.Earlier this month, DCGI's Subject Expert Committee (SEC) had granted 'in-principle approval to Bharat Biotech for the conduct of 'Phase III superiority study and Phase III booster dose study' for its intranasal COVID vaccine BBV154.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-nasal-vaccine-could-be-a-game-changer-says-aiims-epidemiologist-101643559976369.html
30-01-2022||India||BJP declares Manipur candidate list; inclusion of former Congress MLAs leads to protests||After several days of speculations, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday announced its list of candidates for all 60 assembly seats for the coming assembly elections in Manipur. The inclusion of several former Congress MLAs, some of whom had joined BJP recently, upset saffron party workers who burnt party flags, banners and effigies of leaders in several parts of the state including Imphal. Security has been beefed up to prevent violence. There are reports that announcement of the list also led to a spate of resignations by several BJP leaders, some of whom failed to secure tickets. There was no immediate response from the party on exact number of resignations. In 2017, BJP came second by winning 21 seats, but was able to upset the Congress, which won 28 seats, and form government with the support of NPP, Naga People’s Front and others. Since then many Congress MLAs have left the party and joined BJP. “Congratulations to all the BJP candidates for Manipur assembly election 2022. With Prime Minister Narendra Modiji and BJP national president JP Nadda’s guidance, I am confident that the BJP will come back with an absolute majority in the upcoming assembly election,” Chief Minister N Biren Singh tweeted. Chief Minister N Biren Singh will seek re-election from Heingang constituency in Imphal East district-the same seat he represented in 2017. This time he will be facing P Saratchandra Singh of Congress. The other ministers who will also be seeking re-election include Th Biswajit from Thongju, S Rajen from Lamshang, O Lukhoi from Wangoi, Vungzagin Valte from Thanlon and Th Satyabrata from Yaiskul. Former National Peoples’ Party (NPP) MLA, Letpao Haokip, a minister in the present government, who joined BJP recently, will contest from Tengnoupal. As many as 11 former Congress MLAs, who jumped ship after their wins in 2017 and joined the BJP, were among the 60 candidates the saffron party announced on Sunday. The move upset some BJP workers who protested in Imphal. They are Th Shyamkumar (Andro), Rajkumar Imo Singh (Sagolband), Okram Henry Singh (Wangkhei), Oinam Lukhoi Singh (Wangoi), K Govindas (Bishnupur), P Brojen Singh (Wangjing Tentha), Y Surchandra Singh (Kakching), Yamthong Haokip (Saikul), Ngamthang Haokip (Saitu), Chaltonlien Amo (Tipaimukh) and Ginsuanhau Zou (Singhat). While Shyamkumar was the first Congress MLA to join BJP immediately after announcement of results, most others including former Congress state president K Govindas joined BJP in recent months. One of them is related to former chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh of Congress while another to present chief minister N Biren Singh. Okram Henry Singh is Ibobi’s his nephew while Rajkumar Imo Singh is son-in-law of Biren. Inclusion of several former Congress MLAs at the cost of BJP old timers didn’t go down well with many saffron party supporters who protested on Imphal streets by burning banners and flags. The inclusion of former IAS officer, Y Surchandra Singh, who left Congress and joined BJP just 10 days back, peeved several. The list also included a former Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator T. Robindro Singh (Thanga) who joined BJP 10 days back and former Lok Janshakti Party MLA Karam Shyam (Langthabal). Two former Congress leaders, M Prithviraj Singh (Moirang) who was a runner up in 2017 and Preshow MK Shimray, who came third behind BJP’s Sword Vashum in Shingai seat five years ago and Y Antas Khan, who contested as an Independent in 2017 from Lilong were also in the BJP list. Three BJP sitting MLAs-P Sarat of Moirang, M Rameshwar of Kakching and Y Irabot of Wangkhei constituencies, were not listed in the party’s candidates list. They were replaced by three former MLAs in the list. The BJP list had three women candidates-S Kebi Devi who will contest from Naoriya Pakhanglakpa seat in Imphal West district, SS Olish for Chandel seat in Chandel district and Nemcha Kipgen for Kangpokpi seat in Kangpokpi district. Among the new faces, L Basanta Singh will contest against former Chief Minister and Congress heavyweight O Ibobi Singh from Thoubal seat while former national footballer Somtai Shaiza will contest from Ukhrul seat. The assembly election in the state will be held in two phases on February 27 and March 3 and results will be announced on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-declares-manipur-candidate-list-inclusion-of-former-congress-mlas-leads-to-protests-101643557523178.html
30-01-2022||India||Trinamool MP says WHO showing wrong map of India, writes to PM||Trinamool MP Dr Santanu Sen has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the World Health Organization is showing a wrong map of India. "When I clicked the site WHO Covid19.int, a world map was displayed and when I zoomed the portion of India, it was showing a blue map with surprisingly two different colours for Jammu and Kashmir," the MP wrote. He said when he clicked over the blue portion, the map was showing him India's data, but the other portion was showing the data of Pakistan, he said.
30-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: ‘Bengal becoming gas chamber for democracy’, says governor Dhankhar and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bengal gas chamber for democracy, says Dhankhar on Gandhi’s death anniversaryWest Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday chose the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s 74th death anniversary to target the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) government, saying the state “is becoming a gas chamber for democracy”. Read moreDelhi sees slight fall in daily Covid-19 tally with 3,674 new cases, active caseload above 21,000With 3,674 new Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi’s total caseload reached 1,827,489 and the death toll went up to 25,827 on Sunday. The daily positivity rate stood at 6.37%. Read moreRafael Nadal wins record 21st Grand Slam title, beats Daniil Medvedev in five-set thriller in Australian Open finalRafael Nadal created history at the Rod Laver Arena on Sunday as he won a historic 21st Grand Slam title, defeating Russia's Daniil Medvedev in the final of the Australian Open. Read moreFrustrated Ashneer Grover calls pitcher's product 'wahiyat' on Shark Tank India, exclaims 'bhagwan utha le'. WatchOn reality show Shark Tank India, ‘shark’ Ashneer Grover visibly took offence to a product pitch, calling the product disgusting in an exasperated manner. He also asked the pitcher to ‘respect’ the platform and not take it as a ‘joke’. Read moreMouni Roy wows in red Banarasi silk saree with Suraj Nambiar for first public appearance: All pics insideActor Mouni Roy and her husband, Suraj Nambiar, made their first public appearance on Sunday evening. The two were snapped together for the first time after getting married on January 27. Read moreCOVID, U.S.-led diplomatic boycotts overshadow Beijing Winter OlympicsBeijing opens the 24th Winter Olympics on February 4, the sporting event marred by controversies. With Winter Olympics near, the Chinese capital reported the highest COVID-19 cases since June 2020. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bengal-becoming-gas-chamber-for-democracy-says-governor-dhankhar-and-all-the-latest-news-101643555960775.html
30-01-2022||India||Suspected Maoist killed in encounter in Bastar’s Sukma district||A suspected Maoist was killed in an encounter with security forces in Bastar’s Sukma district on Sunday. Officials said that the body of the deceased is yet to identified and combing operation in the jungles is still going on. Bastar range, Inspector General of Police, Sunderaj P, in a statement said that searching in the area is going on after the encounter, which took place at around 7 am. “The encounter took place near the forest of Thimmapuram village under Chintalnar police station limits. A joint team of District Reserve Guard and the 201st battalion of CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), an elite unit of the CRPF, was out for patrolling duty for providing security for the ongoing road construction work in interior areas. Suddenly, Maoists opened fire on the patrolling team near Thimmapuram and the encounter started,” the IG said. Police said that after the firing stopped, the body of a male Maoist clad in ‘uniform’ and firearms was recovered from the spot. When the patrolling team was withdrawing from the forest, again an exchange of fire broke out. “The combing operation in the area is going on,” said the IG. Last week after an encounter of a suspected Maoist in Narayanpur district of Bastar region, the family members of the suspected Maoist killed in the encounter with security personnel, raised questions over the encounter and claimed that the deceased was not a Maoist. Police said that the Maoist, Manu Ram Nureti, was killed in an encounter with security forces on January 23. The brother of the deceased, Renu Raam Nureti, who is presently in district reserve guard (DRG) of Chhattisgarh Police, told the media in Narayanpur district, that his brother was not a Maoist. 
30-01-2022||India||Did night curfew, weekend curfew help in containing Omicron? What this Bengaluru study says||A Bengaluru-specific study has revealed that night curfew and weekend curfew slowed and delayed the spread of Omicron at best. "Omicron eventually spreads and affects nearly as much of the population as it would have without the restrictions," the case study conducted by experts from the Indian Statistical Institute, Indian Institute of Science and University of Virginia's Biolcomplexity Institute said.In the first week of January, the number of Covid infections across the country increased, restrictions like weekend lockdown, night curfew were brought back. Whether these restrictions work remains a contentious issue as many experts have, in past, questioned how these restrictions contain the spread of the infection.Karnataka lifts night curfew, Bengaluru schools to reopen from January 31The researchers said they used community mobility reports published by Google and then they quantified the impact o such restriction via a simulation study. And this study said the restrictions have slowed down the spread as Omicron would reach the same number of people with or without the restrictions.Using mathematical models, the study confirmed that the benefit of the mobility restrictions is to flatten the curve and reduce the peak. And once the curve is flattened, the daily demand for hospitals beds reduce. It also said that once the peak of the wave is past, the usefulness of the restrictions is limited.“If Karnataka cases trajectory follows the SA trend and hospitalisation is similar to that observed in well-vaccinated countries, the healthcare requirement is likely within capacity when the caseload peaks, with or without the mobility restrictions,” the study noted. Karnataka is going for a reopening starting from January 31 with all schools in Bengaluru reopening. The government has also withdrawn weekend lockdown and night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-night-curfew-weekend-curfew-help-in-containing-omicron-what-this-bengaluru-study-says-101643552303698.html
30-01-2022||India||Caught in crossfire: NTPC, energy conglomerate, urges Railways to rename tests||"Caught in the crossfire" over the rail exams, NTPC, the country's largest power producer has written to the Railways to rename its Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC) tests organised by the Railway Board.The Railway exams have been in the news for the last week over large-scale protests over certain irregularities in its screening process.The abbreviation of the exams which is the same as the one used for the power producer has been widely used to refer to the controversial test during the reportage on the issue."This is with reference to the recent protest in some parts of the country with respect to Railway Recruitment Board Non-Technical Popular Categories (NTPC RRB) exam of Indian Railways," a letter from NTPC (the power corporation) states."While we are confident that the Railways is taking all necessary steps to address the situation, we just wish to bring to your notice that NTPC Limited has inadvertently been caught in the crossfire. The media has been using the abbreviated form NTPC, which gives the impression that the exams are linked to India's largest power producer," the NTPC said."This, you would agree, is also hurting our reputation," it pointed out.It further requested that the full form of the tests be used by the national transporter."Use full form of the Railway Recruitment Scheme in your press releases/ statements so that this misconception is not carried on creating wrong impression amongst the users of social media and also public at large," the NTPC said."We would therefore urge you to kindly rename these exams so that no confusion is created in future," it said.Since the protests, the Railways has suspended this exam along with the Level 1 tests and have formed a committee to look into the grievances of the aspirants. PTI ASG RHL||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caught-in-crossfire-ntpc-energy-conglomerate-urges-railways-to-rename-tests-101643551366113.html
30-01-2022||India||Bengal gas chamber for democracy, says Dhankhar on Gandhi’s death anniversary||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday chose the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi’s 74th death anniversary to target the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) government, saying the state “is becoming a gas chamber for democracy”. “Bengal is becoming a gas chamber for democracy. We cannot let it turn into a laboratory for human rights violations… We cannot let this soil soak in blood. There is no rule of law in Bengal. Only the ruler rules here. It is my responsibility to protect the Constitution,” Dhankhar said. The Bengal governor was addressing people at a programme held at Gandhi Ghat in Barrackpore in North 24 Parganas district. Dhankhar’s statements came days after the TMC decided to move motions against him at the coming sessions of the Rajya Sabha and the state legislative assembly to condemn his actions which the ruling party describes as violation of Constitutional norms and practices. Ruling party leaders have repeatedly alleged that he is “an agent of the Centre”. Dhankhar was sworn in on July 30, 2019, and the face-off started in less than two months. On Thursday, the TMC decided to place a Substantive Motion in the Rajya Sabha criticizing Dhankhar. The decision was taken at a meeting chief minister Mamata Banerjee held with her party’s Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members. The party is also planning to move a motion against the governor in the coming session of the state legislature. Even as the acrimonious relationship between Raj Bhawan and the TMC touched an all-time low, Dhankhar on Sunday reiterated that there should be a dialogue between the governor and the state government. “On the death anniversary of the Father of the Nation, honourable Mamata Banerjee should take an oath to follow the Constitution. I request her to take out time from her schedule and hold discussions with the governor. Democracy wants people in high positions to work together in the interest of the people who look up to us. We cannot be arrogant. We cannot be driven by ego. I hold no malice against those who pass comments on the governor every day because the chief minister herself has made comments inside and outside the state. This was not right. I hope that today she gets the message through you (the media). She and I should hold discussions,” Dhankhar said. He also alleged at the event that funds from the state exchequer were diverted last year to start a subsidised canteen chain for poor people affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. The chain was named Maa (mother). “Guv WB -It is obligatory for Government @MamataOfficial to impart full details of ‘Maa’ scheme that came to be launched mid Feb 2021 though it could be operationalised only from April 1, 2021. Such diversion of funds from consolidated fund of state is a serious matter,” Dhankhar tweeted after Sunday’s event. TMC ministers reacted sharply to the governor’s comments. “If Dhankhar thinks that Bengal has become a gas chamber then he should leave immediately. He is an agent of the BJP and speaks in their language all the time,” Kolkata mayor and minister Firhad Hakim said. Supporting the governor, Bengal Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Sukanta Majumdar said, “The fact that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is bringing charges against a host of TMC leaders in the post-poll violence cases proves how democracy has been violated in Bengal.” The exchanges took place a day after Gopal Majumdar, a local TMC leader at Ishapore in North 24 Parganas, was murdered. The police on Sunday arrested a local BJP leader, Bijay Mukherjee, while preliminary probe indicated the involvement of hired killers. Arjun Singh, the BJP’s Lok Sabha member from the district’s Barrackpore constituency, was present on the dais with the governor. Accusing Singh of masterminding the murder, state forest minister Jyotipriyo Mullick refused to share the dais and sat among the audience at Gandhi Ghat. “Singh is a professional killer and the governor chose to have him by his side. I told the governor that it is not possible for me to share space with Singh,” Mullick said. As the TMC alleged that Bijoy Mukherjee was an associate of Singh, the MP said, “The murder was the fallout of an internal feud of the TMC over selection of candidates for the coming civic polls. Mukherjee is not involved in any way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-gas-chamber-for-democracy-says-dhankhar-on-gandhi-s-death-anniversary-101643550202789.html
30-01-2022||India||Farmers to observe ‘Betrayal Day’ on Jan 31, BKU’s Rakesh Tikait says Centre yet to fulfill promises||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said that a nation-wide “Betrayal Day” would be observed on Monday (January 31), alleging that the Union government has not fulfilled the promises it made to the protesting farmers to withdraw from their agitation against the three farm laws last year.Further, Tikait also said that the protesting farmers withdrew from their more-than-a-year-long protests at Delhi’s borders based on the Centre’s promises made in a letter on December 9, 2021, but said that the promises were yet to be fulfilled by the government.सरकार द्वारा किसानों से वादाखिलाफी के खिलाफ कल 31 जनवरी को देशव्यापी "विश्वासघात दिवस" मनाया जाएगा ।सरकार के 9 दिसंबर के जिस पत्र के आधार पर आन्दोलन स्थगित किया गया था, सरकार ने उनमें से कोई वादा पूरा नहीं किया है .!#FarmersProtest #विश्वासघात_दिवस pic.twitter.com/dBAlfXCGUI“Tomorrow, January 31, a nation-wide "Betrayal Day" will be observed by the farmers against the government’s breach of promise to the farmers,” the BKU leader said in a tweet in Hindi. “The government has not fulfilled any of the promises made on the letter dated 9th December (2021), on the basis of which the movement (farmers protest) was suspended,” he added. In November 2021, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre would roll back the three contentious farm laws, against which several farm unions, spearheaded by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), staged the protests at Delhi’s outskirts. Also read | Rakesh Tikait interview: ‘Farmers are above caste, we’re united on issues’Following the announcement, the three laws were repealed after the Farm Laws Repeal Bill, 2021, was passed in both houses of Parliament on the first day of the Winter Session on November 29, 2021.Further, the Centre had also said that a committee would be constituted to work towards a new framework for the minimum support price (MSP), a legal guarantee for which has been one among the key demands from the farmers besides the repeal of the three laws.The announcement from Tikait came a day after he said on Saturday that the demand for a guarantee on MSP will continue. “The families of farmers have lost more than 700 of their loved ones in the movement. Farmers will never forget these days of last year,” he said in a tweet in Hindi. “MSP is the backbone of farmers and farmers want MSP guarantee law to save the future of farming! The fight continues, the fight will continue,” he further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-observe-betrayal-day-on-jan-31-says-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-101643549516643.html
30-01-2022||India||Former Kerala minister K T Jaleel raises serious charges against Lokayukta||Amid a row over the Kerala government’s plan to clip the wings of anti-corruption body Lokayukta through an ordinance, former minister K T Jaleel on Sunday posted a controversial message on social media casting serious aspersions on Lokayukta Justice Cyriac Joseph, also a former judge of the Supreme Court. Without naming him, Jaleel alleged that the Lokayukta “will do anything for money and position” and the Congress-led UDF is using him as a weapon to stab CM Pinarayi Vijayan in the back. Jaleel was forced to resign from the Vijayan government last year after the Lokayukta found him guilty of nepotism. In the post he also alleged that in 2005 a senior leader of the UDF was saved from a controversial case when he was a judge in the high court and in turn he managed a plum post for his sister-in-law. He was indirectly referring to the appointment of Jancy James as the vice chancellor of the Mahatma Gandhi University in Kottayam. “It is a tragedy that a weapon meant for Gandhiji is getting into the hands of Godse. If he gets good returns he will do any job. When three central agencies gave me a clean chit in a trumped up case he appeared all of a sudden to weaken the government,” he said in the post referring to his own case. Later he also posted the verdict in the ice cream parlour case-- a sex scandal in which Muslim League leader P K Kuhalikutty’s name allegedly cropped up but later the Supreme Court gave him a clean chit. Last year Jaleel resigned from the Pinarayi Vijayan government after the Lokayukta found him guilty of nepotism. He was found to have lobbied for a relative to be appointed as the general manager of the State Minority Welfare Corporation. Lokayukta found that he diluted some of the qualifications required for the post. Though he moved the High Court and Supreme Court both refused to entertain his plea. The opposition Congress and BJP slammed Jaleel for targeting constitutional positions. The Congress has sought the CM’s reply to Jaleel’s post. “Justice Cyriac Joseph was appointed Lokayukta by the present government. It is for the CM to reply to such wild allegations,” said opposition leader VD Satheesan. “Frustrated Jaleel is attacking constitutional positions to vent his anger,” said BJP state president K Surendran. The ruling CPI(M) is yet to comment on his post. The Opposition parties have said the move to curtail the powers of the Lokayukta came in the wake of three complaints against the CM for allegedly abusing his position to grant financial help to three “ineligible persons” from his disaster relief fund. Complaints claimed he misused funds meant for disaster relief and distributed lakhs of rupees to former party MLA K K Ramachandran’s family to clear his debts, help to the family of former NCP leader Uzhavoor Vijayan and relief to the family of a gunman who died on escort duty of CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. Similarly, higher education minister R Bindhu is also feeling the heat of the Lokayukta. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala had moved the legal body last month citing two letters the former wrote to the Governor recommending the re-appointment of Kannur vice- chancellor Gopinath Raveendran. Chennithala said the minister has no right to send such letters to the Governor and it was a clear case of nepotism and misuse of power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-kerala-minister-k-t-jaleel-raises-serious-charges-against-lokayukta-101643547322524.html
30-01-2022||India||Charanjit Channi to contest from 2 seats; 'I said before' is Kejriwal's reaction||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will be contesting from two seats in the upcoming Punjab Assembly Election 2022. As the party released a list of eight candidates on Sunday, it was made clear that the party is fielding Channi from Bhadaur as well. Earlier, he was declared as a candidate from Chamkaur Sahib, the constituency he has been representing for over a decade. The development comes amid speculations over Congress's CM candidate in Punjab on which Congress leader Rahul Gandhi assured that despite the party's tradition of not announcing a CM face generally, the party will be announcing the CM face this time in Punjab, after consulting with the party workers.While Chamkaur Sahib is a known turf for Channi as he has been representing the constituency since 2007, Bhadaur is uncharted territory for the party. In 2017, the Congress got only 20% votes. The Aam Aadmi Party has a stronghold in the region. Full coverage of Punjab Assembly Election 2022As the Congress seeks to retain power in Punjab, the leadership question remains unsettled with both Channi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu being contenders for the top job. The party has so far announced a collective leadership. Channi is in the CM seat only for the last few months and was apparently considered as a stop-gap arrangement in Punjab between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu, support in favour of Channi as the next CM, if Congress wins, is swelling.When Rahul Gandhi visited Amritsar, both Channi and Sidhu urged Rahul to announce a CM candidate as they said this is the demand of the Punjab people. “Normally, the Congress doesn’t do it, but if the party, its workers or Punjab wants it, then we will take a decision on the chief ministerial face by consulting our workers and the right person will lead Punjab,” Rahul said.“See, two people can’t lead. Only one will lead. Both of them promised me that the other person will commit to helping whoever becomes the CM face,” he added. मैंने कहा था कि हमारे सर्वे के मुताबिक़ चन्नी जी चमकौर साहिब से हार रहे हैं। आज कांग्रेस ने एलान किया है कि वो दो सीटों से चुनाव लड़ेंगे। इसका मतलब सर्वे सच है?AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal said his party's survey found out that Channi is going to lose from Chamkaur Sahib. “I already told that according to our survey Channiji is going to lose from Chamkaur Sahib. Today, Congress announced that he would be contesting from two seats. Does this mean that the survey was true?” Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/channi-to-contest-from-two-seats-chamkaur-sahib-bhadaur-101643545393155.html
30-01-2022||India||Assam likely to use Meghalaya formula to resolve border disputes with other states||The Assam government is likely to use the same give and take formula of land swapping, that it agreed upon with Meghalaya, to resolve similar border disputes with three other neighbouring states. Earlier this month, chief ministers of Assam and Meghalaya met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi and apprised him of the recommendations of regional committees of the two states which suggested division of 6 of the 12 disputed border areas between them with the help of a give-and-take formula of swapping land. The CMs also urged the Centre to take necessary action so that the recommendations get implemented. As per the recommendations, of the total 36.79 sq km disputed land in six areas-Gizang, Tarabari, Boklapara, Khanapara-Pilingkata and Ratacherra-- Assam would get 18.51 sq km while Meghalaya would get 18.28 sq km. The recommendations, which sought to end the five-decade old border row between the two neighbours, were approved earlier by cabinets of both states. Soon after the agreement with Meghalaya, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma held meetings with his counterparts from Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh, Neiphiu Rio and Pema Khandu respectively, where they discussed the existing border disputes and ways to sort them. “We would like to start talks on the border issue with Arunachal Pradesh. With Mizoram, we will form a committee after discussion with them. If both state governments agree, we should be able to resolve the issues based on spirit of accommodation,” Sarma said in Guwahati on January 23. A day after his meeting with Sarma, Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio said in Kohima that his government is in favour of settling its six-decades-old border dispute with Assam outside the court. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of the state assembly’s select committee and Rio said he was hopeful that the Assam-Meghalaya model of setting up of a local body from both sides and resolving on division of disputed areas can be done to resolve the Assam-Nagaland border issue. “We had gone to Guwahati and had fruitful discussions on the border issue with Sarma. Both governments are in favour of an out-of-court settlement, and maybe our teams will meet Shah in the first part of February to discuss and formulate how to go about it,” Rio said. Nagaland and Assam share about 500 km boundary and disputes along the border between the two states were stated to have been going on as early as 1963 after Nagaland attained statehood. Past attempts made by the two state governments to resolve the perennial issue had not worked. Both states have refused to accept recommendations of two commissions set up by Centre to solve the issue and a suit is pending in Supreme Court on the issue since 1988. “(We) had detailed discussion on the boundary issue between the two states. We will sincerely work towards a permanent solution on this long pending issue,” Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu tweeted after his meeting with Sarma in Guwahati. Assam shares an 804 km long boundary with Arunachal Pradesh. Though there was no dispute initially, over the years allegations of residents of one state encroaching land on the other have led to disputes and violence. A suit has been pending in Supreme Court since 1989 on the issue. In July last year, both states agreed to sort their border dispute out of court through meetings. In November, exactly four months after violent clashes between police forces of both states left 6 Assam policemen dead, Assam and Mizoram agreed to resolve their contentious boundary dispute by forming committees and through discussions. Chief Ministers of both the north-eastern states took the step following a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi. Though the committees are yet to be formed, it is expected that they could be on the lines of similar committees formed by Assam and Meghalaya governments to address the border dispute between the two states. Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6 km of inter-state border and there has been a long-standing dispute on the exact boundary. In Mizoram’s side the bordering districts are Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit, while in Assam’s side, the border sharing districts are Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj. As per official data presented in Assam assembly, the total disputed area with the four states is around 690 sq km. There are apprehensions among some in Assam that if the formula agreed upon with Meghalaya is used to sort out all these disputes, the state could lose nearly 345 sq km of its land allegedly encroached by neighbours. “In past there have been different committees set up to sort out the border disputes, but there recommendations were not accepted by both disputing states. So, the only way out is to sort it through mutual discussions and taking civil society groups on board,” said H Srikanth, political science professor at Shillong-based North Eastern Hill University. 
30-01-2022||India||Bengaluru traffic police official suspended for assaulting differently-abled woman||BENGALURU: Karnataka home minister, Araga Jnanendra, on Sunday said that a traffic police official who physically and verbally assaulted a differently abled woman in Bengaluru has been suspended. “The police official who used foul language and attacked a helpless woman has been suspended and an enquiry has been ordered,” Jananendra said on Sunday. The orders come days after a video of a traffic police official physically and verbally assaulting a differently-abled woman went viral on social media, adding to the growing outrage against law enforcement officials in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka. The video, posted by several of Bengalur’s citizens and shared on social media platforms like Twitter, continues to attract sharp criticism against the police, who have been accused of using excessive force on common folk. The woman had pelted a stone at the police on January 24 which had caused minor injuries to the official. But his actions of pushing her to the road, repeatedly kicking her and using foul language has not gone down well with the public. “No matter who it is, law cannot be taken into their hands and the police are no exception,” the home minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-traffic-police-official-suspended-for-assaulting-differently-abled-woman-101643540902371.html
30-01-2022||India||BJP will win more than 40 seats, form next govt, says Manipur CM N Biren Singh||After five years of political churning that witnessed many opposition Congress MLAs switching sides and aligning with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Manipur is going to polls again. In an interview with Utpal Parashar, Manipur Chief Minister N. Biren Singh elaborates on the BJP’s poll prospects, his government’s performance and other issues in the north-eastern state. Q: How is the campaigning for the assembly polls going on till now for BJP? How many seats does the party hope to win this time around? A. We had to rely on virtual rallies and on social media for the campaign as the Election Commission has put a ban on physical rallies in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. We are optimistic of winning more than 40 seats. Q: One of your coalition partners, NPP, has decided to fight the contest alone. They have also kept the option open of joining either Congress or BJP after the polls. Do you think it could impact BJP’s prospects in polls or in formation of the next government? A: We are fully confident of forming the next government. Q: What do you think are your government’s biggest achievements in the past five years? A: In the last five years, the BJP-led state government has achieved so many things in terms of governance, welfare activities and development projects including infrastructure, besides the overall improvement in law and order. Through the Go to Hills, we have achieved considerable progress in bridging the hill-valley divide and restoring the confidence of the hill people, while also balancing the development budget in the hill areas through increased funding based on topography. Through the Go to Village mission, we have been able to take governance at the village level even to the remote and interior areas of the state. People have been able to avail several facilities and welfare benefits under various schemes directly. Besides these two important missions, the government had introduced several welfare schemes for the under-privileged and vulnerable sections of the society, sportspersons, artists etc and not to forget the Chief Minister Hakshel gi Tengbang, the first ever health insurance scheme taken up by a state to benefit the poor and needy. Here, we would like to hail the landmark decision of the Government of India under the leadership of Hon’ble Prime Minister, Narendra Modi to implement Inner Line Permit System in the state and it will be remembered as one of the most important political episodes of all time in the history of Manipur. One of the most important achievements of the government is ensuring a bandh blockade free Manipur, which had long been impeding development and peace in the state. Q: You have been vocal about repeal of AFSPA from Manipur. But BJP is the ruling party both in the state and Centre. Do you think this could impact how voters vote in the coming polls? A: Insurgency and AFSPA had always been important issues. However, in recent times we have been able to bring insurgent activities to a bare minimum while ushering in peace and normalcy in the state. People are beginning to feel the change and we are happy that we have been able to achieve this in such a short time. Q: There have been several instances of violence in the state including the attack on Assam Rifles convoy as well as killing of political party workers. Do you think there could be more such instances in the run-up to the elections? If so, could that impact polls? A: Security has been beefed up in view of the elections and the state is on high alert to prevent such incidents from happening. Q: The unemployment rate in Manipur is 9.5% as per the Union labour ministry’s data tabled in Parliament last year. It is the second highest in northeast after Nagaland and the Covid-19 pandemic has made it worse. Do you think this could impact BJP? A: Our government had been able to generate 1 lakh employment in the MSME sector alone. Human resource is our strength and biggest resource. Our youth is brimming with talent and innovative ideas, just waiting to be tapped and nudged in the right direction. The banks helped with the necessary financial support through schemes like StartUp and next StandUp. Never before in the history of Manipur, had a state government had such a good working relationship with the banks operating in the state. Q: There has been no final outcome to the issue of granting ST status to the Meitei community as well as passing of the Manipur (Hill Areas) Autonomous District Council Bill. Do you think both these issue could hurt BJP’s prospects in the Imphal Valley as well as the hill districts? A: It would not impact our prospects as people understand that these issues need careful consideration and consensus. Q: There have been some speculations that BJP might use the same option as it did in Assam last year while deciding on the CM’s post after the elections. What do you have to say to that? A: It is for the party leadership to decide. 
30-01-2022||India||Evening brief: Ashok Gehlot asks PM Modi to address the nation on Pegasus, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address the nation on the Pegasus issue to end the confusion on the matter. Read moreFive persons were killed in an accident along the old Mumbai-Pune highway stretch passing through Shilatne village in Lonavla area of Pune on Sunday morning, police said. Read moreAbdullah Azam Khan, son of veteran Samajwadi Party (SP) politician Azam Khan, said on Sunday that a “conspiracy” is in the works on part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to put him “behind bars” in a fake case. Read moreKapil Sharma made his OTT debut this week through his Netflix special Kapil Sharma: I'm Not Done Yet. The hour-long comedy special saw the actor-comedian enthrall audiences with anecdotes from his life, jokes about politics and Bollywood, and some heart-touching moments too. Read moreVeteran Indian cricketer Dinesh Karthik has backed young uncapped Indian spin sensation Ravi Bishnoi to challenge senior leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal for a spot in the ODI squad, opining that the latter, despite his recent struggle in limited-overs cricket, has gone unchallenged due to lack of wrist spinning options. Read moreCervical Cancer Awareness Month 2022: Cervical cancer is a type of cancer that begins in the cervix - the lower part of the uterus that connects to the vagina. It is caused by various strains of HPV (human papillomavirus), a sexually transmitted infection. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evening-brief-ashok-gehlot-asks-pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-on-pegasus-and-all-the-latest-news-101643533609027.html
30-01-2022||India||‘BJP may orchestrate an attack to kill me,’ alleges Azam Khan's son||Abdullah Azam Khan, son of veteran Samajwadi Party (SP) politician Azam Khan, said on Sunday that a “conspiracy” is in the works on part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to put him “behind bars” in a fake case. He also said that BJP candidates from the Suar and Rampur seats in Uttar Pradesh “could orchestrate an attack or road accident” to kill him.“I am being followed,” he said. “A conspiracy has been hatched to put me behind bars in a fake case. BJP candidates from Suar and Rampur seats could orchestrate an attack or road accident to kill me.”Notably, Abdullah Azam Khan is contesting the forthcoming UP assembly elections as the Samajwadi Party candidate from Rampur's Suar. Earlier, he had claimed that the policemen assigned to his security were not trustworthy, suspecting that they can shoot him down anytime.“.....BJP has officers with them,” Abdullah had said while speaking to reporters yesterday. “The police are with BJP, two governments are with BJP. I am alone. I have no one with me. I don't even trust the policemen who are with me. Police can shoot me...They are not deployed for my security.”The Samajwadi Party, led by Akhilesh Yadav, has fielded Abdullah's father Azam Khan from the Rampur constituency, where he already is the sitting member of Parliament (MP). However, at present, Azam Khan is languishing in jail after several cases were registered against him.The jailed leader's son and wife have filed their nominations from the same assembly constituency as the party's candidates for the Uttar Pradesh polls.Both Mohammad Abdullah Azam Khan, who was released from jail recently, and his mother Tazeen Fatma have filed their affidavits from the Suar assembly seat in Rampur district, according to the Election Commission (EC) website.Uttar Pradesh will go to the polls for its 403-member assembly in seven phases on February 10, 14, 20, 23, 27, and March 3, and 7. The counting of votes will take place on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-may-orchestrate-an-attack-to-kill-me-alleges-azam-khan-s-son-101643537865715.html
30-01-2022||India||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot asks PM Modi to address the nation on Pegasus||JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to address the nation on the Pegasus issue to end the confusion on the matter. “The GoI should come forward and give a clarification…if the government is clean, then the Prime Minister should himself address the nation and end the confusion,” said Gehlot, addressing newspersons on the reports claiming that India bought the Pegasus spyware from Israel as part of a defence deal in 2017. He said, “Supreme Court is not able to do hearings on the matter on priority, which it should, but that’s not happening…who should be blamed? Spying in itself is wrong, and if you put the telephone on surveillance illegally, it is a big atrocity, then you can imagine what happened in it, and is happening.” He added that Richard Nixon had to resign as US president in a matter of spying. He said that an atmosphere is there in the country where those who disagree or express disagreement are targeted. Wherever elections are scheduled in any state, the CBI and Enforcement Directorate go after them. “The democracy is running in such an atmosphere in the country, and so I repeatedly say that the democracy and the Constitution are in danger,” said the CM. Hitting at the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he said they have created a ‘Troll Army’ on social media, who attack anyone who disagrees with them. “You write anything on social media, the troll army of RSS and BJP, which is given lakhs and crores of rupees, comes to attack. In a democracy, disagreement and criticism are welcomed but today if you criticise, you are anti-national. In what direction the county is moving? This should be a matter of concern for every citizen,” he said. After offering tributes to Mahatma Gandhi on Shaheed Diwas at the state secretariat, Gehlot said that those who follow the ideology of the man who assassinated Gandhi are ruling the country and are MPs. On the issue of the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teacher (REET) paper leak, the chief minister said that the state government took swift action and handed over the investigation to a special operation group of the Rajasthan police, which has conducted a thorough probe. Apparently ruling out the possibility of a CBI inquiry in the paper leak case, as demanded by the Opposition BJP, Gehlot said that the BJP leaders should give suggestions to the state government to improve the system instead of playing with the future of youngsters. He also said that such people have become leaders in the BJP who have no understanding of politics and give statements without thinking. “They should do some brainstorming before speaking. Because of them, lakhs of students are getting demoralised. After inflation, unemployment is a major issue. The state government has taken steps to improve the system,” he said. Gehlot said that the chairman of the Board of Secondary Education was sacked and secretary and other officials were suspended in connection with the matter and action will be taken against all those, whose names come in the course of the investigation. A committee of high court judge has been constituted to probe the matter, and in the future to ensure that such things shouldn’t happen, the government is bringing a bill in the coming assembly session. The board chairman DP Jaroli was sacked and the board secretary Arvind Kumar and two others were suspended by the state government on Saturday late evening in connection with the REET exam paper leak, which was held in September last year. Commenting on the allegations, BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Lal Sharma said, “The opposition and 85% of the youth are demanding cancellation of REET exam, the CM should value their sentiments.” He said the constitution has given the right to speech to the citizens, if people are expressing their view on social media, what is wrong in it? It is rather healthy that people are sharing their views and opinion. On Pegasus, he said a story in a paper cannot be held credible or correct. 
30-01-2022||India||Five killed as car crashes into container truck along old Pune-Mumbai highway||PUNE: Five persons were killed in an accident along the old Mumbai-Pune highway stretch passing through Shilatne village in Lonavla area of Pune on Sunday morning, police said. The deceased were identified as Masidevi Tilok, 42, Seema Raj, 32, Shalini Rupnarayan Raj, 19, Mahavir Raj, 38, all residents of Mira Road in Mumbai, and the driver, Rehan Rizwan Ansari, a resident of Kurla area of Mumbai, according to the police. “The car, in which all the deceased were travelling, was heading from Lonavla towards Pune. In the opposite direction, a container was heading towards Mumbai, parallelly. The car lost control and broke through the divider and crashed onto the other side and then onto the oncoming container truck. Now we do not know how the car ended up on the other side but the suspicion is that the driver lost control,” said police sub inspector Sachin Bankar of Lonavla rural police station. The deceased were taken to the government hospital in Khandala for post mortem while the police are awaiting their relatives’ arrival. The police have cleared out the car that was completely damaged in the collision and cleared the road for traffic. The accident is recorded in a case at Lonavla rural police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-killed-as-car-crashes-into-container-truck-along-old-pune-mumbai-highway-101643536641923.html
30-01-2022||India||Delhi court rejects bail plea of ‘Bulli Bai’ app creator Niraj Bishnoi||A Delhi court has rejected the bail plea of Niraj Bishnoi, the alleged creator of the ‘Bulli Bai’ app observing that various women journalists of a particular community have been targeted by the accused person, to be abused and insulted on a public platform, which is certainly going to have an adverse impact upon the communal harmony.Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana dismissed the bail plea of Niraj Bishnoi and said, “Considering the nature of the crime, the seriousness of allegations and nascent stage of the investigation, I do not find any merits in the application at hand and the same is accordingly dismissed.”The court noted that in the case at hand, around 100 women journalists of a particular community have been targeted by the accused persons, to be abused and insulted on a public platform."The act is certainly going to have an adverse impact upon the communal harmony of a society wherein woman has been deified since time immemorial and any attempt to scornfully objectify them is certainly going to invite vehement resistance from the community at large," said the court."The act of the applicant accused cannot be countenanced by any civilized society and the modus operandi of the alleged offence suggests meticulous planning and deft execution," stated the court.The court also noted that the sardonic conduct of the applicant/accused Bishnoi in targeting women journalists of a particular community, using offensive monikers with derogatory communal overtones, on a social platform is not only an offence against the essence of womanhood but also an act designed to enrage passion cause ill will amongst communities and disturb communal harmony.The court observed that the allegations against the applicant/accused are serious in nature."The investigation is at a nascent stage. I do not find any merits in the application at hand, " said the court in its order dated January 29.The Delhi Police on Tuesday opposed the bail plea of Niraj Bishnoi, the alleged creator of the Bulli Bai app, saying that the investigation is at a very nascent stage.Public Prosecutor Advocate Irfan Ahmed appearing for Delhi Police submitted that the contents on his Twitter handles were derogatory, accused with others were using words like "Suli" and "Buli" against the girls of a particular community.Advocate Irfan Ahmed also submitted that the accused used his Twitter handle to target women of a particular community. Only one victim has turned up by now and there are many others who are yet to be found out.Advocate L Ojha appearing for Niraj Bishnoi submitted, "I was arrested as a suspect. It's a bailable offence but during disclosure, sections of the IT Act was slapped on me. The Twitter handle which was used in the offence of committing the crime, my client have not used any derogatory language." He also submits that section 153A also invoked in FIR, it says about communal harmony. The complaint is by an individual and there is no group or community.Bishnoi, a 21-year-old engineering student, who is said to be the main conspirator and creator of the Bulli Bai app on GitHub and the main Twitter account holder of the app, was arrested by Delhi Police Special Cell's Intelligence Fusion and Strategic Operations unit (IFSO) from Assam's Jorhat on January 5, 2022.Earlier, the Magistrate court had dismissed the bail petition of Niraj Bishnoi stating that a vilification campaign against women containing derogatory content and offending material having communal overtones was run on this App being made by the accused.Delhi Police had earlier said that during interrogation, Niraj Bishnoi disclosed that the app was developed in November 2021 and updated on December 21 and he had created one more Twitter account to talk about the app.Several complaints were received by police stations in the country regarding the listing of Muslim women for "auction" on the 'Bulli Bai' mobile application with photographs sourced without permission and doctored. It has happened for the second time in less than a year. The app appeared to be a clone of 'Sulli Deals' which triggered a similar row last year.An engineering student from Bengaluru, a young girl from Uttarakhand, and one of her friends have also been arrested by Mumbai Police in connection with the 'Bulli Bai' app case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-bulli-bai-app-creator-niraj-bishnoi-101643534416473.html
30-01-2022||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi cheers TN woman selling coconuts for donating ₹1L to school||During his address on the first episode of this year's ‘Mann Ki Baat’, Prime Minister Narendra Modi applauded the inclination towards education of a Tamil Nadu woman, who donated ₹1 lakh for the improvement of a school by selling coconuts.Speaking about Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh and his contributions to the establishment and betterment of educational institutions in Aligarh and Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, Modi mentioned one Tayammal hailing from Tiruppur district of Tamil Nadu.Hailing Tayammal's story as “very inspiring,” the Prime Minister said she does not own land in the southern state and has been making a living by selling coconut water for years. Despite her not-so-good financial condition, Tayammal left “no stone unturned” to educate her son and daughter. Her children studied at the Chinnaveerampatti Panchayat Union Middle School, Modi said.Also Read | Maan Ki Baat: From postcards to Collarwali tigress, highlights of PM’s addressNarrating her journey further, Modi informed the ‘Mann Ki Baat’ listeners of Tayammal being present in a parents-teachers' meeting one day when the poor infrastructure of the school and dearth of adequate funds to cater to the issues were raised.He said the woman donated ₹1 lakh to the school for improving the infrastructure, from money that she had saved by selling coconut water. “Indeed, it takes a big heart, a sense of service, to do this," Modi said.Modi further said, at the moment, the school has classes till standard 8, but as the infrastructure of the same improves, higher secondary education will also start there.Also Read | Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi gives deets on upcoming football stadium in LadakhFurther, the PM mentioned an alumnus of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) named Jai Chaudhury, who donated $1 million ( ₹7.5 crore) to the IIT-BHU Foundation.Modi touched upon varied topics in the day's ‘Mann Ki Baat’ address, and even appreciated the efforts of Indian youngsters for getting vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He said within a few \weeks, around 4.5 crore children (nearly 60 per cent) aged 15-18 have been jabbed against the disease. He also lauded the one crore coverage of precaution vaccine shots among eligible beneficiaries within 20 days.India commenced Covid-19 vaccination for individuals aged 15 and above on January 3, while the precaution dose (booster shot) was opened for healthcare workers and those with comorbidities on January 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-cheers-tn-woman-selling-coconuts-for-donating-rs-1l-to-school-101643527298160.html
30-01-2022||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM gives deets on new football stadium in Ladakh, talks of fitness among youth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday spoke about a culture of fitness as he cited the popularity of sports across the country starting from Manipur to Ladakh. Addressing the nation through his first ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme of the year, Modi said Ladakh will soon have an open synthetic track and astro turf football stadium.“This stadium is being built at a height of more than 10,000 feet and its construction is going to be completed soon. This will be the largest open stadium in Ladakh where 30,000 spectators can sit together,” he added.The football stadium will also have a synthetic track with eight lanes, Modi said, adding there will also be a hostel facility with one thousand beds.He further said the stadium has been certified by FIFA, world biggest organisation of football.Also read | Maan Ki Baat: From postcards to Collarwali tigress, highlights of PM Modi’s address"Whenever such a big sports infrastructure comes up, it brings great opportunities to the youth of the country," Modi said during the address. A project like this also promotes tourism and generates employment, he added.Modi further spoke about Thounaojam Niranjoy Singh, a 24-year-old youth from Manipur, who had made a record of 109 push-ups in a minute. "Breaking the record is nothing new for Niranjoy Singh. Earlier too, he had held the record for most knuckle push-ups with one hand in a minute," the Prime Minister said, hoping this will inspire the youths in the country to make physical fitness a part of their life.'Mann Ki Baat' is the Prime Minister's monthly radio address, which is broadcast on the last Sunday of every month.The programme is broadcast on the entire network of AIR and Doordarshan and also on AIR News and mobile app. The first episode of the programme was aired on October 3, 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-gives-deets-on-new-football-stadium-in-ladakh-talks-of-fitness-among-youth-101643530279506.html
30-01-2022||India||YouTuber arrested for defaming MP chief minister by uploading edited video||BHOPAL: The crime branch of the Madhya Pradesh police arrested a Youtuber and journalist from Mumbai for allegedly uploading the edited video of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan regarding the new liquor policy on YouTube and other social media platforms, an official said. The accused Iqbal Parvez uploaded the video after the state government announced a new liquor policy, which reduced the excise duty and introduced new home bar licences for people having an annual income of more than ₹1 crore. Crime branch Bhopal deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Amit Kumar, said that Iqbal Parvez has been arrested from Mumbai. “We have received a complaint on Thursday. After the arrest, he has been brought to Bhopal on Saturday. He is accused of making objectionable videos by editing the statements of CM Shivraj Singh. The accused had made this video viral on other social media platforms including YouTube,” said the DCP. “Iqbal Parvez had shared the video on the YouTube channel named “Sach Sabse Tez” with the name “Yeh kya bol rahe hai BJP Chief Minister. In the video, an old video of the CM was edited and linked with his statement given for the new liquor policy. He also said that after consuming liquor, people will shout Jai Shree Ram,” said Shivpal Kushwaha, assistant commissioner of police (ACP). He has been booked under section 500 (punishment for defamation), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 505 2 (statements conducing to public mischief), 465 (punishment for forgery), 469 (whoever commits forgery) and 294 a (obscene acts in public place) of IPC, said Kushwaha. Iqbal is from Bihar and he worked as a journalist for many national channels. He has been working in Mumbai for the past 15 years. 
30-01-2022||India||Rajasthan: After donkey theft, now police team set up to find stolen goats||JAIPUR: A month after 70 donkeys went missing, alleged theft of goats is keeping the local police engaged in Hanumangarh district of Rajasthan. While the Khuiyan station police have been looking for the 70 stolen donkeys for the last one month, a case of 14 stolen goats is keeping the Tibbi station police on their toes. A special team with dedicated personnel of Tibbi police station have launched a hunt to find the stolen goats. Station house officer, Tibbi police station, Bhoop Singh said a complaint has been lodged by a few people alleging their goats have been stolen from their houses. In the complaint, people alleged that seven goats were stolen on January 15 and another seven on January 25. The theft of goats has been done from different houses in the area. “We have recovered CCTV footages, where it is seen that some unidentified people in a small car are lifting goats from houses,” said Singh. He said the involvement of locals cannot be ruled out as they would have done the recce. The people in winters sleep early, and the thief knowing about the locations, late night used to pick these goats from the houses. “We have constituted a team headed by an assistant sub-inspector to search for the goats. A goat costs from ₹7,000 to ₹10,000 in the market, and could be the reason for theft,” he said. Singh said around 10 days back, the Sirsa area police in Haryana busted an interstate gang involved in cattle theft, especially goats. The gang operated in Rajasthan, Punjab, and Haryana. Sirsa is around 50 km away from Tibbi. 
30-01-2022||India||Afternoon brief from HT: Political leaders pay floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi were among the top leaders of the nation to pay floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat in New Delhi on the 74th death anniversary of the father of the nation. Read morePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation in the first episode of this year's ‘Mann Ki Baat’. The address coincided with the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi; hence instead of its usual starting time of 11am, it commenced at 11.30am. Read moreAs the country celebrated the 73rd Republic Day, telecom inventor and author Sam Pitroda shared a tweet on Prem Bihari Narain Raizada, a calligraphy artist of Delhi, who had written the entire Constitution of India by hand. Read moreVirat Kohli's decision to step down as the captain of the Indian Test team came as a surprise to the entire cricket fraternity, even those who knew him closely as a player, like the former India bowling coach Bharat Arun, who feels that the 33-year-old still had a few years left in him to lead the national side in the traditional format. Read moreKrishnendu Kalesh’s feature film debut Hawk's Muffin (Malayalam title: Prappeda) is a weird film, sharing DNA with such Indian films as Q's Tasher Desh or Lilo Jose Pellissery's Churuli. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afternoon-brief-from-ht-political-leaders-pay-floral-tribute-to-mahatma-gandhi-at-rajghat-and-all-the-latest-news-101643528034625.html
30-01-2022||India||Pegasus spyware row: Fresh plea in SC seeks probe into 2017 deal with Israel||An advocate has filed a fresh petition in the Supreme Court seeking its cognisance of a report in the New York Times on the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus.Coming close on the heels of the Budget Session of Parliament, the report has claimed India had bought the Pegasus snooping tool as part of a $2 billion defence deal with Israel in 2017, triggering a major controversy with the Opposition accusing the Narendra Modi-led government of indulging in illegal spying that amounted to "treason". The Opposition has decided to raise the issue in the upcoming session starting Monday.According to a PTI report, the plea has been filed by advocate ML Sharma, one of the original petitioners in the case before the top court. The petition said the deal was not approved by Parliament and, therefore, needs to be cancelled and money be recovered.Also read | 'India can do better if…': In Chidambaram's Pegasus tweet, a dig at PM ModiHe urged the top court to issue suitable directions for registering a criminal case and to investigate the impugned Pegasus spyware purchase deal and alleged misuse of public funds in the interest of justice.The New York Times report said the Pegasus and a missile system were the "centrepieces" of a roughly $2 billion deal of sophisticated weapons and intelligence gear between India and Israel in 2017.Also read | Political storm brews before Budget sessionIn its report titled 'The Battle for the World's Most Powerful Cyberweapon', the NYT said the Israeli firm NSO Group had for nearly a decade been "selling its surveillance software on a subscription basis to law-enforcement and intelligence agencies around the world, promising that it could do what no one else -- not a private company, not even a state intelligence service -- could do: consistently and reliably crack the encrypted communications of any iPhone or Android smartphone".On October 27, last year, the top court had appointed a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Pegasus for surveillance of certain people in India, saying the state cannot get a "free pass" every time the spectre of national security is raised and it cannot be the “bugbear” that the judiciary shies away from.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-spyware-row-fresh-plea-in-sc-seeks-probe-into-2017-deal-with-israel-101643528288808.html
30-01-2022||India||Zahid Wani's killing likely to disorient JeM terrorists operating in Kashmir||Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) commander Zahid Wani along with three other terrorists – one of them from Pakistan – were neutralised by security forces in an overnight encounter that broke out on Saturday evening in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. The cooperation between Jammu and Kashmir police and XV Corps, or Chinar Corps, headed by lieutenant general Devendra Pratap Pandey, led to the successful operation.Zahid Wani was wanted by security forces for a long time and J&K police, on receiving specific inputs on the JeM commander, launched a search operation in the Naira area of Pulwama. The search operation was followed by an encounter in which Wani and three other terrorists, including a Pakistani named Kafil was neutralised, police said.Wani, one of the key JeM commanders after Lamboo and Sameer Dar, was arrested in Srinagar in 2016 for harbouring two Tehreek-ul-Mujahideen (TuM) terrorists Danish and Mugeez, both from Srinagar’s Parimpora. Extremely radical and a hardcore Jihadi, Wani had arranged camouflage gear for those two terrorists. He became the top Jaish commander in south Kashmir after security forces killed Pulwama attack mastermind, Sameer Dar, last year.JeM commander Zahid Wani, 4 other terrorists killed in twin encounter in J&KWani’s killing is expected to disorient the remaining JeM terrorists operating in the valley as he used to provide the planning and leadership. People in the security establishment believe that local recruitment in JeM may see a drop in the coming days since Wani was actively involved in the recruitment of young boys.The other three terrorists killed in the Pulwama encounter have been identified as Waheed Ah Reshi, a resident of Khadarmuh, Inayaitullah Mir, a resident of Naira where the operation took place, and Kafil aka Chotu, a Pakistan-based terrorist.Another terrorist working for Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and local The Resistance Front (TRF) was killed in a separate encounter in the Charar-i-Sharief area of central Kashmir’s Budgam district. An AK 56 rifle along with other incriminating material was recovered from the site.In January alone, security forces have neutralised 21 terrorists, including eight from Pakistan, in 11 encounters so far. Security forces have intensified counterterrorism operations in the Kashmir valley following the recent civilian killings which particularly targeted minority communities and migrants in the region.
30-01-2022||India||Maan Ki Baat: From postcards to Collarwali tigress, highlights of PM Modi’s address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation in the first episode of this year's ‘Mann Ki Baat’. The address coincided with the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi; hence instead of its usual starting time of 11am, it commenced at 11.30am.During his address, Modi spoke on various topics, including receiving one crore postcards from the youth of the country and Collarwali tigress who recently passed away.Here are the top highlights of PM Modi's ‘Mann Ki Baat’:1. Modi urged the citizens of the country to visit the National War Memorial in New Delhi. “We have seen the 'Amar Jawan Jyoti' near India Gate and the flame at the nearby National War Memorial have been merged into one…Some veterans wrote to me that 'Amar Jawan Jyoti' (at the National War Memorial) is a great tribute to martyrs,” he said.2. The PM talked about receiving one crore postcards from the youngsters of the country, which shed light on their dreams of India on the country's 100th year of independence. He read out some postcards that he received from various parts of the country, including Prayagraj and Goa, among others. Modi talked about an Assam girl namely Riddhima Swargiyari, a class 7 student, and her postcard. In the note, she mentioned that on India's 100th year of independence, she wishes to see it becoming the cleanest country in the world.3. Modi said he also received as many as 75 postcards from Croatia on the occasion of the 75th year of India's independence - Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. These postcards were sent to him by the students of Applied Arts and Design in Croatia's Zagreb.4. While sharing stories of Indian citizens and their good deeds, the PM talked about a Tamil Nadu woman named Tayammal, who donated ₹1 lakh to a school, from the money she saved by selling coconut water.5. He also lauded a 24-year-old Manipur youth, named Thounaojam Niranjoy Singh, who made a record of doing 109 push ups in a minute. This was not the first time though that the man did these many push ups, PM Modi said. “Earlier too, he had held the record for most Knuckle push-ups with one hand in a minute. I am sure you will be inspired by Niranjoy Singh and make physical fitness a part of your life.”6. Further, he talked about an open synthetic track and astro turf football stadium coming up in Ladakh, which has also received certification from the FIFA. He said the venue will be constructed at a height of over 10,000 feet and will be the largest open stadium in the Union territory that can accommodate as many as 30,000 spectators at a time.7. The Prime Minister also remembered the famous Collarwali tigress, who recently passed away at the Pench Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh. “You must have also seen these pictures on social media. This love of Indians for nature and living beings was greatly appreciated the world over,” he said. PM Modi also talked about elite horse Virat, who participated in his last parade at this year's Republic Day. “In view of Virat's immense services, after his retirement he was given farewell in an equally grand manner,” he added.8. Modi lauded the citizens of the country, especially the youth for their efforts to get vaccinated against Covid-19. He said that since the start of the vaccine doses for youth, 4.5 crore of them have already been jabbed with the shots. He further stated in 20 days, one crore people have taken the precaution dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.9. At the end of his speech, the PM reiterated the importance of ‘Swachhta Abhiyan’ (cleanliness campaign), vocal-for-local mantra and the dangers of single-use plastic. He ended his address by saying that all Indians need to work “wholeheartedly” for ‘Atma Nirbhar’ India and with such collective efforts, the country will reach “new heights of development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maan-ki-baat-from-postcards-to-collarwali-tigress-highlights-of-pm-s-address-101643524439179.html
30-01-2022||India||Sam Pitroda recalls calligraphist Prem Bihari and how Constitution’s manuscript came into being||As the country celebrated the 73rd Republic Day, telecom inventor and author Sam Pitroda shared a tweet on Prem Bihari Narain Raizada, a calligraphy artist of Delhi, who had written the entire Constitution of India by hand.Born on December 16, 1901, in the family of a renowned calligraphy writer, Raizada was taught the art from an early age. All through his childhood he learnt calligraphy from his grandfather, who was a scholar of Persian and English and handwriting researcher.After graduating from Delhi's St'. Stephen's College, Raizada started practising calligraphy and gradually became known for his beautiful handwriting, read the tweet shared by Pitroda, known as the advisor of the late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi.His name also reached the then Prime Minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru's ears who later summoned him when the Constitution of India was ready for printing.Nehru wanted the entire Constitution to be scribed in handwritten calligraphy in italic and not in a print format.The tweet then talks about the exchange that took place between Raizada and Nehru. When Nehru had asked Raizada what fee he would charge for hand writing the entire Constitution, the latter said "not a single penny". However, he had one wish. He wanted to write his name on every page of the constitution while, on the last page, he wanted to have his grandfather Ram Prasad Saxena' name mentioned along with his name. Nehru accepted and the rest is history.The tweet also mentions other noteworthy details about the Indian constitution and subsequent visit by Raizada along with the then President of India, Rajendra Prasad, to Santiniketan before embarking on his six-month journey to hand write the document, hailed as the supreme law of India.During their visit to Santiniketan on November 29, 1949, they met renowned painter Nandalal Basu to decide the layout of the Constitution.“Unsung Hero’s of India” - Interesting facts that people should know and appreciate. pic.twitter.com/lrApxyW53iThey decided what part of the leaf Raizada would write on, while Basu and his students would use the blank parts of the leaf to decorate with paintings.The spaces on pages left by Raizada would make way for impeccable imagery showcasing Mohenjo-daro seals, Indian mythologies – Ramayana, Mahabharata, life of Gautam Buddha and the Mughal empire among other things.To complete his task, Raizada needed 432 pen holders, all of which were brought from England and Czechoslovakia. He wrote the constitution in a room in the Constitution Hall of India. He died on February 17, 1986.The Indian Constitution, the world's longest written one, lays down the framework that demarcates fundamental political code, structure, procedures, powers, and duties of government institutions and sets out fundamental rights, directive principles, and the duties of citizens.While the Constitution was adopted by the Constituent Assembly of India on 26 November 1949, it became effective on 26 January 1950. The day is now celebrated across the country as the Republic Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sam-pitroda-recalls-calligraphist-prem-bihari-and-how-constitution-s-manuscript-came-into-being-101643526470940.html
30-01-2022||India||‘Real Hindutvavadi would have shot…’: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Gandhi's assassin||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said that the real ‘Hindutvavadi’ would have shot Pakistan’s founder Mohammad Ali Jinnah and not Mahatma Gandhi. Raut was responding to a tweet by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in which he said a Hindutvavadi shot Mahatma Gandhi dead but “Bapu is still alive where the truth prevails today.”Nathuram Godse, a member of Hindu Mahasabha, assassinated Mahatma Gandhi at Birla House in New Delhi during a prayer meeting in Birla House in New Delhi on January 30, 1948. Godse was a member of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) as well but his affiliation to the saffron organisation at the time of assassination remains contested.“A Hindutvavadi had shot Gandhiji. All Hindutvavadis feel that Gandhiji is no more. Where there is truth, Bapu is still alive today! #GandhiForever," Rahul Gandhi tweeted in Hindi.Gandhi death anniv: Prez Kovind, PM & Rahul Gandhi pay floral tribute at RajghatRaut told reporters that shooting Jinnah would have been an act of patriotism since he was the one who demanded the partition of India and the formation of Pakistan. He believes, the Rajya Sabha member said, shooting an unarmed Mahatma Gandhi was wrong and the whole world mourns his death even today.“Formation of Pakistan was Jinnah's demand…If there was a real 'Hindutvawadi', then the person would have shot Jinnah, not Gandhi…Such an act would have been an act of patriotism…The world even today mourns Gandhi Ji's death,” Raut said.#WATCH Formation of Pakistan was Jinnah's demand. If there was a real 'Hindutvawadi', then he/she would've shot Jinnah, not Gandhi. Such an act would've been an act of patriotism. The world even today mourns Gandhi Ji's death: Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena pic.twitter.com/f0uJUvUjRBIndia is observing the 74th death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi as Martyr's Day in memory of freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for India’s independence. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind, and other top political leaders paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at New Delhi’s Rajghat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/real-hindutvavadi-would-have-shot-shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-on-gandhi-s-assassin-101643523583929.html
30-01-2022||India||Mann Ki Baat: PM Modi says India successfully fought fresh Covid-19 surge, lauds vaccine feat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, in his first ‘Mann Ki Baat’ of the year, said the country is successfully fighting the latest wave of the coronavirus pandemic. He lauded the huge number of children in the age group of 15-18 being vaccinated against Covid-19.“It is a matter of pride that so far almost 4.5 crore children have taken Covid vaccine. The faith of our people in our nation's vaccine is a great source of strength. Now, the number of COVID infections is declining. This is a very positive sign,” he said, while reiterating the importance of taking possible precautions. “It is important to defeat COVID and ensure economic progress.”He said corruption is like a "termite" which makes the country hollow and all the people of the country have to work together to rid the nation of it as soon as possible.The PM began his speech by urging people to visit the National War Memorial in New Delhi.“We have seen the 'Amar Jawan Jyoti' near India Gate and the flame at the nearby National War Memorial have been merged into one. On this emotional moment, many countrymen and the family of martyrs had tears in their eyes,” he said.“Some veterans wrote to me that 'Amar Jawan Jyoti' (at the National War Memorial) is a great tribute to martyrs… I request you to visit the War Memorial… As part of 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' many awards such as PM Bal Puraskar, Padma awards were also announced.”Check Live Updates here:He then shared that he had received a large number of postcards from children across the country and outside as well.“More than one crore children have sent me their ‘Mann Ki Baat’ via postcard. These postcards have come from many parts of the country and even from abroad. These postcards give a glimpse of broad and comprehensive outlook of our new generation for our country's future.”In his customary style, the PM then spoke about some citizens of the country whom he calls unsung heroes.  He referred to the family of Tayammal in Tamil Nadu's Tiruppur who has been making a living selling tender coconut water. “Despite financial strains, she left no stone unturned to educate her children. She even donated ₹1 lakh for a school. To do this, you need a very big heart,” he said. Speaking about the citizens love for nature and compassion for every living being, Modi said, “A glimpse of our culture was seen when a tigress in Pench Tiger Reserve of MP bid adieu to the world. People used to call this tigress Collar Wali Tigress and were heartbroken when she passed away.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-urges-citizens-to-visit-national-war-memorial-101643523112712.html
30-01-2022||India||Gandhi death anniv: Prez Kovind, PM & Rahul Gandhi pay floral tribute at Rajghat||President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi were among the top leaders of the nation to pay floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat in New Delhi on the 74th death anniversary of the father of the nation.Earlier in the day, Modi, who is scheduled to address his first Mann ki Baat' of the year, took to Twitter to state it is our collective endeavour to further popularise Gandhi's noble ideals. Delhi | President Ram Nath Kovind lays a wreath at Rajghat as the nation observes the death anniversary of #MahatmaGandhi pic.twitter.com/9XVB1ZuArf"Remembering Bapu on his Punya Tithi. It is our collective endeavour to further popularise his noble ideals. Today, on Martyrs' Day, paying homage to all the greats who courageously safeguarded our nation. Their service and bravery will always be remembered," Modi wrote. Also read | Martyrs' Day: Tributes pour in as India observes Gandhi's death anniversaryRahul Gandhi while training his guns on the assassination of Gandhi in 1948 at the Birla House (now Gandhi Smriti) in Delhi, wrote, “A Hindutvawadi shot Gandhiji. All Hindutvaists feel that Gandhiji is no more. Where there is truth, Bapu is still alive there!”Later, sharing images from his visit to Rajghat, the Congress leader wrote a quote of Gandhi. “When I despair, I remember that all through history the way of truth and love have always won. There have been tyrants and murderers, and for a time they can seem invincible but in the end, they always fall. Think of it always.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gandhi-death-anniv-prez-kovind-pm-rahul-gandhi-pay-floral-tribute-at-rajghat-101643521786875.html
30-01-2022||India||Manipur imposes new Covid restrictions, night curfew to continue till Feb 28||IMPHAL: The Manipur government on Saturday revised the Covid-19 restrictions including night curfew from 9pm to 5am in the state and the order will remain in force till February 28. Dr Rajesh Kumar, chief secretary, Manipur, who is also the chairperson of the executive committee of the state disaster management authority, issued the order “in view of the huge increase of infection by the highly mutant Covid-19 variant Omicron in the country”. As per the order, physical classes will be only for class IX and above while the number of students should not exceed 50 percent of the capacity of the classroom. “Online classes should be increased and physical classes reduced,” the order said, adding, “Only online classes in coaching centres and private tuition centres (No physical classes).” Directing the shopping malls to ensure limiting the number of customers to 50 percent inside the mall and strict observance of Covid appropriate behaviour, the order said that the eating areas of hotels or restaurants shall allow and serve only 50 percent capacity while the Gymnasium and fitness centres may open from 5am to 12noon. All shops and commercial establishments can open from 8 am to 5 pm. However, shops selling fish, poultry and poultry products, milk and fresh milk products are to open from 8 am to 1 pm, the order added. In respect of shops in Thangal and Paona Bazar, the shops may open from 7am to 5pm. All Central and state government offices can function with 66 per cent physical attendance of employees by taking adequate precaution and strictly following Covid appropriate behaviour, the order said. Gathering is allowed subject to a maximum of 50 persons or half of the capacity whichever is less in case of closed spaces and maximum 200 persons in case of open spaces, it added. Meanwhile, the state on Saturday reported one Covid death from Imphal East district in the last 24 hours.The death toll stands at 2,038. The state also reported 425 new Covid-19 cases after 2,615 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, officials said. The positivity rate is 16.3 percent. Thus, the state’s tally increased to 1,32,581 with 3934 active cases. With 294 new recoveries in the last 24 hours, the total number of recovered Covid-19 cases in Manipur reached 1,26,609. Thus, the state’s recovery rate declined to 95.50 %. According to latest official reports, the state has so far given 24,79,919 doses of Covid vaccines including 14,13,057 first and 10,42,114 second doses besides 24,748 precautionary doses to the residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-imposes-new-covid-restrictions-night-curfew-to-continue-till-feb-28-101643521340847.html
30-01-2022||India||At 2,34,281, India's Covid tally sees minor dip, positivity rate up at 14.50%||India's fresh tally of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases dropped for a third consecutive day on Sunday after 2,34,281 fresh infections were reported, according to the morning update by the Union health ministry. With this, the overall caseload of the country reached 4,10,92,522.Fresh fatalities as well as daily positivity rate, however, rose in the last 24 hours. As many as 893 patients succumbed to the virus, up from 871 on Saturday. Meanwhile, the case positivity rate shot up to 14.50 per cent from 13.39 per cent on the preceding day.A total of 3,52,784 people recuperated from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, up from 3,35,939 on Saturday, taking the total number of patients who have recovered from the disease to 3,87,13,494.The active case count of the country dipped below the two-lakh mark and currently stands at 18,84,937, the health ministry's update showed. It accounted for 4.91 per cent of the cumulative tally.India's vaccination coverage against Covid-19 has surpassed 165.70 crore, with as many as 62,22,682 jabs administered to eligible beneficiaries in the last 24 hours. Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya took to Twitter on Sunday to inform that over 75% of the adult population of the country has been jabbed with both doses of Covid-19 vaccine.“We are getting stronger in the fight against coronavirus. We have to follow all the rules and get the vaccine as soon as possible,” his tweet roughly translated from Hindi read.India began administering Covid-19 vaccine shots to individuals aged 15-17 on January 3, while precaution doses (booster shots) for healthcare and those with comorbidities commenced on January 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-2-34-281-india-s-covid-tally-sees-dip-for-3rd-straight-day-log-893-deaths-101643515893680.html
30-01-2022||India||Mandaviya says more than 75% adult population fully vaccinated, PM lauds feat||Union health minister Mansukh Mandiaviya said on Sunday more than 75 per cent of the eligible population in the country is fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The health minister’s tweet came amid the latest resurgence in Covid-19 cases, driven by the fast-spreading Omicron variant, with the country registering more than two lakh fresh cases on a daily basis over the past few days.“With the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Prayas', India has achieved the target of 75% of its adult population being administered both doses of the vaccine. We are getting stronger in the fight against the coronavirus. We have to follow all the rules and get the vaccine as soon as possible,” the health minister wrote on Twitter in Hindi. Soon after, Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared Mandaviya's tweet and congratulated citizens for the feat. “75% of all adults are fully vaccinated. Congratulations to our fellow citizens for this momentous feat. Proud of all those who are making our vaccination drive a success,” he wrote.75% of all adults are fully vaccinated.Congratulations to our fellow citizens for this momentous feat. Proud of all those who are making our vaccination drive a success. https://t.co/OeCJddtAL8In a press release, the government said more than 62 lakh doses (62,22,682) were administer in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative coverage to more than 165.70 crore (1,65,70,60,692).The nationwide vaccination drive to combat the pandemic’s spread was launched on January 16 last year starting with the inoculation of health and frontline workers. It was gradually expanded to senior citizens and those above 45 years with comorbidities. It was then given to all above 45, followed by all adults above 18 years.Earlier this year, the government expanded the drive to children above 15 years and a third ‘precaution’ dose for frontline workers and senior citizens with comorbidities.Meanwhile, the health ministry said more than 164.36 crore (1,64,36,66,725) vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories so far (free of cost channel) and through direct state procurement category.It said another 12.43 crore (12,43,49,361) balance and unutilised vaccines are still available with the states and UTs.The country recorded 2,34,281 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours pushing the active caseload 18,84,937.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-more-than-75-adult-population-fully-vaccinated-says-mandaviya-101643515400206.html
30-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Lok Sabha speaker to chair all-party meeting today, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Budget 2022: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to chair all-party meeting todayLok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will chair an all-party meeting on Sunday as Parliament readies for the Budget Session from a day later. The customary meeting will see the attendance of floor leaders of all political parties and the discussions will focus on the smooth functioning of Parliament. Read more…'India can do better if…': In Chidambaram's Pegasus tweet, a dig at PM ModiCongress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message on the eve of 30 years of ties between India and Israel amid the latest row over the Pegasus controversy coming close on the wheels of the Budget session. Read more…Github case: An act to disturb harmony, says courtA Delhi court has rejected the bail application of Neeraj Bishnoi, the main accused in the case of online harassment of Muslim women through a website called Bullibai, with the judge calling his alleged actions “sardonic conduct in targeting women journalists of a particular community” and an act to “disturb communal harmony”. Read more…'I'm not too sure if he can be captain': Ex-bowling coach Bharat Arun gives verdict on India star for leadership roleSince Virat Kohli announced his decision to step down as the Test captain of the side earlier this month, speculations are rife over his successor. India's former bowling coach Bharat Arun – who has worked closely with Bumrah over the past few years – believes that the fast bowler might not be the right option to lead the country. Read more…Kapil Sharma I'm Not Done Yet: Kapil, we hope you're not done yet with stand-up and there is more to comeIn 2016, at the sidelines of a fan meet-and-greet with YouTube creators, a popular English language stand-up comic (let them remain unnamed) was asked by a fan if it irked them they weren't as popular as Kapil Sharma even though their jokes were 'classier'. Without missing a beat, the comedian replied, "Kapil Sharma actually has great comic timing. He is just doing what sells. Just give him a stage minus the distractions and you'll see." I had always wondered what that would be like. As someone who was not a regular viewer of his shows, over the years, my exposure to Kapil Sharma's comedy was only at award functions and random YouTube clips. Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-lok-sabha-speaker-to-chair-all-party-meeting-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101643511305040.html
30-01-2022||India||'India can do better if…': In Chidambaram's Pegasus tweet, a dig at PM Modi||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s message on the eve of 30 years of ties between India and Israel amid the latest row over the Pegasus controversy coming close on the wheels of the Budget session.Chidambaram urged the PM to ask Israel if the latter has any advanced version of the Pegasus spyware that was bought by the Modi government as a part of $2-billion deal with Israel for military hardware and intelligence tools in 2017, as reported by the News York Times.The Congress leader said the country can do better with a more sophisticated software ahead of the 2024 general election and pay the Israeli company even $4 billion.Also read | Political storm brews before Budget sessionTaking to Twitter, the Rajya Sabha MP wrote, “The PM said that it is the best time to set new goals in the India-Israel relationship. Of course, it is the best time to ask Israel if they have any advanced version of the Pegasus spyware. The last deal was for $2 billion. India can do better this time. If we get more sophisticated spyware ahead of the 2024 elections, we can give them even $4 billion.”The last deal was for $2 billion. India can do better this time. If we get more sophisticated spyware ahead of the 2024 elections, we can give them even $4 billionOn Saturday, Modi issued a special video message, marking 30 years of the establishment of diplomatic relations between India and Israel. "The history of the relationship between our countries is very old. There has been a strong relationship between the people of India and Israel for centuries," the Prime Minister said.The Congress has intensified its attack on the Modi government over the spyware controversy, accusing the government of treason for allegedly “tapping” phones of Opposition leaders, armed forces and the judiciary.The party has said it will raise the issue in the Budget session of Parliament starting on Monday, and demand accountability from the Prime Minister and his government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-do-better-if-in-chidambaram-s-pegasus-tweet-a-dig-at-pm-modi-101643512329744.html
30-01-2022||India||Amar Jawan Jyoti-like memorial to be built in Raipur in honour of martyrs||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, on Saturday, announced that a memorial to honour the martyrdom of slain soldiers will be built in Raipur on the lines of India Gate’s Amar Jawan Jyoti flame which was recently merged with the National War Memorial (NWM), a press note issued by Chhattisgarh government stated. Congress leader and MP Rahul Gandhi will perform bhoomi poojan of the memorial on February 3. Expressing his dissatisfaction over the Centre’s move of merging of Amar Jawan Jyoti, Baghel said that it hurts his sentiments, but now the flame of Chhattisgarh Amar Jawan Jyoti will be lit in honor of the martyrs in Raipur. “In honor of the martyrs, the memorial named, ‘Chhattisgarh Amar Jawan Jyoti’, will be constructed in the campus of Chhattisgarh Armed Force’s 4th battalion in Mana area here. The flame at the memorial will glow continuously,” the chief minister said in a statement. “Congress has been the party of people who make sacrifices and knows how to respect the sacrifice. It is evident in the history that any society which does not respect its martyrs, not preserve the memories of their sacrifices and insults their memorials, such society gets destroyed,” the release quoted Baghel. “We will honor the martyrdom of the bravehearts (Police/Paramilitary/Army) of Chhattisgarh who sacrificed their lives for the nation in any part of the country, as well as the bravehearts of the country who sacrificed their lives in state through this memorial,” the chief minister said. Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to visit the state capital on February 3 to launch a financial assistance scheme named ‘Rajiv Gandhi Bhoomihin Krishi Majdoor Nyay Yojana’ for landless labourers of rural areas, a government official said. Under the scheme, registered labourers in rural areas, who do not possess agricultural land, will be given financial assistance of ₹6,000 per year, he added. On the occasion, he will lay the foundation stone of Chhattisgarh Amar Jawan Jyoti memorial as well as of Gandhi Sevagram ashram in Nava Raipur, the upcoming capital city of the state, similar to the lines of the one in Wardha (Maharashtra).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amar-jawan-jyoti-like-memorial-to-be-built-in-raipur-in-honour-of-martyrs-101643512580033.html
30-01-2022||India||Martyrs' Day: Tributes pour in as India observes Mahatma Gandhi's death anniversary||Today is the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, observed across the country as Martyrs’ Day in memory of freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for India’s independence. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and other top political leaders will pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi at New Delhi’s Rajghat. The central government has directed the state and Union territories to observe two minutes of silence at 11am in the memory of martyred freedom fighters.India is observing the 74th death anniversary of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, popularly known as Mahatma Gandhi, who was assassinated by Nathuram Godse on January 30, 1948, at Birla House in New Delhi. Godse, a member of Hindu Mahasabha, fired three bullets in Gandhi’s chest as he made his way to a prayer meeting. Godse was also a member of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh but his affiliation to the organisation at the time of assassination is contested.Union home minister and minister of cooperation Amit Shah will unveil the mural of Mahatma Gandhi at the Sabarmati Riverfront in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city."Union Home Minister and Minister of Cooperation Amit Shah will unveil the Mural of Mahatma Gandhi Ji at the Sabarmati Riverfront, Ahmedabad Gujarat t 10 am on January 30," Home Minister's Office (HMO) tweeted.Tributes to the Father of the Nation have poured in for his immense contribution to India’s freedom struggle through non-violent methods. “We pay our tribute to the Father of the Nation on his death anniversary. On this day, also observed as Martyrs' day, we salute all the brave men and women who laid their lives for the country,” Congress tweeted on Sunday.Taking the 'Hindus and Hindutvavadis' debate forward, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said Hindutvavadis feel that Gandhi is no more but he is still alive where there is truth."A Hindutvavadi had shot Gandhiji. All Hindutvavadis feel that Gandhiji is no more. Where there is truth, Bapu is still alive today! #GandhiForever," he tweeted in Hindi.एक हिंदुत्ववादी ने गाँधी जी को गोली मारी थी।सब हिंदुत्ववादियों को लगता है कि गाँधी जी नहीं रहे।जहाँ सत्य है, वहाँ आज भी बापू ज़िंदा हैं!#GandhiForever pic.twitter.com/nROySYZ6jUSand artist Sudarsan Pattnaik shared one of his sand art to pay homage to Mahatma Gandhi on the occasion of Martyrs' Day.Paying homage to #MahatmaGandhi ji on his 74th Death anniversary today. I am sharing one of my SandArt .#MartyrsDay pic.twitter.com/njIvaQWsCT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/martyrs-day-tributes-pour-in-as-india-observes-mahatma-gandhi-s-death-anniversary-101643509787313.html
30-01-2022||India||JeM commander Zahid Wani, 4 other terrorists killed in twin encounter in J&K||Five terrorists were killed overnight in two separate operations by security forces in the Budgam and Pulwama districts of Jammu and Kashmir, police said on Sunday. Kashmir’s inspector general of police Vijay Kumar said that the terrorists neutralised in the encounters were affiliated to Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed, both Pakistan-based terror outfits. Kumar said that JeM commander Zahid Wani and a Pakistani terrorist were among the killed, calling it a big success for security forces. A total of 21 terrorists, including eight from Pakistan, have been killed in 11 encounters this month so far, he added.05 #terrorists of #Pakistan sponsored proscribed #terror outfits LeT & JeM killed in dual #encounters in last 12 hours. JeM commander terrorist Zahid Wani & a Pakistani terrorist among the killed. Big #success for us: IGP Kashmir@JmuKmrPoliceKashmir Zone Police informed on Saturday evening that an encounter broke out between terrorists and security forces in the Naira area of Pulwama. A total of four terrorists were killed in the overnight operation in the south Kashmir's district. Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition recovered were recovered from the site, said police.One terrorist affiliated to LeT was killed in a separate encounter that broke out in the Charar-i-Sharief area of central Kashmir's Budgam district on Saturday. Police said that incriminating materials including an AK 56 rifle were recovered from the site.Earlier on Saturday, a 53-year-old policeman was shot dead by terrorists in South Kashmir’s Hassanpora Bijbhera. Some unidentified gunmen fired at head constable Ali Mohammad Ganie near his residence in Anantnag’s Bijbehara area. He was rushed to the hospital where the doctors declared him dead on arrival."I strongly condemn the brutal killing of our J&K Police HC Ali Mohammad in Anantnag district by terrorists. His supreme sacrifice won't go in vain. The perpetrators of this barbaric act will be punished soon. My deepest condolences to the family of martyr," J&K L-G Manoj Sinha tweeted after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-terrorists-including-jem-commander-zahid-wani-killed-in-dual-encounters-101643504133229.html
30-01-2022||NA||Highlights: Punjab CM Channi to contest polls from Chamkaur Sahib and Bhadaur||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Follow all the updates here:Pegasus inquiry: Take note of the NYT reportA controversy over the alleged purchase and potential use of Pegasus spyware reignited last week after the New York Times (NYT) reported that India bought the sophisticated malware as part of a $2-billion weapons package. Read More Gunmen kill priest on his way home from church in PakistanGunmen killed a Christian cleric and wounded his colleague as they were driving home from church in Pakistan’s northwestern city of Peshawar on Sunday, police said.Godse's ideology becoming dominant:  Mahatma Gandhi's great grandsonMahatma Gandhi's great grandson Tushar Gandhi on Sunday lamented that the number of people who follow the teachings of the Father of the Nation is shrinking in the country, while the ideology of his assassin, Nathuram Godse, is becoming dominant.‘Raut has partnership with wine company': BJP leader slams Sanjay Raut over 'wine is not liquor'Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kirit Somaiya on Sunday hit out at Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut for his "wine is not liquor" comment and said that the latter is saying so because he has a partnership with a wine company and has a big investment in the business which gives him a profit of ₹100 crores annually.Nadal wins Australian Open for 21st major titleRafael Nadal becomes the first men's player to win 21 Grand Slams, defeats Daniil Medvedev 2-6, 6-7, 6-4, 6-4, 7-5 in the final to win his second Australia Open title. Israel president on 1st visit to UAE amid regional tensionIsrael's figurehead president met the powerful crown prince of Abu Dhabi on Sunday on the first official visit to the United Arab Emirates by the country's head of state, the latest sign of deepening ties between the two nations as tensions rise in the region.Punjab CM Channi to contest polls from Chamkaur Sahib and BhadaurLeader of Congress in Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury writes to Speaker Om Birla, demanding a privilege motion against the Minister of Information Technology for "deliberately misleading the House on the Pegasus issue" pic.twitter.com/vJuR2lnJUaBJP announces candidates for all 60 assembly seats in ManipurThe BJP has announced the names of its candidates for all 60 assembly seats in Manipur for next month's elections. Chief minister N Biren Singh has been fielded from Heingang constituency.Jasbir Singh Khangura, former Cong MLA from Punjab, quits partyJasbir Singh Khangura, former MLA from Qila Raipur in Punjab quits Congress party. pic.twitter.com/4x5VPi4zVBJasbir Singh Khangura, former MLA of the Congress party Punjab's Qila Raipur in Punjab, resigned from the party.PM lauds Manipur youth's record of doing 109 push ups in one minuteAt Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi lauds Manipur youth's record of doing 109 push ups in one minute.PM Modi remembers Collarwali tigress, Elite horse Virat in 'Mann ki Baat' programmePM Modi talks about the demise of Collarwali tigress at Mann Ki Baat, saying that India's love for nature and animals is appreciated worldwide. He also remembered elite horse Virat.PM talks about Tamil Nadu man, who donated ₹1 lakh to a school, from the money he saved by selling coconut waterPrime Minister Narendra Modi at Mann Ki Baat talked about a Tamil Nadu man named Tayammal, who donated ₹1 lakh to a school, from the money he saved by selling coconut water.Received 75 postcards from Croatia: PM Modi at Mann Ki BaatPM Narendra Modi said he received as many as 75 postcards from Croatia on the occasion of ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ for 75th year of independence.PM talks about Assam girl's postcard on India being cleanest nationPrime Minsister Narendra Modi read out a postcard sent to him from an Assam girl Ridhima, studying in class 7, who said she dreams of India becoming the cleanest nation on its 100th year of independence.At Mann ki Baat, PM Modi urges people to visit National War MemorialAt Mann ki Baat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi urges people to visit National War Memorial.PM Modi addresses nation in year's first episode of Mann Ki BaatPrime Minister Narendra Modi addresses nation in year's first episode of Mann Ki Baat.PM Modi and President Kovind pay tribute to Gandhi at Rajghat on his death anniversaryDelhi | Prime Minister Narendra Modi pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat on his death anniversary pic.twitter.com/u4oTZLWKgkPrime Minister Narendra Modi, and President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat in New Delhi on his death anniversary. Read here.Chief economic advisor Nageswaran to hold press briefing on Jan 31New chief economic advisor V Anantha Nageswaran to address a press conference on January 31 at 3.45pm in New Delhi after the presentation of the economic survey by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Parliament.Tamil Nadu Governor, CM pay tributes to Gandhi on death anniversaryChennai | Tamil Nadu Governor RN Ravi and CM MK Stalin pay tributes to Mahatma Gandhi as the nation observes his death anniversary today pic.twitter.com/Vnr0cmf2Y8Tamil Nadu Governor RN Ravi and chief minister MK Stalin on Sunday paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi as the nation observes his death anniversary today.75% of India's adult population fully vaccinated against Covid: Mansukh Mandaviya'सबका साथ, सबका प्रयास' के मंत्र के साथ, भारत ने अपनी 75% वयस्क आबादी को वैक्सीन की दोनों डोज लगाने का लक्ष्य हासिल कर लिया है। कोरोना से लड़ाई में हम निरंतर मज़बूत हो रहें है। हमें सभी नियमों का पालन करते रहना है और जल्द से जल्द वैक्सीन लगवानी है। #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/wSBg9AQphxHealth minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday took to Twitter to announce that 75% of India's adult population has been fully vaccinated against Covid-19.India's single-day Covid cases further dip to 2,34,281, 893 deaths in 24 hrsIndia continued its downward swing in fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday with 2,34,281 fresh infections, down from Saturday's 2,35,532. New fatalities, however, saw a rise to 893 from yesterday's 871.Ambassador of Israel to India Naor Gilon shares video of illuminated Masada Fortress on 30 years of diplomatic ties between two nations#WATCH | Ambassador of Israel to India Naor Gilon shared a video of the illuminated Masada Fortress in Israel to celebrate three decades of full diplomatic relations between India and Israel (29.01)(Video courtesy: Naor Gilon's Twitter handle) pic.twitter.com/i9M8B4TpCHAmbassador of Israel to India Naor Gilon on Saturday (January 29) shared a video of the illuminated Masada Fortress in Israel to celebrate 30 years of full diplomatic relations between the two countries.5 terrorists of LeT and JeM killed in last 12 hours: Kashmir PoliceFive terrorists of LeT and JeM were killed in dual encounters in the last 12 hours, Kashmir Police said in a statement. JeM commander terrorist Zahid Wani and a Pakistani terrorist were among those killed, the statement added. Read here.PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat to start at 11.30am todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi to address the nation via the ‘Mann Ki Baat’ today at 11.30am. Read here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-pm-modi-s-mann-ki-baat-address-to-start-at-11-30am-today-101643503694417.html
30-01-2022||India||PM Modi to address the nation today in 1st episode of this year's Mann ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation today in this year's first episode of his monthly radio programme 'Mann Ki Baat'. The 85th episode of 'Mann Ki Baat', which is broadcast on the last Sunday of every month, will be aired at 11.30am on the entire network of All India Radio and Doordarshan and also on AIR News and mobile app."This month's Mann Ki Baat, which will take place on the 30th, will begin at 11:30 am after observing the remembrances to Gandhi Ji on his Punya Tithi," said Prime Minister's Office last week.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief JP Nadda had directed party workers to make arrangements at booth level to ensure maximum participation of people in PM’s 'Mann Ki Baat' programme. BJP has made special preparations to make people listen to his address at different places across the country. The address comes on the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, observed as Martyrs Day to honour his contribution towards the freedom of the country.PM Modi talks about 'Kaavi' on Mann Ki Baat, stresses ancient art’s preservationThe Prime Minister had invited citizens to share ideas and suggestions for this month's Mann ki Baat episode."On the 30th of this month, the first #MannKiBaat of 2022 will take place. I am sure you have lots to share in terms of inspiring life stories and topics. Share them on @mygovindia or the NaMo App. Record your message by dialling 1800-11-7800," PM Modi said in a tweet.In the last edition of Mann ki Baat on December 26, PM Modi spoke on several topics including coronavirus disease and Swachh Bharat' initiative. He also spoke about Kaavi, a form of painting mostly found in Goa and coastal parts of Maharashtra, urging people to work towards preserving such ancient forms in the country.The first episode of the programme was aired on October 3, 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-today-in-1st-episode-of-this-year-s-mann-ki-baat-101643502055237.html
30-01-2022||India||Github case: An act to disturb harmony, says court||A Delhi court has rejected the bail application of Neeraj Bishnoi, the main accused in the case of online harassment of Muslim women through a website called Bullibai, with the judge calling his alleged actions “sardonic conduct in targeting women journalists of a particular community” and an act to “disturb communal harmony”.The 21-year-old engineering student from Assam was arrested on January 6 for allegedly creating a web-based application that hosted doctored photographs along with objectionable comments targeting Muslim women.The web app was hosted on US-based code sharing service GitHub on December 31, carrying at one point doctored photos of at least 100 Muslim women along with offensive remarks and comments. On January 2, separate FIRs were registered in Delhi and Mumbai based on complaints by women who were among those targeted.Hearing the bail application of Bishnoi on January 27, Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana said that Bishnoi’s act of using derogatory social overtones against the women of a particular community was designed to enrage passion and cause ill-will amongst communities. The order was released on Saturday.“…around 100 women journalists of a particular community have been targeted by the accused persons to be abused and insulted on a public platform. The act is certainly going to have an adverse impact upon the communal harmony of a society wherein a woman has been deified since time immemorial and any attempt to scornfully objectify them is certainly going to invite vehement resistance from the community at large,” the court said in its order.On Saturday, the court, while dismissing the bail plea, noted that the “allegations are serious in nature and the investigation is at a nascent stage”.It also disagreed with Bishnoi’s counsel that since the provisions of Information Technology (IT) Act are attracted, the penal provision of promoting enmity among religions under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) cannot be invoked.“Suffice, it would be to observe that the IT Act is not meant to supplant IPC. If the argument of the defence counsel is accepted then any mischievous criminal, in order to avoid his liability under the stringent provisions of IPC, while committing a heinous offence, would simply use an electronic device and then would claim that he is not liable for punishment under the stringent provisions of IPC,” the court noted in its order.The cyber cell of Mumbai Police, which is also probing the case, has made three arrests – 19-year-old Shweta Singh, alleged to be the main culprit, from Uttarakhand, a 21-year-old engineering student from Bengaluru, and another 21-year-old Mayank Rawat also from Uttarakhand.
30-01-2022||India||‘Time to set new goals’: India and Israel mark 30 yrs of bilateral ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday the 30th anniversary of diplomatic relations between India and Israel is an occasion to frame new goals for mutual cooperation, while his Israeli counterpart Naftali Bennett said ties between the two sides will only grow stronger.Modi, who took ties with Israel to a new level with the first prime ministerial visit to that country in 2017, said in a video message that relations between the two sides went back centuries and India’s Jewish community had lived in a harmonious environment without facing discrimination.In a similar video message, Bennett said the two countries shared a “gehri dosti” or deep friendship and had forged a “wonderful partnership” over the past three decades. “The ties between Israel and India are strong, and together they will only grow stronger. The opportunities are endless,” he said.“Today, when significant changes are occurring around the world, the importance of India-Israel relations has increased,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi.“And what better occasion to set new goals for mutual cooperation – when India celebrates its 75th anniversary of independence this year, when Israel celebrates its 75th anniversary of independence next year, and when the two countries celebrate the 30th anniversary of their diplomatic ties.”Bennett said: “India – Israel and India have a gehri dosti, deep friendship. Today we honour 30 years of diplomatic relations between Israel and India – 30 years of a wonderful partnership, a deep cultural connection, and military and economic cooperation.”India recognised Israel on September 17, 1950, but full-fledged diplomatic relations were established on January 29, 1992. Since then, Israel has emerged as a strategic partner and key supplier of military hardware. Modi said the establishment of diplomatic ties with Israel had begun a new chapter. “The history of both our countries is very old. Our people have had close ties for centuries.”
30-01-2022||India||60-year-old Covid patient killed as fire breaks out in Bengal hospital||Burdwan: An elderly Covid-19 patient was killed after fire broke out at the Burdwan Medical College and Hospital in West Bengal on Saturday morning, officials said.The deceased, Sandhya Mondal (60), was admitted to a Covid ward of the hospital, where the blaze erupted around 4.30 am, they said.Other patients in the ward were safely moved to another wing, hospital sources said.Hospital authorities doused the blaze before fire brigade personnel arrived, the sources said.A relative of Mondal claimed that she had called for help when the fire broke out all of a sudden, but nobody came to her rescue. A five-member team has been constituted to investigate the cause of the fire, Hospital Superintendent Tapas Kumar Ghosh said. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari alleged that hospitals in the state have turned into a death trap for patients, and demanded a thorough inquiry into the incident.“WB Health Minister’s apathy towards the safety and wellbeing of the patients admitted in Govt Hospitals is evident from the fact that incidents of fire emergency have become a common occurrence. The Hospitals as if ‘House of Lac’ have become death trap for the unfortunate patients (sic),” the Nandigram MLA tweeted.He also demanded a compensation of ₹50 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased.Reacting to Adhikari’s remarks, Trinamool Congress MP Sougata Roy said the state government has provided improved healthcare to people, which was lacking during the tenure of previous governments in the state.“BJP should explain what happened in Covid hospitals in states ruled by it. The Burdwan incident is unfortunate, but the saffron party should not politicise it,” Roy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/60yearold-covid-patient-killed-as-fire-breaks-out-in-bengal-hospital-101643483769285.html
30-01-2022||India||Akal Academies founder, Padma Shri awardee Baba Iqbal Singh dies||Shimla: Founder of Akal Academies and Padma Shri awardee Baba Iqbal Singh died in Himachal Pradesh’s Sirmaur district on Saturday, a district official said. He was 96.Singh breathed his last at Baru Sahib in Sirmaur district, the official said.He was unwell for past some time and was admitted to a private hospital in Punjab’s Mohali for about one month, the official added.Singh had been brought to Baru Sahib on Friday and passed away on Saturday at around 3 pm, the official said.His last rites will be performed on Monday afternoon.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the passing away of Singh and said he will be remembered for his efforts to increase education among youngsters.“Pained by the passing away of Baba Iqbal Singh Ji. He will be remembered for his efforts to increase education among youngsters,” Modi tweeted.Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, while condoling Singh’s demise, said he played an important role in spreading general and religious education, which would always be remembered.Thakur prayed to the Almighty to grant peace to the departed soul and strength to his bereaved family members and admirers to bear this irreparable loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akal-academies-founder-padma-shri-awardee-baba-iqbal-singh-dies-101643483469204.html
30-01-2022||India||Air India launches ‘helpdesk’ for exclusive fliers after Tata takeover||New Delhi: Air India has launched a “helpdesk” to cater to its exclusive passengers, including government officers and senior executives among others, a day after the Tata Group acquired the airline.The initiative by Air India, according to an internal communication to employees sent on Friday evening, aims at “enhancing the brand and business” of the airline.Also Read | PF rules change for Air India employees as it becomes private. Details hereThe “helpdesk”, according to the airline, will handle high-level complaints and resolve them within a fixed deadline.An email from the airline’s director, commercial, Meenakshi Mallik, to the employees, read: “As we become part of the Tata Group, we have taken many initiatives to further enhance our brand and business. One such initiative is to ensure a seamless customer experience.”The email dated January 28 further read: “Executive helpdesk… has been formed with the philosophy to help our most valuable customers on priority basis, to ensure we deliver a world-class experience to them and inspire them to be our brand ambassadors… this helpdesk will cater to a select, exclusive set of our customers: leading government stakeholders, senior executives of India Inc. influencers with a large sphere of influence and so on.”Also Read | ‘Air India will regain its lost place in domestic, int’l skies’The email also asked the airline teams to extend “full co-operation” in “solving complaints” in a timely manner.“We will track and develop regular reports, highlighting our achievements and improvement areas across departments regarding customer satisfaction,” the email added.The Union government completed Air India disinvestment on Thursday. Talace Pvt Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Sons, got 100% equity shares of AI and AI Express, along with the government’s 50% stake in ground-handling company, Airport Services Private Limited (AISATS). The autos-to-steel conglomerate will pay ₹18,000 crore for the 100% stake. The Union government announced the airline’s sale to Tatas in October last year.The national carrier was started by the Tatas 90 years ago, before the sector was nationalised by the government in 1953.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-launches-helpdesk-for-exclusive-fliers-after-tata-takeover-101643482809009.html
30-01-2022||India||CBI changes probe team in judge death case after Jharkhand high court rap||New Delhi: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has changed the entire team investigating the death of Dhanbad judge Uttam Anand two weeks after the Jharkhand high court criticised its handling of the case.A superintendent of police (SP) rank officer, Vikas Kumar, from Delhi has already reached Dhanbad to replace the current investigating officer ASP (Additional SP) Vijay Shukla and has sought permission from the court to re-interrogate the two people arrested so far, Rahul Verma and Lakhan Verma.A 20-member special investigation team (SIT) of the central agency has been probing the case since August last year.Officials familiar with the development confirmed that the members of the SIT probing Dhanbad judge’s death have been changed “to probe the larger conspiracy”.One of the officials added that CBI joint director Sharad Aggarwal will continue to supervise the investigation in the case, but all other officers from the existing team have been replaced.The new team, led by SP Kumar from Delhi-based Special Crimes Unit-2, visited the Randhir Verma Square on January 26 to recreate the crime scene. The new team has also sought permission from the court to interrogate the accused persons for three days inside the prison.Judge Uttam Anand was mowed down by an autorickshaw on July 28 last year, an incident that sparked off security concerns in the entire judiciary. The vehicle, which was stolen from Dhanbad, was recovered from neighbouring Giridih district that night. The auto driver Lakhan Verma (22) and his accomplice Rahul Verma (21) , were arrested two days later.The Supreme Court and the Jharkhand high court took suo motu cognisance of the hit-and-run incident in which Anand (49) was killed after CCTV footage showed a three-wheeler swerving on an empty road to deliberately knock him down as he was jogging outside Magistrate Colony near Randhir Verma Square in Dhanbad. The apex court later expressed distress over rising incidents of verbal and physical attacks on judges throughout the country.The central investigation agency filed a charge sheet against the two in October last year for murder and destruction of evidence, but the high court was unhappy with the CBI probe.A division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad on January 14 pulled up CBI for not properly conducting the probe, saying that the larger conspiracy needs to be investigated. The bench observed that the murder has not happened because of any mobile phone theft or any other trivial matter.“The investigation into the case raises a question on the credibility of the CBI. It seems that the agency is now tired of the case and wants to quit the investigation, which is why it is making up stories so that the accused are not charged with murder. The probe is going in such a direction that it appears that the CBI is trying to protect the accused,” the bench noted.The narco-analysis test report was read out in the court. In the report, the autorickshaw driver’s assistant Rahul said, “Lakhan was driving the autorickshaw fast. I was sitting on the left side. The judge was jogging slowly. He had a handkerchief in his left hand. Lakhan hit the judge intentionally and he collapsed on the ground.” The report found that someone had assigned them the task of killing the judge.The court said that even after the passage of so many months since the incident on July 28 last year, the CBI’s inability to close the case raised questions on the agency’s credibility.It said that the incident was gradually moving towards a hit-and-run case.“Jharkhand has been affected by militancy but never before has a judge come under threat. The incident has caught the attention of the entire nation. The court wants that the main conspirator be brought to book and sentenced so that such incidents don’t recur,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbichanges-probe-team-in-judge-death-case-after-jharkhand-high-courtrap-101643482509014.html
30-01-2022||India||Policeman shot dead by terrorists in Kashmir||Srinagar: A 53-year-old policeman was shot dead by terrorists in South Kashmir’s Hassanpora Bijbhera on Saturday, police said. The killing comes a day after a cop escaped unhurt in a terrorist attack in the Batmaloo area of Srinagar.According to the police, unidentified gunmen fired at Jammu & Kashmir Police head constable Ali Mohammad Ganie around 5.35pm near his residence, in Anantnag’s Bijbehara area. He was rushed to the Government Medical College in Anantnag where the doctors declared him dead on arrival, an official added.Ganae was posted at the Kulgam police station.“Senior police officers reached the crime spot. Officers attending the terror crime spot learnt that head constable Ali Mohammad Ganie was shot at by the terrorists near his residential house at Hasanpora Tabala area of Bijbehara Anantnag. He had received grievous gunshot injuries. The injured officer was immediately evacuated to nearby hospital, but he succumbed to his injuries,” said a police spokesperson.“Police have registered a case and a hunt has been launched to nab the assailants,” he added.Leaders across party lines condemned the incident as “deplorable” and “cowardly”.“Strongly denounce the killing of Policeman at Bijbehara. Its barbaric, condemnable and deplorable act, urges police top brass to punish killers forthwith,” Bharatiya Janata Party spokesperson Altaf Thakur said.The J&K National Conference also tweeted: “Unequivocally condemn the cowardly attack on JKP Head Constable Ali Muhammad Ganie in Anantnag’s Hassanpora area in which he lost his life. Our condolences go out to his family, friends and colleagues. May Allah grant him a place in Jannat.”“Yet another gruesome act of senseless violence. Ali Mohd Ganai of JK police falls to the bullets of cowardly violent thugs. Salute his sacrifice,” said Sajad Lone of the J&K People’s Conference.On Friday, four Army personnel were injured when a blast took place during a training session in Jammu & Kashmir’s Rajouri district on Friday. A court of inquiry has been ordered into the incident.This is the second killing of a policeman in south Kashmir this year. Earlier a policeman Rohit Chib was killed in an encounter in Kulgam on January 13, a foreign militant was also killed in that encounter. Last year 20 cops were killed in Kashmir either during encounters or targetted killings across Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/policeman-shot-dead-by-terrorists-in-kashmir-101643482089092.html
30-01-2022||India||‘Censorship’ in India, 5 other nations pose risk to business: US trade panel||An increase in “censorship-related policies and practices” in India has affected American businesses across different media segments, including films, social media and video streaming, according to a new report released by the United States International Trade Commission (USITC), an independent and non-partisan US federal agency. In particular, the report has flagged rules related to intermediary rules, increase in instances of internet shutdowns, and rules related to foreign investment limits in digital media in India as having an impact on US businesses. Some of the instances it cited included “threat of arrest” of Twitter executives and increase in takedown orders sent to the microblogging service as well as Google.The Commission prepared the report based on a request by the Senate Committee on Finance; it is the first of two reports focusing on foreign censorship practices that American businesses cite as “impediment for trade or investment in key foreign markets”. A major section of the report focuses on China, and concludes it has one of the highest levels of censorship “across all sectors” — a conclusion that has already led to calls from Senators for action and new measures against Beijing. Besides India and China, the report focuses on four other markets – Russia, Indonesia, Vietnam, and Turkey. The report claims these markets were examined because governments here had deployed a “wide range of censorship policies” with regard to digital content, and because demand in each of these markets represented a significant opportunity for US businesses.The report is advisory in nature, but can be used as a basis for a probe and action. India’s commerce ministry did not respond to an email seeking its response to the USITC report. “Indo-US trade relationships are very vibrant and growing,” a government official said on condition of anonymity.Indian officials have in the past said that companies are free to operate as long as they respect the law of the land. “I politely remind the companies, whether it is Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn or WhatsApp or anyone, they are free to work in India, do business, but they need to respect the Indian Constitution, they need to respect the Indian law,” former Union minister for electronics and information technology, Ravi Shankar Prasad, said during the Budget session of Parliament in 2021.USITC said US businesses were active in most segments of the media market in India – television, publishing, films, online services, and were among the “leading providers of social media and video streaming services”. The report claimed that the government exercised censorship practices in two ways – by citing relevant laws and regulations to provide notices to “remove content, shut or slow down internet access, file criminal charges, block the release of a documentary or prevent a television station from broadcasting”; and through a “variety of informal mechanisms based on intimidation and harassment”.The report has outlined a series of what it sees as restrictive measures.One, it asserts that a range of laws “have been used extensively in India to target speech and have had a significant impact on US firms operating in India” – these include Indian Penal Code, Information Technology (IT) Act, Disaster Management Act, Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, among others. Two, it refers to Cinematographer Act requiring that a film first get certification for public exhibition, and says, “In some instances, so many edits are required that they affect the content of the movie, and therefore, its box office success”.Three, it cites internet shutdowns. “The number of internet shutdowns in India has increased, with significantly more shutdowns in 2020 than in 2016… these shutdowns are typically regional in nature”, and claimed that it affected both US and Indian firms. “For example, Facebook reported 90 shutdowns that affected access to their service for a total of 17 months (combined lengths for all regions) in 2020.” Four, the USITC referred to the government using its authority to “block access to websites and user accounts”. “The government’s use of Section 69A (of the IT Act) has increased significantly in recent years, with the number of ‘websites/wepages/accounts’ blocked… increasing from 2,799 in 2018 to 9,849 in 2020.” The report claimed that the section had also been used to block access to US firm websites and user accounts on US social media platforms. Five, the USITC report refers to the IT (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Rules), 2021 – these rules impose a range of obligations on social media companies and digital media platforms – as having raised a number of concerns for US firms. It cites Facebook’s legal challenge against the provision requiring it to identify the “first originator” of information; Facebook has claimed that this will break WhatsApp’s end-to-end encryption, while the government has cited the need for this provision for law enforcement and in the interests of public order. Six, the report flags that the requirements, under the new rules, to have local presence “may enable censorship”. Seven, the report flagged the government capping foreign investment in digital media to 26% (which is in line with print media, but below the 49% set for television media), and claimed, “These new rules have subsequently led a number of US firms to close news operations in India”. And finally, the report claimed informal mechanisms “promoting self-censorship” have affected US firms. “US firms also pre-emptively self-censor certain content in India. For example, certain video streaming services reportedly censor content before releasing it in India. In addition, they have withheld all or parts of certain shows in India because of perceived sensitivities to criticism within the government”. (With inputs from Rajeev Jayaswal in New Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/censorship-in-india-5-other-nations-pose-risk-to-business-us-trade-panel-101643481008042.html
30-01-2022||India||R-Day celebrations conclude as modernity, tradition blend||A 1,000-drone display, the grand finale of the Beating Retreat on Saturday and a first at the ceremony, was the highlight of the musical extravaganza that featured a raft of military bands that belted out patriotic tunes and marked the end of Republic Day celebrations.In a never-seen-before display in India’s history, the drone fleets positioned themselves into breathtaking formations to depict the 75th year of India’s Independence, the ‘Make-in-India’ lion, the National War Memorial, Mahatma Gandhi’s contribution, a rotating globe, a map of India and the Tricolour.
30-01-2022||India||Congress attacks government after Pegasus row reignites||New Delhi: The central government has “hijacked democracy” and misled Parliament and the Supreme Court, the Congress and other opposition parties alleged on Saturday after a report in the New York Times said India bought the Pegasus spyware from Israel as a part of a $2-billion deal in 2017.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accused the government of treason for allegedly “tapping” phones of Opposition leaders, armed forces and the judiciary using the Pegasus spyware.Also Read | Political storm brews before Budget session“The Modi Government bought Pegasus to spy on our primary democratic institutions, politicians and public. Government functionaries, Opposition leaders, armed forces, judiciary all were targeted by these phone tappings. This is treason,” Gandhi said on Twitter. “The Modi Government has committed treason.”The Congress said it will raise the issue in the budget session of Parliament starting on Monday, and demand accountability from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party government.
30-01-2022||India||Political storm brews before Budget session||New Delhi: The latest revelations in the Pegasus spyware controversy are set to heat up the budget session of Parliament starting Monday, with the Opposition keen to hold the government accountable and the Centre preparing to tackle the onslaught.Also Read | Opposition hits out at govt over Pegasus purchaseThe session, starting with the President’s speech at the joint sitting of both Houses, will approve the Union Budget and key government legislations.The first half of the budget session from January 31 to February 11 has a packed schedule, with the President’s speech, the presentation of the Budget, and a debate on both. The Finance Bill, the Appropriation Bills and demand for grants for various ministries will be cleared in the second half that is expected to run from March 14 to April 8. The New York Times report on January 28, which said that the Narendra Modi government purchased the controversial Pegasus software in 2017 as a part of $2-billion deal with Israel for military hardware and intelligence tools, has triggered a political storm in India, and coming, as it does, just two days before the start of the longest and most crucial session of Parliament every year, it is certain to find an echo in both Houses.
