31-01-2022||India||HT This Day: February 02, 2003 -- Kalpana Chawla, 6 other astronauts die||The US space shuttle Columbia, with India-born Kalpana Chawla among a seven-member crew, disintegrated in flames over Texas 16 minutes before it was to land on Saturday morning at the end of a 16-day mission. Officials in Washington said that there was no immediate indication of terrorism. A senior U.S. official said there was no threat made against the flight and that the shuttle was out of range of a surface-to-air missile. Columbia was at an altitude of 200,700 feet over north-central Texas at around 8 am central time (7:30 pm IST), travelling at 12,500 mph when the NASA mission control lost voice and radar contact. The spacecraft had reentered the atmosphere and according to video images, was descending at a severe trajectory. In north Texas, people reported hearing a “big bang” around the same time, some saying it was like a “sonic boom”. Television footage showed a bright light followed by smoke plumes streaking diagonally through the sky Debris appeared to break off into separate balls of light as it continued downward. Janet Smith-Bozart, who was driving near Dallas, described the shuttle’s descent. “I thought at first it might be a meteor coming into the atmosphere and then I realised it was much too big and much too slow for that,” she said. “Essentially the entire thing just broke apart and the whole thing just disappeared. ... Eventually it just sort of faded and there was no more contrail or anything.” NASA declared an emergency and sent search teams to the Dallas-Fort Worth area where much of the debris had landed, and warned residents not to touch the “hazardous” debris. Six Americans were on board, including commander Rick Husband and Chawla, both of whom were the only ones with space flight experience. Columbia’s crew had completed 80 plus scientific research experiments during their time in orbit. Security had been extraordinarily tight for Columbia’s 16-day scientific research mission because of the presence of Ilan Ramon, the first Israeli astronaut. It was the 113th flight in the shuttle programme’s 22 years and the 28th flight for Columbia, NASA oldest shuttle. In 42 years of U.S. human space flight, there had never been an accident during the descent to Earth or landing. On Jan.28, 1986, space shuttle Challenger exploded shortly after liftoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthis-day-february-02-2003-kalpana-chawla-6-other-astronauts-die-101643651253282.html
31-01-2022||India||Odisha relaxes night curfew for 1 hour; schools and colleges to remain shut||The Odisha government on Monday relaxed the Covid-19 restrictions for the month of February extending the night curfew hours from 9 pm to 10 pm as the state’s Covid-19 caseload dipped by more than 30 per cent from the previous day.According to the notification released by the Special Relief Commissioner (SRC), night curfew will continue in all urban areas of the state between 10 pm to 5 am from February 1, 2022, from the present 9 pm to 5 am. The restrictions will continue till February 28.On Monday, Odisha reported 3,329 Covid-19 cases, down from 4,843 on Sunday. The state reported 18 new deaths taking the total number of fatalities to 8,612.The fresh order said all shops, malls, shopping complexes, markets, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment complexes, theatres, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places shall remain open across the state from 5 am to 10 pm every day during the month of February.During the night curfew, restrictions would not apply to services like home delivery of food, groceries, vegetables, egg, fish, meat, milk and other essential items by restaurants and aggregators such as Zomato and Swiggy.However, the state government is yet to make an announcement on the opening of schools and colleges. “The rate of infection in Odisha has not come down yet. The Omicron variant is highly contagious and the rate of infection can rise anytime. Considering the current situation in the state, we have to take steps accordingly. I don’t think the time has come yet for reopening of schools in Odisha,” said director of public health Niranjan Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-relaxes-night-curfew-for-1-hour-schools-and-colleges-to-remain-shut-101643650591791.html
31-01-2022||India||MP schools to re-open from February 1 with 50% attendance||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday announced that schools in the state will be reopened from February 1 with 50% attendance.The CM said the decision was taken after consulting with medical experts. “All the classes will be held with 50% attendance. The residential schools and hostels will also be re-opened with 50% capacity,” he added.Earlier on January 14, the MP chief minister had announced that schools will be shut till January 31 after Covid-19 cases increased rapidly and the positivity rate increased to 1.5% from .001 %.In Madhya Pradesh, there are 60,609 active cases. On Monday, 8,062 positive cases were reported from MP and the positivity rate decreased to 10% from 11.09%. “The number of Covid-19 positive cases has started decreasing. The situation is under control. The decision of opening schools was taken after analysing the situation of Covid-19 in the state,” said Vishwas Sarang, medical education minister. 
31-01-2022||India||HT This Day: February 01, 2010 — AGELESS At 36, Leander Paes wins Australian Open — his 11th Grand Slam title||By 36, most tennis players retire. Their bodies give up. But not Leander Adrian Paes, who seems to be entering an exalted zone where he is still pulling off big wins with incredible regularity.“Honestly, I am winning for I have reached a stage where I just don’t have to prove anything any more. That allows me to have fun out there without any pressure. The best tennis happens when one plays free, without the mental load of always having to win,” Paes told Hindustan Times over the telephone from Melbourne after claiming his 11th Grand Slam title on Sunday.Paes has figured in 21 Slam doubles finals so far and is not stopping anytime soon. “Earlier, I would have 10 shots planned in my head. Now, I keep it simple. It took a long time to devise a method to win. Now, I have the formula. Actually, over the last two to three years, I am playing far better doubles than earlier in my career because I am actually more economical in my shot-making,” he said.After over two decades of competitive tennis, the biggest factor for the player is nursing his body.“Recovery has become the crucial thing now. Off days between matches are all about yoga, meditation and massages along with the right mix of fluid intake and diet.“It helps that I never smoked or indulged in alcohol,” he added.But for the man who left home at the age of 13 to sculpt his tennis destiny, it is getting lonely out there.“The week after week of travel is tough. I miss my family and especially my daughter Aiyana. But as long as I am enjoying it out on court, I will go on,” he said.Surely, the fact that his estranged former partner Mahesh Bhupathi had more Slam titles than him rankled at some level? With this win, Paes has leveled the score.“What people don’t seem to figure is that after you have won a number of titles, they just become numbers.“After that you only care about the enjoyable ones like my last one,” he said laughing, without mentioning that he is referring to his victory over Bhupathi and partner at the US Open last year.Paes is hardly resting on his laurels.“The Commonwealth and Asian Games are priorities for me. I play my best when the pride of the tricolour is at stake,” he said.Ever since tennis was included in the Asian Games in 1958, India have won 17 medals. Paes has played a part in garnering nine of them since he debuted in 1990.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-february-01-2010-ageless-at-36-leander-paes-wins-australian-open-his-11th-grand-slam-title-101643648191093.html
31-01-2022||India||Indian army hands missing Arunachal teenager to family||Almost two weeks after he went missing on the border between India and China, Miram Taron, a 17-year-old teenager from Arunachal Pradesh, reunited with his family on Monday. The teenager, who was handed over to Indian Army by China’s Peoples’ Liberation Army (PLA) on January 27, met his parents at an event held at Tuting in Upper Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh. “Indian Army handed over Miram Taron, 17-year-old boy earlier brought back to India from Chinese PLA custody, to his parents at Tuting, Arunachal Pradesh on 31 Jan. He was given an emotional and rousing welcome by parents and locals,” mentioned a tweet by Spear Corps of Indian Army. Taron, a native of Zido village in Upper Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh, went missing from near the LAC on January 18. Initially, the teen, was believed to have been allegedly abducted by the PLA when he and a friend had gone on a hunting trip. A tweet by BJP MP from Arunachal-East, Tapir Gao, alleging that Taron was abducted from inside Indian territory, gave rise to those theories. But Indian Army clarified on January 27, the day he was handed over by PLA, that it was not the case and that he had “inadvertently strayed and went missing”. 
31-01-2022||India||IMD predicts colder days, rainfall over north India in February||India is all set to experience below normal temperature over most parts of the country in February, while Punjab and Haryana are expected to get above normal rainfall, the weather office said on Monday.According to the monthly outlook for rainfall and temperature for February, the India Meteorological Department said the forecast suggests that normal to below normal rainfall is most likely over most parts of North India except most parts of Punjab and Haryana where above normal rainfall was expected."During the month of February 2022, below normal minimum temperatures are most likely over most parts of the country except eastern parts of northeast India, south peninsular India and southeastern parts central India, where normal to above normal minimum temperatures are likely," it said."Below normal maximum temperatures are likely over most parts of the country except along the eastern and southwestern coastal areas of peninsular India where it is likely to be normal to above normal," the outlook for February said.It said currently, weak La Nina conditions are prevailing over the equatorial Pacific region.The La Nina weather phenomenon is associated with harsh winter conditions.The latest Monsoon Mission Climate Forecast System (MMCFS) forecast indicates that these La Nina conditions are likely to weaken starting from the northern hemisphere spring season and to reach cold ENSO neutral conditions during the second quarter of 2022.It said IMD has adopted a new strategy for issuing monthly and seasonal outlooks of rainfall and temperature over the country.The new strategy is based on the newly developed Multi-Model Ensemble (MME) based forecasting system.The MME approach uses the coupled global climate models (CGCMs) from different global climate prediction and research centers including IMD/MoES Monsoon Mission Climate Forecast System (MMCFS) model.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-predicts-colder-days-rainfall-over-north-india-in-february-101643643126218.html
31-01-2022||India||News updates from HT: Pralhad Joshi says no scope for Parliament discussion on Pegasus row and all the latest news||Parliament: Pralhad Joshi says no scope for discussion on Pegasus row, matter sub-judiceParliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi on Monday said there was no scope of a separate discussion or debate on the Pegasus spyware issue in the ongoing Budget session of Parliament as the matter was being heard in court. Read moreMamata Banerjee blocks Guv Dhankhar on Twitter, accuses him of tapping phonesWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday blocked Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar from her Twitter account to stop him from tagging her to his tweets which she described as “irritating”. Read moreAt NCW event, Modi lauds women entrepreneurs, 26-wk maternity leave movePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke about steps taken by his government towards women empowerment as he addressed an event to mark the 30th foundation day of the National Commission for Women (NCW). Read moreGanesh Acharya reveals Pushpa producers postponed his surgery date to get him to choreograph Oo AntavaThe song Oo Antava, picturised on Samantha Ruth Prabhu and Allu Arjun, from the movie Pushpa: The Rise, has been making waves since its release late last year. Read more'I'm not married to him': Harbhajan on rapport with Dhoni, says ‘no complaints against MS, selectors didn’t do justice’Harbhajan Singh came up with one of the wittiest response when asked about his rapport with former teammate and ex-India skipper MS Dhoni. Read moreWorld Cancer Day: Detect mouth cancer early with these self-check tipsWorld Cancer Day: Oral cancers or mouth cancers are among the most common cancers but are often diagnosed at an advanced stage when treatment becomes difficult. Read moreEye on China, Army orders more high-altitude surveillance dronesMade-in-India high-altitude drones are assisting the Indian Army in keeping an eye on China. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pralhad-joshi-says-no-scope-for-parliament-discussion-on-pegasus-row-and-all-the-latest-news-101643641890800.html
31-01-2022||India||SC refuses to hear petition to pull down movie against Gandhiji||The Supreme Court on Monday directed a petitioner seeking a ban on the screening of the movie “Why I killed Gandhi” to approach the high court even as the Court called such portrayal of Mahatma Gandhi as “unfortunate”.Refusing to entertain the petition filed by a young political activist Sikander Behl, a bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and JK Maheshwari said, “A writ petition under Article 32 (in the Supreme Court) may only be filed on infringement of fundamental right. No fundamental right of the petitioner appears to have been violated.”Behl’s petition sought an order to remove all contents from the movie that was launched on an OTT platform on Sunday, coinciding with the death anniversary of the Father of the Nation. His lawyer Anuj Bhandari told the Court that it was a clear violation of Article 21 as the feelings of an entire country had been hurt by the portrayal of Gandhi, revered as a national icon, by calling him ‘napunsak’ (translated as impotent) and the one responsible for atrocities against Hindus in Pakistan.“A joke is being made on Gandhiji and a national icon is being defamed in this manner and this content is all over the internet,” Bhandari said.The bench remarked, “That is most unfortunate.” However, it questioned Bhandari on why a petition was directly filed in the Supreme Court instead of the high court. Bhandari said, “The content being shown extends throughout the country. I have also raised the issue of regulating content of OTT as currently the movies streamed on such platforms are not censored by the Central Board of Film Certification.”The Court further added in its order, “It appears petitioner as a citizen may have a serious cause of concern. The petitioner is at liberty to approach the high court under Article 226.” The Court told the petitioner that since the petition has made the ministry of information and broadcasting along with the film producer as respondents, there was no harm in approaching the high court.At the time of filing of the petition, only the trailer of the movie lasting a little over two minutes was out. Relying on the same, the petition said, “In the movie’s trailer, an attempt has been made to blame Mahatma Gandhi for the partition of India and atrocities against Hindus in Pakistan, and thereby an attempt has been made to justify the killing of the Mahatma.” Bhandari said, “This movie will be seen by children as well. We are allowing a national icon known as Bapu to be defamed in this manner. An order from the top court will be sufficient to curb this content.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-hear-petition-to-pull-down-movie-against-gandhiji-101643642550032.html
31-01-2022||India||TRS MPs shun President Kovind’s address in Parliament||Telangana Rashtra Samithi Members of Parliament abstained from President Ramnath Kovind’s address to the joint session of Parliament on the first day of the Budget Session which began on Monday.The TRS MPs, who attended the six-hours-long meeting of the TRS parliamentary party at the camp office of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday night, decided to keep away from the Presidential address in protest against the alleged indifferent attitude of the Centre towards Telangana’s projects.The MPs, including nine Lok Sabha members and five Rajya Sabha members, left for New Delhi on Monday evening to attend the parliament session from Tuesday, when Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman would present the annual budget, a senior TRS leader familiar with the development said.At the parliamentary party meeting, KCR asked his party MPs to raise their voice in both the Houses, if Telangana does not get its due in the budgetary allocations to various sectors.“The chief minister gave us a comprehensive note of around 20 issues pertaining to Telangana to be raised in Parliament during the budget session. He has already written several letters to the Centre on various issues concerning the state,” TRS MP from Chevella, G Ranjith Reddy said.He pointed out that during the Winter Session, the TRS MPs had registered their protest over the faulty agriculture procurement policy of the Centre. “We shall watch out for Tuesday’s Union budget and if the allocations to the state are not satisfactory, we shall raise our voice in the House,” Reddy said.The TRS chief asked the MPs to put up a tough fight against the Centre both inside and outside Parliament, so that the injustice to Telangana should be thoroughly exposed.Issues like pending promises made in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act such as setting up of a Tribal University, Bayyaram steel factory and railway coach factory at Kazipet etc will be raised, apart from the release of pending funds due as per the recommendations of the 14th and 15th Finance Commissions, the MP said.The chief minister also asked the TRS MPs to coordinate with like-minded political parties in their fight against common issues like sale of public sector undertakings (PSUs).
31-01-2022||India||Parliament: Pralhad Joshi says no scope for discussion on Pegasus row, matter sub-judice||Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi on Monday said there was no scope of a separate discussion or debate on the Pegasus spyware issue in the ongoing Budget session of Parliament as the matter was being heard in court. He, however, added that if Opposition parties wanted to raise any issue, they may do so while speaking on the Motion of Thanks on the President's address.Joshi, who spoke to the media after a virtual all-party meeting, said, "We have told the Opposition that during the first part of the Budget session, we can only discuss the Budget and the presidential address. Therefore, it would not be possible to hold a separate discussion. In any case, the matter is under the court’s jurisdiction right now," Joshi said."Whatever was needed to be said on the issue, was already done by information and technology minister Ashwani Vaishnaw on the floor of the House during the Monsoon Session last year," he added.When asked about Opposition MPs seeking to move a breach of Privilege Motion against the IT Minister, Joshi said "They can go ahead. It is up to the Lok Sabha Speaker to admit it or not, but there seems to be no merit in this."The Pegasus snooping issue was reignited recently after a New York Times report said India bought the spyware as part of a $2 billion defence deal with Israel in 2017.Several opposition parties have accused the government of perjury on the issue and lying in Parliament and to the Supreme Court.MPs from the Congress and Left parties have issued a privilege motion against Vaishnaw for "deliberately misleading the House on the Pegasus issue".Speaking on the all-party meeting, Joshi said floor leaders of 25 parties attended the meeting. He said defence minister and deputy leader of the Lok Sabha Rajnath Singh, who represented the government at the meeting, sought cooperation from all parties for smooth functioning of the House during the Budget Session.The Budget session of Parliament began on Monday and is scheduled to conclude on April 8 with a recess in-between from February 12 to March 13.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-pralhad-joshi-says-no-scope-for-discussion-on-pegasus-row-101643638802990.html
31-01-2022||India||Mamata Banerjee blocks Guv Dhankhar on Twitter, accuses him of tapping phones||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday blocked Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar from her Twitter account to stop him from tagging her to his tweets which she described as “irritating”. She also accused the Governor of tapping phones from Raj Bhawan.“I have written four letters to the Centre, seeking the Governor’s removal. I also talked to the Prime Minister but no action was taken…. The Centre has Pegasus. Pegasus is being used here from Raj Bhawan. Phones are being tapped at random. It is your (media’s) job to explore and find out. Go through the documents kept at Raj Bhawan,” said Banerjee while addressing reporters at Nabanna, the state secretariat.
31-01-2022||India||Private investment critical for agriculture, states Economic Survey||The Budget-eve Economic Survey tabled by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Parliament on Monday has called for a “focused and targeted approach” towards capital investment in the agriculture sector to boost farm incomes, flagging swinging levels of private investment as a concern. “There is a direct correlation between capital investments in agriculture and its growth rate,” the survey states. According to the annual report card on the economy, the farm sector has witnessed “wide fluctuations in private investment in agriculture”, while public investment has remained stable between 2-3%. Private corporate investments need to be crowded in by offering an appropriate policy framework, the Survey said. In December 2021, the Union government in a rare climb-down struck down three farm-sector legislation after nearly 13 months of protests by tens of thousands farmers in key states, such as Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana. The three laws were the cornerstone of the Modi government’s reforms in the farm sector, which employs nearly half the population. The scrapped laws designed to free up restrictions in farm trade and allow traders to stockpile large quantities of farm produce for future trade. They also sought to lay down a national framework for contract farming. Farmers are still demanding a legal guarantee for minimum support prices for a string of commodities. The agricultural sector has been least impacted by the pandemic and is expected to grow a robust 3.9% in 2021-22 after growing 3.6% in the previous year. Recognising that there exists a direct correlation between capital investments in agriculture and its growth rate, the Survey called for higher public and private investment in the farm sector. “Higher access to concessional institutional credit to farmers and greater participation of private corporate sector, whose investment rates are currently as low as 2 to 3 per cent in agriculture, may help in improving private investment in agriculture.” The share of the agriculture in total gross value added or GVA of the economy has for long been around 18%. The share of the agriculture and allied sector in total GVA, however, improved to 20.2% in the year 2020-21 and 18.8% in 2021-22. According to the fourth advance estimates for 2020-21, the country’s total food grain output is estimated to be a record 308.65 million tonnes, or 11.15 million tonnes higher than 2019-20. The production of rice, wheat and coarse cereals has increased at compound annual growth rates of 2.7%, 2.9% and 4.8% respectively during 2015-16 to 2020-21, or last six years. India has the fiscal legroom to boost spending to achieve record growth, likely wresting the title of the world’s fasted growing economy from China, the Budget-eve Economic Survey said. Overall, the economy will expand 8%-8.5% in the year starting April after likely growing 9.2% in the current fiscal year, the annual economic document said. The document, unveiled a day ahead of the presentation of the Union Budget, said the government had the fiscal legroom to boost investment and spending. Growth will be propelled by “widespread vaccine coverage, gains from supply-side reforms and easing of regulations, robust export growth, and availability of fiscal space to ramp up capital spending.” 
31-01-2022||India||Delhi airport enforces ‘one hand-bag’ rule on domestic flights with few exceptions. Details here||Delhi's Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport on Monday implemented the ‘one hand-bag’ rule that would allow passengers on domestic flights to carry only one piece of baggage inside cabins. The rule, however, has a few exceptions as listed by the Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) in its advisory.Delhi airport officials said the order comes following an advisory from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and BCAS received earlier this month that called for permitting only one piece of hand baggage per passenger as 'cabin luggage'.Passengers with more bags will be stopped at the entry gate of the airport to avoid inconvenience during security check.The advisory comes in the backdrop of the CISF's request to BCAS to ensure that the one-bag rule is enforced by all stakeholders and airlines as passengers carrying two-three hand baggage create congestion at security check-points and increase security screening time that results in inconvenience to passengers.Exceptions to the rule:The 'one hand-bag' rule has been implemented with a few exclusions. These include – women’s handbags, overcoats or wraps, a rug or blanket, camera or pair of binoculars, reading material and laptop bag.Any gift items purchased from duty-free shops, an umbrella or a walking stick, an infant's feed for consumption during the flight and infant's carrying basket (if the infant is carried), collapsible wheelchair and/or pair of crutches or braces for passenger's use if dependent are also allowed in addition to the hand baggage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-airport-enforces-one-hand-bag-rule-on-domestic-flights-with-few-exceptions-details-here-101643630483642.html
31-01-2022||India||Mamata permits direct flights from UK, daily flights from Delhi, Mumbai, as Covid-19 cases dip||The West Bengal government on Monday extended Covid-19 restrictions till February 15 while allowing direct flights from UK, daily flights from Delhi and Mumbai and directing schools to reopen from February 3. “As Covid-19 cases have gone down we are allowing flights from Delhi and Mumbai every day. Also, we are allowing direct flights from UK. Passengers coming from UK will have to undergo RT-PCR test on arrival,” said Mamata Banerjee, chief minister of West Bengal. The Bengal government had earlier suspended direct flights from UK to Kolkata airport due to a rise in Omicron cases. Flights from Delhi and Mumbai were being allowed only on three days when the third wave of Covid-19 had hit. Banerjee also said that schools (classes VII–XII), colleges and universities will reopen from February 3. Community schools would be held for students of classes V to VII. All government and private offices, which were functioning with 50% workforce, will now work with 75% workforce. Restaurants, bars, cinema halls, theatres and swimming pools may also run with 75% capacity. Earlier they were running with 50% workforce and capacity. Entertainment parks, protected area such as wildlife sanctuaries, national parks and tiger reserves have also been allowed to reopen. The night curfew had been relaxed for one hour from 11 pm to 5 am instead of 10pm. Cultural and political programs may be organised in stadiums with 75% capacity. Political rallies on roads may be held with a maximum of 200 people. The daily count of Covid-19 cases had shot up to more than 24,000 in mid-January, but it has dropped over the past two weeks. On Sunday, 3,427 fresh cases were reported. At least 33 people died. The positivity rate which had gone up to 36% has declined to 6% now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-permits-direct-flights-from-uk-daily-flights-from-delhi-mumbai-as-covid-19-cases-dip-101643632049078.html
31-01-2022||India||Apple iOS 15.4’s rare approach: Arise, Face ID with mask and Universal Control||Your Apple iPhone will soon unlock even if you are wearing a mask. Soon, if you wish to wait for the final release of the iOS 15.4 software sometime in the next couple of weeks. But right now, if you feel brave enough to try the public beta version of iOS 15, which is now available. Yet, iOS 15.4 will be bringing a lot of new features and functionality, to the extent that you wouldn’t normally associate with periodical updates. This is what is on the menu. Universal control if you have an iPad, all third-party apps taking advantage of the 120Hz ProMotion display, custom email domains in iCloud, the Emoji 14 bundle, adding notes to iCloud Keychain passwords, updates to Shortcuts app automations, scan text in notes and reminders app, in addition to the Face ID upgrade that now works well with face masks. The way Face ID, the facial recognition feature in iPhones, works is that it uses the TrueDepth camera that’s looking at you to match your face against the face that you saved when setting up facial recognition on your new iPhone. It’ll deploy infrared project thousands of invisible dots on the face of the person trying to unlock the iPhone to analyze and match the facial features as well as depth. Till now, anything blocking the sight of your full face, would mean Face ID wouldn’t complete the authentication. The update with iOS 15.4 will be that if you are wearing a face mask, Face ID would understand that and instead of relying on mapping your entire face, it will instead rely on the new periocular method to focus on your eyes and the area around it. The only limitation here would be that this option is expected to work on the iPhone 12 series and newer iPhones – that is Apple A14 Bionic and newer processors. Incidentally, the iPad Pro will not get this versatility, just yet. Apple has always claimed that the error rate for Face ID accidentally unlocking the iPhone to an incorrect match is 1 in 1,000,000. We do not know yet if this will change once the Face ID with a mask feature is finally rolled out. That said, the feature itself is still in the testing stage (albeit close to the final stages) and there may be tweaks and improvements in the upcoming iOS 15.4 beta versions, before the final software is made available. Third party apps on your iPhone 13 Pro models will start to look a lot better if the support for 120Hz refresh rate is rolled out as expected. Tasks such as scrolling, viewing media and transitions will look a lot smoother. The Universal Control feature, which is part of the iPad OS 15.4 beta for the iPad family, will introduce the much-awaited multitasking upgrade. You’ll be able to keep your Mac (any Mac, be it a MacBook or iMac, as long as it is running macOS Monterey 12.3 beta) and an iPad next to each other and use the two as extensions of each other. The Mac keyboard and mouse, for instance, can control the interface of the iPad too. Moving apps will be simpler and faster, while file transfers will be instant. Universal Control has been delayed for a while now, and considering how this is a rather unique solution, it isn’t a surprise that Apple took its time in polishing the performance. Once it is available, it’ll be the immediate answer to a question posed by many – how do I use multiple devices such as my iMac, MacBook and iPad together for my workflow? Keeping them side by side and using them simultaneously, is the answer, rolling out sometime in the next few weeks
31-01-2022||India||Mamata blocks Bengal guv on Twitter, says Pegasus underway in Raj Bhavan||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Monday she had blocked governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Twitter as she was disturbed by the latter’s posts on the microblogging site.Stating that phones are being randomly tapped, Banerjee compared the crisis with the raging Pegasus spyware controversy that is likely to have an impact on the ongoing Budget session of Parliament. "Pegasus is being done from the Raj Bhavan," she said.According to a report, Banerjee said the governor, who has been the sharpest critic of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader, is "threatening the chief secretary and director-general of police”. "I have been forced to block governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Twitter. Everyday he was issuing tweets targeting and threatening government officials as if we're his bonded labourers," Banerjee said, while addressing a press conference in Kolkata.Soon after, the governor took to Twitter and said under article 159 of the Constitution, “Mandated… to ensure none in the state “blocks” Constitutional Norms and Rules of Law and those in authority bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India”.He further wrote that under Article 167, it is the constitutional “duty” of the chief minister to furnish such information relating to the administration of the affairs of the state and proposals for legislation as the governor may call for. “Why “block” information to Guv now for two years ?” he added.WB Guv : Under Article 167 it is Constitution “duty” of the Chief Minister to furnish such information relating to the administration of the affairs of the State and proposals for legislation as the Governor may call for. Why “block” information to Guv now for two years ? pic.twitter.com/aOlEN5YZGbThe chief minister said she had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi several times, seeking the removal of Dhankhar, however, "no action has been taken so far".Banerjee shares an acrimonious relationship with the governor. Both leaders have criticised each other over multiple platforms in the past.Earlier in the day, TMC MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay said he had requested President Ram Nath Kovind to remove Jagdeep Dhankhar from the state. Bandyopadhyay said Vice President Venkaiah Naidu was also present when he made the appeal.On Sunday, in a fresh attack on Banerjee, Dhankhar said democracy survives on rule of law and not the rule of an 'individual' and that the Bengal CM was refusing to sit for talks with him. "Democracy survives on rule of law, not the rule of an individual. I hope she (West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee) looks into it. She is mandated by the Constitution to sit for a dialogue with the governor," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-blocks-bengal-guv-on-twitter-says-dhankhar-threatening-senior-officers-101643628117764.html
31-01-2022||India||No link between MNREGA demand and migrant labour: Economic Survey||There’s no clear relationship between movement of migrant labour and employment as well as demand for jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi Rural National Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA), the Budget-eve Economic Survey said. The pandemic-induced lockdowns and disruptions had pushed millions of migrant workers and day-wagers into a survival battle, as they fled urban economic hubs in large numbers back to home states. Bihar and Jharkhand account for the largest number of migrants. “Intuitively”, the survey stated, “one may expect that higher MGNREGS demand may be directly related to the movement of migrant labour i.e. source states would be more impacted.” However, the Survey said demand for employment at an aggregate level under MGNREGA still seemed to be above the pre-pandemic levels of 2019. For many migrant “source states” such as West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Bihar, MGNREGA employment in most months of 2021 had been lower than the corresponding levels in 2020, the annual economic report card said. In contrast, the demand for MGNREGS employment has been higher for migrant recipient states like Punjab, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu for most months in 2021 over 2020, the Survey states. “There are still other states that do not neatly fit into this categorization.” The Survey therefore concludes that the “relationship between MGNREGS employment and movement of migrant labour during the last two years cannot be conclusively determined”. It said further research was needed into this. On overall employment trends, the survey said while unemployment rose sharply during the lockdown imposed by the pandemic, the unemployment rate fell as the economy opened up. While the unemployment rate gradually dipped during this period to reach 9.3 per cent in Q4 of 2020-21, the unemployment rate for males as well as females, aged 15 & above, recovered to the pre-pandemic levels. Both the LFPR and WPR for males as well as females, aged 15 & above, reached almost their pre-pandemic levels during the last quarter of 2020-21, said the Economic Survey. The urban unemployment rate rose to 20.8% in India in the first quarter of 2020-21, the Survey said. However, as Covid-related restrictions eased and economic sectors opened up, all three labour market indicators -- labour force participation rate (LFPR), worker population ratio (WPR) and unemployment rates (UR) -- showed a “swift recovery”. The Survey said allocation to MGNREGS in FY 2021-22 rose to ₹73,000 crore from ₹61,500 crore in FY 2020-21. Allocation for FY 2021-22 has been enhanced to ₹98000 crore so far. In FY 2021-22 over 8.70 crore individuals and 6.10 crore households were provided work so far. “The problem still is on a net basis, job creation has lagged and a comparison with pre-pandemic levels don’t help because employment has been a big problem since 2016 onwards, when growth began tapering off,” Devi Prasad, a former labour economist with Gokhale Institute of Economics. 
31-01-2022||India||Covid shadow on polls: EC extends ban on roadshows till February 11||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Monday extended a ban on roadshows, marches, cycle and bike rallies, and processions in five poll-bound states till February 11, citing the need to continue with Covid-related precautions even as infections are declining. The commission allowed physical public meetings in designated open spaces with a maximum of 1,000 people or 50% of the capacity of the venue or the prescribed limit permitted locally, whichever is lowest, from February 1.The number of people allowed to go for door-to-door campaigns has also been increased. “Instead of 10 persons, now 20 persons, excluding security personnel, will be allowed for door-to-door campaigns,” the ECI said in a statement. For indoor meetings, the ECI has allowed a maximum of 500 people, instead of the existing 300, or 50% of the capacity of a hall or the prescribed limit set by local authorities.“All the state chief secretaries informed the commission about reports of Covid-19 infections either plateauing out or tapering as on date. They also said that the positivity rate is showing a decline with the number of hospitalisation cases also registering a declining trend. The State officers however said that Covid protocol precautions need to be continued to be observed so that no undue spurt takes place due to intense public contact because of heightened political activity,” the statement said.The ECI, which earlier banned all election gatherings until January 15 to check the Covid-19 spread, asked political parties to ensure the compliance of the Covid appropriate behaviour, guidelines, and Model Code of Conduct.Elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa, and Manipur are being held from February 10 and the results will be declared on March 10.Other containment measures include curbs on the number of vehicles accompanying a candidate for the submission of nominations. The vehicles have been restricted to two. The ECI said chambers of returning officers should have sufficient space for nominations, scrutiny, and symbol allocation while following social distancing norms. It has allowed 1,250 voters in each polling station instead of the usual 1,500. The number was capped at 1,000 for the previous rounds of state elections. There will also be mandatory sanitisation of polling stations and thermal checking of voters.The ECI is also running a pilot project to live track the overcrowding of voters at poll booths to ensure safety norms are followed. Covid patients and those under quarantined will be allowed to vote in the last hour of polling under the supervision of health authorities. The ECI has written to chief secretaries of poll-bound states to expedite vaccination, increase the number of polling stations, and for reducing the number of people at polling booths. It faced criticism during the eight-phase West Bengal elections last year for prolonged polls and ignoring demands to club the last three phases in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases. A police complaint was filed against the election watchdog for culpable homicide by the widow of a Trinamool Congress candidate who died of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-shadow-on-polls-ec-extends-ban-on-roadshows-till-february-11-101643628629436.html
31-01-2022||India||Centre suspends transmission of Malayalam news channel MediaOne||The Information and Broadcasting Ministry on Monday suspended the transmission of Malayalam news channel ‘MediaOne’ citing “security reasons”. The channel, controlled by the Jamat-e-Islami, went off air on Monday noon. Its editor Pramod Raman came on air in the afternoon announcing the decision of the ministry and said a legal team had been asked to collect more details. “The ministry says the ban was due to security reasons. We are yet to get details. We hope justice will prevail and we will be able to start our transmission soon,” he said. Many journalists’ organisations and the opposition Congress slammed the move. “It is an undemocratic move. The channel was also not given reasons for suspending transmission. This is a violation of natural justice. All democratic forces should condemn it,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan. This is the second time MediaOne has been barred. In March 2020, the Centre imposed a ban on the channel for 48 hours on charges of violating Cable Television Networks Act 1998, while reporting on riots in north-east Delhi. But people who are aware of the latest development said security clearance was denied after the channel failed to renew its licence granted 10 years ago. According to the I&B norms, uplinking and downlinking need to get security clearance from the Home Ministry, the official said. The I&B Ministry is yet to release a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-suspends-transmission-of-malayalam-news-channel-mediaone-101643627788762.html
31-01-2022||India||Swabhiman Anchal: A Maoist bastion in Odisha reclaimed through development||MALKANGIRI: Huddled outside her asbestos-roofed house along with a few other women in Sindhiput village of Jodambo grampanchayat deep inside the Swabhiman Anchal of Malkangiri district, Jasoda Alang, a 38-year-old OBC woman, is excited over the panchayat polls scheduled on February 24, a first, where they will use their constitutional right freely.The village became famous in February 2011 when Maoists abducted erstwhile Malkangiri district collector R Vineel Krishna and a junior engineer, and kept them hostage for 8 days. The two were released after Odisha government ensured release of Ganti Prasadam, wife of CPI (Maoist) central committee member Ramakrishna. A year later, Maoists triggered an IED blast that killed commandant of BSF and three other jawans of the central paramilitary force ahead of 2012 panchayat polls.Now, Alang, like several other villagers in the heart of Maoist bastion of Swabhiman Anchal, then known as cut-off area, is getting ready for panchayat polls. “The Maoists ruled our area for 40 years and once they gave a call for boycott, there was no other choice. But this time we would go out and vote in groups as per our choice,” said Alang. The 172 villages of Swabhiman Anchal in an area of 372 sq km is separated from the mainland Odisha by the Balimela reservoir built in the early 60s and had fallen off the development map for four decades. However, it changed when the Odisha government built a 910 metre long bridge over river Gurupriya, one of the rivulets that feed into mammoth Balimela reservoir, connecting mainland Malkangiri with the isolated villages in July 2018. And, because of that bridge, Sindhiput now has 30 km road, untarred at some places, and is two hours away from Gurupriya, which earlier was a half a day journey. Construction of road to this village is important as it lies in Jodambo grampanchayat considered to be the headquarter of Maoists of Andhra-Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee.“If things go as per plan, in another two-and-a-half years, all the 172 villages in the region would be connected with all-weather roads making Swabhiman Anchal probably the first Maoist fortress in India to come under complete control of any government,” said a senior state government official. Swabhiman Anchal: A Maoist heartland The cut-off Swabhiman Anchal, having a population of 31,000 people, became a Maoist citadel after the Naxal movement started in Andhra Pradesh in 1967 in the densely forested Andhra-Odisha border region. As an earth-cum-rock dam was built at Chitrakonda area of Malkangiri between 1962 and 1977 to generate 510 megawatt of hydroelectricity from the water released by Machhkund Power House in Koraput district, the reservoir and its backwaters created a 65 km long water channel submerging hills, forests and hundreds of villages. More than 170 villages that did not drown, were physically separated and came to be known as cut-off area and then Swabhiman Anchal in 2018. As the Swabhiman Anchal was geographically nearer to Andhra Pradesh, Maoists made the area their base, making it impregnable for government officials. Malkangiri became a major theatre of violence after 2008 when police of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh launched operations against them. Between 2008 and 2021, the district recorded 342 Maoist incidences with 101 civilian and 77 security personnel getting killed in the spiral of violence. The Maoists suffered casualties too after the Greyhound police in October 2016 killed 30 Maoists including several top commanders at Ramaguda village of Swabhiman Anchal. The long spiral of violence severely hampered the development of the region so much that NITI Aayog’s National Multidimensional Poverty Index report released last year, said at least 58.71 % of the district’s 6 lakh population lived below poverty line. In Swabhiman Anchal region, it was worse as no government official barring a few health workers could enter the area fearing Maoist reprisal. There were no functional schools while a skeletal health system existed. No institutional deliveries took place. The literacy rate stood at 10%. As there were no all-weather roads, villages were linked by mud roads, which become difficult to reach during rainy season.Though a motor launch service exists to ferry people from eastern bank of the reservoir to the western side, the boats took anything between 3-6 hours and operated at the mercy of the rebels. Officially isolated and forced to remain remote, these villages did not come under administrative lens till the bridge over river Gurupriya was constructed in July 2018. “Owing to its physical isolation and strategic location at the tri-junction of Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, Swabhiman Anchal with its hilly terrain, numerous creeks and forests was the swathe tailor-made for rebels and melt away to obscurity. No wonder the entire top brass of AOBSZC including Ramakrishna, late member of CPI(Maoist) central committee made the area their base for a long time. For all purposes, it was a liberated zone long before Bastar in Chhatisgarh became one,” said Deepak Kumar Nayak, a research associate of Delhi-based think-tank, Institute for Conflict Management. Reclaiming the red bastionIn 1986, the government started working on a 910 metre long bridge over river Gurupriya, which was finally built at a cost of over ₹187 crore, from initial estimate of ₹8 crore. Since 1986, the government floated tenders for the bridge 11 times, but Maoists managed to scare the contractors away. While construction of the 910 metre long bridge was a major achievement in reclaiming the Maoist bastion, the real challenge before the state government was how to make roads to the last village at the end of Swabhiman Anchal, a good 50 km away from the bridge, as well as provide mobile connectivity. In September 2020, Airtel started mobile telecom services in four villages. “In Swabhiman Anchal, two biggest problems were the threat of Maoist violence and the terrain. There were only hillocks and creeks and we had to build roads through them. Without roads, there was no way we could develop the area,” said Malkangiri district collector Vishal Singh. To keep the Maoists at bay, security personnel were deployed in several camps deep inside the region to provide protection for road construction.The Gurupriya bridge built in July 2018 was the first step to reclaim the lost space but officials also wanted to come up with short routes to build the road from one village to another through numerous hillocks. A junior engineer then hit upon the idea of making the cattle walk on the hillocks. “The cattle while grazing always take the easy path. So we mounted on horses and followed the herd of cattle grazing on the hill slopes while local people who we had won over flanked us on both sides,” said Prashant Behera, a junior engineer who knows the region like the back of his hand.However, the biggest obstacle was building a road through the hillocks in Hantalguda area, another Maoist fortress. The Maoists engineered a protest of over 2000 villagers and gheraoed the men constructing the road believing that roads would lead the police to cannabis plantations, their major sources of livelihood. As the standoff continued, one night, BSF men armed with the IWI X95 assault rifles that can fire over 750 round a minute, were airdropped in Hantalguda and a temporary camp was established with lightning speed. Before the protests could escalate, the BSF jawans started air domination exercise instilling a sense of security among the road contractors. “The deployment of BSF jawans was crucial for the roads as they sanitised the area with clinical efficiency,” said Rajesh Pandit, deputy inspector general of police (south western range).The relative safety has ensured that the state government could build 188.85 km road of a targeted 391.32 km in Swabhiman Anchal in around three years despite Covid pandemic and the tricky terrain. In Hantalguda, Sabai Khara, a 50-year-old Paraja tribal woman said she could never think that an ambulance could reach her village. “Many people used to die of malaria earlier and in case of any accident, there was no way we could take the victim to the hospital in Chitrakonda. Now I can easily go to Chitrakonda on an autorickshaw or riding pillion on motorcycle,” said Khara. Former Malkangiri district collector Manish Agrawal, who oversaw construction of the roads till November 2020, said the administration had to keep on building roads in the face of obstacles and provide all government facilities in the areas where roads have been built. “We wanted to make the people believe that the government would not fail them,” said Agrawal. The state government through Socio-economic Transformation and Upliftment(SETU) scheme for the villages of Swabhiman Anchal provided electricity, drinking water and schools. So far, ₹160 crore has been sanctioned under SETU programme and more funds are likely to be sanctioned. A mega water supply scheme is on anvil through which water from Balimela reservoir would be drawn, filtered and supplied to homes through pipes. The biggest turning point in the government’s effort to reclaim the red bastion came on January 25, 2020 when people of Tikarpada, Janturai and Jodambo villages took on the Maoists who wanted that the road construction be stopped. The rebels sent two of their cadres asking villagers to stop the road construction when they came face-to-face with hundreds of angry women. One Maoist was killed while another received serious injuries. A few hours later, over 200 Maoists came and attacked the villagers, but the villagers rained down arrows on them. While retreating, the Maoists burnt down some houses in Jodambo village including that of Mukta Hantala’s properties. “They burnt down an almirah, one of the wooden doors, paddy stocks and several important documents including my NFSA card. But next time any Maoist comes to our village, he would not go back alive,” said a local villager, Hantal. For this, the officials also made a small concession to the people who planted cannabis on the hill slopes by not booking them in NDPS cases. For over a decade, Malkangiri and Koraput districts have become major nurseries of cannabis that find their way to rest of the country through a network of agents. “There was no other livelihood option available to them and immediately booking them in NDPS cases would have turned them towards the rebels. But if our forces seized any cannabis from a vehicle passing through the area, we did not give any leeway,” said a police official. To bring back governance on the rails in the region, the district administration started conducting review meeting of all departments on first Monday of every month. “All the 18 line department officers now visit the Swabhiman Anchal every week for which a data sheet has been developed to track and monitor the visit of officials. Presence of teachers, health workers and doctors are being monitored every month in the review meeting,” said Malkangiri district collector Vishal Singh. While development goes on, there has been a steady erosion in the Maoist base with surrender of Maoist commanders and militias as well as record seizure of explosives in the area since 2018. According to officials, in 2020, the BSF seized huge ammunition left over by fleeing Maoists. At least 5 Maoist cadres including a woman divisional committee member have been killed in the last 3 years bringing down the Maoist morale. The panchayat polls in February would be the first time when ballot boxes and polling officials would travel by vehicles and not transported through choppers. Officials in Malkangiri said, of the 9 grampanchayats in Swabhiman Anchal, the government has managed to reach 8, barring Jantri grampanchayat, located 50 km north of Gurupriya bridge.Nayak of Institute for Conflict Management said the development measures in the erstwhile Maoist bastion coupled with a weakening Maoist leadership has brought Swabhiman Anchal back from the brink. “Quick development is key to win back the trust of people. In that respect, Swabhiman Anchal may serve as a model for the rest of the country on how to develop a Maoist citadel. For the time being, it looks difficult for Maoists in the region to challenge the might of the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/swabhiman-anchal-a-story-of-reclaiming-maoist-bastion-through-development-101643626891114.html
31-01-2022||India||Assembly polls: EC extends ban on roadshows, political rallies till February 11||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Monday extended the ban on roadshows and political rallies in all poll-bound states till February 11 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country.The commission, however, granted some more relaxations to the restrictions in place. These include increasing the upper limit of persons in physical public meetings of political parties or contesting candidates to 1,000 from the current 500 or 50 per cent of the venue capacity - whichever is lesser. This rule will be effective from February 1 for all phases of the five assembly elections.Catch all latest updates of assembly elections hereThe EC also increased the capacity for door-to-door campaigns to 20 people from the current 10. This, however, does not include security personnel of politicians, according to an official statement.Indoor meetings of political parties that were capped till now at 300 or 50 per cent of the hall capacity can now accommodate 500 patrons.All other restrictions on padayatra (foot march), cycle or bike or vehicle rallies, and processions will continue to remain banned till February 11.In the official statement, the EC said the decision to extend the ban was taken after a meeting of chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra with election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey earlier in the day.The commission said all chief secretaries of poll-bound states informed it that Covid-19 cases in their respective regions have either begun “plateauing out” or are tapering. They added the case positivity rate is also showing a declining trend but stressed on the continued need to have Covid-19 protocols as a precautionary measure to keep any “undue spurt” of fresh infections at bay.“Political parties and contesting candidates shall ensure the compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour and guidelines and model code of conduct at all occasions during the activities connected with elections,” the ECI statement said.As many as five states are going into polls this month, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab. The EC had initially put the ban on political rallies and roadshows between January 8 and 15, but later extended it twice till January 22 and 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-polls-ec-extends-ban-on-roadshows-political-rallies-till-february-11-101643623538379.html
31-01-2022||India||Fake currency smuggler from Uttar Pradesh nabbed in Kolkata||An alleged fake Indian currency note (FICN) smuggler from Uttar Pradesh was arrested in Kolkata on Sunday, said the Special Task Force (STF) of the city police. Several bundles of counterfeit Rupees 500 notes, with face value of ₹5,00,000, was seized from the possession of the 27-year-old man held near the banks of the Hooghly river at Strand Road. He was identified as Aftab Alam alias Reyhan, a resident of Khodare police station area in Gonda district of Uttar Pradesh, said joint commissioner of police (STF) Solomon Nesakumar. Nesakumar said the seized FICN was of high quality. Alam was produced before a Kolkata court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-currency-smuggler-from-uttar-pradesh-nabbed-in-kolkata-101643623827119.html
31-01-2022||India||CBI seeks sanction to investigate union agriculture and power secretaries||NEW DELHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has sought sanction to investigate senior IAS officers including Union agriculture secretary Sanjay Agarwal, power secretary Alok Kumar and Aparna U, currently posted as mission director, National Health Mission in Uttar Pradesh, in connection with its probe into alleged irregularities in the investment of Employees’ Provident Fund of Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) in the scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL), people familiar with the development said. The CBI’s request to investigate the three IAS officers has nothing to do with their current tenures. The people cited above said the sanction against Agarwal, who was at the forefront of the government’s move to implement three farm laws (now repealed), Kumar and Aparna was sought in December 2021 from the UP government as the case pertains to alleged irregularities in the state. Section 17A was brought in by the government through an amendment in July 2018 to bring additional layer of due diligence after several bureaucrats complained that they were not able to take bona fide decisions due to the fear of probe agencies. It makes it mandatory for a police officer to seek previous approval for conducting any “enquiry” or “inquiry” or “investigation” into any corruption-related offence. One of the officers cited above said the CBI approached the UP government in December 2021 seeking permission to investigate Agarwal, Kumar and Aparna apart from a few other state government officials. Last year, the Centre formed the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) for seeking prior permission to investigate public servants under 17A, saying that the anti-graft probe officers must first verify whether a prima facie (at first sight) offence is made out against a public servant and only then make a request for a formal probe. Between 2017 and 2019, Uttar Pradesh Power Sector Employees Trust, formed in 2006 to handle the state-run power company’s provident fund contributions, invested ₹4,122.5 crore in multiple short-term fixed deposits of the scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL), run by jailed brothers – Dheeraj and Kapil Wadhawan. Of this amount, only ₹1,854.3 crore could be recovered from the company. The Yogi Adityananth- government handed over the probe to the CBI in November 2019. The central agency filed a First Information Report (FIR) in the matter in June 2020. Sanjay Agarwal, a 1984-batch IAS officer, was the chairman of UPPCL as well as the Uttar Pradesh Power Sector Employees Trust between 2013 and May 2017. He is learnt to have signed on the decision to invest the PF money of the trust in the debt-ridden DHFL. Kumar, a 1988-batch IAS officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre, was Chairman of UPPCL from May 2017 till 2019. Aparna was managing director in the department during this period. It is alleged that the officials of UPPCL conspired to get the provident funds deposited in the schemes of DHFL circumventing the rules which did not encourage such investments. DHFL is already facing multiple probes by various agencies including the CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED) for siphoning off billions of public funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-seeks-sanction-to-investigate-union-agriculture-and-power-secretaries-101643621126808.html
31-01-2022||India||TMC MP urges Prez to remove Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar||Trinamool Congress MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay said on Monday he had requested President Ram Nath Kovind to remove West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar from the state. Bandyopadhyay said Vice President Venkaiah Naidu was also present when he made the appeal that came amid a worsening tussle between the Mamata Banerjee-led Bengal government and the governor.The TMC MP’s request to remove the governor came on the first day of the Budget session of Parliament.The acrimonious ties between Dhankhar and the state government has touched an all-time low in recent months. The governor recently said he cannot see "trampling of human rights" and the state "getting drenched" in violence.Today, I requested President Ram Nath Kovind to remove West Bengal Governor (Jagdeep Dhankhar) from the state..Vice President Venkaih Naidu was also present...: TMC MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay pic.twitter.com/1suHQO6cdGDhankhar’s latest comments came on Sunday while paying tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his death anniversary. Asserting that no amount of "insults" will deter him from performing his duties, Dhankhar said violence and democracy do not go together, and urged all to become messengers of peace and non-violence as a tribute to the father of the nation.The Trinamool Congress has decided to place a Substantive Motion in the Rajya Sabha criticising the actions of the governor.The governor, who has crossed swords with Banerjee's government over several issues since assuming charge, recently accused the chief minister and the speaker of the Assembly of transgressing constitutional norms by not providing him the information he had sought on multiple matters. He has had run-ins over appointments of vice chancellors of universities, calling bureaucrats to his office for explanations. On January 25, Dhankhar, after paying floral tributes at the statue of B R Ambedkar on the assembly premises, had described the political condition in Bengal as “horrible and frightening”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mp-urges-prez-to-remove-bengal-governor-jagdeep-dhankhar-101643620330944.html
31-01-2022||India||‘Bigger than Watergate scandal’: Shiv Sena on Pegasus spying row||MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena on Monday remarked that the alleged snooping using the controversial Pegasus spyware was bigger than the Watergate scandal that had rocked the US in the 1970s. Shiv Sena mouthpiece, Saamana, said that the Modi government allegedly lied in Parliament about purchasing the Pegasus spyware from Israel, which was reported by The New York Times last week. Referring to the Watergate scandal in the US involving President Richard Nixon, the editorial said that the American president eventually had to resign following the spying disclosures.The Israeli spyware Pegasus and a missile system were the “centrepieces” of a roughly $2 billion deal of sophisticated weapons and intelligence gear between India and Israel in 2017, according to the report in The New York Times.A massive controversy erupted last year when the Israel-based NSO Group hit the headlines with the alleged use of its Pegasus software by some governments to spy on journalists, human rights defenders, politicians, and others in many countries, including India, triggering concerns over issues relating to privacy.“The New York Times exposed the lies of Modi government. It revealed that in 2017, the Modi government bought Pegasus from Israel for ₹15,000- 20,000 crore. This is taxpayers’ money,” the Saamana editorial said. It said that British Prime Minister Boris Johnson had to apologise to the nation for a small mistake and go through a police investigation. It also added, “President [Richard] Nixon had to resign due to the Watergate scandal. The truth will prevail.”The state BJP leaders said that as a policy, the state unit does not respond to criticism in Saamana.In an attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Sena mouthpiece complained that on his whim, the Amar Jawan Jyoti was snuffed out, the historic Parliament building is being shut for a new complex, public-sector undertakings are being divested, and airports are being sold. “Now because he is scared, people are being spied on by using taxpayers’ money. This is destruction of democracy,” the editorial remarked.Targeting the government’ denial to have a joint parliamentary committee probe, the editorial added that had there been a JPC probe into the matter last year, it would have been a bigger expose than The New York Times story. It added that many countries use Pegasus spyware, but those nations do not have democracy. “Has democracy, Parliament, and Supreme Court been set aside in India? Modi govt should declare it because Modi has lied in Parliament and the Supreme Court about Pegasus”.
31-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu girl’s death by suicide: High court transfers case to CBI||CHENNAI: The Madras high court’s Madurai bench on Monday transferred the case of a 17-year-old girl’s death by suicide in Tamil Nadu’s Thanjavur from the local police to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on her father’s petition amid allegations of forced conversion.Justice G R Swaminathan ordered the transfer to the federal agency days after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) released a 45-second video in which the girl is purportedly heard saying the warden of a Christian residential school, where she studied, asked her parents to convert to Christianity. Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) member Muthuvel filmed the video on January 17 while the girl was battling for her life at a hospital. Muthuvel’s mobile phone has been sent to a forensic lab in Chennai for examination on the court’s directions.The BJP sought a CBI probe into the matter and last week, the party’s chief, J P Nadda, constituted a committee to look into the suicide.The Franciscan Sisters of the Immaculate Heart of Mary Congregation, which runs the 160-year-old school in Thanjavur, has denied the charge of conversion saying they provide secular education for all as per the Indian Constitution.BJP leaders welcomed the high court’s order. “The fight shall continue till justice is delivered,” tweeted BJP leader B L Santosh. On Sunday, BJP state chief K Annamalai, who led a delegation that visited the girl’s family, called Tamil Nadu’s intelligence department incompetent and questioned whether it gave “a true briefing to the chief minister” about the case.A National Commission for Protection of Child Rights team is also in Thanjavur in connection with the case.A judicial magistrate recorded the girl’s statement three days before she died on January 19. In the statement, a copy of which HT has seen, the girl blamed her 74-year-old hostel warden for torturing her, hitting her, and scolding her to do work and audit hostel accounts.Thanjavur district’s education officer looked into the matter and noted in a report that no complaint of any religious conversion was made against the girl’s school for a decade. The report said more Hindu students studied at the school than Christians and Muslims.TV channels last week released a longer version of the video clip Muthuvel purportedly recorded showing the girl only blaming the warden. She is heard saying she could not focus on her studies. Amid reports that a distress call was made to Childline two years ago as the girl’s stepmother allegedly harassed her, police were also probing her situation at home too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-girl-s-death-by-suicide-hc-transfers-case-to-cbi-101643618906880.html
31-01-2022||India||Budget Session: President Kovind hails schemes, fight against pandemic||NEW DELHI: President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday listed the government’s achievements amid the Covid-19 crisis, especially steps to fight the pandemic and to aid farmers and women, and called for more hard work to build a modern India by the centenary of independence in 2047. In his address to a joint session of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha at the start of Parliament’s Budget Session, Kovind began by paying tribute to the nation’s freedom fighters on the 75th anniversary of India’s independence and said the government is laying the foundation for the next 25 years with the mantra of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas, Aur Sabka Prayas” to make the country more self-reliant. “Today, the country’s achievements and successes are as limitless as the country’s potential and possibilities. These achievements are not of one institution or establishment, these are the collective achievements of more than a billion citizens of our country. These are the fruits of the labour and sweat of billion-plus people,” he said, speaking in Hindi. “These achievements are milestones in the long journey to achieve our ambitious goals, and are our motivations to move forward. In 2047, the country will celebrate its centenary of independence. We have to work hard for building a grand, modern and developed India of that era...We all have a stake, and an equal stake in this journey,” he said. The president’s speech at the start of the Budget Session usually highlights the government’s achievements over the past year and outlines targets and plans for the future. Noting that this is the third successive year that India and the world have been affected by Covid-19, Kovind lauded the Central and state governments, frontline workers, nurses, doctors, scientists and entrepreneurs for working as a team to help the country cope with the pandemic. The government’s commitment to fighting the Coronavirus is reflected in the country’s massive vaccination programme, whereby 150 crore doses of vaccines had been administered in less than a year, he said. India is now among the countries with the most vaccine doses administered and this has increased morale and protection among citizens, he added. Some 90% of adult citizens had been given one dose of vaccine, and 70% of the eligible had received both doses. Teenagers aged 15-18 years have been included in the vaccination programme and frontline workers and senior citizens with co-morbidities are being given a “precautionary” dose, the president said. Eight Covid-19 vaccines had been authorised for emergency use by the government, and three “made in India” jabs had been approved by the World Health Organization (WHO), helping India to play a role around the world in overcoming the pandemic, Kovind said. He added while the government has taken on the immediate challenges in the fight against Covid-19, it is also developing solutions for the future, such as the Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission with an outlay of ₹64,000 crore that will prepare India for future crises. He said more than 80,000 health and wellness centres and hundreds of thousands of Ayushman Bharat cards have helped the medical treatment of the poor, and affordable medicines are being supplied through more than 8,000 Jan Aushadhi Kendras. Products of Indian pharmaceutical firms are reaching more than 180 countries and the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for this sector will expand opportunities and boost research, Kovind said. He said while several countries witnessed a scarcity of food grains during the worst pandemic in 100 years, the Indian government provided free rations to poor households every month under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, the world’s largest food distribution programme with an outlay of ₹2,60,000 crore, reaching 80 crore beneficiaries for 19 months. This scheme has now been extended till March 2022. He said the government also operates the PM-Sva-Nidhi scheme for protecting the livelihood of the poor amid the pandemic and has provided more than ₹2,900 crore to 28 lakh street vendors under this programme. Kovind noted that farmers produced more than 30 crore tonnes of food grains and 33 crore tonnes of horticulture produce during 2020-21, despite the pandemic, and said the government is working to “empower the farmers and the rural economy”. The government made “record procurement to match the record production”, and procured 4,330,000 metric tonnes of wheat during the Rabi season, benefiting about five million farmers, he added. “Our agriculture exports have reached a record level due to the efforts of the government. Agricultural exports registered a growth of more than 25% in 2020-21, and reached nearly ₹3 lakh crore,” Kovind said. “In order to ensure remunerative prices to farmers for their crops, it is necessary that their products reach the right market. In this direction, the government has endeavoured to open new avenues of prosperity for the farmers by launching Kisan Rail Seva,” he said. The Indian Railways operated more 1,900 Kisan Rail trains on more than 150 routes to transport about 600,000 tonnes of perishable agricultural produce amid the pandemic, he added. The interests of small farmers, who make up 80% of the farming community, are “central to our government”, and ₹1,80,000 crore has been provided to more than 11 crore farmer families under the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi, Kovind said. Small farmers have benefited from changes in the crop insurance scheme, and more than ₹1,00,000 crore has been given as compensation to about eight crore farmers, he added. Kovind noted the role played by women in giving an impetus to the rural economy, and said banks had given ₹65,000 crore to more than 2.8 million women’s self-help groups during 2021-22, a four-fold increase from the amount extended during 2014-15. The government has trained thousands of members of self-help groups and made them partners for delivering banking services to rural homes, he added. “Women’s empowerment is one of the top priorities of my government...Entrepreneurship and skills of the mothers and sisters of our country have been promoted through the ‘Mudra’ scheme. The ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ initiative has yielded many positive results, and there has been an encouraging improvement in the number of girls enrolled in schools,” he said, adding that the government has introduced a bill to increase the minimum age of marriage for women from 18 to 21.“The government has made a beginning to liberate the society from the manifestly arbitrary practice of triple talaq by making it a criminal offence. Restrictions on Muslim women from performing the Haj only with Mehram have been removed. While about three crore students from minority communities were provided scholarships prior to 2014, my government has provided scholarships to 4.5 crore to such students since 2014. This has led to a significant reduction in the school dropout rate of Muslim girls and an increase in their enrolment,” he said. Kovind quoted BR Ambedkar, the chief architect of the Constitution: “My ideal would be a society based on liberty, equality, and fraternity...Democracy is not merely a form of government…It is essentially an attitude of respect and reverence towards one’s fellow men”. He added the government considers these ideals as its motto. “My government believes in the mantra of Antyodaya, which encompasses social justice, equality, respect and equal opportunities. Therefore, in the policies of the government, top priority is being given to villages, the poor, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and backward communities,” he said. He quoted saint Thiruvalluvar: “Karkka kasaddar karpawai katrapin, Nirkka adarkka taga (What a person has learnt is reflected in his conduct)”. Kovind said the government is implementing a new national education policy to “give shape to the resolve and potential of Aatmanirbhar Bharat”. Kovind said local languages ​​are being promoted through this policy and emphasis is being laid on conducting important entrance examinations for undergraduate courses in Indian languages. This year, 19 engineering colleges in 10 states will start teaching in six Indian languages, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-session-president-kovind-hails-schemes-fight-against-pandemic-101643613746894.html
31-01-2022||India||Afternoon brief: Akhilesh Yadav heads to file nomination from UP's Karhal, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav is on his way to file nomination papers for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly election from Karhal constituency in Mainpuri district. This is the first time that the four-time Member of Parliament (MP) will contest an assembly seat. Read morePresident of India Ram Nath Kovind officially inaugurated the Budget session of Parliament as he delivered an address to the joint sitting of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on Monday. Read moreFormer Australia captain Ricky Ponting on Monday made a massive revelation on Virat Kohli's decision to step away from T20I captaincy, a decision which he had announced back in September, before the start of India's T20 World Cup campaign in the UAE. Read moreShark Tank India's Ashneer Grover is in a soup. The BharatPe co-founder and managing director is likely going to be fired from the company under suspicion of fraud. Read moreNexon EV continues to drive Tata Motors' electric car sales in India. The company has now clocked more than 13,500 units of Nexon EV in India since its launch two years ago. The Nexon EV is currently the best-selling electric car in the passenger vehicle segment in India. Read moreAre you someone who, despite trying, is unable to start Monday on a happy note? Do you often find yourself looking for such posts on this day that will make it brighter? In case you’re searching the same today too, here is a post posted by Jennifer Garner that may do the trick. Read moreFeminine, floral, and sometimes flirty - these three aesthetics define Shraddha Kapoor's wardrobe. The actor's affinity towards wearing casual and trendy ensembles has made her one of the most fashionably relatable celebrities. Read moreIn a desperate bid to fix the massive foreign exchange crisis, Pakistan has set its sight on a $3bn from China. As per Pak media report, the Imran Khan govt is considering requesting China for yet another loan. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afternoon-brief-akhilesh-yadav-heads-to-file-nomination-from-up-s-karhal-and-all-the-latest-news-101643613044234.html
31-01-2022||India||‘More dangerous than Omicron’: Shashi Tharoor’s ‘O Mitron’ wordplay with virus variant||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Monday took an apparent swipe at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by comparing the Omicron variant of coronavirus with ‘O Mitron’, a term often used by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at public rallies and events. Taking to Twitter, Tharoor said that ‘O Mitron’ is far more dangerous than Omicron, with “no milder variant of this virus”.The Lok Sabha member said that ‘O Mitron’ has resulted in increased polarisation, promotion of hatred and assault on the Indian constitution.“Far more dangerous than #Omicron is “O Mitron”!” tweeted Tharoor. “We are measuring the consequences of the latter every day in increased polarisation, promotion of hatred & bigotry, insidious assaults on the Constitution & the weakening of our democracy. There is no “milder variant” of this virus.”The Congress party has been on the offensive over the Pegasus issue, accusing the central government of snooping on citizens using military-grade spyware. The Pegasus row, which is being monitored by a Supreme Court-appointed panel, has gained momentum after a New York Times report claimed that the Indian and Israeli governments “had agreed on the sale of a package of sophisticated weapons and intelligence gear worth roughly $2 billion — with Pegasus and a missile system as the centerpieces”.Tharoor's tweet came when President Ram Nath Kovind was listing the achievements of the central government during the joint sitting of parliament. The President said that the government considers the ideals of Dr BR Ambedkar as its guiding principle, adding that “democracy is not just a form of the government, democracy's base is a sense of respect for people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-dangerous-than-omicron-tharoor-s-o-mitron-wordplay-with-virus-variant-101643609103043.html
31-01-2022||India||Pegasus row: CPI lawmaker files privilege motion against Ashwini Vaishnaw||NEW DELHI: Communist Party of India (CPI) Member of Parliament Binoy Viswam has filed a privilege motion against Union information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw for allegedly misleading the House with his statements over the alleged use of Pegasus in light of a New York Times report saying India purchased the Israeli-origin spyware in 2017.This comes as Congress’s Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Sunday seeking a privilege motion against Vaishnaw for “deliberately misleading the House on the Pegasus issue”. The Opposition has attacked the government over the alleged spyware use following the New York Times report.In his notice, Viswam said despite the government’s “repeated attempts at hiding the truth, numerous pieces of evidence have been made public” regarding its purchase of the spyware. “The New York Times report is the latest on the list. As a matter concerning grave allegations of snooping that violate Constitutional rights and safeguards, the Minister’s deliberate attempt to mislead the Members of Parliament constitutes a breach of privilege,” Viswam said in the notice, a copy of which HT has seen.A privilege motion is initiated after the Speaker or the Chairman gives approval for it in their respective Houses. Over the past few years, many demands for privilege motions have been rejected.During Parliament’s Monsoon Session last year, Vaishnaw made a suo motu statement in both Houses and said there was “no substance” to previous media reports regarding the use of Pegasus. He also assured Parliament that illegal spying is impossible in the country. Vaishnaw said the reports were nothing but an “attempt to malign Indian democracy and its well-established institutions”. Union home minister Amit Shah slammed those “amplifying” the reports about Pegasus for “humiliating India”.Vaishnaw said a “highly sensational story” made several “over the top allegations” but there is “no substance behind them”. His statement came minutes before he was named as one of those who were targeted, according to an investigation by a consortium of media houses. The phone-hacking software Pegasus was allegedly used to target potentially thousands of people around the world.HT reached out to Vaishnaw’s office for comments on Viswam’s notice but did not receive a response immediately.The Congress on Saturday cited the New York Times report and hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party government saying it has “hijacked democracy” and misled the Supreme Court. It urged the court to take suo motu cognisance of the matter and initiate appropriate penal proceedings against the government for attempting to “deliberately and knowingly deceive” it.The New York Times reported Pegasus and a missile system were the “centerpieces” of a roughly $2 billion deal for sophisticated weapons and intelligence gear.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has accused the government of treason by allegedly “tapping” phones of Opposition leaders, people belonging to the armed forces, and the judiciary using Pegasus.“The Modi Government bought Pegasus to spy on our primary democratic institutions, politicians and public. Government functionaries, opposition leaders, armed forces, judiciary all were targeted by these phone tappings. This is treason,” Gandhi said on Twitter. The New York Times report came ahead of Parliament’s Budget Session, which began on Monday.The first half of the session from January 31 to February 11 includes the President’s speech, the presentation of the Budget, and a debate on both. The Finance Bill, the Appropriation Bills, and demand for grants for various ministries will be cleared in the second half expected from March 14 to April 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpimpfiles-privilege-motion-against-vaishnaw-for-misleading-house-over-pegasus-use-101643613026876.html
31-01-2022||India||Remembering Major Somnath Sharma, the first recipient of Param Vir Chakra||India is observing the 99th birth anniversary of Major Somnath Sharma on Monday, the first recipient of India’s highest gallantry award the Param Vir Chakra. Many users on social media have paid their tribute to Major Sharma, who receive the award posthumously in 1950.“Remember a #BravestOfTheBrave on his 99th Birth Anniv. #LestWeForgetIndia Maj Som Nath Sharma, #ParamVirChakra (P), 4 KUMAON, born #OnThisDay 31 January 1923. The #IndianBrave was the 1st Posthumous recipient of the PVC; made history at #Budgam in defence of J&K in November '47,” Lest We Forget, an NGO, said in a Twitter post.The young officer was killed while leading his men on a fighting patrol to Budgam village in Kashmir while evicting Pakistani raiders from Srinagar airport in November 1947.In his last message sent to the brigade headquarters, Major Sharma said, "The enemy is only 50 yards from us. We are heavily outnumbered. We are under devastating fire. I shall not withdraw an inch but will fight to the last man and the last round."For his exceptional bravery under duress, the native of Dadh village in Himachal Pradesh was posthumously awarded the Vir Chakra.Recalling his brave act, the Indian Army posted a message on Twitter in November last year, in which they lauded his “unparalleled gallantry and indomitable courage”. They also posted the last message Major Sharma sent in 1947.Somnath Sharma was born on January 31, 1923, in a military family.His father, Major General (retd) Amarnath Sharma, who headed the Army Medical Corps, set up a charitable dispensary in 1955 in memory of his son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remembering-major-somnath-sharma-the-first-recipient-of-param-vir-chakra-101643604960751.html
31-01-2022||India||India State of Forest Report 2021: FSI DG answers some key questions||NEW DELHI: Forests “outside recorded forest area” that account for 28% of India’s forest cover are mostly plantations of horticulture, pulpwood species as well as rural and urban greens, Anoop Singh, director general of Forest Survey of India (FSI), has said in a frequently-asked-questions (FAQs) note drafted by him to address various concerns raised on the India State of Forest Report 2021. He has also explained that most of the increase in forest cover of 0.22% between 2019 to 2021 has been outside recorded forests which is mainly plantations and orchards. The FSI is planning to assess forest cover based on higher resolution data for better specificity but availability of cloud free satellite imagery, trained manpower and technology remain concerns. Q. Why can’t we count plantations and forests separately? A. In Chapter 2 (Table 2.6) the forest cover figures are divided as ‘Inside Recorded Forest Area’ and ‘Outside Recorded Forest Area’. Those inside RFA are basically natural forests and plantations. Forest cover outside RFA are mango orchards, coconut plantations, block plantations of agroforestry and are automatically separated out and are clearly given. In ISFR 2021, it can be seen that 72 % of forest cover figures given in the report pertain to recorded forest area and only 28 % of forest cover is outside the forest area. Actually, most of the critics have not seen this Table and have commented based on their pre-conceived notion. The areas of the tea, coffee etc. are available with the respective Boards and Horticulture Department or from Revenue records, where these details are recorded. Now, coming to assessment inside the Recorded Forest area. We need to understand that the assessment of forest cover is done on the basis of interpretation of satellite data, which basically identifies the umbrella shaped canopies from the sky. Species identification at a pan-India level, on an imagery with spatial resolution of 23.5 m is always a challenge. Q. Does that mean the extent of forest cover outside recorded forest area is mostly plantations? Do we have any estimate of how much of our old growth forest cover is intact? A. Yes, it is true that the extent of forest cover outside RFA is mostly plantations of horticulture, pulpwood species as well as rural and urban greens. It is not possible to differentiate the old growth from the new growth from the satellite imagery. If you are wanting to know about the original forest, which has been totally untouched it may be very difficult. Since forests in the entire country were managed under Management Plans, called Working Plans, we need to see the Working Plan of each Division for the past 100 years to determine the untouched areas and then map them. Probably the forests under the ‘Conservation Working Circle’ maybe the ones left untouched. This exercise, if done, will be very time-intensive exercise and tough. Q. What are the trends in India’s forest over the last decade or before? A. After switching over fully to digital interpretation of satellite imagery, with Minimum Mappable Unit of 1 ha from earlier 25 ha, small patches like block plantations outside Recorded Forest Area also got included gradually resulting in steady increase in forest cover. Satellite imagery of LISS-3 sensor of 23.5m spatial resolution has been used. Q. What are the areas of concern as evident from the findings of the ISFR 2021? A. The first concern is marginal change inside the recorded forest area. This needs to be analysed and compared with areas planted under various schemes of the Central and State Governments and re-strategise. Are we reaching saturation inside Recorded Forest Area or are we losing areas or are the plantations less successful? I do not need to raise any alarm, but serious thought and analysis is required. Second concern is the increase in forest fires over the years. If we analyse the last three fire seasons, then from November 2020 – June 2021, number of fires incidents were 3,45,989, as compared to 1,24,473 in 2019-20 and 2,10,286 in 2018-19. While FSI is giving weekly pre-fire alerts based on weather conditions, fuel load and a host of other factors, as well sending actual fire alerts after the fire has started by SMS and e-mail to the entire chain of command in the forest department; more strategies need to be devised for quick reaction to the fire alerts. Third concern would be the decreasing trend in the forest cover in the North Eastern states – even if the decrease is a very small fraction of the total forest cover. Studies need to be conducted on the cause of this steady reduction and suitable course correction in policy is desirable. Q. How did the FSI begin forest cover mapping? A. This organisation was started as Pre-Investment Survey of Forest Resources (PISFR) in 1965 as a Food and Agriculture Organisation- United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) project with twin objectives to investigate availability of raw material in unexplored forest areas of the country to establish wood-based industries and also to create centre for national forest survey for providing continuous and reliable information about forest resource. The project ended in 1968 but survey and mapping continued with modern methods including aerial photographs. FSI came into being in 1981 and visual mapping using aerial photos and forest inventory was continued. In 1986, a mandate of biennial assessment was added to FSI for giving the State of Forest Report by monitoring the forest resources; first report was published in 1987. The 2021 report is the 17th version of the report. Q. What are the most important findings of the ISFR 2021? A. • Total Forest and Tree cover - 8,09,537 sq km (24.62% of the geographical area of the country), which includes 21.71% of forest cover and 2.91% of tree cover. • Increase of 1,540 sq km (0.22%) of forest cover, 721 sq km (0.76%) of tree cover • In 1540 sq km increase, 1509 sq km outside Recorded Forest Area and 31 sq km inside recorded forest area • Top five states showing increase in forest cover are Andhra Pradesh (647 sq km), Telangana (632 sq km), Odisha (537 sq km), Karnataka (155 sq km) and Jharkhand (110 sq km). • Total carbon stock in forest is 7,204 million tonnes, an increase of 79.4 million tonnes in 2 years. • 72 % of forest cover is inside recorded forest area and 28 % of forest cover outside the recorded forest area Q. There is widespread criticism about the methodology of mapping forest cover by the FSI, which also counts orchards, plantations and city trees to be forests. How will you address these concerns? A. For rapid assessment of forest resources at country level biennially, the only method available is use of remote sensing technology. Currently FSI is carrying out interpretation of satellite data at 23.5 m resolution with a Minimum Mapping Unit (MMU) of 1 ha at a scale of 1:50,000. After data browsing, procurement and analysis, ground truthing of the change polygons is done and states are involved in this. The entire cycle takes two years. We are in the process of experimenting with data of higher resolution, however there may be many problems like availability of cloud-free satellite imagery for the October – March period over the entire country, availability of trained manpower, machine and software. Time requirement will also increase manifold as soon as we go for higher resolution. Hence further decision in this regard will be taken after analysing all pros and cons. Q. Experts have said the FSI doesn’t share its satellite imagery maps. Researchers are charged to avail these. Any plans to make them open access? A. The interpreted maps of FSI are available to everyone, though there are nominal charges for the data and maps. Whosoever demands the data, the same is provided after paying the nominal charges. The funds received from the sale of forest cover maps are deposited through Bharatkosh to Government of India funds. The satellite imagery used by FSI for the purpose of the forest cover mapping is procured on payment basis from NRSC. Government agencies are using these map layers free of cost for the Decision Support System for Forest clearance of FC Act proposals. This system is designed and implemented by FSI. Now we are considering providing the Forest cover maps through Web Map Service to make the analysis of researchers and agencies easier. Q. With India’s ambiguous definition of forests don’t you think the international community will also raise doubts about our carbon sink commitments? A technical assessment by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 2019 had also recommended India delineate areas under orchards, and bamboo and palm cultivation for an accurate assessment of carbon stocks of forests. A. India’ definition of forests is not at all ambiguous. The definition of forest cover has clearly been defined in all the India State of Forest Report (ISFR) and in all the international communications of India. The forest cover is defined as ‘all land, more than one hectare in area, with a tree canopy density of more than 10 percent irrespective of ownership and legal status. Such land may not necessarily be a recorded forest area. It also includes orchards, bamboo and palm’. For the international communications, the forest can be defined by any county depending upon the capacities and capabilities of the country and is as follows (as per Decision 19/CP9 - Kyoto Protocol definition), Forest - Forest is defined structurally on the basis of • Crown cover percentage: Tree crown cover - 10 to 30 % (India 10%) • Minimum area of stand : area between 0.05 and 1 ha (India 1.0 ha), and • Minimum height of trees: Potential to reach a minimum height at maturity in situ of 2 to 5 m (India 2m) India’s definition of forest has been taken on the basis of above three criteria only and very well accepted by UNFCCC and FAO for their reporting/communications. UNFCCC has never raised any questions on Forest and Tree Cover of India. Neither any comments were made on our carbon sink commitments. The technical assessment by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in 2019 had never made any comments for accurate assessment of carbon stock of areas under orchards, bamboo and palm cultivation. Instead, the UNFCCC commented that India should consider delineating separately the orchard, bamboo and palm areas. In the Global Forest Resource Assessment 2020, FAO has acknowledged the technical support from FSI and has always valued the assessment of FSI. Q. Many critics have mentioned that biodiversity and people oriented studies in tribal areas have not been made a part of the ISFR. A. FSI has a mandate for reporting on the status of forest. With the limited resources, time and manpower, this mandate is of priority. Besides this we try to add a few additional information on issues of technology or public interest, like the decadal analysis in tiger conservation areas in this report. In 2011, a study on Production and Consumption studies was published, in 2013 on Trees in Agroforestry and Forest Types in 2015. In 2019, we had written on ‘People and Forests’ and also on Forest Types and biodiversity. As a matter of fact, there is a separate publication in 2020 called ‘ATLAS – Forest Types of India’, which his very detailed analysis on spatial distribution of species combining them as ‘Forest Types’ and is a comprehensive report for biodiversity specialists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nearly-28-of-india-s-forests-outside-recorded-forest-area-fsi-dg-101643605046441.html
31-01-2022||India||Covid-19 cases in India dip; Kerala adds 374 backlog deaths||India reported 2,09,918 new cases of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 959 related deaths in the past 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry data updated at 8am on Monday. This took the overall Covid-19 caseload of the country to 4,10,92,522 while the death toll climbed to 4,95,050.The higher number of deaths reported in the fresh 24 hours is due to Kerala adding 374 backlog deaths to Monday's count.The active caseload reached 18,31,268, while the daily positivity rate was registered at 15.77 per cent.Also read | India fighting Covid-19 third wave with great success: PMThe daily Covid-19 cases across the country have been declining from the past few days in what can be seen as a sign of receding third wave of the pandemic, driven by coronavirus' Omicron variant.Monday's daily Covid-19 tally saw a dip of 24,363 infections as compared to the spike of infections on Sunday when as many as 2,34,281 infections were reported.Also read | 75% of all adults fully vaccinated against Covid-19According to the health ministry, 2,62,628 people recuperated from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries thus far to 3,89,76,122. The current recovery rate stood at 94.37 per cent.Under the ongoing coronavirus vaccine drive across the country, as many as 166.03 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far, according to the government data.India surpassed the one-crore mark in the number of cases on December 19, 2020, and two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cases-in-india-dip-kerala-adds-374-backlog-deaths-101643599947622.html
31-01-2022||India||President says ‘deeply saddened’ by Kanpur bus accident, expresses condolences||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday expressed grief on the death of those in the Kanpur bus accident, and wished a “speedy recovery” to the injured individuals.“Deeply saddened by the news of many casualties in the Kanpur bus accident. My deepest condolences to the families who lost their loved ones in this incident. I wish the injured people a speedy recovery,” a statement from the President of India, roughly translated from Hindi, read on Twitter.
31-01-2022||India||Narendra Modi to address event marking NCW’s 30th foundation day||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a gathering on Monday to mark the 30th foundation day of the National Commission for Women (NCW).“The theme of the programme is ‘She The Change Maker’ aimed at celebrating the achievements of women in different fields,” the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement.A discussion on “Women Entrepreneurs Driving the Change” will follow Modi’s speech. Two more panel discussions titled “Women in Decision Making” and “Digital Empowerment of Women’ will also be held at the event.Union women and child development minister Smriti Irani will also be present on the occasion.NCW was founded in January 1992 as a statutory body under the National Commission for Women Act, 1990. It was established to review the constitutional and legal safeguards for women, recommend remedial legislative measures, facilitate redressal, or grievances, and advise the government on policy matters affecting women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-to-address-event-marking-ncw-s-30th-foundation-day-101643600305935.html
31-01-2022||India||Morning brief: EC to review ban on physical rallies in poll-bound states, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Election Commission to review ban on physical rallies, roadshowsAs the country battles with the third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Election Commission of India (ECI) will meet on Monday to assess the pandemic situation and decide whether the ban on conducting physical rallies will continue in the five states headed for polls, including Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. Read more…Electric bus mows down bystanders in Kanpur, 6 deadAt least six people have been killed and several injured after an electric bus lost control and mowed down several bystanders near the Tat Mill crossroad in Kanpur on Sunday. The police said that a group of 15 people were at the site where the accident took place. Read more…'He's one of our brightest prospects': Bharat Arun hails India's 'encouraging move' to bring back star bowler for ODIsFormer India bowling coach Bharat Arun has been left elated with the return of Kuldeep Yadav to the ODI squad for the impending home series against West Indies, which has also seen the maiden call-up for young IPL star Ravi Bishnoi. Arun called the decision as “encouraging” and hailed Kuldeep as one of the “brightest prospects” of the Indian team. Read more..Gauahar Khan takes a dig at Tejasswi Prakash becoming Bigg Boss 15 winner: ‘Silence in the studio said it all’Former Bigg Boss winner Gauahar Khan, who was rooting for Pratik Sehajpal to take home the Bigg Boss 15 trophy, shared a message of support for him after Tejasswi Prakash was declared the winner. She called him the only ‘deserving winner’ of the show. Read more…Ankita Lokhande dons gorgeous silk saree for pics with Vicky Jain's family and new video: Internet praises her glowSince she married Vicky Jain, actor Ankita Lokhande has wowed netizens with her traditional fashion choices. From draping herself in silk sarees for enjoying festivities at home to chilling with Vicky Jain in a sharara suit set, Ankita wore it all. Now, her latest video in a pink silk saree has also wowed netizens and has them saying, "Look at that glow." Read more…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/morning-brief-ec-to-review-ban-on-physical-rallies-in-poll-bound-states-and-all-the-latest-news-101643598049805.html
31-01-2022||India||Karnataka to send team to Maharashtra to study wine selling in supermarkets||The Karnataka government will send a team to Maharashtra to study the model it adopted for sale of wine. Karnataka’s excise minister K Gopalaiah said on Sunday that his government will decide the implementation of the model based on the report of the committees.Last Tuesday, Maharashtra gave a nod to allow sale of wine in supermarkets and walk-in stores at a flat annual licensing fee of ₹5,000. According to the state cabinet, the decision is aimed to ensure a more accessible marketing channel for Indian wineries.Speaking about it, Gopalaiah told news agency ANI, “It is newly introduced. We will send a committee to study it and will make a decision based on their report."Underlining that it is not necessary that the Karnataka government will adopt the same model just because Maharashtra has, he said, "We will have to see if it helps the government and also that it does not affect businesses."Vice president of the Federation of Wine Merchants of Karnataka, Karunakar Hegde told ANI that the grape wine production in the state is not as high as Maharashtra's. "There are more wine growers in Maharashtra. In Karnataka, there are a maximum of around 5 per cent wine traders. There are very few wineries here," he said.Hegde, however, said that converting the swine business to an open market won't be good, adding that there will be no control.The Maharashtra government’s decision had led to a war of words between the Shiv Sena-led three-party alliance which is in power in the state and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The BJP has linked the decision to Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s business. On Sunday, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said Raut’s family members entered into a partnership with a company named Magpie DFS private limited, which was involved in wine distribution last year.Raut responded, saying there is nothing wrong if someone is in a legitimate business and BJP leaders will have to go underground if he starts revealing their businesses.On Thursday, former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is converting Maharashtra into ‘Madya Rashtra’ or a nation of liquor. The Congress, which is part of the ruling dispensation in Maharashtra, responded saying that the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh had taken a similar decision that covered not just wine made from grapes, mead, fruits and flowers, but all kinds of liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-send-team-to-maharashtra-to-study-wine-selling-in-supermarkets-101643599186321.html
31-01-2022||India||WHO dashboard showing J&K, Arunachal as parts of Pak, China; MP writes to Modi||NEW DELHI: Trinamool Congress (TMC) Member of Parliament Santanu Sen wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday over the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) Covid-19 dashboard showing Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and Arunachal Pradesh as parts of Pakistan and China.Sen wrote he was navigating through the dashboard when he came across the discrepancy. “When I clicked the blue portion, it was showing the COVID-19 data of our country. But to my utter surprise, when I clicked over the differently coloured portions, given to our state of J&K, the larger portion was showing the data of Pakistan and the smaller one was showing the data of China.”He called it a “serious International issue” that the government should have noticed and corrected. He added it is “grievous for the citizens of our country” and urged Modi to probe into this matter and intimate the people about the “major mistake”.Sen also sent copies of his letter to the Union ministries of home, external affairs, and health.There was no immediate response from the WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-writes-to-modi-over-who-dashboard-showing-j-k-arunachal-parts-of-pakistan-china-101643599285022.html
31-01-2022||India||Delhi likely to see strong winds today: IMD||NEW DELHI: Delhi is likely to see strong winds on Monday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be at 8 degree Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 23 degree Celsius.The minimum temperature on Sunday was 7.5 degree Celsius, one notch below normal and maximum temperature was 22.2 degree Celsius -- normal for this time of the year. Delhi’s air quality was in the poor category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 300. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 278, which is in the higher-end of the poor category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The weather office predicted that an active western disturbance is likely to bring widespread rainfall to the northern plains and snowfall in the hills between February 2 and 4.“Due to the approaching intense western disturbance, minimum temperatures are gradually going to rise over northwest India. The impact of the WD will be felt mainly in the hills and northern areas but on February 3 we can expect light rain in Delhi and parts of Uttar Pradesh as well,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-likely-to-see-strong-winds-todayimd-101643599225925.html
31-01-2022||India||Plantations count for 28% forest cover: FSI DG||NEW DELHI: The ‘outside recorded forest area’ accounts for 28% of India’s forest cover, and comprises plantations of horticulture, pulpwood species as well as rural and urban greens, Anoop Singh, director general of Forest Survey of India (FSI) said.Singh has drafted a note to address various concerns being raised on the India State of Forests Report (ISFR) 2021, released on January 13.“In Chapter 2, Table 2.6, the forest cover figures are divided as ‘Inside Recorded Forest Area’ and ‘Outside Recorded Forest Area’. Those inside RFA are basically natural forests and plantations. Forest cover outside RFA includes mango orchards, coconut plantations, and block plantations of agro-forestry. They are automatically separated out and are clearly mentioned in the table,” he wrote in the note, emphasising that India has been transparent about the extent of forests. In ISFR 2021, 72 % of forest cover figures pertain to recorded forest area and only 28% of forest cover is outside the forest area, the note said, refuting concerns over the extent of natural forests in the country.“Most of the critics have not seen this table and have commented based on their pre-conceived notion. The areas of tea, coffee etc. are available with the respective boards and horticulture departments or from revenue records, where these details are recorded,” Singh added.According to ISFR 2021, India’s forest cover has increased from 21.67% of the total geographical area in 2019 to 21.71% in 2021. In the period, the country added 1,540 sqkm of forest cover to 713,789 sqkm in 2021, said the ISFR 2021.Out of the 1,540 sqkm increase, 1,509 sqkm is in the “outside RFA” category while only 31 sqkm is “inside RFA”, the report added.In the same period, the country’s total tree cover also increased by 721 sqkm, taking it to 2.91% of total geographical area in 2021 from 2.89% in 2019, the report said, adding that an overall increase of 2,261 sqkm (0.28%) of forest and tree cover has been observed as compared to 2019. The marginal increase in forests inside RFA is an issue of concern, Singh said.“This needs to be analysed and compared with the areas planted under various schemes of the central and state governments to re-strategise. Are we reaching saturation inside recorded forest area or are we losing areas or are the plantations less successful? I do not need to raise any alarm, but a serious thought and analysis is required,” the FSI director general said in the note, shared with select media on Friday. He informed that between November 2020 and June 2021, a total of 345,989 fire incidents have been reported in forests across the country, as compared to 124,473 in 2019-20 and 210,286 in 2018-19, adding it was also “worrying”.Kanchi Kohli, legal researcher at Centre for Policy Research, said, “The FAQs have clarified the distinction the methodology makes between recorded forests and plantations, which is useful. However, there is a need to review whether both should collectively be referred to as forest cover or presented as land with green or tree cover. It gives a distorted picture.” Kohli added, "It is also useful for a state of forest report to present how much of the recorded forest area is still under forest cover or has been put to other uses. For instance, forest diversion approvals for industries, dams or highways often come with a condition that the legal status of the land will remain unchanged. Do these areas still get calculated as recorded forest area? This and several other questions would be important to clarify."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plantations-count-for-28-forest-cover-fsi-dg-101643582846452.html
31-01-2022||India||Assembly polls: Health secretary to brief ECI on Covid-19 situation in 5 states||Union secretary for health and family welfare will brief the representatives of the Election Commission of India on Monday regarding the emerging Covid-19 situation ahead of the elections in five states.Also Read | UP polls: ECI to review ban on physical rallies, roadshows on Jan 31“Yes, there is a virtual meeting lined up at around 11 in the morning,” said a senior official aware of the matter in the health ministry. The official, however, refused to share the agenda of the meeting.People familiar with the matter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that the purpose of the briefing is to assess whether restrictions can be lifted in poll-bound states.The five states going to polls are Uttarakhad, Punjab, Manipur, Goa, and Uttar Pradesh.On January 22, the EC extended the ban on physical rallies and roadshows in these five states till January 31 amid the third wave of the Covid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-polls-health-secretary-to-brief-eci-on-covid-19-situation-in-5-states-101643578131766.html
31-01-2022||India||BJP MLA lashes out at colleagues||Problems within the BJP continued to widen as more legislators from the ruling party expressed anger against their ministerial colleagues, fuelling growing rift within the Basavaraj Bommai-led government.MP Renukacharya, the political secretary of the chief minister, on Sunday said half of the cabinet, around 15 ministers, were “unresponsive” and “arrogant” and even fake contracting Covid-19 to avoid legislators.“There are around 15 or more arrogant ministers. I have discussed this with our BJP president several times. Several legislators have expressed their concerns to me that ministers do not receive phone calls or respond to letters. By not responding to even written letters, the ministers are insulting the people of the respective legislator’s constituencies,” the legislator from Honnali said.The statements comes even as the divide within the BJP appears to widen over teething issues including the cabinet expansion, undue importance being given to new entrants and the overlooking of the old guard, several of whom nurse a feeling of neglect as they continue to be overlooked for a position in Bommai’s council of ministers.While the BJP has itself dismissed any rift within the party, legislators have spared no opportunity in demanding to be included in the cabinet and seeking funds for programmes within their respective constituencies as crucial elections approach.“Some ministers feel that the government has formed in the state because of them only. They have ego issues and think that the government cannot exist without them. They are bringing a bad name to the party and the government. That is why I met the CM and state BJP president and requested for immediate dismissal of such Ministers. I also requested that party loyalists be allowed in the cabinet,” Renukacharya was quoted as saying by ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mla-lashes-out-at-colleagues-101643570723939.html
31-01-2022||India||Bengaluru traffic cop suspended for attacking woman||The Bengaluru traffic police official who physically and verbally assaulted a differently-abled woman has been suspended, Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra said on Sunday. “The police official who used foul language and attacked a helpless woman has been suspended and an enquiry has been ordered,” Jananendra said.The orders come days after a video of assistant sub inspector Narayana went viral on social media, adding to the growing outrage against law enforcement officials in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka.The woman had pelted a stone at the police on January 24, which had caused minor injuries to the official. According to reports, she had protested the towing of vehicles in Bengaluru which has added to friction between public and the police in recent times. In retaliation, the official pushed her to the road, repeatedly kicked her and used foul language, which has not gone down well with the public.The video, posted by several locals of the city and shared on social media platforms like Twitter, attracted sharp criticism against the police, accused of using excessive force on the people.“No matter who it is, the law cannot be taken into their hands, and the police are no exception,” the home minister said.Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said the towing policy of police will be reviewed after the incident of the woman being assaulted surfaced. “The existing towing system is being reviewed. Earlier, the police department itself used to do it. Now, it has been assigned to private contractors. I too have observed many incidents. The public should follow the rules. But those who enforce the law should conduct themselves courteously with the public. Outrageous behaviour cannot be tolerated. I will hold a meeting tomorrow(Monday) with the Police Commissioner, DGP and Traffic Police officials. We will have a total review of the existing system. Many changes would be brought to make it people-friendly,” Bommai said.The Bengaluru police, in particular, have been blamed on more than one occasion for targeting and harassing people in the streets of India’s IT capital. The police were seen to use force on the common public in the garb of enforcing covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown guidelines while turning a blind eye on violations by politicians and other influential persons, according to multiple political leaders, activists and netizens who have highlighted the issue on social media and other platforms. Barely any action was taken against politicians--both ruling and opposition--when they violated lockdown guidelines or failed to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour since the pandemic, including the Mekedatu Padayatra, swearing-in ceremony for MLCs, weddings attended by senior leaders, religious fairs and other large gatherings in the state.Some of the most targeted persons by traffic police are delivery personnel, goods vehicles and others who are randomly stopped for ‘checking’, and heavy fines are imposed sometimes without any evidence, activists and others allege. Bribery is rampant, too, as officials and their subordinates negotiate with commuters as they are forced to pay up large sums of money to be allowed to leave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-traffic-cop-suspended-for-attacking-woman-101643570603888.html
31-01-2022||India||Bengaluru: Schools, colleges to resume classes from today||Schools and colleges in Bengaluru will resume classes on Monday as the Basavaraj Bommai-led state government continues to ease restrictions over low hospitalisation rates despite a high Covid-19 caseload in the state.The state government has already done away with weekend curfews and the restrictions on movement at night will cease to exist from Monday night along with other curbs on occupancy at commercial establishments like hotels, pubs, bars and other places.However, the restrictions of 50% occupancy continued on cinema halls, malls, swimming pools and a few other spaces. “As a Home Minister and Chief Minister I have provided many facilities for them (movie industry). A suitable decision would be taken after seeking suggestions from the expert committee on their demands,” Bommai said on Sunday.Despite hospitalisation remaining low in the state, there are fears that a significant section of people may not follow Covid appropriate behaviour.Out of the total 44,781 hospital beds set aside for Covid-19 related treatment in Karnataka, around 2,264 are occupied so far, according to real-time data provided by the government.Out of the 2319 beds in intensive care units with oxygen, only 125 are occupied, data shows.However, opposition political parties in Karnataka have questioned the government’s numbers and its decisions on covid-19.“@BJP4Karnataka is patting its own back for successfully managing #Covid19. In reality, it is celebrating the death of lakhs of people,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition said in a post on Saturday.Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education on Sunday said that it was unfortunate the state’s political opposition were making false allegations on covid management.“It is unfortunate that leaders in responsible positions have chosen to continue the 3rd wave of Congress party’s false allegations on Covid management. While the fatality rate in Karnataka is just 1%, only 1.59% of the infected are requiring hospitalisation in (the) third wave,” Sudhakar said.He added that the main reason for low hospitalisation was that the state had achieved high vaccination coverage. He said that the state had achieved 100% coverage in the first dose and 87.6% in the second dose.“About 51% of the beneficiaries among our HCWs, FLWs & co-morbid senior citizens have received the timely precaution dose. On one hand KPCC President says there is no Covid and its BJP’s creation. On the other hand LOP speaks about covid mgmt. What does Congress stand for?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluruschools-colleges-to-resume-classes-from-today-101643570424194.html
31-01-2022||India||B’luru woman falls due to pothole, run over by truck||A 46-year-old woman died on Sunday after she tried to avoid a pothole in Benglauru’s treacherous roads, adding to the growing number of casualties as a result of apathy by civic authorities in the country’s technology capital.A pick-up truck ran over the woman after she fell off the two-wheeler in which the couple was travelling when trying to avoid the pothole in Byadarahalli in Bengaluru.“The incident took place at 10.30 this morning. But the complaint we have received is that the vehicle hit them from behind which caused the two-wheeler rider to lose balance,” said a police official requesting not to be named.He said the husband, who is currently receiving treatment at a private hospital, was yet to give his statement and police were carrying on their investigation.Though there are conflicting versions of what may have caused the accident, one look at the stretch of the road with jagged edges and unfinished asphalting, adds to the possibility of the two-wheeler going off balance due to the condition of the road.The accident is the latest in a series of similar incidents that are increasing in Bengaluru where non-existent or poor quality of roads has snuffed out several lives over the years.The husband also sustained serious injuries and has been taken to the hospital, according to locals present on the road.The incident comes days after the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) had told the Karnataka High Court that it had filled up all the potholes in its limits which the judges themselves said was unbelievable.“We personally feel that you have not done anything...Don’t say anything which we ourselves feel is wrong,” according to a report by LiveLaw on Thursday.A division bench of Chief Justice Ritu Raj Awasthi and Justice Suraj Govindraj heard the case that was filed by Vijayan Menon.The BBMP, one of India’s biggest and richest civic bodies, spends thousands of crores in tax payers’ money each year on road-related works.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, during the monsoon session of the state legislature in September last year, had said over ₹20,000 crore was spent by the administration on road-related works in Bengaluru over the last five years.Bengaluru’s roads are among the most treacherous in the country, claiming several lives each year and being one of the biggest challenges in the lives of over 12 million residents of India’s IT capital.“You cannot get away by saying that when the roads were constructed the load on the roads was less. Now you have to come out with solutions! Some method you have to come out with to ensure that roads bear the load,” the court observed, according to LiveLaw.The case is scheduled to be heard again on February 7.Civic apathy has claimed over 18 lives in Bengaluru in 2020, which is more than all the other big cities in India, combined, according to data from the National Crime Records Bureau.In September last year, a 75-year-old differently abled man lost his life after his two-wheeler hit a pothole in Kamakshipalya locality. The police filed a case of negligent driving on the victim.A seven-year-old Dhavani N from Tumakuru , in a heartfelt message to the chief minister in October last year, offered all of her savings to get potholes fixed after he mother sustained injuries in a road accident caused by poor quality of roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-woman-falls-due-to-pothole-run-over-by-truck-101643570185201.html
31-01-2022||India||K’taka: Panel set up to ease leasing of grazing land||The Karnataka government has formed a sub-committee to survey and check guidelines for leasing out “Gomala” or grazing land in the state which appears to be an attempt to regularise encroachments.The sub-committee that will be headed by Karnataka revenue minister R Ashok and has other cabinet ministers including JC Madhuswamy, Araga Jnanendra, Prabhu Chavan, BC Patil and Byrathi Basavaraj as members, according to a notification issued on Saturday.“There are some contraindications in our rules which were not clear on whether those lands can be granted or not. There has to be consistency across the rules which are allowed and disallowed (to give it to organisations),” a senior Karnataka government official told Hindustan Times requesting not to be named.The official was unable to provide details of total Gomala lands in the state.Interestingly, the decision does not augur well with the bovine-influenced politics being propagated by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai who continues to prioritise cows as an extension of his attempt to “appease” the right wing, analysts said.Several religious institutions have also taken large tracts of grazing lands to protect cows that have made it difficult for the government to find adequate land for setting up Goshalas or cowsheds as promised by Bommai.Chambi Puranik, a Bengaluru-based political analyst, said Bommai continues to rely on gaining favour from his predecessor, BS Yediyurappa, as well as from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“He has an obligation to the RSS. He brought the anti-conversion bill to appease the Hindutva lobby,” Puranik said.The chief minister adopted 11 cows from the Rashtrothana Gau Shala (cow shelter) on his birthday which his office called as the “way for cow protection”.Despite not being originally from the BJP, Bommai has taken a hardline approach on several issues to pander to the right wing, including introducing contentious laws like anti-conversion which includes an attempt to regulate inter-faith marriages which the right wing calls “love jihad” as well as trying to justify increasing acts of moral policing and religious intolerance in the state.There has also been an increase in religious intolerance in Karnataka like moral policing, hate crimes, attacks on minorities among other crimes.There has also been an increase in religious intolerance in Karnataka like moral policing, hate crimes, attacks on minorities among other crimes.“When sentiments are hurt, it is natural that there are actions and reactions. Even the youth should keep in mind these sentiments and act accordingly,” Bommai said on October 13 last year, almost justifying the rising number of vigilante-based crimes across the state, sparking off protests.At least 34 well-known intellectuals from different parts of the state and country on the eve of Republic Day shot off a letter to the chief minister over the rising intolerance.“Over the past few months, the state has witnessed the brutal killing of youths in several districts, rampant ‘hate speeches’, public threats and disruptions of worship by religious minorities, ‘honour killings’, ‘moral policing’, misogynistic statements by legislators, and incidents of hostile and violent encounters between various religious groups. These trends have been encouraged by the callous and un-constitutional statements made by Legislators and the inability of the state machinery to rein-in fringe anti-social groups,” according to the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ktaka-panel-set-up-to-ease-leasing-of-grazing-land-101643570003882.html
31-01-2022||India||SC judge renews pitch for public’s access to proceedings in court||Renewing his pitch for more transparency in court proceedings, Supreme Court judge justice DY Chandrachud has said that it will only be possible for the public to understand the nature of judicial work if proceedings are opened for public viewership.A judge is to be judged not only by the number of judgments delivered but also by her conduct inside the courtroom, justice Chandrachud said.Speaking at the virtual launch of a book by professor Balram K Gupta on Saturday, the top court judge said: “Not only is it imperative that justice is done but it should also seem to be done. Justice seems to be done only when judicial proceedings are opened for public viewership.”If judicial proceedings are opened to public, justice Chandrachud said, it will not only provide legitimacy to the institution but also add “to the democratic principle of accountability”.While data on disposal rates and the judgments of cases are easily available in the public domain, the people cannot ascertain the behaviour of a judge inside the courtroom due to a lack of transparency, justice Chandrachud said.“Unless this important indicator of performance evaluation is publicly available, it would be difficult to evaluate the performance of a judge and would pose challenges to judicial accountability,” he said.“A lack of transparency results in distrust and a deep sense of insecurity,” justice Chandrachud said recalling the Dalai Lama. He further said that even though legal journalism has “gained traction”, it has limitations. Streaming of judicial proceedings can also become a mode of education for the “young and the old of the Bar”, he added. In October last year, justice Chandrachud said that “everyone in the country has a right to know what goes on inside a courtroom”, as he emphasized that live streaming rules were formulated so courts could telecast proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-judge-renews-pitch-for-public-s-access-to-proceedings-in-court-101643569706736.html
31-01-2022||India||Pegasus row: Congress calls for privilege motion against Centre||The Congress’s Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Sunday to seek a privilege motion against Union minister of information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw for “deliberately misleading the House on the Pegasus issue”.Also Read | Fresh plea urges SC to take note of NYT report on PegasusThe notice is the latest escalation of an attack by the Opposition aimed at the Union government over the alleged use of military-grade Israeli-origin spyware Pegasus. The letter comes a day after several opposition parties attacked the government following a report by the New York Times that said India purchased the spyware in 2017.“The government, on the floor of the House, always maintained that it had nothing to do with the Pegasus spyware and it never bought the spyware from the NSO Group,” Chowdhury wrote in the letter, before adding that “in light of the revelations… it appears that the Modi government has misled the parliament and the Supreme Court...”Chowdhury cited affidavits submitted by the government in which, he said, the government claimed to “unequivocally deny any and all of the allegations” on the Pegasus issue.Also Read | Pegasus inquiry: Take note of the NYT reportThe MP’s letter reflects the principal opposition party’s toughened stand on the controversy, which relates to allegations that the mobile phone hacking tool was used against Indian citizens, including political opponents, journalists and members of the judiciary.In the 2021 monsoon session, the Congress-led opposition demanded clarifications from the PM on Pegasus and nearly washed out the session through massive protests and disruption. The Budget session beginning Monday is likely to witness protests over the issue again.In his letter to the Speaker, Chowdhury said: “I demand that a Privilege Motion may be initiated against the Minister of Information Technology for deliberately misleading the House on the Pegasus issue”.A privilege motion is only initiated after the Speaker or the Chairman gives approval in their respective Houses. In the past few years, many allegations and demands for privilege motions against rival lawmakers have not found favour from the chair.Also Read | Best time to ask Israel for advanced Pegasus software: Chidambaram in dig at ModiIn the 2021 monsoon session, Union IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw gave a suo motu statement in both houses and said there is ‘no substance’ in previous media reports regarding the use of Pegasus. He also assured parliament that illegal spying is impossible in the country.The Congress has announced that the Pegasus issue will come up in parliament. Party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged the Centre has misled both Parliament and the Supreme Court. “The role of the Prime Minister and his responsibility is now directly in question. Kharge Saheb (Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge) has said, we will discuss this other political parties and seek accountability...”Kharge also claimed that the statement by Vaishnaw in Parliament indicated that “there is no purchase, nothing. So, it is their statement. What we will do... take other political parties also in confidence and further action will be taken,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-row-cong-calls-for-privilege-motion-against-centre-101643569092089.html
31-01-2022||India||Kapu leaders to join forces for more political share in Andhra Pradesh||Leaders of Kapu community, a politically strong caste group in Andhra Pradesh, are planning to come together, setting aside their political affiliations, to form a pressure group with an aim to achieve what they say their legitimate share in political power in the state in the coming years.The Kapu leaders, representing parties like the Bharatiya Janata Party, Congress, Telugu Desam Party and the Jana Sena Party, held a virtual meeting on January 23 and decided to form an “Aikya Vedika” (joint forum), which, they said, would do intense lobbying with their respective parties and strive to achieve due share of seats for the community in the next assembly and parliament elections.A Kapu leader familiar with the development said the meeting was attended by TDP legislator from Visakhapatnam Ganta Srinivasa Rao and former TDP MLA Bonda Umamaheshwara Rao, former Congress minister Vatti Vasanth Kumar, retired IAS officer and former Tamil Nadu chief secretary Rammohan Rao, among others. “The Kapu leaders from ruling YSR Congress party stayed away from the meeting,” he said.This was the second meeting held by the Kapu community in the recent past. In December, too, some Kapu leaders, including retired joint director of Central Bureau of Investigation V V Lakshminarayana and former BJP state president Kanna Lakshminarayana, had a meeting at a star hotel in Hyderabad to discuss the strategy to protect the political interests of the community.“A steering committee will be formed to work out the strategy on achieving political power for Kapus in the next elections. Though it is a long way to travel, the ultimate objective of the effort is to grab power in the coming years,” the Kapu leader said. He said there would be yet another meeting in February to finalise the structure of the Aikya Vedika, which would be a sort of pressure group. It would strive to win as many seats as possible in the next elections.A politically strong community in Andhra Pradesh, Kapus and their affiliated caste groups, such as Balijas, Telagas and Ontaris, constitute 15.2 per cent of the total population in the state. While they are spread all over the state, East and West Godavari districts are considered as strongholds of the Kapus.Traditionally, the Kapus, because of their rivalry with another predominant caste group, Kammas, who account for 4.8 per cent of the total population, had voted for the Congress.However, Kapus made an attempt to come together as a consolidated vote bank in 2008 when prominent Telugu film actor Chiranjeevi floated a new political outfit Praja Rajyam Party. It generated a lot of euphoria in the community.But the Praja Rajyam Party failed to put up an impressive show in the elections. It could win only 18 out of 294 assembly seats and get 17.5 per cent vote share. Chiranjeevi could not sustain the party for long and merged it with the Congress in February 2011.In 2014, Chiranjeevi’s younger brother Pawan Kalyan floated the Jana Sena Party, but he did not contest the elections in AP post-bifurcation of combined AP. He supported the BJP-TDP combine.In 2019 elections, however, Jana Sena contested in alliance with the Left and the Bahujan Samaj Party but failed to make any impact. It could win only one MLA seat with a vote share of only 5.54 per cent.There was a talk that Jana Sena would consolidate the Kapu votes, but the community had no faith on him after seeing his elder brother Chiranjeevi’s failed experiment. Instead, they voted largely in favour of the YSRC led by Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, which won 27 out of 34 seats in East and West Godavari districts. Pawan Kalyan himself lost in the Kapu-dominated constituencies like Bhimavaram and Gajuwaka.“Having seen the experiments of Chiranjeevi and Pawan Kalyan, we have realised that Kapus need to rework their strategies if they have to come to power. The Aikya Vedika is the first step to consolidate the Kapu vote bank. If the community remains united and turns into a pressure group, it can achieve its objective one day or the other,” the Kapu leader said.
31-01-2022||India||Kerala ex-minister targets Lokayukta, faces flak from Oppn||Amid the row over the Kerala government’s plan to dilute the powers of the anti-corruption body Lokayukta through an ordinance, former minister K T Jaleel on Sunday posted a message on social media casting aspersions on Lokayukta Justice Cyriac Joseph, also a former Supreme Court judge. Jaleel was forced to resign from the Pinarayi Vijayan government last year after the Lokayukta found him guilty of nepotism.Without naming him, Jaleel alleged that the Lokayukta “will do anything for money and position” and that the Congress-led UDF is using him as a weapon to stab chief minister Vijayan in the back. In the post, the former minister also alleged that a senior leader of the UDF was saved from a controversial case in 2005 when the Lokayukta was a judge in the Kerala high court and in turn he managed a plum post for his sister-in-law. Jaleel was indirectly referring to the appointment of Jancy James as the vice chancellor of the Mahathma Gandhi University in Kottayam. “It is a tragedy that a weapon meant for Gandhiji is getting into the hands of Godse. If he gets good returns, he will do any job. When three central agencies gave me a clean chit in trumped-up case, he appeared all of a sudden to weaken the government,” Jaleel said in the post, referring to his case. Later he also posted the verdict in the ice cream parlour case -- a sex scandal in which Muslim League leader P K Kuhalikutty’s name allegedly cropped up but later the Supreme Court gave him a clean chit. Last year Jaleel resigned from the Vijayan government after the Lokayukta found him to have lobbied for a relative to be appointed as the general manager of the State Minority Welfare Corporation. Lokayukta found that he diluted some of the qualifications required for the post. Though Jaleel moved the high court and Supreme Court, both refused to entertain his plea. The opposition Congress and BJP slammed Jaleel for targeting constitutional positions. The Congress has sought the CM’s reply to Jaleel’s post. “Justice Cyriac Joseph was appointed Lokayukta by the present government. It is for the CM to reply to such wild allegations,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan. “Frustrated Jaleel is attacking constitutional positions to vent his anger,” said BJP state president K Surendran. The ruling CPI(M) is yet to comment on Jaleel’s post. The Opposition said the move to clip the wings of Lokayukta came in the wake of three complaints against the CM for allegedly abusing his position to grant financial help to three “ineligible persons” from his disaster relief fund. Complaints say the CM misused funds meant for disaster relief and distributed lakhs of rupees to former party MLA K K Ramachandran’s family to clear his debts, gave help to the family of former NCP leader Uzhavoor Vijayan and relief to the family of a gunman who died on escort duty of CPI(M) state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan. Similarly higher education minister R Bindhu is also feeling the heat of the Lokayukta. Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala had moved the anti-graft body last month citing two letters she wrote to the governor recommending the re-appointment of Kannur vice- chancellor Gopinath Raveendran. Chennithala said the minister has no right to send such letters to the governor and that it was a clear case of nepotism and misuse of power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-ex-minister-targets-lokayukta-faces-flak-from-oppn-101643569163851.html
31-01-2022||India||Protesters urge Tamil Nadu governor to forward NEET bill to Prez||As governor R N Ravi was paying a tribute to a portrait of Mahatma Gandhi on Chennai’s Marina beach, about 5 kilometres away educational activists went on a hunger strike on Sunday, urging him to forward the NEET exemption Bill, which has been with him since September, to the President for his assent. “The educational development of Tamil Nadu is the result of the three century-old Social Justice Movement, and the sustained struggle by the teacher, student and parent organisations,” said Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary, State Platform for the Common School System, who led the protest. “The struggle is beyond getting an assent for a Bill,” Babu said. “The struggle is to save the Constitution of India with federal character and parliamentary democracy as its basic structure.”The Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021 was passed by the DMK-led state government in the state assembly last September to restore Tamil Nadu’s process of medical admissions by considering only Class 12 marks before the Supreme Court made NEET compulsory in 2017. When the organisation filed an RTI application on the status of the Bill, the governor’s office responded last December that “The file is under consideration”. “Is it not the responsibility of the governor to reveal to the people what he is considering on the subject in which he cannot take any decision?” Babu asked. “The silence of the governor is very disturbing.”The state has also been building pressure on the governor over the issue. Despite the differences, chief minister M K Stalin and senior ministers and bureaucrats accompanied Ravi to pay their respects on Mahatma Gandhi’s death anniversary.Only a day ago, the ruling DMK’s party organ, Murasoli, published a column criticising Ravi saying that ‘this is Tamil Nadu and not Nagaland’ for his views on the state’s two-language policy and NEET. The column pointed out that though there are multiple views on myriad issues, the state stood together to continue its two-language policy and abolish NEET. “The governor should understand it and get consent for the unanimous opinion of the state by properly informing the union government,” the column said, adding that there cannot be a “big brother” attitude. Ravi, who was Nagaland’s interlocutor, was transferred to Tamil Nadu last September and the Congress in the state had questioned then if he would act in the interest of the state or the BJP-led Centre.On the eve of Republic Day, Ravi in a statement stressed that it is unfair to deprive students in Tamil Nadu of knowledge of other Indian languages. “Besides fostering brotherliness and better mutual appreciation, a linguistic intellectual and cultural cross-pollination will enrich all of us and also open several opportunities for our harmonious growth,” the Governor had said. Ravi also spoke in support of NEET saying that before its introduction, the share of students from government schools to government medical colleges was hardly 1%.Meanwhile, the protests are seeking a response from the governor on the NEET Bill by the end of the day failing which Babu says he will individually go on a Satyagraha until a favourable response is received arguing that NEET adversely impacts medical aspirants from rural and poor backgrounds.
31-01-2022||India||Two years on, Kerala battles high Covid caseload||India’s first Covid-19 case -- a China-returned medical student from Thrissur -- was detected in Kerala exactly two years ago on January 30, 2020, but even after two years, the state is still grappling with high virus caseload. In the midst of a third wave, it remains the highest contributor for almost a month and in death rate it is second to Maharashtra. With just 2.8 per cent of India’s population, it reported 14.3 per cent of total cases and 10.6 per cent of deaths, showing the intensity of the pandemic in the state. Once lauded for its Covid control measures, Kerala later turned a pandemic hub and big disparity in death rate puts holes in its tall claims. Among 53,000-odd Covid deaths, more than 20,000 were added from the unaccounted list and 15,000 are still pending to be declared Covid-deaths, statistics show. The state now finds refuge in the union health ministry guidelines to justify the huge disparity. But there is some silver lining also -- a comparison with second and third waves shows ICU and ventilator use dropped by 80 per cent. Experts say though new variant Omicron spreads fast, its severity is much reduced. They attribute it to improved immunity through vaccination, immunity through infection and booster doses to people with co-morbidity. In Kelala, 100 per cent got first dose of vaccine and more than 85 per cent got both jabs. State health minister Veena George said the state is witnessing peak of third wave and cases will flatten in three weeks. “In the first week of January infection rate was 45 per cent, 148 per cent in second week and in third week it rose to 215 per cent. Now infection rate is about 58 per cent,” she said, adding in three weeks cases will come down drastically. She said effective intervention helped contain death rate to an extent and high-power committee on pandemic will meet on Monday to review the situation. But opposition Congress criticised the government, saying other than lengthy statements nothing is happening on the ground. “The government is telling infected not to go to hospitals and many are suffering in their homes. The state is headless now as the CM is in the UAE. He should cut short his visit and rush to the state in view of high caseload,” said senior leader Ramesh Chennithala. Experts said it is too early to lower guard. “We are in the midst of pandemic and our main thrust should be curtailing infection and saving lives. Nobody has any idea when the pandemic will turn endemic. The need of the hour is to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said public health expert Dr Padmanabha Shenoy. “Omicron variant is less severe because it doesn’t affect lungs and cause pneumonia. And it spreads at a time when people have built a strong immunity,” said internal medicine expert Dr N M Arun adding despite it is hyper-mutant and hyper transmissible it seems less severe. But what worries health experts is that in the state with high population density (859 people per sq km) and a large number of elderly population (at least 15% are above 60 years of age), Covid after-effects will be alarming. A study conducted by CADI (Coronary Artery Disease among Indian Asians) showed that Kerala’s diabetes prevalence is 20% against the national average of 8%. Prevalence of high blood pressure is 30-36 per cent in the state compared to 21-30 per cent nationally, shows the study. 
31-01-2022||India||India fighting Covid-19 third wave with great success: PM||New Delhi: India is fighting the pandemic’s third wave with “great success,” with around 4.5 crore children receiving their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine and one crore people being administered a third precautionary dose within a few weeks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his monthly radio broadcast on Sunday.“India is fighting with great success the new wave of corona. It is also a matter of pride that till now about four and a half crore children have been administered the (first) dose of corona vaccine,” the Prime Minister said. “This means that about 60% of youth in the age group of 15 to 18 years have got their vaccines within three to four weeks. This will not only protect our youth but will also help them to continue with their studies.”“Another good thing is that within 20 days, one crore people have taken the precautionary dose as well. This trust of our countrymen on the indigenous vaccine is our great strength,” Modi said in the 85th episode of his Mann ki Baat programme.The decline in the rate of increase in fresh Covid-19 cases is a “very positive sign,” he said. “People should be safe, the pace of economic activities of the country should be maintained — this is the wish of every countryman.”The Prime Minister spoke about the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi observed on January 30, and said the day reminds everyone about the teachings of the Father of the Nation. He also referred to the installation of a digital statue of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose at India Gate.He also talked about the merging of the Amar Jawan Jyoti at India Gate and the flame at the nearby National War Memorial. “There were tears in the eyes of many countrymen and martyr families on this emotional occasion,” he said. Modi urged people to visit the memorial with their families whenever they get an opportunity.Modi also talked about the “unsung heroes who have done extraordinary deeds in ordinary circumstances” who received the prestigious Padma awards this year. He asked countrymen to discuss the recipients of the Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Baal Puraskar at their homes.“These awards are given to the children who have rendered courageous and inspirational work at a young age. We all must highlight about these children in our homes. Our children will also get inspiration from this and the enthusiasm to bring glory to the country will be awakened in them,” he said.The Prime Minister said that more than one crore children have sent him their ‘mann ki baat’ not just from across the country but also from abroad as a part of the ongoing Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsava celebration on the occasion of India’s 75th year of Independence.While discussing a postcard from a girl named Navya from Uttar Pradesh, who had said she wants to see an India free of corruption by 2047, Modi said that corruption is like a “termite” that makes the country hollow.“Why wait for 2047 to get rid of it? All of us countrymen, today’s youth have to do this work together, as soon as possible, and for this it is very important that we give priority to our duties. Where duty is felt, duty is paramount, corruption cannot even think of entering there,” the Prime Minister said.Modi also discussed the role of leaders including Madan Mohan Malviya, Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel and Rabindranath Tagore in the field of education.Modi also mentioned the recently deceased tigress known as Collarwali, who died at the Pench Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh earlier this month after birthing 29 cubs. He mentioned Virat, who made his 13th and final appearance at the Republic Day parade as the horse of the commandant of the elite President’s Bodyguard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-fighting-covid-19-third-wave-with-great-success-pm-101643569043878.html
31-01-2022||India||Tamil Nadu girl’s suicide: Stalin hits out at BJP, asks DMK cadre to fight ‘sectarian’ politics||Amidst BJP’s allegations that the 17-year-old girl died by suicide in Thanjavur due to religious conversion -- an issue under investigation which has hogged centre stage in the state for the past 10 days –chief minister M K Stalin told DMK cadre on Sunday to expose that the BJP is inciting communal tensions. This is the first time Stalin who is also the president of the DMK party broke his silence on the issue without mentioning it. In his letter to the DMK cadre, Stalin told them to remind people about Tamil Nadu’s unique quality of not allowing sectarian politics. “BJP is showing an urgency to sow the seeds of religious hatred and to incite riots among Tamil Nadu’s people who are living peacefully and harmoniously. Expose their politics,” Stalin said. He said that the AIADMK’s 10-year-rule was filled with struggle and accused the principal opposition party of spreading lies on a daily basis. “Tell people that the two parties are against the interests of the people and have formed an alliance to destroy Tamil Nadu.”Stalin’s letter to the DMK cadre was to encourage them to continue their winning streak in the local body elections to be held on February 19. After winning the assembly elections and forming the government in May, the DMK also swept the rural body polls in nine newly carved districts in Tamil Nadu. The February 19 polls will be a referendum on the Stalin-led 8-month old government. “The activities of the DMK government are based on the ‘Dravidian Model’ of social justice, self-respect, caste-based religious harmony and integrated development. This will be a testament to us in the urban local body elections,” Stalin said. Meanwhile, BJP leaders in Tamil Nadu led by state president K Annamali visited the deceased child’s family in Ariyalur district on Sunday. She was studying in Class 12 in a Christian residential school in Thanjavur. Following the visit, Annamalai spoke to reporters in Ariyalur blaming the DMK-led government and the intelligence department. He also clarified that the BJP is not against any religion. “We are asking for justice only against individuals belonging to a particular community who had done wrong. That’s all.” Annamalai reacted to Stalin’s statement saying that it was the DMK which played politics when a Dalit student S Anitha died by suicide after failing in NEET in 2017. He said that DMK’s ministers and the investigating police were making irresponsible statements while the case is also in the Madurai bench of the Madras high court and reiterated their demand for a CBI probe. “BJP is fighting for justice for this child’s justice based on her video, statements from her parents and villagers. If this issue has become a national-issue now it is due to the incompetence of the intelligence department,” Annamalai, a former IPS officer of the Karnataka cadre, said. “According to me, a big charge is that if they even gave a true briefing to the chief minister.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-girl-s-suicide-stalin-hits-out-at-bjp-asks-dmk-cadre-to-fight-sectarian-politics-101643568983881.html
31-01-2022||India||Defeat BJP’s communal politics in civic polls: Stalin to DMK cadre||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Sunday urged Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) workers to ensure their winning streak was kept up in the local body elections, to be held on February 19. He also hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party saying the party was trying to incite communal tension in the state.Stalin’s letter to the party cadre comes amid the ongoing controversy over a 17-year-old girl who died by suicide in Thanjavur allegedly due to religious conversion – an issue under investigation.Also Read | Tamil Nadu girl suicide: BJP seeks CBI probe, Madurai Archbishop denies religious conversionIn his letter, Stalin told the workers to remind people about Tamil Nadu’s unique quality of not allowing sectarian politics. “BJP is showing an urgency to sow the seeds of religious hatred and to incite riots among Tamil Nadu’s people who are living peacefully and harmoniously. Expose their politics,” he wrote.The DMK chief asked cadres to work with gusto for the urban local body polls by reaching out to the people on the party-led government’s good governance, achievements and welfare initiatives despite financial burden faced by the state government.The urban civic polls for 12,838 posts in corporations, municipalities and town panchayats are scheduled to be held on February 19 in a single phase. The counting of votes would be taken up on February 22.He said that the AIADMK’s ten-year-rule was filled with struggle and accused the principal opposition party of spreading lies each day. “Tell people that the two parties (BJP and AIADMK) are against the interests of the people and have formed an alliance to destroy Tamil Nadu.”After winning the assembly elections and forming the government in May, the DMK also swept the rural body polls in nine newly carved districts in Tamil Nadu. The February 19 polls will be a referendum on the Stalin-led 8-month old government. “The activities of the DMK government are based on the ‘Dravidian Model’ of social justice, self-respect, caste-based religious harmony and integrated development. This will be a testament to us in the urban local body elections,” Stalin said in his letter.Meanwhile, BJP leaders in Tamil Nadu led by state president K Annamalai visited the deceased child’s family in Ariyalur district on Sunday. She was studying in class 12 in a Christian residential school in Thanjavur. Following the visit Annamalai spoke to reporters in Ariyalur blaming the DMK-led government and the intelligence department. “We are asking for justice only against individuals belonging to a particular community who had done wrong. That’s all.” Annamalai said. He hit out at Stalin’s statement saying that it was the DMK which indulged in politics when a Dalit student died by suicide after failing the NEET in 2017.He said that DMK’s ministers and the investigating police were making irresponsible statements while the Thanjavur case is in the Madurai bench of the Madras high court and reiterated their demand for a CBI probe. “BJP is fighting for justice for this child’s justice based on her video, statements from her parents and villagers. If this issue has become a national-issue now it is due to the incompetence of the intelligence department,” Annamalai a former IPS officer of the Karnataka cadre said. “According to me, a big charge is that if they even gave a true briefing to the chief minister.”(With PTI inputs)
31-01-2022||India||Fresh plea urges SC to take note of NYT report on Pegasus||A fresh plea has been filed in the Supreme Court, urging it to take note of a New York Times report on the alleged procurement of Israeli spyware Pegasus by the Union government in 2017.The application by advocate ML Sharma has requested the court to order a probe into the 2017 defence deal with Israel.Also Read | Best time to ask Israel for advanced Pegasus software: Chidambaram in dig at ModiThe New York Times report said India bought Pegasus spyware as part of a $2 billion defence deal with Israel in 2017. The media report sparked off a political controversy, with the opposition alleging that the government indulged in illegal snooping that amounted to “treason”.Also Read | Pegasus inquiry: Take note of the NYT reportIn his plea, Sharma said the 2017 deal was not approved by Parliament and, therefore, needs to be cancelled and money be recovered.He urged the top court to issue suitable directions for registering a criminal case and to investigate the impugned Pegasus spyware purchase deal and alleged misuse of public funds in the interest of justice. Sharma’s plea is still to get a date of hearing.Sharma is one of the petitioners in the batch of petitions on the Pegasus row, in which the court had in October 2021 set up a three-member expert committee, to be supervised by a retired judge of the court, RV Raveendran.The bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, had asked the panel to investigate whether the Centre or any state government acquired and used Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of Indian citizens, and to also ascertain details of people targeted.In its order passed on October 27, the court held the Union government cannot get “a free pass every time” by raising the spectre of “national security” when the issues concern the “potential chilling effect” on right to privacy and freedom of speech. It referred to the lack of a “specific denial” by the government and also its reluctance to file a detailed affidavit.The court-appointed panel is yet to submit its report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-plea-urges-sc-to-take-note-of-nyt-report-on-pegasus-101643568203836.html
31-01-2022||India||Jaish commander among five terrorists killed in Kashmir||Security forces shot dead a top Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) commander along with four other terrorists in two separate encounters in Jammu and Kashmir, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday.The gunfights between the terrorists and joint teams of police, Indian Army, and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) broke out in the Valley’s Pulwama and Budgam districts on Saturday evening, Kashmir’s inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said.“The encounters resulted in the elimination of five terrorists linked to proscribed terror outfits JeM and the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The killed terrorists include a top JeM commander, Zahid Wani, and a foreign Pakistani terrorist Kafeel Bhai alias Chotu. The elimination of the most wanted terrorists is a big success for us,” he said.
31-01-2022||India||Nadal comes from 2 sets down to make history with 21st Slam||Rafael Nadal at the Australian Open has been more a tale of heartbreak. On Sunday, it turned into history.The Spaniard wrapped his hands around a 21st Grand Slam title, a feat that puts him in sole position in the list of most Major titles won by a men’s singles tennis player and — statistically, at least — in pole position in the ever-evolving GOAT (greatest of all time) narrative around the sport.Nadal was tied with world No. 1 Novak Djokovic and Swiss legend Roger Federer at 20 Majors as the Big Three of men’s tennis constantly pushed each other to greater heights and jaw-dropping numbers. Nadal has gone one up after beating Russian world No. 2 Daniil Medvedev 2-6, 6-7(5), 6-4, 6-4, 7-5 in a pulsating, momentum-swinging final at Rod Laver Arena that lasted five hours and 24 minutes.“It was one of the most emotional matches in my tennis career,” Nadal said in his on-court interview.The spectacular, come-from-behind triumph made the 35-year-old the third-oldest man in the Open Era to win a Grand Slam title after Ken Rosewall and Federer. It also meant Nadal became only the second man in the Open era to win all the four Grand Slams at least twice. The first? Djokovic, who was primed to get to the magical 21 before the other two exclusive Big Three club members after racing from 18 to 20 in the first three Grand Slams of 2021. Nadal spent half of the year sidelined with a troublesome foot injury even as Federer, 40, underwent another knee surgery.Incidentally, Federer was the first to have a shot at 21 when he reached the Wimbledon final in 2019, losing in a final-set tiebreaker after having two match points against Djokovic. It was the Serb’s turn to have a go next when, on the back of a breathless run of victories last year, he reached the US Open final only to be stopped in his tracks by Medvedev.No such heartbreak for Nadal, who has broken away in his very first crack at the record after going a year-and-a-half without Slam success; his last Major title was the 2020 French Open.It is as surprising as it is remarkable. Nadal came into the 2022 season having not played any competitive tennis in six months and recovering from Covid-19 last month. You couldn’t tell with the way he extracted every ounce from his physical reserves against an opponent 10 years younger to him staring at a two-set deficit in the final. Nadal has, in the past, been more on the wrong side of such duels at Melbourne Park. After his maiden triumph Down Under 13 years ago beating Federer in 2009, Nadal lost four Australian Open finals, twice in five sets to Djokovic (2012) and Federer (2017) and in straight sets to the former in his previous attempt three years ago.In Djokovic’s fort — the Serb has won the Australian Open title a record nine times — and in his least happy hunting Slam, the man from Mallorca has snatched the record away. Djokovic, flying down to Melbourne earlier this month flaunting the favourite’s tag but without a vaccination certificate, was subsequently sent back after the ugly public deportation drama hogged the limelight in the lead-up to the Australian Open.Meanwhile, Nadal was there, hovering around, downplaying his own expectations but getting back to his optimum level one step at a time. He has now taken a giant leap in the GOAT conversation with the No. 21 in the bag. Up next: the French Open, where the No. 22 looks closer than ever before for the champion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nadal-comes-from-2-sets-down-to-make-history-with-21st-slam-101643567963186.html
31-01-2022||India||BA.2 likely drove 3rd wave in some states||Did the even faster-spreading Omicron variant offshoot BA.2 drive India’s third Covid-19 wave? Data from the global genome sequence repository GISAID seems to suggest so, at least for several states from where genotyping data has been more consistently shared.BA.2 is one of the offshoots of the Omicron variant and has recently been seen displacing its predecessor, the BA.1. The Omicron variant’s earliest lineages B.1.1.529 and BA.1 itself have been significantly more transmissible, having displaced the Delta variant from most parts of the world.For a sub-lineage to spread even faster, the BA.2 is now a variant under investigation.The new evidence on BA.2The first real-world analysis of infection trends split by BA.2 and the other Omicron lineages offers several insights. These findings are based on the latest variant technical briefing by the UK Health Security Agency released over the weekend.First, they corroborate that the BA.2 indeed spreads faster than BA.1 based on two metrics: sequencing data from across England and estimates of secondary infection rates within households. “Whilst growth rates can be overestimates early in the emergence of a variant, the apparent growth advantage is currently substantial,” the report said.The secondary attack rate for BA.2 was 13.4%, compared to 10.3% in the case of BA.1. This gives BA.2 a crude 30% transmission advantage over BA.1, which itself is estimated to be 50% more transmissible than the Delta variant.Second, they find that there is no difference in how resistant BA.2 may or may not be as compared to BA.1, which means vaccines are likely to be equally protective with the newer offshoot. It also cited an unpublished University of Oxford report that found antibodies from vaccinated people neutralised BA.2 and BA.1 to similar degrees.All in all, it appears the BA.2 offshoot does not seem to be more resistant. In case of infection severity, the UKHSA report adds that there is insufficient data to make an assessment just yet.BA.2 in IndiaAccording to genome sequencing data submitted by Indian labs to the GISAID database, more than half of the cases in the last month may be of BA.2, according to an analysis on outbreak.info.This is relevant because nationwide, cases began to spike distinctly from early January.In fact, a more detailed analysis of India data on GISAID by Texas-based molecular biologist Bijaya Dhakal suggests infections in several states has been dominated by BA.2.Among the key states where the trend is clear are Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Gujarat.In Uttar Pradesh, a state which goes to elections and where large scale political rallies were held till January 8, the BA.2 became the most dominant variant to be sampled in the first week of the month itself. The state, like many others, has submitted a low number of samples, the data shared by Dhakal in a Twitter thread on Sunday showed, but the trend appeared to be distinct from January 2.Similar findings for Karnataka, where BA.2 has likely replaced Delta, BA.1/BA.1.1, the molecular biologist addedIn Delhi, the BA.1 and BA.1.1 switch to BA.2 appears to have happened at end of December itself, the latest date for which sample details were available. Union and Delhi government officials have separately corroborated this, saying that they had found BA.2 to have increased in proportion.One of the most updated sequencing data is from Gujarat, where too BA.2 became dominant from at least the second week of January, the GISAID data showed.But in Maharashtra, there “is almost a hodgepodge of all three important variants: Delta, Omicron BA.1/BA.1.1 and Omicron BA.2”, Dhakal wrote.Genome sequencing data is subject to some bias because there are not always representative of community spread. But if a variant starts to be detected in an increasing frequency consistently, it is safe to assume it is becoming predominant.In this context, India will likely answer the most significant question regarding BA.2: the offshoot is likely no more virulent (that is, causing more severe disease) than other Omicron lineages. Even though there has been a spike in many parts of the country, death and hospitalisation rates have remained low, consistent with the experience of South Africa and UK.But the GISAID data also highlights significant genome surveillance blindspots, which could hamper India’s outbreak monitoring. For instance, Bihar the third most populated state, has submitted only one sequence to the database since September last year.
31-01-2022||India||75% of all adults fully vaccinated against Covid-19||More than 75% of India’s adult population has been fully vaccinated against Covid-19, the Union health ministry said on Sunday, as the country continues to expand its immunisation coverage in the face of growing challenges posed by the pandemic the world over.
31-01-2022||India||Common thread between GitHub, Clubhouse case accused unraveled||Investigations by the Delhi and Mumbai police in the cases of two offensive GitHub apps that used doctored photos of Muslim women and then sought to auction them (the women) off, and the third involving a derogatory group chat on Clubhouse has shown that in each case, the suspects knew each other virtually, and that the masterminds behind the two offensive GitHub apps also knew each other. Police said that while many of them knew each other only by the names on their social media profiles, they trusted them enough to share passwords.Also Read | Github case: An act to disturb harmony, says courtThe two police forces have arrested 8 people from Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Assam, Haryana, and Madhya Pradesh, and at least six others from Bihar, Delhi and other parts of the country have joined the investigation (the police are still probing the extent of their involvement) role. To be sure, the Mumbai and Delhi police are conducting separate investigations. HT spoke to police officers directly involved in the investigations who explained the connection between the people involved.The Clubhouse caseClubhouse is a social audio app with at least two million active users in India. On January 18, Delhi police filed an FIR after a portion of a chat on Clubhouse was shared on social media where the participants were heard making derogatory comments about Muslim women. The following day, the Mumbai police too filed an FIR. On January 21, the Mumbai police arrested Akash Suyal(19), a third-year student from Karnal, Haryana. Police said Suyal was one of the participants of the offensive chat group, with the ID Kira xd. Other participants too joined the chat with made-up names such as Bismillah(in the name of God), Sallos, Aanchal, and K. The investigation has now revealed that Akash Suyal knew Naumaan Jabber, a resident of Jodhpur. Jabber, who was questioned by Delhi police in the same case, revealed that he knew Suyal virtually and, on January 6 created an account @vercase_on_me as a back-up account to his main handle @mr_casanova .“Jabber shared the account details of @vercase_on_me with Suyal. Suyal later changed it to Kira xd. The two knew each other on Clubhouse and trusted each other with the passwords. These misguided young people all believe that they have the same purpose on social media....,” said DCP KPS Malhotra, chief of the Delhi police’s Intelligent Fusion Strategic Operations unit.Akash Suyal was friends with two other suspects. “Suyal was known to Rahul Kapoor, who created the audio chat room. Kapoor has joined the investigation with Delhi police and we have already recorded his statement. Kapoor, a resident of Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, also confirmed that he created the chat room on the instruction of a person with the username Sallos. He knew Sallos virtually, but did not know that behind the ID was a 17-year-old class 12 student. Sallos claimed to be a management student. Sallos, Suyal and Kapoor were all connected virtually. Kapoor even handed the moderator keys of the audio group to Sallos. Such was the trust between them,” said a police officer who asked not to be named.Delhi police are yet to make any arrests in the Clubhouse case because DCP Malhotra said police are trying to build a “water-tight case” against the suspects. “We will approach the court and get permission to record voice samples. The whole Clubhouse case is based on a video in which the suspects are heard making derogatory comments. This case is different than the GitHub cases. The voices of the shared clip have to match with these suspects for the case to stand in court,” said DCP Malhotra.Bulli Bai and Sulli DealsThe controversial chat on Clubhouse is the third such case in the last 8 months in which Muslim women were targeted on social media platforms. The first was the Sulli Deals app on GitHub in July and the second one was Bulli Bai app . Both featured doctored photographs of Muslim women along with offensive and derogatory comments. Similar to the Clubhouse investigation, both the Delhi and Mumbai police have filed separate cases.The Mumbai police arrested three suspects in the Bulli Bai case, while the Delhi police arrested one suspect each in the Bulli Bai and the Sulli Deals case. Neeraj Bishnoi (21), a second year B Tech student was arrested in the first case from Jorhat, Assam. Aumkareshwar Thakur (26), a freelance web designer was arrested in the Sulli Deals case from Indore. The two are believed to be the creators of the two apps.The three suspects Mumbai police arrested in the case are Sweta Singh (18), her friend Mayank Rawat (20), both residents of Uttarakhand, and Vishal Kumar Jha (21), an engineering student from Bengaluru. The Mumbai police have said that the three were promoting the Bulli Bai app created by Bishnoi .Sometime in the third week of November, while in Jaipur, where he had gone to attend a wedding in the family, Bishnoi built the Bulli Bai app on GitHub. It took him about three days to come up with the app, according to the investigators. About a month later, after he returned home to Jorhat, Assam, he updated the app. “He needed to promote the app on social media. The first twitter account he used to promote the app was that of his social media friend, Sweta Singh(arrested by Mumbai police). The two were friends for more than a year and met on Twitter. Singh gave Bishnoi access to her account, “She gave the password to Bishnoi. Bishnoi told her he was a citizen of Nepal. They also spoke for hours. He claimed he even consoled her when her father died of Covid-19. Her mother had died of cancer,” said a second investigator who asked not to be named.In his disclosure statement before the police that was submitted in court, Bishnoi has mentioned that he came in contact with the three through “random conversations on Hindu religion/community.”Had Bishnoi not mentioned the involvement of his Twitter friend in the Sulli Deals case, that may never have been solved. After the app generated outrage in July last year, its creator went to the ground. It was only thanks to Bishnoi that the Delhi Police arrested Aumkareshwar Thakur(26), a freelance web designer. ”When Bishnoi was arrested and we started questioning him, he told us about his twitter friend Thakur, who was the creator of Sulli Deals,” DCP Malhotra said.Bishnoi and Thakur too were friends only on social media but came together virtually to build the offensive apps. Police have said that the two were part of Twitter group, Tradmahasabha, where, in January 2020, a plan to defame Muslim women was hatched. Thakur joined the group using one of his handles @gangescion. Bishnoi too was in the group . Bishnoi copied the codes of the Thakur’s Github app to build his own version of the app and called it Bulli deals.On January 9, when Thakur was brought to the ISFO headquarters in Delhi, after being arrested in Indore, it was the first time that he met Bishnoi in person.
