08-02-2021||New Delhi||HC stays direction to maintain status quo on Future-Reliance deal||The Delhi High Court on Monday stayed its single judge direction to Future Retail Ltd (FRL) and various statutory authorities to maintain status quo with regard to the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail.A Bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh passed the interim direction on FRL’s appeal challenging the February 2 order of the single judge.The Bench also declined Amazon’s request to keep its order in abeyance for a week so that it can explore appropriate remedies.The court while staying the February 2 order said that statutory authorities, like National Company Law Tribunal, CCI and SEBI, cannot be restrained from proceeding in accordance with law with regard to the deal.The court also issued notice to Amazon and sought its stand on FRL’s appeal by February 26 when it will commence day-to-day hearing of the matter.The February 2 order had come on Amazon’s suit seeking enforcement of the Emergency Arbitrator (EA) order restraining FRL from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail.The October 25, 2020 EA order by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) had restrained FRL from going ahead with the deal with Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Retail. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/hc-stays-direction-to-maintain-status-quo-on-future-reliance-deal-209632
08-02-2021||New Delhi||Voda tax case: India files application in Singapore HC against arbitration panel verdict||India has challenged in the Singapore High Court an international arbitration tribunal’s verdict that overturned its demand for Rs 22,100 crore in back taxes from Vodafone Group Plc, and the order passed in Cairn Group’s case is under consideration of the government, Parliament was informed on Monday.An international arbitration court had in September last year rejected tax authorities’ demand for Rs 22,100 crore in back taxes and penalties relating to British telecom giant Vodafone’s 2007 acquisition of an Indian operator.The demand pertained to Vodafone’s USD 11-billion acquisition of 67 per cent stake in the mobile phone business owned by Hutchison Whampoa.In December last year, an arbitration tribunal in Hague unanimously overturned a Rs 10,247 crore retrospective tax demand on British oil and gas company Cairn Energy Plc and asked the government to return shares it sold, dividend it seized and tax refunds it stopped to enforce the tax.Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said the arbitration tribunal constituted under the agreement between UK and India for Promotion and Protection of Investments And the Arbitration Rules of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) has ruled in favour of Cairn group (Cairn Energy Plc and Cairn UK Holdings Limited) vide its order dated December 21, 2020.“An application has been filed in the High Court of Singapore to set aside the award dated 25.09.2020 in the case of Vodafone International Holdings BV. In the case of Cairn group the matter is under consideration of the government,” Thakur said in the Lok Sabha.To a question on whether the total retrospective tax has to be paid by the government to these companies, Thakur said, “The details terms of the award are under examination by the Government.”The government had used a 2012 law that gave tax authorities the power to reopen past cases, to seek taxes from Vodafone and Cairn over alleged capital gains made. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/voda-tax-case-india-files-application-in-singapore-hc-against-arbitration-panel-verdict-209629
08-02-2021||New Delhi||Gold gains Rs 94; silver jumps Rs 340||Gold prices on Monday gained Rs 94 to Rs 46,877 per 10 gram, supported by recovery in international prices, according to HDFC Securities.In the previous trade, the precious metal had closed at Rs 46,783 per 10 gram.Silver also jumped Rs 340 to Rs 68,391 per kg, from Rs 68,051 per kg in the previous trade.In the international market, both gold and silver were trading with gains at USD 1,815 per ounce and at USD 27.16 per ounce.HDFC Securities Senior Analyst (Commodities) Tapan Patel said, “Gold prices traded up from support levels on disappointing US payroll data and stimulus hopes”.        Motilal Oswal Financial Services Vice-President (Commodities Research) Navneet Damani said, “Gold prices edged higher on as weaker-than-expected US jobs data re-ignited concerns over a recovery in the world’s largest economy, pressuring the dollar and boosting bullion’s appeal.” — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/gold-gains-rs-94-silver-jumps-rs-340-209609
08-02-2021||San Francisco||TikTok takes on Facebook with US e-commerce push: Report||Chinese short-video making app Tiktok is reportedly planning an expansion into e-commerce in the US, where it will go head-to-head with Silicon Valley giant Facebook.The company has briefed advertisers on a number of new features for 2021, according to several people who have seen its plans, such as a tool that lets its most popular users share links to products and automatically earn commission on any sales.“It’s old-school affiliate marketing,” one senior advertising executive said, adding that video makers would be able to link to any products they liked, even if they were not formally sponsored by the brand, the Financial Times reported on late Sunday.TikTok, which is owned by China’s ByteDance, is also aiming to roll out the ability for brands to showcase catalogues of their products on the platform, the report said.The app is also said to be rolling out “livestreamed” shopping, a mobile phone version of television shopping channels, where users can buy goods with a few taps after seeing them showcased by TikTok stars.This follows testing of the live shopping feature with Walmart announced late last year.The tools will bring TikTok, which has already announced a partnership with e-commerce platform Shopify, further into competition with Facebook.Last year, Facebook introduced tools on its photo-sharing app Instagram in some countries to make it easier for people to buy goods, and a digital shopping channel on its main Facebook site.Instagram has, meanwhile, made a copy of TikTok’s scrollable video feed called Reels. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/tiktok-takes-on-facebook-with-us-e-commerce-push-report-209600
08-02-2021||Mumbai||Sensex, Nifty track global trend, touch lifetime highs||Indian bourses Sensex and Nifty tracked a global trend to touched lifetime highs on Monday. Bombay Stock Exchange's 30-share Sensex rallied 617.14 points on Monday to touch a new high of 51,348.77. Likewise, National Stock Exchange's Nifty soared 191.55 points to 15,115.80, also a new record.Ealy trade show index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and M&M tracking strong gains.In the previous session, Sensex ended 117.34 points or 0.23 per cent higher at its fresh closing record of 50,731.63, and Nifty closed at its all-time high of 14,924.25, up 28.60 points or 0.19 per cent.Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 1,461.71 crore on Friday, as per exchange data.According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities continue to look good at the moment.“High CAPEX and bold reforms announced in the Union Budget emboldened investors. It indicates that recent uptick in high-frequency key economic data and rebound in corporate earnings is likely to sustain in subsequent quarters.“Additionally, RBI supporting the pro-growth strategy of government by maintaining liquidity at required levels and balancing bond yields bodes well,” he said.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with significant gains.Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.55 per cent higher at USD 59.89 per barrel. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/sensex-nifty-track-global-trend-touch-lifetime-highs-209547
08-02-2021||Seoul||Hyundai, Kia shares dive as automakers puncture investor dream of Apple car tie-up||South Korea’s Hyundai Motor Co said on Monday it was not now in talks with Apple Inc on autonomous electric cars, just a month after it confirmed early-stage talks with the tech giant, sending the automaker’s shares skidding.Wiping $2.1 billion off its market value, Hyundai’s stock slumped 4.2 per cent by 0330 GMT. Shares in its affiliate Kia Corp, which had been tipped in local media reports as the likely operational partner for Apple, tumbled 12 per cent — a $4.3 billion hit.The announcement brings the curtain down on weeks of internal divisions within Hyundai Motor Co Group — parent to both automakers — about the potential tie-up, with some executives raising concerns about becoming a contract manufacturer for the US tech giant.“We are receiving requests for cooperation in joint development of autonomous electric vehicles from various companies, but they are at early stage and nothing has been decided,” the automakers said on Monday, in compliance with stock market rules requiring regular updates to investors regarding market rumours.“We are not having talks with Apple on developing autonomous vehicles,” the automakers added.Kia shares had jumped 61 per cent after Hyundai appeared to confirm a local media report early in January that Apple and Hyundai were in discussions to develop self-driving electric vehicles by 2027 and develop batteries at the US factories operated by either Hyundai or Kia.“Apple and Hyundai are in discussion but as it is at early stage, nothing has been decided,” Hyundai said, before releasing subsequent statements that removed all mentions of Apple but said Hyundai was receiving electric car cooperation requests from parties it didn’t identify.Reuters reported in December that Apple was moving forward with autonomous car technology and aimed to produce a passenger vehicle that could include its own breakthrough battery technology as early as 2024.Apple, known to keep product plans under tight wraps, has never acknowledged talks with the automaker about building vehicles and wasn’t immediately available for comment outside business hours in the United States.Analysts said talks might have collapsed over leaks of the partnership plan to media, or over possible insistence by Apple that Hyundai’s role in any tie-up would be that of an equipment manufacturer, rather than a strategic partner.“With numerous news reports over discussions between the two companies, which should have been held to non-disclosure agreements, it would have been uncomfortable” said Kwon Soon-woo, an analyst at SK Securities.Kevin Yoo, an analyst at eBEST Investment & Securities, said: “It seems clear that Hyundai Motor Group has not been too happy with dealing with Apple...They made it clear that they do not want to be treated just as Apple’s supplier or manufacturer.” Reuters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/hyundai-kia-shares-dive-as-automakers-puncture-investor-dream-of-apple-car-tie-up-209546
08-02-2021||Mumbai||FM rejects Opposition charge of ‘selling family silver’; says govt wants some PSUs to do well||Rejecting the Opposition’s charge of ‘selling family silver’, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said the government has devised a clear strategy on divestment for the first time so that taxpayers’ money is spent wisely.She also said the government wants few public sector enterprises in specified sectors to do well, so that we can ensure that tax payer money is spent wisely.“It is not what the Opposition says about selling family silver, it’s not at all,” she said addressing a meeting of business people here.The finance minister added, “Family silver should be strengthened, it should be our takat (strength)... Because you’ve spread it so thinly, there are many of them (PSUs) that are not able to survive; and the few that can perform do not get the due attention.”                  She also said the government’s aim is to prime them through this policy. “You need them, you need them to scale up so that they meet the aspirations of growing India.”              At the same event, Hindustan Unilever Chairman and Managing Director Sanjiv Mehta said the Budget 2021 is India’s version of the “new deal” by focusing on relief, recovery and reform, and represents a “confident and unapologetic India”.Efforts have been undertaken to address the trust deficit between business and the government through steps like limiting tax assessments, and the enterprises have to now respond by complying.BSE Chief Executive Officer Ashishkumar Chauhan said the only parallel for the Budget is with the 1991 reforms document presented by then finance minister Manmohan Singh.He also underlined the newest proposals as significant because they are not being undertaken under any duress. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/fm-rejects-opposition-charge-of-selling-family-silver-says-govt-wants-some-psus-to-do-well-209156
08-02-2021||Renu Sud Sinha||The resolute businesswomen of Ludhiana||Rajni Bector was a BA second-year student at Miranda House in New Delhi when she got married in 1957 into a prominent Ludhiana business family. She was yet to turn 18. Born in Karachi in a family of bureaucrats, her role in her new family was well defined — she had no role. Like her mother-in-law, what she was expected to do was to join the ranks of a well-rounded support system. To keep herself busy, she started taking cookery classes, an activity she excelled in and enjoyed. Her mother-in-law could not wrap her head around why a ‘rich Ludhiana wife’ would want to work, so the young daughter-in-law did not touch a rupee of what she earned; all went to charity. Appreciation of her culinary and management skills inspired confidence, and her husband in particular saw business potential in her ‘part-time indulgence’. She had found her role. Today, she is a role model.Founder and chairman of Mrs Bector’s Food Specialities Limited, the Padma Shri bestowed on her this year for contribution to trade and industry comes on the heels of a bumper IPO showing — oversubscribed 198 times; a nearly Rs800-crore empire that started as a backyard business.Mridula Jain, Sandeep (Minnie) Riat, Meenakshi Jasuja, Ruby Marjara and scores of other women entrepreneurs in the city may draw inspiration from the matriarch of Ludhiana Inc, but their stories are no less inspiring, no less revealing of the fact that inheritance or family name counts only if you succeed. And each success story has its own failures and setbacks. For a woman, the odds simply multiply, but through it all, a common thread is the unstinted support of the immediate family — the husbands, the sons and daughters, the siblings, the parents.Rajni Bector can’t thank her husband enough for his unflinching belief in her abilities. Mridula Jain of Shingora Textile Ltd’s initial foray may have been an extension of her husband’s business, but Shingora shawls is her baby alone. Meenakshi Jasuja was a housewife who didn’t want to be known as just “Mrs Jasuja”. She wanted an identity of her own — and one she could be proud of. With initial help from her husband, she started her own label of T-shirts, sweatshirts, etc. nearly a decade ago and now supplies to major chains.Audacity of hopeFor these three ladies, starting their own business was a matter of choice. However, there are those who were compelled by circumstances to take the deep dive. Sandeep (Minnie) Riat’s has been one such gritty story. “I was born with a silver spoon, came on road, but got the silver spoon back by my sheer determination,” says the managing director of Akal Springs, manufacturer of automotive components.A graduate in business management, Minnie was all of 21 when her father died in 2004, leaving her a debt-ridden company, nearly 50 court cases, an army of creditors to wade through and a family to look after. But he also left her a legacy of steely determination and a never-say-die spirit. It took her four years to clear the financial mess through sheer willpower and perhaps a foolhardy courage, as there was no help from any quarter. Her relatives wouldn’t touch her with a bargepole; seven banks had shown her the door, with two of them telling her plainly that they could not risk a loan to a woman.Besides her three siblings, only her father’s old workers stood by her, working with almost no wages initially. Minnie sold off a part of her property to settle her debt, shifted her plant and was finally able to convince one bank for a loan. Today, Tata Motors and Mahindra & Mahindra are among her clients and she exports to almost all major countries, including the US, Canada, Japan, Russia and Australia.From a pariah to an award-winning entrepreneur, her survival-to-success story is being taught as a case study in two business schools. Anyone listening in Bollywood?Ruby Marjara, who has her own knitwear label for women called Waves, is another such destiny’s not-so-favourite child. Daughter of a business family and married into another, for Ruby, a post-graduate in textile design, being financially independent was the core of her being. Work wasn’t just worship, it was passion. Steeped in Ludhiana’s conservative milieu, her new family could not comprehend this fierce necessity to work. However, her resilience and husband’s tacit support saw her through the resistance.In 2000, when the family business hit a rough patch, it was Ruby and her various activities that kept the family afloat. With survival at stake, Ruby took on all sorts of work — from holding lifestyle exhibitions to selling life insurance, no job was too menial for her. In 2004, she launched Waves. In 2010, she started the Yellow Tree, a premium fashion and lifestyle biennial event, something the socialites of the city look forward to. The passionate workaholic acquired Kilol’s franchise in 2018. “From being made to feel guilty for working to being called the pride of the family, perceptions and expectations have surely changed drastically,” says Ruby.What the city offersBut where does the confidence come from? Does Ludhiana have this inbuilt ecosystem of business sustainability, a positive energy that keeps one going? Industrialist SC Ralhan, former president of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations, agrees. “The city offers great opportunities.” But does it offer similar chances to women entrepreneurs too? The veteran businessman’s response is pragmatic: “It is surely easier for women from business families than those from non-business background.”Minnie offers a different perspective. According to this hardy, self-made entrepreneur, “The city had never been a hindrance to anyone who wanted to grow wings. Men or women, it offers a level-playing field. If you are willing to work hard, stretch your limits and scale up, then up is the only way to go.”Her super senior in the business world, Mridula Jain concurs. Married at 21, Mridula, a science graduate, had to opt for BEd at her mother’s insistence. Two kids in quick succession limited her options to home coaching for 10 years. But as this daughter and daughter-in-law of a business family says, “Entrepreneurship is part of our culture.” With kids grown up, Mridula wanted to step out of home. A chance remark by her nephew gave her an idea and Shingora shawls was born. From a utility item, Shingora (derived from Hindi word shringar meaning ornament) made shawls a fashion statement. Starting with eight handlooms and eight weavers, the business now employs nearly 1,000 workers. With Shingora growing at a mercurial speed, her husband and sons have joined her.Shawls is not the only thing that Mridula has restructured. She has given shape to the shawl industry in the North. She formed the shawl manufacturers’ association, tied up with Wool and Woollens Export Promotion Council for export of shawls. And when exports grew, necessitating more production, she crusaded for an amendment in law that allowed for import and use of power looms in India. She admits with justified pride, “Much of the amendment had been worded by me.”However, not everything has been hunky dory in the male-dominated business scene of the city. Many women entrepreneurs have faced numerous challenges — condescending behaviour by contemporaries, lack of credibility about deliverance, a sullen, unresponsive male workforce, delayed payments, cheating agents.When Meenakshi started work in 2009, for the initial two years the workers in the workshop made her life miserable — not taking her orders seriously, shoddy workmanship, under-deliverance. Exasperated, she fired the whole lot and started afresh. While things have been better since inside the workshop, unprofessional behaviour, bordering on chauvinism, by field agents in northern states of UP, Haryana, Punjab, even the North-East, has made her resolve to only work with brand stores in the South.This patriarchal mindset may have been a reason why the number of women entrepreneurs has remained miniscule, feels SS Bhogal, a veteran industrialist. There are other factors too. In a city dominated by small and medium enterprises, a lack of technical education and, of course, conservative mentality that women should not be on the forefront may be responsible for these small numbers.Vinod Thapar, chairman of the Ludhiana Knitwear Club, agrees. “There was no appreciation or acceptance of women in the city’s business scenario. But things are changing slowly now.”He is not off the mark. The winds of change can be felt. While this lot of women entrepreneurs may have faced a tough trek, they are making sure their daughters and daughters-in-law, as well as other women, are not left behind. Mrs Bector’s daughters-in-law and granddaughters-in-law are active stakeholders in her business. Both of Mridula’s daughters-in-law are working with her, as is Ruby’s daughter-in-law. Thapar’s own daughter, Sharadha, married into a business family, has turned around a sick cycle unit into a profitable one.Ludhiana Inc has a distinct women link, and they mean business."It is easier for  women from business families to start their own venture than those from a non-business background." — SC Ralhan, former president, the Federation of Indian Export Organisations"There was no appreciation or acceptance of women in the city’s business scenario. But things are changing slowly now." —Vinod Thapar, chairman, Ludhiana Knitwear Club"A patriarchal mindset may have been a reason why the number of women entrepreneurs has remained miniscule." —SS Bhogal, former vice-chairman (northern region), Engineering Export Promotion Council of India||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/the-resolute-businesswomen-of-ludhiana-209024
