24-02-2021||New Delhi||PM Modi makes bold pitch for privatisation, says govt committed to selling non-strategic PSUs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday made his strongest pitch for privatisation of non-strategic PSUs, saying the government has no business to be in business and sustaining loss-making units on taxpayers’ money drains resources that could otherwise have been spent on public welfare schemes. He said about 100 under-utilised or unutilised assets with public sector units (PSUs), such as those in the oil and gas and power sectors, will be monetised, creating Rs 2.5 lakh crore of investment opportunities. “It is government’s duty to support enterprises and businesses. But it is not essential that it should own and run enterprises,” the Prime Minister said at a webinar on the privatisation approach in the Budget for 2021-22. The private sector brings in investment, global best practices, top-quality managers, changes in management and modernisation, he said, adding the money generated from the stake sales will be routed to public welfare schemes in areas like water and sanitation, education and healthcare. Modi said his government is committed to privatising all PSUs barring four strategic sectors—atomic energy, space and defence; transport and telecommunications; power, petroleum, coal and other minerals; and banking, insurance and financial services, where the government will retain a bare minimum presence. “The government has no business to be in the business,” he said. “Modernise and monetise is the motto we will follow.”  Modi also said to speed up the disinvestment process, an empowered group of secretaries has been set up to settle investor issues. The government has to focus on development and the public sector and whenever it engages in business, it leads to losses, he said, adding several loss-making PSUs are supported by taxpayers’ money which otherwise should have gone into welfare schemes. The government has already received “multiple expressions of interest” for privatisation of Air India, BPCL and Pawan HansAs much as Rs 1.75 lakh crore is being targeted from the sale of government stake in firms such as India’s second-biggest oil firm BPCL, national carrier Air India, largest shipping line Shipping Corporation of India Ltd, helicopter services company Pawan Hans, IDBI Bank and Container Corporation of India in the next fiscal year beginning April 1. This, along with an initial public offering of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) and sale of two public sector banks and one general insurance company, will be the largest disinvestment drive ever. The government has already received “multiple expressions of interest” for privatisation of Air India, BPCL and Pawan Hans. The Prime Minister further said the current reforms seek to ensure that public funds are used efficiently. Stating that PSUs are valuable assets that have helped the country in the past and have huge potential in future, he said best global practices for proper price discovery and stakeholder mapping will be followed for the privatisation drive. “Implementation is also important. To ensure transparency and competition, our processes should be right.  “To ensure this, a clear roadmap for proper price discovery and stakeholder mapping has to be followed. We will have to learn from the best global practices. We will have to see that the decision that is being taken helps in the growth of that sector along with public welfare,” he said. Modi, who has in recent speeches underscored the importance of the private sector in building the economy, said the Budget for the fiscal year beginning April 1 has provided a clear roadmap for putting India on a high-growth trajectory again with a focus on private sector partnership. The private sector’s role is crucial in not just privatisation but also the Rs 111 lakh crore National Infrastructure Pipeline created to pull the economy out of the pandemic-induced slump, he emphasised. The Prime Minister said state-owned firms were founded decades back when the Indian economy’s needs and national priorities were different. The policies that were right 50-60 years back, need improvement in today’s changed circumstances, he said, adding the focus of the reforms has been to put pubic money to its best use. But there are public sector enterprises that are loss making and survive only on support by taxpayers’ money, he said. “The money which is the right of the poor, right of youth is spent on these enterprises and hence this is burdensome on the economy.”  “PSUs should not be run only because it is a legacy (enterprise) or because it is someone’s pet project. If the public sector enterprise (PSE) is meeting the needs of any specific or important sector or has strategic importance, I can then understand it but not otherwise,” he said. “Government focus should be on public welfare. When governments start to do business, it sometimes also leads to losses.”  Running companies not just drains financial resources but also diverts human resources which otherwise could have been utilised for the administration of the country, he said. “The government sector has a lot of under-utilised and unutilised assets and we have announced a national asset monetisation pipeline. We have kept a target of monetising 100 assets in oil and gas, power and other sectors. It could lead to an investment of Rs 2.5 trillion and this process will continue in future also,” he pointed out. Pitching India as an investment destination, he said the country is now one market with one tax rate, has easier entry-exit norms for companies, simplified tax system and compliances are being eased. “This is the time which will start a new phase in India’s economic growth,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/pm-modi-makes-bold-pitch-for-privatisation-says-govt-committed-to-selling-non-strategic-psus-216987
24-02-2021||New Delhi||Govt clears PLI scheme to boost manufacturing of laptops, tablets, PCs||The government on Wednesday approved a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for laptops, tablets, all-in-one PCs and servers, as it looked to woo global players to tap India’s manufacturing capabilities.The approval of PLI scheme for these hi-tech IT hardware gadgets comes after the Cabinet last week cleared a Rs 12,195 crore scheme for telecom equipment manufacturing.Briefing reporters after a meeting of the Cabinet, Communications and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the Cabinet cleared the about Rs 7,350 crore PLI scheme for IT hardware that would cover laptops, tablets, all-in-one PCs and servers.The scheme would position India as a manufacturing hub, spur exports and create new jobs opportunities, Prasad added.Incentives worth Rs 7,350 crore will be provided over four years for manufacturing of these products in India. Production worth Rs 3.26 lakh crore and exports worth Rs 2.45 lakh crore are estimated over the four year timeline. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/govt-clears-pli-scheme-to-boost-manufacturing-of-laptops-tablets-pcs-216939
24-02-2021||February 24||Aussie cannabis firms go capital light as they roll into Europe||A handful of small, young Australian firms are taking a chance on Europe in spite of the region's diverse markets, hopeful that a capital-light investment strategy will diminish their risks.Europe could be a hard market to crack as regulations vary by country, but favourable rulings for medical marijuana and potential demand are promising factors. The companies reckon that establishing an early base there and working with European partners will help them better negotiate different markets and steal a march on larger North American rivals.Cann Group and MGC Pharmaceuticals are among many firms that have pushed into Europe, recently signing partnerships to distribute medical marijuana products and also exploring a dual-listing in the region.Europe is much smaller than North America, already battling oversupply, but the market is a draw for Australian companies that contend with an even smaller home base."With prospects still limited largely to just the prescription market (in Australia), exports remain key to marijuana firms," said Jo Paterson, founder and CEO of BOD Australia.New South Wales-based BOD, valued at just $37 million, entered into distribution partnerships in the United Kingdom, Italy and Netherlands last year. Its stock surged two thirds in the period.There are indications that regulations around cannabis will continue loosening in Europe.A ruling in November by the European Union's highest court that cannabidiol -- the main ingredient in medical marijuana products -- is not a narcotic, is crucial for their success in Europe, the companies said.The United Nations drug agency voting weeks later to remove cannabis from the most tightly-controlled category of narcotics will also help, they said.Medical marijuana sales in Europe are expected to surge 52% by 2025, hitting $3.1 billion, according to a report by market researcher Brightfield Group and consultant Hanway Associates.A recent short-lived Reddit-fuelled rally in cannabis stocks notwithstanding, many investors see them as long-term bets. The cannabis index has risen 30% in the past 12 months, outstripping 16% growth in the S&P 500.CAPITAL LIGHTAnalysts have warned, however, that Europe's regulatory landscape is complex and could be hard to navigate.Even bigger firms such as Canopy Growth and Aurora Cannabis have found it difficult to make profits in the continent and are now scaling back investments, though they say that Europe remains a big opportunity."Policymakers and businesses are tackling issues including cross-border supply chains, standardising manufacturing and laboratory practice, and prescription requirements," said Ibrahim Said Abdeldayem, a risk consultant at Arriello.Some countries, including Germany and the Netherlands have well-established medical cannabis legislation. In others such as Sweden and Belgium, cannabis is strictly prohibited.Australian companies are tackling the diverse markets with a capital-light approach: sticking to partnerships with firms that are better-equipped to handle distribution and rules locally, rather than trying to build processing plants.Cann Group, the first in Australia to receive a licence to cultivate medicinal cannabis in 2017, said it will focus on Germany and Britain because those markets are expected to grow quickly.Cann, worth roughly $150 million, is partnering with a London-based company to ensure it is well positioned when the market takes off, its chief operating officer Shane Duncan said."Hopefully (Australian investments) will be more thoughtful and more strategic, with a better understanding of the limits of the market, and that it will take time," said Jamie Schau, analyst at Brightfield."The important part is to get it right in each market and not treat it as a bloc." Reuters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/aussie-cannabis-firms-go-capital-light-as-they-roll-into-europe-216918
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Connectivity issue halts trading on NSE for nearly 5 hrs, forces market timing extension||Trading on NSE, India’s largest bourse which handles over 90 per cent of the volumes, came to a halt on Wednesday morning due to what the exchange termed as issues with telecom connectivity. Activity in some segments started facing glitches since around 1000 hrs, within minutes of the markets opening at 0915 hrs, and all activity at NSE ground to a halt at 1140 hrs. However, trading at the BSE, Asia’s oldest bourse which witnesses relatively thin volumes, continued amid the outage at NSE, ensuring that Indian capital markets remained operational. The issues got sorted in the afternoon, and in an unprecedented move, the bourses extended their trading hours till 1700 hrs as against the usual end of trade at 1530 hrs, probably to make up for lost volumes. NSE attributed problems at its end to failure in telecom connectivity as services from both the telecom operators it uses went down simultaneously. “NSE has multiple telecom links with two service providers to ensure redundancy and we have received communication from both the telecom service providers that there are issues with their links due to which there is an impact on NSE system,” a statement from the bourse said. Taking strong note of the events, capital markets regulator Sebi sought an explanation from NSE for trading “not migrating to the disaster recovery site” and asked the bourse to submit its report at the earliest. NSE should carry out a root cause analysis of the reasons for the trading halt, a statement from Sebi said, adding that it was in constant touch with NSE officials all through the day and monitored the situation closely. “In view of the exceptional situation arising out of the trading halt, it was decided to extend the trading hours from 1530 hrs to 1700 hrs at NSE, BSE and MSEI,” the Sebi statement said. However, even after extended trading hours, the overall volumes could not touch the usual averages, NSE data showed. In the equities market, the value of securities traded on Wednesday stood at Rs 45,837 crore, as against an average daily turnover of Rs 72,472 crore in January in the cash segment.  Similarly, in the equity derivatives segment, the total futures and options turnover stood at Rs 30.59 lakh crore on Wednesday, as against Rs 40.32 lakh crore on Tuesday. Unsurprisingly, rival BSE registered a jump in daily turnover. The trading halt at the IPO-bound NSE comes on the back of similar incidents in the immediate past. In June 2020, NSE’s bank option segment prices were not reflecting on the terminal linked to the exchange. In September 2019 too, the bourse’s system faced a trading outage as investors were unable to place orders in the final minutes of trade. Jimeet Modi, founder and chief executive at Samco Ventures, a brokerage, said there is a precedent of complete annulment of trades on Muhurat trading day on BSE Futures and Options segment in 2011.  Commenting on Wednesday’s outage, he said, “The biggest question in this whole issue is why was the entire market shut just because index feeds were not refreshing? Feeds for underlying contracts were fine and so was order matching, so why shut down the entire market?” “Sebi and NSE need to quickly look at alternatives here if this isn’t getting fixed,” he added. Tata Communications and Bharti Airtel take care of NSE’s connectivity. However, there was no statement from the companies.  The NSE’s 50-share benchmark Nifty gained 1.86 per cent to close at 14,982 points on Wednesday. BSE’s 30-share benchmark gained 2.07 per cent to 50,781 points. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/connectivity-issue-halts-trading-on-nse-for-nearly-5-hrs-forces-market-timing-extension-216897
24-02-2021||New Delhi||More Indians turn entrepreneurs as job market still bleak||While the job market still looks bleak in India after a pandemic-hit 2020, the world’s professional network LinkedIn said on Wednesday it has seen a 10 per cent growth in members with the title ‘founders’ or ‘co-founder’ on their profiles on the platform.Entrepreneurship looked up for Indian professionals last year.“This uptick in new entrepreneurs was particularly strong in the fields of mental healthcare, e-learning and online media,” according to the latest LinkedIn ‘Workforce Confidence Index’.“Skills are expected to become the new professional ‘currency’ this year as workers from different generations rely on learning new skills to future-proof their careers, at a time when industries continue to strengthen their remote operations,” said Ashutosh Gupta, India Country Manager, LinkedIn.“Reimagining employee skills and roles to welcome the post-pandemic ways of working will be crucial to building resilience for companies across sectors,” Gupta added.Based on the survey responses of 1,752 professionals, findings from January 1-29 revealed that professionals in India are confident about career progress despite growing uncertainties about the job market and financial future in the current environment.Nearly 80 per cent of professionals are confident about skilling opportunities, while 79 per cent are confident about the strength of their CVs.However, the survey showed a dip in India’s overall confidence.The survey attributes this dip in optimism to the workforce’s growing concerns about the status of the pandemic, surmounting expenses, and job availability in the present economic climate.This professional uncertainty comes right after the year-end holiday season, when India’s hiring rate dropped to 17 per cent year-over-year in December 2020, according to the latest edition of LinkedIn’s Labour Market update.The survey showed that while India remains resilient, professionals from different generations have contrasting reasons to stay confident in these testing times.While 92 per cent of Gen X and 98 per cent of Baby Boomers say the strength of their work experience and academic qualifications makes them more confident, 86 per cent of millennials state they are more inspired by opportunities to grow their skills and climb the ladder.Further, 80 per cent of Gen Z professionals said that the likelihood of progressing their careers makes them more confident today, said the survey.— IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/more-indians-turn-entrepreneurs-as-job-market-still-bleak-216896
24-02-2021||New York||GameStop CFO to step down after Reddit driven stock rally||GameStop Chief Financial Officer Jim Bell will step down next month, the video game retailer said on Tuesday, as it focuses on shifting into technology-driven sales in the wake of headline-grabbing big betting in its stock.GameStop said Bell's resignation was not due to any disagreement with the company relating to its operations, including accounting principles and practices.However, a source said that while Bell's exit was unrelated to the recent wild swings in GameStop's stock spurred by retail traders on the Reddit social media site, his departure was initiated by the company.The source, a person familiar with the firm's thinking, said GameStop had become dissatisfied with Bell as it works to transform into a technology-oriented business and was not confident he would be the right CFO moving forward.Bell, who will leave the company on March 26, previously worked at brick-and-mortar retailers Gap Inc and Coldwater Creek and restaurant chain P. F. Chang's China Bistro, according to his LinkedIn profile. He did not respond to requests for comment.Shares of GameStop fell about 5% to $42.75 in extended trading after the announcement. The stock has risen about 140% this year, after paring most of the gains that sent short-sellers scrambling to cover losing bets and saw the company hit a record high of $482.95.GameStop has also been targeted by shareholders pushing it to focus more on digital sales rather than its mall-based locations.New directors focused on this strategy have recently joined its board and the source said those additions had helped create more momentum for the CFO transition.GameStop said it has begun a search for a permanent CFO, adding that it would appoint Chief Accounting Officer Diana Jajeh as interim CFO if a permanent replacement was not found before Bell's departure.--Reuters||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/gamestop-cfo-to-step-down-after-reddit-driven-stock-rally-216879
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Sensex zooms 1,030 pts; Nifty tops 14,950||Equity benchmark Sensex soared 1,030.28 points and the Nifty rallied over 270 points on Wednesday, tracking strong buying in financial stocks, after trading hours were extended following a technical glitch at NSE.After resumption of trade at 3.45 pm, NSE Nifty zoomed 274.20 points or 1.86 per cent to end at 14,982.Similarly, the 30-share BSE index settled 1,030.28 points or 2.07 per cent higher at 50,781.69.Axis Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging around 5 per cent, followed by HDFC twins, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finance and SBI.On the other hand, PowerGrid, Dr Reddy’s, TCS and Asian Paints were among the laggards. Minutes before the scheduled closure of trade at 3.30 pm, leading bourses BSE and NSE said their equity and derivatives markets will remain open till 5 pm.The move came after the National Stock Exchange (NSE) suffered an outage earlier in the day due to technical glitches. Trading across segments came to a halt at 1140 hrs due to connectivity issues.However, the broader Indian markets were not impacted as communication lines at BSE remained operational.“A late surge by bulls across financials post lifting of the embargo on the grant of GOI business to private banks took indices up 2 per cent when trade time was extended till 5.00 pm,” said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP Securities.Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a negative note.Stock exchanges in Europe, however, were trading with gains in mid-session deals.Meanwhile, the global oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.96 per cent higher at USD 65.10 per barrel.In the forex market, the rupee gained 11 paise to settle at 72.35 against the US dollar supported by positive domestic equities and weakness of the American currency in the overseas market. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/sensex-zooms-1-030-pts-nifty-tops-14-950-216874
24-02-2021||New Delhi||RIL to spin off oil-to-chemicals biz into separate arm with $25-bn loan||Reliance Industries (RIL) has announced the contours of carving out of its oil-to-chemicals (O2C) business into an independent unit with a $25-billion loan from the parent, as it looks to unlock value by selling stakes to global investors like Saudi Aramco.The reorganisation will enable the focused pursuit of opportunities across the O2C value chain, improve efficiencies through self-sustaining capital structure and a dedicated management team, and attract dedicated pools of investor capital, according to a company presentation filed with the stock exchanges.Reorganisation planThe O2C business unit holds Reliance’s oil refinery and petrochemical assets and retail fuel business but not upstream oil and gas producing fields such as KG-D6 and textiles business.Once completed, RIL will house only the upstream oil and gas exploration and production business, including the KG-D6 block, financial services, group treasury and the legacy textile businesses, and act as a holding company of the group.The retail business is held in Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd and telecom and digital ventures are nested in Jio Platforms Ltd.RIL holds 85.1% of Reliance Retail and 67.3% of Jio Platforms. The rest it had sold to global investors, including Facebook Inc and Google for over Rs 2 lakh crore.The wholly owned O2C unit’s assets will be funded by the interest-bearing loan, which will be an “efficient mechanism to upstream cash, including any potential capital receipts,” in the unit, the firm said.RIL will provide a loan of $25 billion to the O2C subsidiary at floating interest rate with the subsidiary having about $42 billion of assets (28% of consolidated assets). — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/ril-to-spin-off-oil-to-chemicals-biz-into-separate-arm-with-25-bn-loan-216838
24-02-2021||New Delhi||Airtel, Qualcomm team up for 5G push in India||Bharti Airtel and US chipmaker Qualcomm on Tuesday announced collaboration for accelerating 5G in India.“Through Airtel’s network vendors and device partners, Airtel will utilise the Qualcomm 5G RAN platforms to roll out virtualised and open RAN-based 5G networks. Airtel is committed to driving the success of O-RAN and is working with Qualcomm to explore and implement the O-RAN approach for India,” a company statement said. The flexible architecture of O-RAN will enable new opportunities for SMBs to become viable players in the deployment of 5G networks, it added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/airtel-qualcomm-team-up-for-5g-push-in-india-216839
24-02-2021||New Delhi||Indian firms project 7.7% pay hike this year: Survey||India Inc is likely to provide a salary hike of 7.7% in 2021, indicating a strong economic recovery, said a survey on Tuesday. The study by global professional services firm Aon analysed data across 1,200 companies from more than 20 industries.About 88% of the surveyed companies reported that they intend to increase salaries in 2021, reflecting positive business sentiment.“We expect the increment dynamics for 2021 to play out over a longer period of time given the uncertainty and potential impact of forthcoming changes,” Nitin Sethi, Partner and CEO of Aon’s performance and rewards business in India, said in a statement.Despite a tough 2020 with stringent lockdowns, India continues to project the highest salary increases among the BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India, China,) nations, said the report. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/indian-firms-project-7-7-pay-hike-this-year-survey-216840
