01-07-2020||Mohali||177 evacuee passengers arrive from Kuwait at Chandigarh International Airport||The ninth evacuation flight and second from Kuwait, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 177 passengers landed at the Chandigarh International Airport here on Wednesday.  The GoAir flight no G8 7228 arrived at the local airport via New Delhi at 7.15 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per government guidelines. Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport with joint efforts of all the authorities/agencies which were involved in the processing of passengers which were governments of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, CISF, Immigration, Customs and Punjab Police etc., along with Chandigarh International Airport.A health department spokesman said that during the screening the health officials took utmost precaution and the passengers also maintained social distancing.He informed that no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold etc and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus.He further elaborated that all the passengers were also impressed upon by the health department teams deployed at the airport to take all health related precautions such as covering their face with masks, using hand sanitizers, washing hands as much as possible and observe social distancing guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/177-evacuee-passengers-arrive-from-kuwait-at-chandigarh-international-airport-107225
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Unlock 2.0: Liquor allowed at wedding functions in Chandigarh; bars to remain closed||The administration in Chandigarh allowed liquor to be served during wedding ceremonies in the Union Territory on Wednesday, but said bars will continue to remain closed.“Service of alcoholic drinks at marriage functions will be permitted provided specific permission from the excise department is taken. However, bars will continue to remain closed,” Advisor Manoj Parida said.He added that the “Unlock 2” orders passed by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs were adopted in Chandigarh.It was also decided that the odd-even system, presently being followed in selected markets, will be discontinued.         This will also apply to street vendors, according to decisions taken at a meeting here, Parida said.The administration has also allowed two persons on a two-wheeler and four in a car, a move based on the Punjab pattern.“Three persons in an auto-rickshaw will be allowed (including the driver),” an official release said.However, all riders will use masks and the vehicles will be regularly sanitised by the owners.Shops and restaurants have been allowed to remain open from 10 am till 9 pm, the release said.Call centres and industrial establishments will be allowed to operate night shifts provided their employees do not come out of the office or factory premises during the curfew hours of 10 pm to 5 am.Inter-state bus services will continue to remain suspended till further orders.  “Apni mandis” and organic markets will continue to remain closed.There will be a complete ban on social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations, the release said.Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, spas, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will also not be allowed to function.Mask-wearing and social distancing at public places will be strictly implemented and anyone violating the guidelines or directions will be penalised, the release said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unlock-2-0-liquor-allowed-at-wedding-functions-in-chandigarh-bars-to-remain-closed-107223
01-07-2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad colony named after Milkha Singh||It’s strange to find a residential colony named after a Sikh in the far-away Southern city of Secunderabad, which is also an important cantonment. But the resident of the Milkha Singh Colony in the EME Centre is a place that locals are as proud as India’s Flying Sikh Milkha Singh after whom the colony is named. Recruited in the Corps of Electrical and Mechanical Engineers (EME) in 1952, much of his training started here.Not many know that Milkha Singh---the 90-year-old legend who lives in Chandigarh, where he spends his time playing golf and going for his walks---lived here from 1952 to 1960 and prepared for the 1960 Rome Olympics in the local grounds or as he says running for practice from the barracks here each morning. Singh missed the bronze medal at Rome in the 400m by a few seconds.Practice here in and around the Milkha Singh Colony later helped him win several medals and laurels in Asian Games and Commonwealth Games. The athlete acknowledges that the hard work put in here laid the foundation for his athletic career later. For practice, Milkha Singh would run up the “Ammuguda Pahad” (hill) near EME Centre carrying stone-filled bag to build up stamina, strength and muscle.It is not only here that Milkha Singh prepared for the sporting career, but he also used to run alongside a train, which ran on the metre gauge then between Bolarum and Ammuguda. Milkha Singh has told family and friends that one driver of a loco used to encourage him by motivating him not to give up and stay with the speed of the train. All this was done in Secunderabad and the people have now acknowledged his contribution to Indian athletics by naming the colony after him.Majority of the area around the EME Centre was a jungle and this made his practice tougher. Milkha Singh acknowledges the contribution of the army in his sporting career. “Had I not joined the Army, perhaps I would not have worked so hard. The Milkha Singh as you know him is the because of the Army and EME Centre”, he says.It is not only the colony, the stadium at the EME Centre is also named after him. The Stadium inside the EME Centre where he trained during 1952-53 is called the Milkha Singh Stadium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/secunderabad-colony-named-after-milkha-singh-107210
01-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports five new coronavirus cases||Mohali reported five new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, officials said.Two more people---both women, ages 19 and 36---tested positive from Behda village in Mohali, officials said. They were contacts of an already diagnosed case.The others who tested positive were a 39-year-old woman from Zirakpur, a 20year-old woman from Sector 71 and a 61-year-old man from Khanpur. The last patient returned from Bihar recently, officials said.A 40-year-old woman from Dera Bassi was released from a hospital after recovery.The developments takes the district’s cases to 275, officials said, although Punjab’s COVID bulletin puts this number at 271.Break up||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-five-new-coronavirus-cases-107202
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration issues Unlock 2.0 guidelines; no more odd-even policy for shops||Chandigarh Administration said on Wednesday that the odd-even policy for opening of shops in some designated markets will no longer apply -- a development that comes as the country slowly eases restrictions imposed in March to stop the spread of coronavirus.Chandigarh Administration's Unlock 2.0 guidelines issued on Wednesday follows a similar pattern as the Central government's guidelines issued two days ago, although with a few additions.Inter-state bus services will remain suspended, say the new guidelines. Apni Mandi and organic markets will remain closed until further orders.The odd-even policy for shopkeepers and street vendors has been discontinued, stated a press release issued by the Chandigarh administration.“There will be complete ban on social/political/sports/entertainment/academic/cultural/religious functions and other large congregations, as per the Government of India’s guidelines,” the release added.Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, spas, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will remain shut.   All shops and restaurants will be allowed to remain open from 10 am to 9 pm, it added.Night shifts will be allowed in call Centres and industrial establishments provided employees do not come out of their work places during curfew hours from 10 pm to 5 am.“There will be strict implementation of mask-wearing and social distancing in public places and any person violating the guidelines or directions will be penalised,” the release stated.Here’s a list of what’s allowed and what’s notWhat’s permittedWhat’s not||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-issues-unlock-2-0-guidelines-no-more-odd-even-policy-for-shops-107177
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 6 more coronavirus cases; tally rises to 446||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported six new cases of coronavirus, taking the union territory’s case tally to 446.Two cases were reported from Sector 41, where a 21-year-old woman and a 33-year-old man tested positive for contagion. Four of a family in sector 50 also tested positive for the deadly disease.Active cases in the city have now shot up to 73.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-6-more-coronavirus-cases-tally-rises-to-446-107154
01-07-2020||Mohali||Three arrested for murdering Mohali painter over petty issue||Three people were arrested on Wednesday for the murder of a 35-year-old man at Badmajra village, Mohali.The man was allegedly killed by six people over a petty issue at Badmajra village near Balongi on late Saturday night.The victim has been identified as Sanjay Yadav (35), a resident of Badmajra village and native of Uttar Pradesh. Sanjay, who had been working as a painter, was living in a rented accommodation along with his family.As per information, the incident took place around 11.30 pm near the victim’s house when Sanjay saw three persons urinating near his house. As he objected to their act, they started abusing him and a scuffle broke out between them following a heated exchange.After this, they left the place. A few minutes later, they came back with three more persons. They called Sanjay out of his house.As the victim came out, they repeatedly attacked him on his legs with a knife. They also hit him on his head using a brick.The assailants then fled on their bikes leaving the victim in a pool of blood.According to the police, a few villagers had seen the suspects fleeing on three bikes after committing the crime. The police also said the suspects might be in an inebriated state, as a few bottles of alcohol and glasses were found at the spot.Sanjay was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Phase VI where he succumbed to his injuries.SP (Investigation) Harmandeep Hans said, “The attackers are yet to be identified. Some rivalry can be the reason behind the murder, and we are probing this angle too. No weapon has been recovered from the spot.”He added that the footage of CCTVs was also being scrutinized. Due to darkness, the suspects were not clearly visible in the footage as the cameras were not night-vision gadgets.A case under Sections 302, 34, and 450 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unidentified assailants at the Balongi police station on the statement of the victim’s wife, Urmila.The investigation has been initiated into the case. Sanjay is survived by his wife and a six-year-old daughter. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-arrested-for-murdering-mohali-painter-over-petty-issue-107143
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ayurvedic view on Covid-19||Panel discussion on cybercrimeChandigarh: A forum created by lawyers Jitender Goel, Sartej Singh Narula, Shrey Goel, Shreya Vasistha Goel, Shvetanshu Goel, Aditya Dassaur, Rahul Aggarwal, Anirudh Nanda and Mannat Anand of the Punjab and Haryana High Court organised a panel discussion on cybercrime recently and deliberated on topics of public interest. tnsCar catches fire, occupants safeZirakpur: A father-son duo had a miraculous escape when the car they were travelling in caught fire near a petrol pump on the Zirakpur-Patiala road here on Tuesday. The duo managed to come out of the vehicle and escaped unhurt. They reported the matter to the fire control room. However, the car was reduced to ashes before the fire brigade could reach the spot. The cause of the fire is being investigated. TNSJind man held with revolverZirakpur: The police recovered a .32 revolver and 12 cartridges from a person during the checking of vehicles at a barricade near the Mohali-Chandigarh border late on Monday night. The suspect has been identified as Satwayan, a resident of Karsola in Jind, Haryana. According to the police, the suspect could not produce any documents related to the weapon. A case has registered against him under Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. TNSWebinar seriesChandigarh: The Department of Library and Information Science organised a total of 21 webinars on the theme, ‘Information generation, dissemination and use during Covid-19 lockdown’. Eminent speakers from India and abroad deliberated on various issues from information to misinformation and disinformation generation/dissemination. Nearly 5, 000 people participated in the series. TNSAwareness campaignChandigarh: The Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee, along with the Department of Environment Studies and the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, on Tuesday released an information education and communication (IEC) material on safe disposal of face masks, wipes and gloves by the general public during the Covid-19 pandemic. TNSMasks, sanitisers, gloves donatedPanchkula: Divya Singh, a social activist in Panchkula, on Tuesday donated 200 N95 masks, 200 sanitisers and 200 pairs of gloves to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital. Divya is the granddaughter of former Haryana Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur issued her a certificate of appreciation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ayurvedic-view-on-covid-19-106974
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||4 dupe people in langar garb, held||Snatcher lands in police netChandigarh: A 22-year-old youth, Abhishek Kumar of Burail, has been arrested for snatchings. He was involved in two snatching cases lodged at the Sector 34 police station on June 17 and 22. A phone, a purse and documents have been recovered from the suspect, who has seven cases registered against him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-dupe-people-in-langar-garb-held-106971
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||4 booked for cheating Chandigarh firm||Four employees of a private company have been booked for cheating the firm of Rs25 lakh.The police said the complainant, Rashmi, HR manager of Black Box GPS Technology OPC Limited, Sector 34, reported that four employees - Sanjeet, Gavish, Sandeep Tiwari and Shanky - working in the recovery and accounts department cheated the company of Rs25 lakh. It is alleged that the suspects used to take payment directly from customers in cash or through Paytm, which otherwise was supposed to be taken by the company. A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station and an investigation has been initiated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-booked-for-cheating-chandigarh-firm-106970
01-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Nine new Covid cases surface in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 30Nine dischargedNine patients recovered and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.The Civil Surgeon said there were now 25 active cases in the district.Nine new Covid-19 cases surfaced in the district on Tuesday, taking the tally to 120.The Civil Surgeon, Dr NK Aggarwal, said of the nine new cases, two were close contacts of an already positive case of Jakhwali village, who was currently undergoing treatment at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, whereas three were family members of a positive case admitted to the PGI.Two NRIs, who were quarantined, also tested positive for the virus. Both had come from Kenya. One of them belongs to Chanarthal village, whereas another hails from Amloh.Dr NK Aggarwal said one accident victim, who was admitted to the PGI, was also found infected.Meanwhile, nine patients recovered and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. The Civil Surgeon said there were now 25 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nine-new-covid-cases-surface-in-fatehgarh-sahib-106968
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||55 vendors challaned in Chandigarh||The enforcement wing of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation issued 55 challans to fruit and vegetable vendors sitting on the roadside here on Tuesday. Three tempos and some rehris were also seized. The anti-encroachment drive was carried on the orders of Commissioner KK Yadav. The teams were led by inspector Sunil Dutt. A challan of Rs2,000 was issued to the violators.Monthly licence fee exemptedThe Town and Vending Committee on Tuesday decided to exempt the monthly licence fee of all registered vendors till June. Earlier, the fee was exempted till May due to the lockdown. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/55-vendors-challaned-in-chandigarh-106966
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||35,695 Covid-19 tests conducted at four Chandigarh labs||The four laboratories authorised for the Covid-19 testing in Chandigarh have conducted a total of 35,695 tests till date with the PGIMER’s Virology Lab leading with 25,464 samples, followed by Microbiology Lab, PGI (2,782), Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32 (3,396) and IMTECH (4,053).As per the official statement by the UT, “PGI has been conducting tests very liberally that includes almost all emergency patients, antenatal cases, elective surgeries and symptomatic healthcare workers.” The Administration stated that tests were being conducted judiciously keeping in view the optimal utilisation of resources and preservation of the same for the future. Besides, flu clinics have also been helping in screening people.“All influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) patients are being routinely tested for Covid at the PGI. Till date, 325 SARI patients and 170 ILI patients have been tested at the PGI. All guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the ICMR are being implemented,” the statement read. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/35-695-covid-19-tests-conducted-at-four-chandigarh-labs-106964
01-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Statements to be recorded on July 23||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 30The complaintIn the complaint, Bikramjit Singh Brar,General Secretary of the National Consumer Welfare Council, Chandigarh, has alleged that Baba Ramdev had manufactured so-called medicines i.e. tablets and oil as 100 per cent cure for the Covid-19 within three to seven days without obtaining a proper licence from the authorised agency.The court of Judicial Magistrate Sanjay has fixed July 23 as the next date of hearing to record the statement of Bikramjit Singh Brar, General Secretary of the National Consumer Welfare Council, Chandigarh, who filed a criminal complaint against Baba Ramdev and Patanjali Ayurveda Limited for alleged sale and advertising of Ayurvedic drug for the cure of Covid-19. The court also directed to record the statements of witnesses in the case.In the complaint, Bikramjit Singh Brar has alleged that Baba Ramdev had manufactured so-called medicines i.e. tablets and oil as 100 per cent cure for the Covid-19 within three to seven days without obtaining a proper licence from the authorised agency.He has a licence to make drugs for cough and cold only. By holding a press conference, Baba Ramdev has also marketed his medicines and quoted its price at Rs535 and assured its doorstep delivery within seven days of placing the order, which is against the provision of the Drugs and Magical Remedies Act.In the complaint, Bikramjit claimed that by his act, he put the lives of millions of people of the country at risk. People will leave other allopathic treatments and waste crucial 3 to 7 days if they take Baba’s medicines. During this period, the virus would become severe and the affected people would not only die but also become super spreader of the virus, putting the life of several others at risk.Advocate Navjit Brar, appearing for Bikramjit Singh Brar, demanded that a criminal case should be registered for sale of adulterated drugs and attempt to murder under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the Drugs and Magic Remedies Act.Brar said medical products, tablets, pills and capsules containing medicine for diseases and for human consumption could not be advertised without prior permission from the authority appointed by the government.Brar also filed a complaint with the police and demanded to enhance his security alleging that some suspicious persons were seen roaming around his house on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/statements-to-be-recorded-on-july-23-106962
01-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Accused in theft of Rs3-cr luxury vehicles gets bail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 30Was arrested on disclosure of co-accusedWhile granting the bail, the Judge said no recovery was to be effected from the accused, Amit Kumar, who had been confined in custody and trial was likely to take long time.The court of Additional Sessions Judge Rajesh Sharma granted bail to Amit Kumar, an accused in the theft of vehicles worth Rs3 crore. Amit was arrested in June.With the arrest of Ramesh with a stolen Hyundai Creta, the police claimed to have busted a vehicle theft racket. The police claimed to have recovered 18 SUVs from their possession.The police arrested Amit on the disclosure of Ramesh and claimed that the duo would buy stolen SUVs from carjackers in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, and then have RCs made from registration authorities in Haryana for reselling the vehicle.While appearing on the behalf of accused Amit Kumar, advocate Harish Bhardwaj claimed that Amit had been falsely implicated in the case and confined in judicial custody since June 6.He didn’t commit any offence and had been made a scapegoat. He was neither named in the FIR nor any recovery was to be effected from the petitioner.There is no apprehension of tampering with evidence as the case is based on documentary evidence. The petitioner’s wife is in the advanced stage of pregnancy and there is no one to look after her.Presentation of challan and trial of the case will take long time to conclude and no useful purpose will be served by putting him behind the bars.While opposing the bail, the prosecution argued that the stolen vehicle was recovered from the petitioner’s possession. Its engine and chassis numbers were found tampered with and a fake number plate was affixed.He also contended that the investigation was still going on in the case.While granting the bail, the Judge said no recovery was to be effected from the accused, Amit Kumar, who had been confined in custody and trial was likely to take long time.The alleged offence against the accused is triable by the Court of Magistrate. Moreover, it is apparent on recordthat the accused was arrested on the basis of the disclosure statement made by co-accused Ramesh.Hence, admissibility has to be tested during the course of trial.Consequently, keeping in view the facts and circumstances and without commenting upon the merits of the case, the application for the bail is allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-in-theft-of-rs3-cr-luxury-vehicles-gets-bail-106957
01-07-2020||---||Panjab University suspends teaching till July 31||Chandigarh, June 30Panjab University (PU) extended suspension of teaching on the campus till July 31 after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued new guidelines for Unlock 2 last evening.Prof Karamjeet Singh, Registrar, PU, said teachers would continue to work from home and the Chairpersons might call any faculty member as and when required. Further, it was decided that one-third of the non-teaching staff of the university would attend office.In the departments, where the number of non-teaching employees is five or less, the Chairperson may call more than 33 per cent of the staff on duty depending upon the requirement.He said no employee would be allowed to leave the headquarters without permission as services of any employee either teaching or non-teaching staff may be required during this period.The PU Registrar said that teaching would remain suspended in affiliated/constituent colleges till July 31.However, Principals of colleges could call employees as per their requirement.Besides, the affiliated colleges located in Chandigarh and Punjab will follow the guidelines issued by the respective governments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-suspends-teaching-till-july-31-106956
01-07-2020||---||Chandigarh transfers food subsidy into beneficiaries’ account||Chandigarh, June 30Check website for detailsThe beneficiaries can check the details of the registered bank account on the department’s website chdfood.gov.in.For any query or complaint, a toll-free helpline number 1800-180-2079 is in placeThe Department of Food and Supplies, UT, has transferred the monthly food subsidy amount directly into the bank accounts of registered beneficiaries.For July, the registered beneficiaries under the Priority Households Category in Chandigarh will get Rs128.64 per month/per member and the registered Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) beneficiaries will get Rs900.48 per family per month.The department said the subsidy amount was revised by the Government of India from time to time.The department requested the beneficiaries to check their registered bank account in this regard. The beneficiaries can check the details of the registered bank account on the department’s website chdfood.gov.in.For any query or complaint, a toll-free helpline number 1800-180-2079 is in place. The beneficiaries can also contact the District Food and Supplies Officer (DFSO) for redressal of their grievances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-transfers-food-subsidy-into-beneficiaries-account-106955
01-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC to defer recarpeting work till monsoon ends||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 30Though roads are still in a bad condition, the recarpeting work in the city will be stopped in three days due to the monsoon. It will restart in September.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said, “The road recarpeting work will be stopped in around three days due to the monsoon. It will start in September again when the weather will be conducive for recarpeting.”He said recarpeting work worth around Rs23 crore of this year was pending.City roads have been in bad shape for several areas.The work earlier remained stuck due to lack of funds.It was then hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic and now, the latest hurdle is the monsoon.Before starting the work a few weeks ago, the civic body officials had claimed that at least recarpeting on all inner roads would be completed, but that too could not be done.The ongoing monsoon has further increased problems for commuters. Potholes covered with rainwater are causing road accidents. “While riding a bike, we are unable to spot potholes on roads due to stagnant water. It leads to accidents,” said Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Kishangarh. Leader of Opposition in the MC House, Devinder Singh Babla, said, “All roads in the city are broken. Not even a single road has been recarpeted. The MC has failed to do the needful.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-defer-recarpeting-work-till-monsoon-ends-106953
01-07-2020||---||Man robbed at gunpoint||Panchkula, June 30Two unidentified motorcyclists reportedly looted a gold chain and a purse at gunpoint from a youth, owner of a PG accommodation, in Sector 12-A here late last night.The victim told the police that he had come out of the house for some work when two youths came on a bike and looted him at gunpoint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-robbed-at-gunpoint-106952
01-07-2020||Zirakpur||Crocodile, ostrich die at Chhatbir Zoo||Two animals have reportedly died at Chhatbir Zoo here.A 30-year-old crocodile died of a liver problem on Saturday morning, while a three-year-old ostrich died this morning.M Sudhakar, Field Director, Chhatbir Zoo, said the ostrich was seriously injured in a fight with a female ostrich in his cage. Since then, the injured animal was kept under observation of doctors, but it failed to survive, he added.The count of ostriches at the zoo has fallen to three. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crocodile-ostrich-die-at-chhatbir-zoo-106951
01-07-2020||---||86-yr-old man sets himself on fire in Chandigarh, dies||Chandigarh, June 30An 86-year-old man reportedly set himself on fire in the courtyard of his house in Sector 30 here this evening.The victim has been identified as Santosh Singh.The police said the victim’s son-in-law had died due to renal failure in January this year. The victim was in depression since then. He was alone at home when the incident took place.The octogenarian was rushed to the GMCH-32. He succumbed to the injuries during treatment. Police officials said prima facie, no foul play was found in the incident. The victim was living with his son, daughter-in-law and a grandson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/86-yr-old-man-sets-himself-on-fire-in-chandigarh-dies-106950
01-07-2020||---||Scribe dies of Covid, 4th fatality in Mohali||Mohali, June 30A 43-year-old man, a resident of Phase X and anchor of a Punjabi TV channel, died of Covid-19 this morning. He is the fourth fatality due to the novel coronavirus in the district.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the patient was being treated at Ivy Hospital for renal disorders.Manjit Singh said 12 fresh cases of Covid surfaced in various parts of the district today, taking the tally to 271.He said a 37-year-old woman from Baltana and seven men, aged 32, 24, 33, 39, 28, 28 and 20, and an 18-year-old boy, all from Behra village, were found positive for Covid. They are employees of a meat factory at Behra. Five women employees of the factory had tested positive for Covid recently. The factory has been sealed.A 46-year-old man from Lalru, who had returned from Uttar Pradesh, a 25-year-old youth from Phase IV and a 55-year-old man from Dhakoli, a case of influenza-like illness, are others who have been found infected. The new patients have been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.The Civil Surgeon said a 23-year-old youth from Kharar had been cured of Covid and was discharged from the hospital.So far, the district has reported 271 Covid cases. Of these, 197 patients have been cured while four died of the disease. There are 70 active cases.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan today gave a clarion call to residents of the district to download the COVA app on their mobile phones. He said a contest, ‘Mission Fateh Warrior’, had been started and the same was open to those who had downloaded the app on their phones. He said the winners would be honoured with T-shirts and gold, silver and bronze certificates.Dayalan said one had to download the app and join Mission Fateh before registering for the contest. The points would be added to the participant’s account on the basis of uploaded selfies of activities connected with the mission.The participant would get additional points in the event of getting some other person download the app and connect with the mission using his/her own referral code.Six more test +ve for virus in ChandigarhChandigarh: Six new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the city on Tuesday. A 53-year-old man, a 47-year-old woman and a 15-year-old boy from Sector 41 were found infected. They are all community contacts of a Covid patient. Two women, aged 36 and 65, who belong to Sector 23, have tested positive for coronavirus. They are family contacts of a Covid patient living in their house. A 40-year-old man from Dhanas has also contracted the virus. He is a workplace contact of positive cases belonging to Punjab. Meanwhile, 15 persons reportedly recovered from the disease on Tuesday. TNSSector 7 boy contracts virus in Panchkula Panchkula: One more case of Covid was reported from the district on Tuesday, taking its tally to 112. An 18-year-old boy, a resident of Sector 7, has been found positive for the virus. He has been admitted to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scribe-dies-of-covid-4th-fatality-in-mohali-106949
01-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh's call on relaxations today||In line with the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for Unlock 2.0, the curfew timings in the city have been relaxed by an hour. The new curfew timings are from 10 pm to 5 am. The earlier timings were from 9 pm to 5 am.During the night curfew, movement of individuals will remain strictly prohibited except for essential activities, including operation of industrial units in multiple shifts, movement of persons and goods on national and state highways, loading and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes.The new guidelines will come into effect from tomorrow. Manoj Parida, UT Adviser, in his capacity as the chairman of the State Disaster Management Authority, issued the orders on adopting the MHA guidelines, which will remain in force in the city till July 31. As per the guidelines, schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31. Cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will continue to remain closed under Unlock 2.0.There will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movement.However, the UT Administration will take a final call on various other relaxations to be given to the city residents at a meeting tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-call-on-relaxations-today-106947
01-07-2020||---||Mani Majra SHO booked, conduit held for graft||Chandigarh, June 30Blot on khakiThis is the second incident of an FIR being registered against UT cops by the CBI in the past two weeks. On June 17, three cops posted at the Maloya police station were booked for allegedly demanding a bribe from a man by threatening him with implication in a false case.The CBI has registered a case against Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, SHO, Mani Majra police station, and a conduit for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from a man in lieu of not registering a case against him.The conduit, Bhagwan Singh, was nabbed last night while taking a bribe of Rs1 lakh.CBI complainant Gurdeep Singh, a resident of Modern Housing Complex (MHC), reported that on June 5, two cops visited his house and asked him to visit the Mani Majra police station regarding a complaint against him.In his complaint, Gurdeep stated that he called up the SHO on her mobile phone, who told him that a person named Randhir Singh had filed a complaint against him, mentioning that he had taken around Rs28 lakh from him to get his wife a government job.On June 10, Gurdeep visited the police station where the SHO, Bhagwan Singh and Randhir Singh were present.Gurdeep alleged that the SHO told him to return Rs28 lakh to Randhir or she would register a case against him.As per the complaint, the SHO allegedly demanded Rs5 lakh as a bribe for closing the complaint and not registering an FIR. She further threatened to implicate Gurdeep in a false case if the bribe was not paid, stated the complainant.Gurdeep was allegedly told to pay the bribe to Bhagwan Singh. It is alleged that Gurdeep gave Rs2 lakh, the first instalment of the bribe, to Bhagwan Singh at Sangrur on June 19.On June 26, Gurdeep approached the CBI and submitted a complaint, as he did not want to pay the remaining bribe of Rs3 lakh. CBI sleuths verified the complaint and recorded the telephonic conversation between Gurdeep and Bhagwan Singh.After verification, CBI officials found that Bhagwan Singh was demanding Rs3 lakh as a bribe on behalf of the SHO following which a case under Section 120-B of the IPC and Section 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against the SHO and Bhagwan Singh.Bhagwan Singh was arrested last night while taking a bribe of Rs1 lakh after which the CBI sleuths went to the Mani Majra police station and seized some documents. The statement of a cop, who had “written a compromise” between Gurdeep and Randhir, was also recorded. Bhagwan Singh was produced in a CBI court today, which sent him to four-day custody.Cop shifted to Police LinesInspector Jaswinder Kaur was transferred to the Police Lines, Sector 26, on Tuesday and Inspector Neeraj Sarna, posted in the traffic wing, was shifted as the SHO, Mani Majra police station.Inspector Jaswinder Kaur’s name had earlier cropped up in a bribery case in 2017 when Sub-Inspector Mohan Singh, who was posted at the Sector 31 police station, was nabbed by the CBI while allegedly taking a bribe of Rs2 lakh. At that time, Jaswinder was the SHO of the Sector 31 police station. The bribe was allegedly demanded to drop the names of three persons from a case of attempt to murder.Transcript of conversationConduit Chalo payment taa hath vich lae layiye assi, ta fer gal kariye… mainu taa lagda je paise nahin bande, fer ta parcha dawa dena hai tere teComplainant Nahi, tussi meri benti ik suno.. tussi bai ji sab kuchh kar sakde ho...je hun SHO madam nu tussi kuchh kaho..oh tohadi gal taal nahe sakde....main osi kar ke aya c, vee main jaunga, minnat kar launga ik vaari, paeri hath la loonga...es ton utte ta nahi kuchh ho sakdaConduit HuAnother conversation Complainant Hanji bai ji kripa ho gaye...cheque ta clear ho gaya apnaConduit- HuComplainant Monday nu main de dunga...2 lakh da jugad kar dungaConduit Hun aapne kol ek lakh da cheque clear ho gaya?Complainant Lakh da cheque clear ho gaya...Conduit HuComplainant Hun agli gal tussi karni hae saari... hun parche waali gal karke kheda chudwana assiConduit Hu koi gal nai||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mani-majra-sho-booked-conduit-held-for-graft-106946
01-07-2020||---||Gardener done to death in Mohali||Mohali, June 30Painter’s murder: 2 days on, no clueTwo days on, the Balongi police are still clueless about the assailants who killed a painter, Sanjay Yadav, by attacking him with a knife and a brick outside his house. The SHO of the Balongi police station, Amardeep Singh, said, “We are investigating the matter. No lead has been found yet by our teams.”Two days after a painter was murdered at Badmajra, a 35-year-old man, also a migrant worker, was found murdered at Phase 8 here late last night. He was reportedly killed with the handle of a hand pump.The incident came to light around 9 am today when morning walkers informed the police about a body lying behind a liquor vend in an open ground near YPS Chowk here.Police teams, including DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal, Inspector Rajnish Choudhary, ASI Raspreet Singh and Constable Balvinder Singh, reached the spot and initiated an investigation into the matter. The victim was not wearing a shirt.He has been identified as Raja Ram (30), who worked as a gardener-cum-labourer in Mohali. Raja Ram was living with his relatives in Amb Sahib Colony here, said the police.The assailants are yet to be traced by the police. According to the police, the victim was murdered around 1.30 am. He was attacked multiple times with the handle of a hand pump on his face and head.ASI Raspreet Singh said, “The face and head of the victim were disfigured as the assailants had attacked him repeatedly with the handle. The handle, having blood stains, has been recovered from the crime spot. The samples of blood and possible fingerprints have been collected by a forensic team.”DSP Deep Kamal said, “We have started an investigation into the murder. A few persons have been rounded up on suspicion. We will interrogate them for more details.”A case of murder was registered against unknown suspects at the Phase 8 police station today. The police said the victim’s body had been sent to the mortuary of the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 where his postmortem would be conducted tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gardener-done-to-death-in-mohali-106944
