01-04-2020||Chandigarh||10 hurt after Manimajra residents clash with cops over woman’s death||A woman’s collapse and subsequent death in the middle of a street lead to clashes between police and residents of Bangla Colony in Manimajra, police said on Wednesday.Constable Reena Kumari said she and her colleague Sunita were on patrol duty during the ongoing curfew in Shanti Nagar’s Street No 10 they were alerted that a woman had collapsed in the adjourning street. The two found the woman unconscious and waited while a local resident called the emergency number for a PCR and an ambulance.In the meantime, police said, the woman’s family and some residents were informed that she had collapsed while she was being detained for having violated curfew orders. The family and some other residents came armed with sticks and rods and attacked police personnel, forcing the latter to retaliate, police said.  A video of the incident shows some residents throwing rocks at police personnel and the latter using lathis on the residents. Another video doing the rounds shows some residents blocking the path of the ambulance that was called and pelting it with rocks, forcing the driver to speed away from the spot.Police said that the woman was later taken to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 in a PCR vehicle, where doctors declared her brought dead.Four cops---three constables, including the two women, and a sub-inspector---and six locals were wounded in the clash. Among the residents wounded was a 17-year-old, police said.The wounded were taken to the Civil Hospital, Manimajra. An ambulance and a PCR vehicle were also damaged in the incident.Police have registered a case for wrongful restraint (section 341), voluntarily causing hurt (323), criminal intimidation (506), rioting (147 and 148), unlawful assembly for common object (149), causing hurt to prevent public servant from doing his duty (332); assaulting public servant (353), obstructing public servant from discharging duty (186), and disobeying public servant (188) of the Indian Penal Code but have made no arrests.Meanwhile, the cause of the woman’s death is still unclear. When this report was filed,  police were still awaiting results of an autopsy conducted earlier in the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-hurt-after-manimajra-residents-clash-with-cops-over-womans-death-64184
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||49-year-old man tests positive for coronavirus; tally now 16||A 49-year-old man tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday, officials said---a development that takes the number of cases in the city to 16.The newest patient is a resident of Sector 35 who was admitted to an isolation ward in GMSH 16 on March 30, an official said.He did not travel to any coronavirus-hit country, but is believed to have met his relatives who live in Punjab’s Mansa and recently visited Dubai and Singapore.  “He had a typical pneumonia with bilateral pneumonitis.  He has tested positive for nCoV,” an official said, using an abbreviation for novel coronavirus.  Three members of his family have been quarantined. “Information about his contacts in Punjab has been shared (with Punjab’s authorities),” the official said.The latest case brings the total number of coronavirus cases in the city to 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/49-year-old-man-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-tally-now-16-64172
01-04-2020||---||5 Tablighi Jamaat members quarantined in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 1Five members of Tablighi Jamaat who had participated in a congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz have been identified in Chandigarh.They have been quarantined in Infosys Sarai here.More than 2,300 Tablighi Jamaat activists were found to be living at the organisation's headquarters at Nizamuddin Markaz and they were evicted from the premises in last three days.As many as 617 of them were hospitalised for showing COVID-19 symptoms, while the rest were placed under quarantine. With agencies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-tablighi-jamaat-members-quarantined-in-chandigarh-64164
01-04-2020||---||Five more test positive for coronavirus in Punjab; state tally 46||Mohali, April 1With five more coronavirus positive cases reported on Wednesday, the total in Punjab has now jumped to 46. Four deaths have been reported from the state.A case each was reported from Ludhiana and Amritsar.Of the new cases, three were reported from Mohali. With this the total number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 11.According to information, two of these new cases are from Phase 9, who were in contact with the NRI couple of Chandigarh, while the third is from Jagatpura village.The 45-year-old Jagatpura man was in contact with the 22-year-old man of Sector 30 in Chandigarh, who had returned from Dubai and tested positive on March 27.Also read: First Covid-19 death in tricityThe woman (60) and her granddaughter (9) are mother and daughter respectively, of the NRI couple who had tested positive on March 30.Confirming this, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all three positive cases were in contact with the Chandigarh cases.Also read: Panchkula staff nurse tests positive, district count twoHe said they had been admitted to the isolation ward at Gyan Sagar Hospital in Banur and are stable. He said they had also taken samples from the affected areas for testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-punjab-state-tally-46-64136
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||When wild out of woods, stars start 'twinkling' in Chandigarh||The chuckling mountains and wildlife are so far away yet so near with COVID-19 clearing the air, literally! The sweeping views of Shivalik hills, which normally remain screened owing to a thick haze for people of Chandigarh, now looks all the brighter and cheerful with reduced pollution levels giving a clearer view with the strict lockdown to limit the spread of coronavirus.The phenomenon is limited not just to the hilly areas, but even in places situated on the foothills like Chandigarh.For octogenarian resident Naresh Khullar, who spent his entire life in the city, the sight of hilltop Kasauli lights was always rejuvenating.But he had to travel all the way to the rain-fed Sukhna Lake, which the Punjab and Haryana High Court last month declared as the living entity, to see the twinkling lights just for a few days during the peak monsoon season when the pollutants in the air largely washed away.But now the refurbished car seller told IANS that he can see the mountains in a new light from his home in Sector 18, reminiscing the days of crystal clear skies of the city till early 1980s.Chandigarh, some 250 km from the national capital Delhi, is located on the foothills of Shivaliks that are currently prone to heavy erosion."Now we can say 'taare zameen par' as they visible from my terrace," another resident and university student Deepak Bhasin said.He said the brightest seven stars, which are visible to the naked eye, are also visible these days, indicating drastic reduction in vehicular pollution."My grandfather used to tell him that they were once clearly visible in Chandigarh's skyline. But this is the first time in my 25 years that I am seeing these stars and that too so clear," an excited Bhasin said, adding "We are now counting stars during night".Another resident Atul Nehra believes the Milky Way bulge and COVID-19 will simultaneously disappear. "But till then I want to savour it every night." For another resident Mohan Jain, who served as one of the Additional Solicitor General of India, the lockdown has done which no government plan to save the environment could do."The countrywide lockdown and subsequent travel restrictions have done what scheme like the odd-even of a traffic rationing in Delhi could never do," Jain said.The air quality index (AQI) of Chandigarh on March 31 was 40, a good range.As per the Central Pollution Control Board, the AQI level of the city on March 29 was 17, the cleanest air among India's 101 towns and cities.Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee Member Secretary T.C. Nautiyal said this was probably the lowest level in 8-10 years.Nautiyal attributed the good air quality to the massive decline in vehicular pollution levels.With the tighter restrictions around social movement, Chandigarh, ringed around the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary, is getting its guests out of woods.Residents are spotting herds of the nilgai or the blue bull and the sambar, a large deer, strolling late in the evening in residential localities near the Sukhna Lake.A leopard strayed into a plush residential area in Chandigarh on Monday morning, triggering panic among people.The feline was trapped by forest officials after hectic efforts of over five hours. The next day forest official spotted pugmarks of a leopard in another sector.The Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary spreads over 2,600 hectares and is situated at one km in the north-east of the manmade Sukhna Lake that came into being in 1958.It is home to a variety of butterflies, birds and mammals like the sambar, the spotted deer, the pangolin, the wild boar, the jackal, the small Indian civet, the jungle cat, the porcupine, the langur, the rhesus monkey, the Indian hare, the common mongoose, etc.It is also home to a variety of reptiles including snakes like the cobra, the rat snake, the common krait, the Russell's viper and the Indian python. — IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/when-wild-out-of-woods-stars-start-twinkling-in-chandigarh-64133
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Wildlife officials clueless about leopard in Chandigarh's Sector 44, ask residents to stay alert||Search operation were underway on Wednesday in Sector 44 as fear of a leopard prowling around the city continues with the administration having no idea about the wild cat. A senior forest officer has asked the residents to stay indoors and remain alert.On Tuesday, also, the administration had asked the residents in the city's southern sectors to stay indoors after there were reports of a leopard being sighted in the area.Police were also using drone-fitted with camera to conduct the search.On Monday, too, a leopard was spotted in Chandigarh's upscale Sector 5 residential area, following which it was rescued by forest and wildlife officials.With people staying indoors during the 21-day nationwide lockdown to check the spread of COVID-19, wild animals, including endangered ones, have been spotted on the deserted streets at several places in the country over the past few days.Stags have also been seen crossing roads in the northern Sectors of Chandigarh in the recent days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wildlife-officials-clueless-about-leopard-in-chandigarhs-sector-44-ask-residents-to-stay-alert-64119
01-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh PGI nursing staff fear for safety; demand safety gear||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 1The recent case wherein 36 health workers at PGIMER were exposed to virus for treating covid patients sans safety gear has resulted in fear among the nursing staff of PGIMER as one among them today tested positive.A nursing officer said, “The nursing staff kept on emphasising that the patient has symptoms of covid and some protective gear should be provided to them, but to no avail. Doctors are dealing from a distance and it is the nursing staff who are dealing with patients closely within one metre distance where aerosols remain.”A letter written by the all nursing officer to Director, PGI, reads, “The patient was intubated by the health team, including a junior resident and nursing officer, without PPE, N95 mask as he was suffering from ARDS. On March 29, he was found positive. Due to this mistake, all staff of Emergency Medicine Ward – 22 has been exposed. There is a common washroom for EMW-22, EMW ortho and ortho OT. The covid patient had roamed in all these areas.”“We have no time to ask for travel history from a patient who comes to the emergency gasping for air. Our role is to give immediate vital signs and by that time we get exposed. We are working in the same clothes we wear from our respective homes. We know that PPE cannot be provided to us and hence we have demanded N95 masks, disposal gowns, and head caps,” said a nursing officer.The PGI Nurses Welfare Association has demanded PPE, N95 and Prophylaxis treatment to health workers working in ATC OPC, Emergency OPD, ES OPD, APC Emergency, CCU, Eye Emergency as workers have to attend covid patient in these areas.Demand for respiratory illness and covid centre at PGIDr Uttam Thakur of PGIMER said, “We have demanded that at local level, patients coming with respiratory illness should be diagnosed at Nehru Extension centre. The patients may be Covid positive, high suspect, low suspect or with any respiratory illness.”Dr Thakur added, “The guidelines may be changed when community spread will be proved. The medical fraternity is of the opinion that only complete lockdown can help check spread of the disease. There is a need for active testing along with lockdown. But there is limitation in testing facility. Many asymptomatic people will be infecting others as they will act as carrier.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-pgi-nursing-staff-fear-for-safety-demand-safety-gear-64112
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||413 rounded up for violating curfew||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/413-rounded-up-for-violating-curfew-64013
01-04-2020||---||126 shelter homes set up in Haryana, says Speaker Gian Chand Gupta||Panchkula, March 31Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today inspected temporary shelter homes set up at Government Higher Secondary School, Barwala, and Sector 17, Panchkula, for the needy.The Speaker said 126 temporary shelter homes have been set up in the state where over 10,000 migrant workers will be provided shelter and food.He said along with providing food, social distancing is also being practiced at these shelters. Gupta said, “Shelter homes are being sanitised regularly under the supervision of the Health Department.”He said sarpanch Rajinder Goyal and residents of Barwala village have been distributing 2,500 food packets to migrants.Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said arrangements have been made for stay of 998 migrants in the shelter homes.The Deputy Commissioner said 12 temporary shelter homes have been set up in the district. He said 47 labourers have been kept at Barwala and 52 workers at at Sector 17.Besides, 86 migrants have been kept at a shelter home in Kalka and 27 in Marranwala, 60 at Government Primary School, Sector 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/126-shelter-homes-set-up-in-haryana-says-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-64011
01-04-2020||---||Panchkula MC starts sanitisation drive||Panchkula, March 31The Panchkula Municipal Corporation has started a sanitisation drive in the city in the wake of the Covid-19 scare. A total of five vehicles have been pressed into service.Sumedha Kataria, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said apart from two vehicles of the MC, a fire tender and two tractor-tankers are being used to sanitise the city.She said spraying has been done in Sector 1 to Sector 4, MDC Sector 4 and Sector 5 and Rajiv colony in Sector 17, besides Kalka today.She said spray will be done in Sectors 4 to 7 and MDC Sectors 6 and 8 and in Pinjore on Wednesday.Spray will be done in Sectors 9, 10, 11, 14, 19, 20 and 21 on April 2; Sectors 15, 16, 24 and 25 and Industrial Area Phase-1, and Khadak Mangauli will be sanitised on April 3; Sectors 12, 12 A, Sector 26, 27, Sakthdi and Madanpur on April 4; Sector 22, 28, 29, Amravati Enclave, Nada Sahib, Surajpur and Chandimandir will be sanitised on April 5.On April 6, sanitisation will be held in Sector 20, Fatehpur, Sector 23, Maheshpur, Sector 30 and Sector 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-starts-sanitisation-drive-64010
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration to organise langar for poor||In order to provide food to the needy in the wake of the Covid-19 scare, the UT Administration has decided to hold langars along with social organisations.Pankaj Jain, senior standing counsel, UT, said prior to the lockdown, the UT Adminstration was providing cooked food to 1,000 persons in colonies for Rs 10 under the Annapurna Akshaypatra Scheme. He said said the lockdown, the number of packets have been increased to over 35,000 and it has been made optional whether someone wants to pay or not.“However, due to the active participation of social organisations who are also distributing food the efforts were doubled which led to hoarding of food,” he said and added that the entire system will be integrated. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-organise-langar-for-poor-63779
01-04-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Special goods train carries consignment of rice||A special goods train took consignment of rice from Sirhind railway station today. The Deputy Commissioner allowed loading after all precautions were taken in the wake of Covid-19 scare. Ramandeep Singh, manager, Food Corporation of India, said consignment of rice was loaded on a special goods train.  He said the Rice Millers’ Association, Sirhind, provided masks and hand sanitisers to labourers and the entire staff of the FCI. He said the FCI will load trains with essentials depending on the demand. Inderjit Singh Sandhu, president, Rice Millers’ Association, thanked the Indian Railways and the Deputy Commissioner . — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/special-goods-train-carries-consignment-of-rice-63777
01-04-2020||---||Shops in Sector 26 mandi to open on alternate days||Chandigarh, March 31To maintain social distancing, half of the fruit and vegetable wholesale shops at the Sector 26 grain market will open on alternate days.As per order of the UT Administration, only half of the shops will be allowed to open on one day. The other half will open the next day. Grocery shops with even shop numbers will open on even dates and odd shop numbers will open on odd dates. All other types of shops like bardana shops, gadda shed, etc., will remain closed.Odd, even patternAs per order of the UT Administration, only half of the shops will be allowed to open on one day. The other half will open the next day. Grocery shops with even shop numbers will open on even dates and odd shop numbers will open on odd dates. All other types of shops like bardana shops, gadda shed, etc., will remain closed.The orders will come into effect from April 2 and will remain in force till further orders.Daily loading of 60 CTU buses for sectoral grid has been staggered into three batches. Loading of 60 CTU buses for peripheral areas will be done from the CCET Sector 26 ground in two shifts. The vendor concerned will send trucks of vegetables like onion, potato, etc., to the CCET Sector 26 ground. Only one entry and one exit from th mandi will be allowed to regulate vehicles.The number of rehris entering the mandi at a time will be restricted. This number will be decided on a day-to-day basis as per the ground situation.The order also prohibits the entry of individual customers to the mandi. No cars will be allowed to enter the mandi at all.The mandi will be closed for 3 hours daily in which the Municipal Corporation will carry out its thorough sanitisation daily.The order further directs no one is allowed to enter or move inside the mandi without a mask.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shops-in-sector-26-mandi-to-open-on-alternate-days-63775
01-04-2020||---||Bank, postal services to continue, orders Mohali District Magistrate||Mohali, March 31District Magistrate Girish Dayalan today ordered that the postal services in the district would continue uninterrupted.He also said banks, including treasury/currency chests can continue functioning with minimum staff and normal banking hours as per directions of the government which should be ensured by branch manager concerned. However, no public dealing shall be allowed and the banks shall be operational only for servicing the supply lines of essential services.The District Magistrate said employees of the bank should only be allowed to go to work and return/or on official bank duty on production of relevant bank ID. He further said any violation of curfew by bank employees for using their IDs for any other work, shall render them liable for penal action.Dayalan further informed that operation of brick-kilns and industrial units have been allowed on the condition that they have adequate provisions to accommodate all persons required to work inside the premises and provide place to stay and food to the said persons. Furthermore, once inside all persons engaged in the said premises shall remain inside for the period of the curfew/lockdown, he added.The District Magistrate said the GM, Industries, should verify all such proposals made by the individual industry and issue necessary curfew movement passes for the one time and permission to start operations on these conditions. He also emphasised that social distancing guidelines must be followed.He further said eateries, bakeries and food preparation (tiffin service, etc) could operate in the district but for home delivery purposes only. No restaurants should be opened, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-postal-services-to-continue-orders-mohali-district-magistrate-63774
01-04-2020||Our Correspondent||13 vehicles impounded for curfew violation in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, March 31The police rounded up several people and impounded 13 vehicles for roaming in the city for violating curfew orders issued by the state government to prevent the spread of Covid-19. All people were later released.The police laid nakas in different parts of the city to implement the enforcement of curfew orders during which they stopped several vehicles.Zirakpur SHO Gurwant Singh said after witnessing a number of vehicles on roads despite the lockdown, the police, along with the the traffic cops, initiated a drive to stop vehicles and question the driver about the reason behind coming out on the road.Drive initiatedZirakpur SHO Gurwant Singh said after witnessing a number of vehicles on roads despite the lockdown, the police, along with the the traffic cops, initiated a drive to stop vehicles and question the drivers about the reasons behind coming out on the road.The SHO said a majority of them were moving without passes. Therefore, their vehilces were impounded. The police had already tightened control in order to bring down the movement of vehicles as a precautionary measure.Gurwant Singh said nakas had been laid in various parts of the city. Only those who gave convincing replies and those who carry passes were allowed to cross the barricades.Police officials said vehicles of those involved in repeated offences were impounded in order to send a strong message. Only the movement of goods and of those involved in the delivery of essential services was allowed during the lockdown.The officials called on all citizens to adhere to the orders issued in accordance with the law, which will be strictly monitored with zero tolerance to ensure full implementation.On March 24, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced a complete lockdown across the country for 21 days, asserting that social distancing is the only way out for the country in its decisive battle against Covid-19.40 vehicles impounded in MohaliMohali: The Mohali police today impounded around 40 vehicles and issued challans to curfew violators. The Mataur, Balongi, Phase 1 and Phase 11 police issued challans and impounded the vehicles of violators at various nakas in the city.Inspector Rajiv Kumar, Station House Officer of the Mataur police station, said: “Today, we impounded 20 vehicles at nakas between Phase 3B2 and Phase 7. None of the vehicle owners were having curfew passes. We will keep a check on vehicles.”Superintendent of Police (Traffic) Kesar Singh said: “We appeal to all residents that they should cooperate with us in this critical situation. Imposing hefty fines is not the solution to this problem. Residents should remain inside their houses.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-vehicles-impounded-for-curfew-violation-in-zirakpur-63773
01-04-2020||A Correspondent||Mohali gurdwara serves langar to over 3,000 daily||Mohali, March 31Gurdwara Shri Kalghidhar Singh Sabha in Phase 4 here is serving langar to around 3,000 persons daily. The gurdwara is also providing food packets to needy persons, including migrant labourers, PG students and government officials, on the doorstep.Gurdwara president Bhai Jatinderpal Singh said food packets were being delivered through eight vehicles in various parts of the district. A team of volunteers had been made, which coordinates with residents through phone calls.“Several migrant labourers and students were stuck here due to the 21-day nationwide lockdown. They are facing a lot of problems. We are putting our best efforts to provide food to all hungry and needy people. Besides food packets, we are also distributing Vitamin-C and multivitamin tablets among residents,” said Bhai Jatinderpal Singh.He said today also their team members delivered food in various areas, including Sante Majra village, Sector 94 and Zirakpur, on the vehicles of the gurdwara.“Members, who are serving langar to residents inside the gurdwara premises, are following all norms. Social distancing is being maintained and masks and sanitisers are also being used by everyone,” he said.The gurdwara president said: “If anyone needs food, he/she can us at 9876048000”.Shivalik residents extend help to the needyKharar: Daily wagers and migrant labourers are bearing the brunt of the nationwide lockdown. To support them in this time of succour, the residents of Shivalik Avenue, Sector 125, Kharar, with the help of Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain and under the guidance of their society president and general secretary are providing cash, ration, milk, sanitisers and other daily need items to nearby area such as Jhungia, Jandpura, Halarpura, where the workers and labourers are residing. SDM Kharar Himanshu Jain said he is ready to help anyone in this hour of the need anytime needed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-gurdwara-serves-langar-to-over-3-000-daily-63772
01-04-2020||Saurabh Malik---||Virtual hearing suffers disconnect between HC, lawyers||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, March 31 The Punjab and Haryana High Court’s move to hear urgent cases through videoconferencing in view of the Covid outbreak appears to have suffered a disconnect between its offices and lawyers wanting to file petitions. Available information suggests the procedure adopted by the High Court for virtual hearing of matters requires the advocates or the clients to deposit hard copies of the writ petitions in the “DRR” section for allotment of “registration number”. Submission of hard copies essentially requires a visit to the High Court, which is virtually out of bound for the lawyers and the litigants because of the ongoing curfew. To make the matters worse, online request for curfew/movement pass, too, is being declined — at least this is what city-based lawyer HC Arora says. He claims he has been struggling since Monday evening for finding out a solution of his predicament arising out of the procedure adopted by the High Court. Its officer-on-special duty (listing) verbally told him that he would have to manage and deposit in the “DRR” section two hard copies of the PIL he proposed to file as per the current procedure in case it was allowed to be heard. Eventually, the hearing would be held through videoconferencing. Faced with the situation, Arora says he made frantic efforts for issuance of curfew/movement pass on the Chandigarh Administration portal. But to his utter surprise, he received an SMS from the office of the UT District Magistrate saying his request for the movement pass had been rejected. He was also advised to use online facility for filing petition. Arora, in response, sent a representation by e-mail to the office of the UT DC/DM requesting that the decision to reject his application for the issuance of curfew/movement pass be reconsidered, as online facility for filing petition was not available and hard copies had to be personally deposited in the “DRR” section. In response, he received another SMS asking him to call up on a certain phone number. The official concerned then told him that reconsideration was not possible. Arora says he, meanwhile, received an email from the HC Registrar saying his request had been rejected by the Bench. Arora adds: “In the absence of a solution to the procedural hurdle arising out of the communication gap between the HC administration and the Chandigarh Administration, the special attempt being made by the Benches to hear extremely urgent cases during the lockdown period through videoconferencing cannot achieve the desired success”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virtual-hearing-suffers-disconnect-between-hc-lawyers-63771
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||School’s academic session starts online||Students and parents of Shemford Futuristic School, Pinjore, were told about Covid-19 and precautions to be taken through various circulars and posters. The school is reaching out to students digitally. WhatsApp groups have been made for teachers and parents.  Parents are being guided to help children utilise the time in a fruitful manner. For Classes X and XII, the online teaching for the new session began on March 25.  The results for the previous session were displayed on the school ERP. The regular classes for students from Class I to IX will begin on April 1. The staff is preparing PPTs for online lessons that shall be shared with the students as per the schedule. These will be supplemented with assignments and worksheets to strengthen the understanding of the concepts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/schools-academic-session-starts-online-63770
01-04-2020||---||Mohali witnesses panic booking of LPG cylinders||Mohali, March 31 Residents in Mohali district are apparently booking LPG cylinders in a state of panic as rumours about the shortage of cooking gas are doing rounds on the social media. Despite assurance by the district administration, residents continue to book LPG cylinders causing problems for the gas agency to supply cylinders in time. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said people of Mohali city have been supplied with 87,454 LPG cylinders through 31 gas agencies from March 23 to March 30.  In the wake of huge demand triggered due to panic, Dayalan assured people there was no shortage of LPG cylinders as sufficient stock was available in the district. He exhorted public not to panic. He said directions had been issued to gas agencies not to undertake second booking for a gas cylinder refill from an LPG connection holder/consumer before two weeks. This has been done to prevent hoarding. He cautioned that if anybody indulges in the hoarding of essential supplies, strict action would be taken. Manoj B Nangia, General Secretary, All-India LPG Distributors Federation, North-West Region, has stated that oil company plants, their staff, transporters and the delivery crew were working tirelessly to replenish the stock of cylinders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-witnesses-panic-booking-of-lpg-cylinders-63769
01-04-2020||Mohali||CGC distributes cooked meal||Extending a helping hand to daily wagers, the Chandigarh Group of Colleges, Landran, has volunteered to supply cooked meals in the neighboring villages.  Food was prepared at the college mess and was distributed among the needy near the Landran main chowk and at Sky Rock City, Mohali. Considering it as the institution’s social responsibility to reach out to the underprivileged sections of society, more than 200 packed meals were given to daily wagers and their families during the drive that will continue to distribute food in nearby villages amid the lockdown. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cgc-distributes-cooked-meal-63768
01-04-2020||---||PU alumni step up, offer counselling||Chandigarh, March 31 At a time when Panjab University (PU), like several other academic institutions, is grappling with the Covid-induced lockdown, the university’s alumni association has offered a helping hand to the university. The Panjab University Alumni Association (PUAA), along with Social Substance, has formed a team of professionals to assist city people with guidance and counselling. About 19 experts, including spiritual healers, counsellors and mahavastu experts, have been appointed for counselling and guiding people through phone calls or on WhatsApp. For medical advice, a physician has been roped in and five psychotherapists have been made available. Social sctivist Vikas Luthra would look into animal-related distress and Vikram Singh, PU security officer, may be contacted for security and items of daily needs at the PU. About seven people have been appointed for anxiety and friendly discussion. Prof Deepti Gupta, Dean, Alumni Relations, said: “We were feeling concerned as there are several research scholars here, along with the elderly. When we came up with the idea, 100 people volunteered. If you’re feeling lost or nervous, you can come and talk to us.” She added: “In two days, we received calls from about 40-50 people. We got maximum calls from youngsters, especially those in colleges wondering when will their semester get over and also enquiries from schoolchildren about their exams and results have been received.” Currently, three homes on the PU campus have been quarantined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-alumni-step-up-offer-counselling-63767
01-04-2020||---||UIPS initiates online classes||Chandigarh, March 31 The University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), PU, has also initiated online classes for students through collective sessions.  The faculty was not leaving any stone unturned for arranging/scheduling daily online classes through various platforms, said Prof Kanwaljit Chopra, Chairperson. Google Classrooms have been created for MPharm and BPharm students. The faculty is uploading lecture material/ relevant notes in the form of audiovisuals, PowerPoint presentations with voiceovers, articles, live interactions, sending MP3 files, PDFs, word documents and videos, she said. Assignments were being given to students regularly. All members are in contact with the respective class representatives and immediate queries of students are being addressed through WhatsApp/email.  Some of the faculty members are using Zoom application for video conferencing with a limited number of PhD and postgraduate scholars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uips-initiates-online-classes-63766
01-04-2020||---||Charitable foundation gives ration to 500 families across Chandigarh||Chandigarh, March 31 The Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation distributed essentials among the needy here today.  BJP leader Sanjay Tandon, founder of the foundation, said in the past five days, 500 families in Mani Majra, Baltana, Sector 32, Pulsora, Economically Weaker Section in Dhanas, Sector 45, Ramdarbar, Bapudham, Shahpur Colony, Sector 38 (West), Kishangarh, Indira Colony, Mauli complex, Vikas Nagar, Sarangpur, Sector 39, Sector 40, Sector 52, Kajehri, Hallomajra, Behlana, had been given one-month ration through the initiative.  The ration was also distributed among the specially- abled in Cheshire Home in Sector 21 and the Mother Terressa Mission in Sector 23. The items distributed were flour, rice, sugar, pulses, turmeric, ghee, tea, salt, cumin, coriander, fennel, boondi-pakodi, soya bean, gram flour, potato, onion, saunf and pickle.  He said in the challenging circumstances, all people of the country must abide by the directions of the government and the Administration.  He said the foundation would continue to serve to the best of its ability.  The foundation was founded in the memory of the former Governor of Chhattisgarh, Balramji Dass Tandon. The mission of the society is to relentlessly serve society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/charitable-foundation-gives-ration-to-500-families-across-chandigarh-63765
01-04-2020||---||RWA offers services to UT||Chandigarh, March 31 In the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA), Modern Housing Complex, Mani Majra, has formed a task force of young men for helping the elderly. The RWA has written to the UT Adviser to allow them to serve during the lockdown. “Our RWA can be utilised in certain fields in association with civic officials to tide over the present crisis arising from the Covid-19 threat. While the UT Administration is evidently doing its best in the present situation, the RWA has young men who are volunteering to render services, “ said Colonel Gursewak Singh (retd), president, RWA. “The force is attending to the immediate needs of those above 80 years of age and or the elderly living alone. It may work in tandem with the police to ensure social distancing in markets. If the proposal is approved, we will be able to do our part,” added the letter addressed to the Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rwa-offers-services-to-ut-63764
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||On a selfless mission||A resident of Khuda Ali Sher village has been feeding the needy for the past 10 days. Ranjit Singh, who is into electrical work, has been feeding 500 persons in morning and 500 in evening with the support of a local youth.  Besides, he has been visiting different places carrying food in his car. “Wherever I see a needy person, I give food to him/her. To the employees, I give food in packets and those who are at homes are given food in utensils,” said Ranjit Singh. “The langar is prepared at a vacant building in Khuda Lahora. ‘Pulao’, chappati and ‘sabzi’ is being given to them. For me, there is no Hindu, Muslim or Sikh, whosoever is needy, I provide them with food. I am doing this for the sake of humanity,” said Ranjit Singh while on his way to feed people in this rainy evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-a-selfless-mission-63763
01-04-2020||---||5-kg wheat to each BPL family member for 3 months: Admn||Chandigarh, March 31The UT Administration has decided to give 5-kg wheat (per person per month for three months) and 1-kg pulses (per family per month for three months) to the BPL population in the city.This was announced by Manoj Parida, Adviser, during a review meeting presided over by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, along with senior officials of the tricity, to review the prevailing situation.The Administrator inaugurated a newly developed android-based mobile app, “CHDCOVID”. It will be a single-point platform which will provide all information related to Covid-19.Nazuk Kumar, Director IT, presented an application for inauguration to the Administrator. It has been developed in-house by the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC). Now, residents of Chandigarh can have access to all guidelines, orders and notifications issued by the Administration and Centre.Mayor Raj Bala Malik gave a cheque for Rs 50 lakh, for which regular employees of the MC have contributed their one-day salary, to the Governor.Finance Secretary AK Sinha said all banks and ATMs are being kept open. During relaxation hours, people can queue up and avail of the facility while maintaining social distance.KK Yadav, Commissioner, MCC, said mobile ration shops have now been introduced for catering to the needs of out-lying areas in Dhanas and Maloya, including EWS colonies. He said Markfed, Punjab Agro and HAFED will start door-to-door delivery of all groceries items at reasonable rates. The Commissioner clarified that Metro and Best Price will provide Chandigarh retailers with supplies on a regular basis.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Brar said the demand for packed cooked food is increasing by the day. Yesterday, a total of 34,329 packets were distributed among the poor and needy through mobile vans. Anyone who intends to contribute can contact the Deputy Commissioner office.The Director General of Police presented pictures taken through a drone during the curfew in the city. The Governor directed him to implement the sealing of borders to make sure that no migrant labour travels outside Chandigarh, which may lead to the spread of infection. The Administrator advised Panchkula and Mohali to reduce the number of passes as it was creating unnecessary crowd and congestion in Chandigarh.The Administrator appealed to the residents that they must stay indoors and avail of the facilities being given by the Administration for door-to-door delivery. He appealed to the citizens to respect the curfew.Driving licenceAll driving licences, fitness certificates and permits of vehicles which lapsed on or after February 1 and could not be renewed due to the lockdown will be treated valid till June 30.Pay full salary to staffThe Administration has issued orders to private establishments to pay full salary to all casual, contractual or regular employees who are forced to stay at home during the lockdown.CHB employees donate Rs6.44LThe Covid-19 outbreak has created great distress in society. The Chandigarh Administration is making all sincere efforts to deal with the health and economic issues. Employees of the Chandigarh Housing Board are voluntary contributing one-day salary for this cause. Accordingly an amount of Rs 6.44 lakh has been collected and will be deposited in the relief fund of the Administrator, said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-kg-wheat-to-each-bpl-family-member-for-3-months-admn-63762
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||Support sought for newspaper vendors||Newspapers distributors in the tricity today urged residents for their support. Ashwani Kumar, president, Samachar Patra Vikreta Sangh, Panchkula, said the vendors had been serving the readers of the tricity for long. He appealed to them to support and encourage the vendors, who had been supplying them newspapers all these years. Vijay Kumar of the Mohali Samachar Patra Vikreta Sangh urged the readers to pay heed to the assurances given by the Prime Minister and well-known doctors that newspapers were safe and there was no risk of catching an infection from these.   Madan Sharma, president, Samachar Vikreta Sangh, Chandigarh, and Harpreet Singh, president, Newspaper Vendors Association, Mohali, reminded people that these were testing times for everybody, including vendors’ families. They appealed to the readers to pay their monthly newspaper bills to the vendors, preferably through the digital mode. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/support-sought-for-newspaper-vendors-63755
01-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Two more Chandigarh residents test +ve||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 31Two more Covid-19 cases were reported from the city today, taking the tally to 15.A 32-year-old nursing officer at the emergency medicine ward of the PGIMER tested positive for the virus. He was infected after coming in contact with the 65-year-old man from Nayagaon (near Chandigarh), who died of Covid-19 today.The nursing officer was attending to him without safety equipment for three consecutive days. A resident of Sector 38, he had been visiting his home on these three days. His wife and one-month-old baby have been put under home quarantine.The nursing officer developed symptoms like sore throat, following which he was tested for Covid.The Nayagaon patient was admitted to the emergency medicine ward on March 25 for SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) initially. He was initially being tested for H1N1 and when he tested negative for the virus, he was tested for Covid. The testing protocols exposed over 36 health workers in the PGI.The second Covid case that surfaced today is of a 40-year-old resident of Sector 49, who was sampled at Mayo Hospital in Mohali. He has tested positive for the virus. He came in contact with a person who had returned from Canada. He is a doctor at the Mohali hospital.His five primary contacts have been traced and put under home quarantine. Five more contacts of the patient have been admitted in the Mohali hospital.Besides, a total of 45 contacts of the Nayagaon patient have been traced by the PGIMER, of which 26 are from Chandigarh and 19 from Punjab.Meanwhile, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today said the home quarantine notices pasted in front of houses will be removed after 14 days, yet the residents were advised to maintain distance from the houses and stay indoors during the curfew period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-chandigarh-residents-test-ve-63790
01-04-2020||Mona||It’s time to help & rejuvenate: Neelam Mansingh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, March 31See how a virus has connected the entire world, points out Neelam Mansingh Chowdhry on the Covid-19 pandemic.She spent the entire afternoon trying to transfer money to her artistes, sending ration packs to their families and raising money for organisations helping those left in the dire straits due to the current circumstances. “It’s not the time to think about oneself,” said the theatre thespian, who is taking this period of self-isolation rather positively. While it is not possible not to feel about migrants forced to walk for miles without food or protection, she is helping those she can reach out to.Mansingh is taking things with a perspective to have time that each one needs to “renew and rejuvenate”.Her mornings begin with a cup of tea and newspapers that have started coming recently. She is taking delight in cooking and reaching out to the books that she had wanted to read but hadn’t so far.Much of the day goes in ensuring being there when a rehriwala shows up or a van brings provisions. “Not to miss supplies is a new chore that keeps one on the toes,” she laughs. Now that provisions aren’t easily available, there is a whole lot of experimenting going on in the kitchen. “One doesn’t unnecessarily want to spend on so-called luxury items anymore. So, I try to make do with whatever is readily available.”Also, she sees it as a great time for relationships. In particular, she is happy that her son is with her. “We watch a film a day. He intends to create a patch in the lawn for us to grow vegetables.” In films, while old classics are revisited, lately they have seen “Cold War” by Polish filmmaker Pawel Pawlikowski whose “Ida” won the Oscar for the Best Film Not in the English Language. Then there was “Loveless” and “V for Vendetta”. “Both of them are very interesting; the latter very prophetic, indeed.”Mansingh points out how people are so dependent on the external world and external energy in day-to-day life. “I am sort of interacting with my own self, own space, uncertainties, fragilities and strengths. I find the whole process very renewing.”First a deer, then a leopard spotted not far from where she lives. She sees it as the nature reclaiming its space. “We have been so self-centered and really callous on how we have ravaged the nature. Now, we are caged in our homes and the nature is having its way. What a nice role reversal!”How one virus has forged fresher bonds; intellectual, spiritual and political connections are being made. “Diljit Ami has set up this whole organisation. I am trying to raise money. Deepa Mehta and Lisa Ray have been lending their hand to NGOs helping those in turmoil.”All in all, it is a humbling experience that Mansingh sees as a wake-up call. “Time’s a very strange creature, whether one has all the time on hand like the situation we are in, or limited, external processes or internal, it just gallops,” she said while hoping that this intervention brings the slowly fading humanity back!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-time-to-help-rejuvenate-neelam-mansingh-63757
01-04-2020||---||Curfew in Chandigarh to continue till April 14||Chandigarh, March 31Curfew will continue in Chandigarh till April 14 during the 21-day nationwide lockdown announced by the Prime Minister.Manoj Parida, Adviser to the UT Administrator, said, “We follow the directions of the Government of India. The curfew will continue during the 21-day lockdown.”On March 23, the UT Administration had decided to impose a curfew in the city from the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday till further orders to prevent the spread of Covid-19.With the imposition of the curfew, all residents were required to stay indoors.However, relaxation in the curfew was given to the residents for the purchase of essential items from the nearest grocery stores from time to time. The Administration also uploaded the list of grocery and chemist shops for delivery of essential food items and medicines on the doorstep of the residents.With the passage of time, the Administration gave relaxation in the curfew to streamline the supply of milk, fruits, vegetables and other essential commodities. The Administration also pressed into service CTU buses for the supply of fruits and vegetables in various sectors and the periphery of the city. After a week of the clampdown of the curfew, the supply of essential commodities was near normal in the city.A 24x7 control room number — 112 — was set up for answering queries/calls made by the general public in Chandigarh. Meanwhile, Parida said post offices would remain open during the curfew period, but with a skeletal staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curfew-in-chandigarh-to-continue-till-april-14-63756
01-04-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula staff nurse tests positive, district count two||With the surfacing of another Covid positive case in Panchkula, the total number of cases has risen to two in the district.The patient is a staff nurse and has been kept in an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, said the staff nurse had been home-quarantined after she was found symptomatic. Her condition deteriorated about two days ago and was admitted to the hospital. Her samples were sent for testing to the PGI and the report confirmed that she was suffering from Covid.Dr Jasjeet Kaur said investigations would be held regarding her family and the people who had come in her contact and their samples would also be sent for testing. She said enquiries had revealed that the staff nurse, who was on duty in the isolation ward set up for Covid patients, had possibly touched the mobile phone of a Covid positive patient, a resident of Kharag Mangoli.She said they had decided to give training to the staff posted in the isolation ward daily before their join their duties in different shifts. She said the training would be about the precautions to be taken while attending to Covid patients.36 back from Mumbai & Rajasthan quarantinedThe Health Department swung into action after learning that 36 members of a particular community had returned to their homes after visiting Mumbai and Sikar in Rajasthan. While 27 of them were from Khudabaksh village in Pinjore, nine were from Raina village in Raipur Rani block. It was not known whether they had attended the Tabligh-e-Jamaat congregation in Nazamuddin in New Delhi or not. The authorities have put them under home quarantine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-staff-nurse-tests-positive-district-count-two-63753
01-04-2020||---||First Covid-19 death in tricity||Mohali, March 31Nayagaon resident Om Prakash (65), who was found Covid positive and was undergoing treatment at the PGI, died today. He is the first patient in the district as well as the tricity to have died of Covid-19.The Health Department has placed all 31 contacts under home quarantine. Besides, 18 contacts, all residents of Mohali, of a resident of Sector 30-B, Chandigarh, who was found Covid positive on Monday, have also been put under home quarantine. If found symptomatic, tests would be conducted at government facilities and the protocol of the Health Department for the management of such persons would be followed.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the emphasis of the district administration was on containing the disease, breaking the chain of transmission and thus preventing its spread to new areas.Dayalan said under the regulations framed under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, persons who were bona fide residents of Punjab and were travelling from other states to Punjab, would be screened and, if found asymptomatic, they would be placed under home quarantine for 14 days along with persons staying in the house where such a person is to be quarantined.The DC urged people to stay indoors, follow social distancing guidelines and not pay heed to rumours. He asked people to visit the Facebook page of the Mohali administration for authentic information.Cremated in BalongiThe 65-year-old Nayagaon resident, who died of Covid-19, was cremated at an electric crematorium in Balongi, Mohali. The PGI had coordinated with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, Punjab, for the purpose. The body, along with an attendant, was sent to Balongi in a funeral van after packing it as per the Government of India guidelines.MC employees contribute Rs50 lakhChandigarh: The local Municipal Corporation staff today donated Rs 50 lakh to the “Chandigarh Fights Corona Fund” collected by way of donation of one-day salary of all regular employees of the civic body. “We are trying to make a difference. Let’s fight Covid together. In these trying times, everybody should contribute in whatever way possible. All MC employees have resolved to help fight it,” said Mayor Raja Bala Malik. Malik, along with MC Commissioner KK Yadav, met UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore to hand over the cheque to him. Meanwhile, councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali and Industrial Area police station SHO Jasbir Singh distributed packed lunch packets to the needy in Colony No. 42-month extension for Home Guards, police personnelThe UT Administration has extended the services of police personnel and Home Guards volunteers who were set to retire on March 31. A two-month extension has been given to all of them till May 31. These employees will not be eligible for promotion or any perks during the extension period. As many as 45 cops, including 36 inspectors, nine sub-inspectors and an SP, were given extension.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-covid-19-death-in-tricity-63752
01-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘War room’ set up to defeat virus||These are unusually busy days at the office of Skill Development Mission, Punjab in the Sector 17 market here. Inside the office, a “war room” set up by the government to monitor Covid-19 pandemic, at least four officers and experts from food and supplies and health are on the phone, either taking notes or shooting orders as they get desperate messages from all over the state.With 41 confirmed cases and the threat of the pandemic entering the third stage of community spread looming large, these officers are busy compiling reports.Rahul Tiwari, head of the control room, and other officials spend days in the war room in analysing data collected from all over the state, passing it to the Union Government and also conveying the directions from the Centre to all district administrations.Ravi Bhagat, managing director of Punjab Mandi Board, monitors the COVA app for all updates.Tiwari said, “As if the situation was not grim already, now we are dealing with the exodus of migrants. Directions have been issued to all DCs to keep the migrants in their respective districts and provide them immediate relief. We just cannot afford to have so many people together out on the roads.”“No one will go hungry. The teething problems in implementation are over now,” he asserts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/war-room-set-up-to-defeat-virus-63720
