01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports two deaths and 204 COVID-19 cases; UT's death toll 57||Chandigarh reports two deaths and 204 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the Union Territory's death toll to 57.The city's coronavirus tally stands at 4,550.About 2,551 patients have been cured of the deadly disease in the city.COVID-19 deaths:A 76-year-old man—a resident of Ramdarbar, Industrial Area Phase 1—succumbed to the deadly disease. He also had Hypertension, Coronary Artery Disease, Diabetes, and Chronic Kidney Disease tested COVID positive, expired at GMCH-32.Another 24-year-old man—a resident of Hallomajra—was brought dead at GMCH-32.At present, the city reports 1,939 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-two-deaths-and-204-covid-19-cases-uts-death-toll-57-134747
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||SBI official found dead at Sector 42, tests COVID-19 positive||An SBI official, residing at Sector 42, was found unconscious at his residence on Tuesday. He was rushed to GMSH, Sector 16, where he was declared brought dead.The police said that the victim was later found COVID-19 positive.The victim has been identified as Kunal Kishore."Kunal fell unconscious in the afternoon after, that his family rushed him to the hospital where he was declared brought dead," said the police."His samples were collected for COVID test which turned out to be positive," added the police official.Meanwhile, an investigation has been initiated at the Sector 36 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sbi-official-found-dead-at-sector-42-tests-covid-19-positive-134741
01-09-2020||---||Chandigarh administration removes restrictions from three micro-containment zones||Chandigarh, September 1The UT administration on Tuesday removed the restrictions from three micro-containment zones in the city.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the restrictions had been removed from a block of 24 houses in Sector-40, a block of 32 flats in Sector-56 and a block of 11 houses in Sector-15 on the basis of the recommendations received from the Affected Areas Assessment Committee.He, however, said regular screening and monitoring of the areas by medical teams would continue.Frequent sanitisation of the areas by municipal authorities will be conducted and the residents are advised to maintain social-distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-removes-restrictions-from-three-micro-containment-zones-134740
01-09-2020|| Mohali||Mohali reports five deaths and 163 fresh COVID-19 cases||Mohali reports five deaths and 163 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the district's death toll to 85. Mohali's coronavirus tally stands at 3,933. About 86 patients have been discharged in the last 24 hours.  COVID-19 deaths:A 65-year-old man from Lalru died of the deadly disease at Civil Hospital, Ambala.  Two deaths—a 41-year-old man from Sector 68 and a 65-year-old woman from Phase 1—were reported from Grecian Hospital. Another 89-year-old man from Gharuan died at a hospital in Sohana. He also had hypertension. A 51-year-old woman from Kharar died at the IVY Hospital. COVID-19 cases:  At present, Mohali reports 1,709 are active. On Monday, seven people died while 104 new cases were reported from the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-five-deaths-and-163-fresh-covid-19-cases-134737
01-09-2020||---||Night curfew in Chandigarh ends, bar on bars goes||Chandigarh, August 31The UT Administration has decided to lift the night curfew with immediate effect. It was in force from 10 pm to 5 am during which the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities was prohibited. The Administration has also allowed hotels and restaurants to open their bars and serve liquor to customers. What’s allowed in Unlock 4.0What remains shutAn official of the Excise and Taxation Department, UT, said they would start the process for depositing the licence fee and issuing permission to hotels and restaurants to open bars from tomorrow.Meanwhile, the UT Administration will take a decision on the odd-even system implemented in congested markets and the closure of Sukhna Lake on the weekend during a meeting on Wednesday.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the Administration had adopted the guidelines issued by the Centre for Unlock 4.0. Under the new guidelines, Parida said, there would be no restriction on the interstate and intrastate movement of persons and goods and no separate permission, approval or e-permit would be required for such movement.Under the new guidelines, all schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will continue to remain closed for students and regular class activities till September 30. However, online or distance learning will continue to be permitted.The UT may allow up to 50 per cent of teaching and non-teaching staff to be called to the schools at a time for online teaching or tele-counselling and related work, in the areas outside containment zones from September 21. Students of Classes IX to XII may be permitted to visit their schools in the areas outside containment zones for taking guidance from their teachers. It will be subject to a written consent of their parents/guardians and permitted from September 21.Higher educational institutions, only for research scholars (PhD) and post-graduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory/experimental works, will be permitted to function by the Department of Higher Education, in consultation with the Ministry of Home Affairs, on the basis of an assessment of the situation and keeping in view the Covid incidence in the UT.Under the new guidelines, social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations with a ceiling of 100 persons will be permitted from September 21. However, such limited gatherings can be held with mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing and making provisions for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitiser.However, marriage-related gathering with the number of guests not exceeding 50 and funeral or last rites-related gathering with the number of persons not exceeding 20 will continue to be allowed till September 20, after which the ceiling will be raised to 100 persons.Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will remain closed. However, open-air theatres will be permitted to open from September 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/night-curfew-in-chandigarh-ends-bar-on-bars-goes-134513
01-09-2020||---||20-yr-old among 7 dead in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 31Seven persons died of Covid-19, while 104 new cases were reported from Mohali district today. As many as 87 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the past 24 hours.A 53-year-old woman from Kurali died at the PGI. She was also suffering from hyperthyroidism. At the GMCH, Sector 32, two persons — a 55-year-old man from Sector 71 and a 49-year-old man from Baltana — died of Covid-related complications. Another Baltana resident, an 88-year-old woman, died at Indus Hospital, Dera Bassi. She was hypertensive also. A 20-year-old youth from Majri was the youngest fatality of the day, who died at the PGI. Two Zirakpur residents, a 51-year-old man and a 92-year-old man, died at Grecian Hospital, Mohali, and Eden Hospital, Chandigarh, respectively. The nonagenarian had comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. Civil Surgeon rubbishes chargesThe Mohali Civil Surgeon on Monday refuted a social media post claiming that employees of the Health Department were being paid to declare Covid negative samples as positive. “It is totally baseless and a mala fide claim. The culprits will be dealt with according to the law,” he said.+ve woman delivers healthy babyIn a positive development, a Covid positive woman, Amandeep Kaur from Lahori village in Mohali, gave birth to a healthy baby at the Civil Hospital in Mohali on August 29. She said, ‘’Being Covid positive, I had a lot of stress and normal delivery wasn’t possible. Doctors operated upon me and I became the mother of a healthy baby. I am grateful to the doctors of the Civil Hospital.”Most of the cases reported today were from Mohali urban (27), Dhakoli (24), Gharuan (15), Kurali (14), Dera Bassi (11), Kharar (10) and Lalru (three).Sohana and Nayagaon did not figure in the list of fresh cases reported today.The district has so far recorded 3,770 cases, of which 1,637 are active. As many as 2,053 patients have been discharged from hospitals. The death toll in the district has touched 80 now. Data of the Health Department shows that most of the fatalities in the district have occurred within three-four days of the hospitalisation of the patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-yr-old-among-7-dead-in-mohali-134514
01-09-2020||---||4 more from Chandigarh fall prey to virus||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31Four more Covid deaths were reported from the city today, taking the toll to 56. Besides, 191 fresh cases were reported, raising the tally to 4,346. The tally of active cases now stands at 1,857. As many as 135 patients were discharged.Home Guards volunteer tests +veChandigarh: A Home Guards volunteer of the UT police tested positive for Covid. The volunteer is posted at the Public Window, Police Headquarters, Sector 9. Sources said the staff working with the volunteer were asked to quarantine themselves. Meanwhile, the Police Headquarters was sanitised. TNSAll four persons who died of the virus were aged over 50. Three of them had comorbidities. A 62-year-old man from Ram Darbar, a case of hypertension, Type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypothyroidism, had tested Covid positive. He died at the GMCH, Sector 32. A 50-year-old man from Mani Majra, a known case of Type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, had tested positive for the virus and died at the GMCH.A 50-year-old man from Sector 38, who had a history of pulmonary TB, had tested positive and died at the GMCH today. A 78-year-old woman from Sector 34 died at Fortis Hospital today.Among the fresh cases, 154 were conducted through the RT-PCR method.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-more-from-chandigarh-fall-prey-to-virus-134515
01-09-2020||Panchkula||1 death, 78 cases in Panchkula||The district today reported one death and 78 fresh Covid cases.A 26-year-old woman from Pinjore died of the virus. She was suffering from diabetes and hyperthyroidism.Suicide bid by patientPanchkula: A Covid-19 patient allegedly attempted suicide by jumping from the third floor of a Covid care centre in Sector 14 late on Sunday night. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 and his condition is stated to be stable. ACP Rajkumar said, “The reason behind the suicide attempt is being investigated.”The new cases include 14 from Kalka, eight from Sector 16, six each from Sector 21 and Old Panchkula, five each from Sector 15 and 10, four each from Sector 17, 19 and Pinjore, three each from Sector 4, 17, 12-A and Nanakpur, two each Sector 20, Surajpur and Raipur Rani and one each from Sector 11, 26, 14, 9 and Rajiv Colony. As many as 771 cases are active, while 1,439 patients have been cured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-death-78-cases-in-panchkula-134516
01-09-2020||Sandeep Rana||Settlement offer for water bill defaulters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31Water bill defaulters will get three months to pay their dues under a one-time settlement scheme offered by the local Municipal Corporation. House also okayed… What remains undecidedThis was approved at a meeting of the MC General House today. It has been decided that after the issuance of a notification in this regard, the defaulters will be given three months to make the payment.Water bills of Rs41.60 crore are pending for years, of which, Rs37.44 crore is the principal amount and Rs4.16 crore surcharge.It has been approved that defaulters clearing their dues in one instalment will get 10 per cent rebate on the total amount. Similarly, those paying their dues in two instalments will be given a rebate of 7 per cent and clearing dues in three installments will fetch a rebate of 5 per cent.According to the MC, nearly Rs28 crore of the total dues pertain to domestic connections, Rs1.7 crore to industrial units and Rs7.29 crore to commercial establishments. The MC also has to recover Rs4.54 crore from different government departments.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said the civic body would take legal course against the defaulters not availing themselves of the one-time settlement offer. The House meeting was ended abruptly following the news of the death of former President Pranab Mukherjee.Pay for NOCHotels, restaurants, eating joints and schools will have to pay charges to the Municipal Corporation for issuance of an NOC. As per the Health Department, UT, applicants involved in manufacturing activities will have to attach an NOC in accordance with the provisions of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006.The annual NOC charges will range between Rs1,000 and Rs5,000. However, no NOC will be required for government schools. The certificate, which is mandatory, will be valid for one year. Violators will face a penalty, which will be ten times the charges.The agenda approved by the House will be sent to the Secretary, Local Government, for final approval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/settlement-offer-for-water-bill-defaulters-134517
01-09-2020||---||Chemist among 2 drug peddlers held in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31Two drug peddlers, including a chemist, were arrested by the local police from different parts of the city with banned capsules and vials.A team of the Sector 17 police station nabbed 35-year-old Harpreet Singh, a resident of Bhankarpur village in Mohali district, from near Parade Ground, Sector 17, with 100 capsules of Rimdol 50 and 400 tablets of Clavidol. The police said he owns a chemist shop at Mani Majra. A case has been registered against him.In another case, 24-year-old Shabaz Malik, a resident of Balongi, Mohali, was arrested from near the football ground in Sector 56 with 70 banned vials. The police said he was supplying vials in colony areas.A case against him has been registered at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chemist-among-2-drug-peddlers-held-in-chandigarh-134518
01-09-2020||---||Protesting NSUI leaders forcibly shifted to GMSH||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31NSUI leaders sitting on indefinite fast at Congress Bhawan, Sector 35, against the decision of the Central Government to conduct the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) were forcibly lifted by the local police and admitted to the GMSH, Sector 16.NSUI social media chairman Manoj Lubana and PUCSC vice-president Rahul Kumar were sitting on indefinite fast. It was the third day of their protest.A police team arrived and shifted them to the hospital.Both protesters were later discharged after a medical check-up after which they called off their protest.Lubana said NSUI teams would be present at all examination centres to help those appearing for the exams. “We will try to ensure proper social distancing,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesting-nsui-leaders-forcibly-shifted-to-gmsh-134519
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Carcass incineration plant to come up in Sector 25||The MC House today decided to open the first carcass incineration plant of the city near the cremation ground in Sector 25. The corporation will write to the UT Chief Architect regarding the location.Earlier, the plant was to come up in the Industrial Area and later in Sector 25. Even though the work was allotted to an agency, the project continued to hang fire as its location remained undecided.Today, councillor Sheela Devi objected to the proposal of setting it up in Sector 25. Councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali also opposed the plan of opening it in his ward, which includes the Industrial Area.After arguments, the Sector 25 location was finalised.Meanwhile, residents said it would cause foul smell and air pollution. “We are already troubled due to the waste plant and this new plant will be an added trouble,” said Dyal Krishan, a resident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/carcass-incineration-plant-to-come-up-in-sector-25-134520
01-09-2020||---||Youth killed as car hits bicycle||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 31A 29-year-old youth died when a car hit his bicycle near Fortis Hospital here late on Sunday evening.The victim has been identified as Virender Singh, a native of Uttarakhand who was currently putting up in Kajheri, Chandigarh. He was working at a tavern in Sector 69 here.The incident took place around 11 pm yesterday when a car being driven by Dr Pradeep, who works at a private hospital, hit his bicycle near the Sector 68/69 traffic lights. The cyclist fell in front of the car after the collision and was crushed under a wheel.The victim was shifted to Grecian Hospital by the car driver where doctors declared him brought dead.“The victim was staying alone in Kajheri. We have called his family members, and a case will be registered after recording their statement. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital in Phase 6,” said Bhupinder Singh, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-killed-as-car-hits-bicycle-134521
01-09-2020||---||15-foot-long python rescued||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 31A team of the Panchkula police, led by the Chandimandir police station in-charge, rescued a 15-foot-long python from near a residential society in Sector 24 here.The police said while they were patrolling on Sunday evening, they spotted the python near a herbal park on a road towards the society.The police informed the Panchkula MC. Later, a joint team of the police and the MC rescued the python.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-foot-long-python-rescued-134522
01-09-2020||---||Panjab University to inform HC on 3-yr law entrance today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31Panjab University was today given a day’s time to inform the Punjab and Haryana High Court whether the entrance examination was being held by the university for the three-year law course.Also under scannerThe issue of holding the final semester examination by Panjab University is also under the judicial scanner and the matter is expected to come up for hearing this week with the Supreme Court already adjudicating “similar controversy” before it.As a petition filed against Panjab University and other respondents by Saurav Rao and other came up for resumed hearing through videoconferencing, university counsel Arun Kumar Bakshi sought time to obtain instructions whether the entrance examination for the course was being held.Taking a note of the submission, the Bench of Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan fixed September 1 as the next date of hearing in the matter. The issue of holding the final semester examination by Panjab University is also under the judicial scanner and the matter is expected to come up for hearing in this week with the Supreme Court already adjudicating “similar controversy” before it.The Bench, on a previous date of hearing, was told that the issue regarding guidelines issued by the UGC to conduct examination was pending before the Supreme Court. The Bench had on August 20 made it clear that the stay on conducting the “final examinations” by the university would continue till the Supreme Court verdict on the issue.The order came after the Bench of Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu was told that a similar controversy had already been argued before the Supreme Court and the judgment stood reserved.Adjourning the matter sine die, Justice Sindhu had asserted: “Let the matter be re-listed as and when the pronouncement is made by the Supreme Court. Interim orders in respective cases will continue.”The developments had taken place during the hearing of a petition filed against Panjab University and other respondents by Yatin Mehta and other petitioners. The petitioners were seeking the quashing of orders and notifications issued between May 26 and June 19, whereby final-year students were directed to appear for their last-semester examination. Their counsel had referred to notification dated June 19 before submitting that the university was to conduct the final semester examinations in July. He had also referred to the judgment passed by the Delhi High Court before contending that guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission and the Ministries were unanimous that there was no compulsion on the university to conduct the final-year examinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-inform-hc-on-3-yr-law-entrance-today-134523
01-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||...may charge only tuition fee||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31The situation may turn in favour of Panjab University (PU) students as the authorities may charge only the tuition fee for the current session to end the month-long agitation by various student parties.I cannot disclose anything. But things are in the favour of students. The finance department is the authority to answer about the impact of fee waiver on staff salaries. - SK Tomar, Dean Student WelfareHowever, the decision may affect the faculty salaries ?— this may again become a bone of contention between the teachers and authorities.Student political party ABVP today staged a protest outside the PU Vice-Chancellor camp office. The put forward new demands — charging only the tuition fee, full fee waiver for the EWS category students and reimbursement of examination fee for students who were promoted to the next semester.On PU’s decision, Dean Student Welfare (DSW) SK Tomar said: “I cannot disclose anything. But things are positive for students.” However, on staff salaries, he said: “The finance department is the best source to answer this.”In the past, the proposal was declined by the authorities. However, considering the current situation, a decision on salary-cut is likely to be taken soon.For one month, PU authorities and student political parties are at loggerheads on the issue of charging full fee. Now, the authorities are trying to find a solution suitable to all.The institution is already facing an estimated revenue loss of Rs80 to Rs90 crore (including Rs70 to 75 crore per semester fee). However, the estimated cost savings is Rs20 to 30 crore on various parameters such as semester exams not being conducted, less electricity bill and others. The net loss approximately stands at Rs64 crore. The university has also not received a second quarter grant and the Punjab Government is also yet to release its promised share.Conducting examsThe authorities are trying to streamline things on the academic front. A meeting is likely to be held on Tuesday to discuss conducting final-year examinations. According to sources, the authorities are planning to take any decision only after considering the PU Constitution as previous decisions taken by various committees have been challenged on legal grounds. “We have to take a step as per the PU’s Constitution. Things have to be put on record. We will meet tomorrow to take a decision. Considering today’s status on Covid-19 cases, it’s not practical to conduct final-year examinations soon,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/may-charge-only-tuition-fee-134524
01-09-2020||---||Over 7,000 to appear for JEE (Main)||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31Over 7,000 Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) (Main) aspirants will take the test at five centres in two shifts in Chandigarh.The entrance, which is a computer-based test, has been scheduled from September 1 to 6.As per the instructions by the National Testing Agency (NTA), the candidates have to fill a self-declaration form regarding Covid-19 and will be given a three-ply mask at the venue. Wearing the mask will be mandatory.Meanwhile, some of the local parents oppose the allotment of an exam centre near Lalru. “The NTA should keep in mind the students’ interest while allotting examination centres. Amid the pandemic, we need to arrange a vehicle for our son as there are no buses available to drop the students to the centre,” said Manish Sehgal, a parent.“Candidates and parents are scared due to Covid. The organisers must have given a virtual tour of the examination centre before allotting them to students. Also, a team of doctors should be appointed at the venue. Since it’s a computer-based test, equipment should be sanitised after every use. Also, the invigilators should be given PPE kits,” said Ashish Jain, another parent.NSUI social media chairman Manoj Lubana, who has been opposing the government’s decision to conduct entrance exams, said his party workers would distribute masks and sanitisers among the candidates at one of the venues in the Industrial Area Phase I.Meanwhile, National Council of Hotel Management JEE exam was held on August 29. “The candidates were made to sit at a gap of two seats. The social distancing norms were followed and thermal screening was conducted. However, finding drinking water was a task of sorts,” said Sanam Sood, a candidate who appeared for the exam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-7-000-to-appear-for-jee-main-134525
01-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Sports Department to prepare schedule for championships||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31As the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) allows sports congregations from September 21, the UT Sports Department has decided to prepare a schedule to conduct local-level championships.The department has not been able to hold any championship since the beginning of the current financial year due to the Covid-19 restrictions.However, it was the first in the region to open sports complexes of non-body contact disciplines considering the interest of players.In the new Unlock 4.0 guidelines, the MHA has allowed sports congregations from September 21 with a ceiling of 100 persons under the clause of wearing masks, social distancing, provision of thermal screening and availability of hand sanitisers.“The department will plan a schedule for conducting championships after September 21. According to experts, the tricity is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases, which is not a good sign in terms of conducting any event. However, we can prepare a schedule to give mental benefit to players,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, UT. “The current year has been a loss for players so far. We will try to streamline it by conducting championships for all age-groups, if situation allows. However, as of now, we are concentrating only on making a schedule after receiving the MHA orders,” Saini said.This year, the department did not organise summer sports-wing camps for local trainees due to Covid-19 . This happened for the first time in the past two decades. High-altitude training camps for state-run academies were cancelled and summer tournaments put on hold. According to the expected schedule, the department will plan to organise cash award championships under ‘no-spectator’ condition. The department had recently received around Rs6 lakh, but only for purchasing sanitisation kits/articles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sports-department-to-prepare-schedule-for-championships-134526
01-09-2020||Panchkula||Contractual health staff seek extension||Contractual staff members of the Panchkula Health Department staged a protest today, seeking unconditional extension in service of security guards and other staff working in public hospitals for the past several years.They demanded that the decision to remove security guards and appoint Home Guards in their place should be taken back, service of all contractual employees should be extended without any condition, employees should not be removed with any change in contract, regularisation of employees and timely salary. They submitted a memorandum to Health Minister Anil Vij through the CMO. They said if the government did not pay heed to their demands, they would intensity the stir. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contractual-health-staff-seek-extension-134528
01-09-2020||---||Chandigarh no to schools’ fee collection proposal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31A proposal on fee collection submitted by the Independent Schools Association less than a month ago has failed to find favour with the Chandigarh Administration. Information to this effect was given by UT senior standing counsel to Justice GS Sandhawalia’s Bench during the resumed hearing of a petition filed by the association.Appearing before Justice Sandhawalia’s Bench on UT’s behalf, senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain submitted that the Administration has decided not to accept the proposal of the petitioner dated August 7 and would stand by the orders passed, which were already impugned.The Association, through senior advocate Puneet Bali and Vibhav Jain, on a previous date of hearing, had submitted that there was a proposal it wished to submit to the UT Administration, while praying for time to file an affidavit in this regard.Justice Sandhawalia, in turn, had directed the counsel for the petitioners to place on record the petitioners’ proposal. The Bench had also called for the orders passed by the coordinate Benches and an interim order passed by a Division Bench on the dispute pertaining to the schools in Punjab and Haryana on payment of school fee during the lockdown period.The Independent Schools Association was seeking the quashing of an order directing all private unaided schools to collect only tuition fee on a monthly basis from students while not stopping or reducing monthly salary of teaching and non-teaching staff.Representing 78 schools, the Association, through senior counsel Puneet Bali and Vibhav Jain, had also sought quashing of another order whereby all private unaided schools were directed not to increase the fee for current session without the Administration’s specific approval.Claiming that the schools were making painstaking efforts to ensure that students did not suffer in their curricular and co-curricular activities during the current academic session, Bali added the institutions were providing education and holding classes through online platforms.“Suffice it is to mention that the effort in physically teaching students in a regular classroom cannot even remotely be compared with the effort that the teacher has to expend in providing online education. Several schools have made investments in technology platforms, devices and extensive training of teachers in the interest of students,” Bali submitted.He said school association members were for all intents and purposes functional and the teaching-learning process had been continuing with minimal interruption. The petitioner-schools had even prepared timetables for online classes being conducted by them.Some schools were even conducting two online sessions to mitigate the hardships faced by parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-no-to-schools-fee-collection-proposal-134531
01-09-2020||---||Amid Covid pandemic, new strategies needed for healthcare sector: Dr Puri||Chandigarh, August 31After India reported its first Covid case on January 30 this year, as the infection spread, the Union Government announced a nationwide lockdown to control the spread of the pandemic.‘Need to build infectious disease hospitals’As the battle against this pandemic seems to be a long-drawn one, according to Dr Puri, a long-term remedy is needed so as to decrease the burden on the existing Covid hospitals. According to him, in light of this unprecedented long-drawn medical emergency, there is an acute need to build new infectious disease hospitals that have facilities and expertise to manage all kind of infections. Such hospitals should also be equipped with facilities wherein an environment can be created that prevent transmission of infection among critically ill patients. Such set-ups should be equipped with all super-specialty facilities required in a tertiary care hospital.Since June 8, after Unlock 1.0 came into effect, the government steadily decreased restrictions on the movement of people. The number of Covid cases is on a steady increase burdening hospitals across the country.According to Dr GD Puri, Dean (Academics), PGI, earlier during the lockdown period, most patients coming to the PGI and other hospitals were primarily Covid patients having some chronic non-communicable diseases and some acute emergencies. Patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on maintenance dialysis comprised a major chunk of them.After the unlock in the past two-three months, patient profile changed with those having other chronic diseases, severe problems and trauma emergencies started filling up hospital/PGI emergency wards. After the pandemic, all patients are now tested for Covid at the time of admission to the hospital. Earlier, the positive rate of these patients was around 1-2 per cent. However, as Covid cases rise, the positivity rate has increased to 5-10 per cent. Out of 100-150 patients coming to the emergency of a tertiary care hospital every day, around 10 patients are found Covid positive.All such Covid patients in critical condition due to their underlying chronic disease or other emergency are being shifted to Covid care centres of hospitals. These include patients with heart failure, liver failure, renal failure on dialysis, acute heart attack, trauma patients for surgery, acute abdomen for surgery, patients with strokes, encephalitis and even patients with poisoning and snake bites.According to Dr Puri, this has increased the strain on the limited facilities of various designated Covid hospitals in the country. Proper management of such patients requires 24*7 care by super-specialist doctors, which is difficult in the current set-up. This trend is going to increase further as the cases increase.As the battle against this pandemic seems to be a long-drawn one, according to Dr Puri, a long-term remedy is needed so as to decrease the burden on the existing Covid hospitals. According to him, in light of this unprecedented long-drawn medical emergency, there is an acute need to build new infectious disease hospitals that have facilities and expertise to manage all kind of infections. Such hospitals should also be equipped with facilities wherein an environment can be created that prevent transmission of infection among critically ill patients. Such set-ups should be equipped with all super-specialty facilities required in a tertiary care hospital.Dr Puri further suggested that till the time such hospitals become a reality, existing specialised set-ups can be altered in such a way that Covid patients can be looked after in specialised areas without spreading the infection to other non-Covid patients. This will ensure that critically ill Covid patients are not denied any special facilities or use of special medical equipment such as dialysis machines or such equipment. Once these patients are stabilised and need minimum requirement of these facilities, they can be shifted to isolation hospitals for further care.With an end to the pandemic nowhere in sight, the healthcare sector needs to adapt to this new normal and adopt innovative strategies to reduce suffering and mortality in Covid patients as well as other critically ill non-Covid patients as well as lessen its own burden, adds Dr Puri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-covid-pandemic-new-strategies-needed-for-healthcare-sector-dr-puri-134532
01-09-2020||---||Sector 11 traders, area residents up in arms||Chandigarh, August 31Traders of Sector 11 here today staged a protest against Covid-19 tests being carried out without adhering to proper discipline by certain laboratories.Diwakar Sahoonja, president of the Market Welfare Association, said testing for Covid-19 in the middle of the market was putting shopkeepers, employees and people visiting the shops at the risk of falling prey to the virus.‘Will take up Issue with higher authorities’Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, also addressed the protesters and deplored the attitude of some of the laboratories, which are neither concerned about the safety of patients nor adverse impact on the business in the market. The issue would be taken up with the higher authorities.Area residents also joined the agitation for the removal of testing kiosks from the pavement.Area councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu also met the protesters and assured them of taking up the matter in the House meeting.Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, also addressed the protesters and deplored the attitude of some of the laboratories, which are neither concerned about the safety of patients nor adverse impact on the business in the market. The issue would be taken up with the higher authorities.Sahoonja appealed to the Administration to sort out the issue on a priority as it concerns public health.He said while labs had been allowed to carry out tests in cars, thesehad been instructed to observe strict social distancing and not to use public area. All such testing should be done in some remote area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-11-traders-area-residents-up-in-arms-134533
01-09-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Covid patients’ kin left in the lurch||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31As the number of Covid-19 cases continues to rise, so do the problems of dependent family members of those who have been quarantined at various Covid care centres in the city. The most affected are children and senior citizens. Man feels helplessAt one such centre, construction worker Raj Kumar (name changed) is grieving his father’s demise in isolation. He feels helpless and has not been able to perform his father’s last rites.At one such centre, construction worker Raj Kumar (name changed) is grieving his father’s demise in isolation. He feels helpless and has not been able to perform his father’s last rites. “Unke antim darshan bhi nahi kar paye (I could not even see him one last time),” he said in a choked voice.He said, “When I brought my father to the PGI for a stomach-related ailment, the doctors suggested an operation. He contracted the virus during his stay at the hospital as he initially tested negative for Covid and later tested positive.”‘Pandemic a curse forpoor, illiterate’Raj Kumar said a day later, health officials and the police came knocking at his door. They tested him and his family members and quarantined them at different centres.“They said we were Covid positive, but neither were we given any report, nor were we intimated about it. This pandemic is a curse for the poor and illiterate,” he said.When asked about the reason for not providing reports to patients, Dr Harish Dasari, nodal officer, Covid management at the GMCH-32, said, “So many people are testing positive. It’s not possible for the hospital to give reports to everyone.”In another such incident, a pregnant woman was sent to a government hospital for Covid testing soon after her husband tested positive. She and her husband were sent to different quarantine centres and being illiterate, she had no way of tracing him.A source said, “Though she tested negative for the virus, she didn’t know her address or her husband’s phone number. She couldn’t read or write and wasn’t willing to take her husband’s name even. The hospital staff helped the woman reach her house.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-patients-kin-left-in-the-lurch-134534
01-09-2020||---||Onam celebrations take a hit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31Amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the rising number of coronavirus cases, Onam celebrations have been cancelled in the city. The festivities would usually begin 10 days before Onam and culminate with traditional fests and dancing.Arvindakshan Pillai, president of Kerala Samajam, Chandigarh, said: “Last year, over 2,000 people gathered at the community centre in Sector 47 to celebrate the festival. This year, people are celebrating the festival at home.”He said: “The start of Onam is marked with Pookalam or floral rangoli designs in the shape of a mandala. Last year, we even had a prize for the best Pookalam, along with other cultural programmes.”Hari Prasad, also from the Kerala Samajam, said: “On this day, girls get together in even numbers and perform thiruvathira — a traditional dance. However, it will be missing this time.”He said: “People are making Pookalam to celebrate the festival this year. Each day, a new ring is added to the mandala-shaped rangoli for 10 days. Friends and family would also meet for traditional feast. However, it will not be witnessed this year.”Prasad recalls that their association didn’t celebrate Onam in 2018 during the Kerala floods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/onam-celebrations-take-a-hit-134535
01-09-2020||---||Court seeks reply from Chandigarh Chief Conservator of Forests||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 31The District Courts has sought reply from Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, Chandigarh, on a report of the warrant officer, who was appointed after tattoo artist Kamaljeet Singh and his manager Deepak Vohra alleged before the court that they were subjected to physical and the mental harassment by forest officials on August 27. Official denies allegationsDebendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, Chandigarh, denied the allegations and said the department would submit a detailed reply in the court.The reply was sought after the report of the warrant officer was placed before the court.In the order, the court said as per the report of the warrant officer, applicants Kamaljeet Singh and Deepak Vohra remained in the office of the Forest Department from 11.40 am to 5.25 pm on August 27 in the committee room, which was found locked at the time of the visit of the warrant officer.The report further says the applicants verbally stated that they were subjected to physical and mental harassment by the forest officials.Before passing any order, the court deems it appropriate to call upon reply from the Chief Conservator of Forests as what he has to submit regarding the allegations mentioned in the report.However, Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, Chandigarh, denied the allegations and said the department would submit a detailed reply in the court.The Forest Department had booked tattoo artist Kamaljeet Singh and his manager Deepak Vohra under various provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act for allegedly confining a monkey (rhesus macaque) in captivity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-seeks-reply-from-chandigarh-chief-conservator-of-forests-134536
01-09-2020||Chandigarh||Distribution of foodgrain to beneficiaries begins in Chandigarh||The Department of Food and Supplies and Consumer Affairs and Legal Metrology, UT, has started distribution of foodgrain free of cost to the registered DBT food beneficiaries.Under the scheme, five-kg wheat will be provided to each member of a family per month and one-kg chana per family per month for five months (July to November) as per the directions issued by the Government of India under the extended Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY).The department is distributing this in one go. This is in addition to the food subsidy.For the distribution of foodgrain, the Administration has fixed 11 centres to cover all areas of the city. In the first phase, five centres have been started where registered beneficiaries can get their entitled foodgrain free of cost. These five centres are Government High School, Hallo Majra, community centre, Mauli Jagran, community centres in Burail and Sector 25; and community centre, Mani Majra.Only registered DBT beneficiaries, who are receiving food subsidy in their bank accounts, are eligible to receive this benefit under the said scheme. The department will cover the entire city and will ensure that all eligible beneficiaries receive ration under the PMGKAY.The beneficiaries are advised to avoid crowding at the distribution centres. Every eligible beneficiary will get ration under the scheme. The public at large is requested to cooperate with the department to carry out distribution smoothly.For any query or complaint, a consumer helpline number 1800-180-2079 and a toll-free number 1800-180-2068 are in place. The beneficiaries can also contact the District Food and Supplies Officer on mobile number 9417228493 for the redressal of their grievances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/distribution-of-foodgrain-to-beneficiaries-begins-in-chandigarh-134542
01-09-2020||---||Road cave-in poses threat to motorists||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, August 31A 12-ft long portion of the busy Old Kalka road caved-in around two weeks ago, but the authorities concerned seems to be waiting for an incident to happen.Also, no barricades or caution sign have been put up around the cave-in, putting the lives of commuters at risk.“The road caved-in two weeks ago. Nobody is bothered to repair it,” said a shopkeeper. He said this was a way of life and Zirakpur residents had grown accustomed to it.Passers-by had put up big stones near the crater, but these were not enough to avert a mishap, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-cave-in-poses-threat-to-motorists-134546
01-09-2020||Mohali||Man killed in road mishap||2 UT officials to be relieved todayChandigarh: Finance Secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha and Special Secretary Harish Nayyar will be relieved on Tuesday after completing their tenure with the UT Administration. Sinha headed various departments, including Finance and CHB. Both the IAS officers belong to the Punjab cadre. The UT Adviser will soon hand over the charte of departments headed by these officers to others. TNSUniversity lauds studentsFatehgarh Sahib: The SGGS World University, Fatehgarh Sahib, on Monday honoured its two law students as they have been selected as judicial officers. Pankaj Kumar Sharma has been selected as Additional District and Sessions Judge in Himachal Pradesh and Khushdeep Kaur has been selected as a judicial officer in Punjab. Pankaj Sharma topped the written exam of Additional District and Sessions Judge. Dr Prit Pal Singh, Vice-Chancellor of the university, congratulated the students. OCBlood donation camp at collegeChandigarh: Goswami Ganesh Dutta Santan Dharam College, Sector 32, on Monday organised a blood donation camp in association with Central Bank of India, SDAAC, Lions Club and Lioness Club, Panchkula Central, and Lioness Club, Solan. The aim was to pay homage to late Dr Pandit Mohal Lal, former education minister, Punjab, and founder-president, GGDSD College Society, Chandigarh, on his 21st death anniversary. TNSSeats increased at govt InstituteMohali: As part of the policy to ensure employment for those completing craftsman training, the dual system of training (DST) scheme had been implemented in all institutions of the state, said Shamsher Purkhalvi, Principal, District ITI (Girls), Mohali. He said the total number of seats at Government ITI (Girls) has been increased from 235 to 428 this year. Under the DST scheme, the trainees would be imparted part-time education in the college and practical training would be imparted in the institutions concerned. TNScerebral palsy sports societyZirakpur: To promote sports among children with cerebral palsy, an organisation, Cerebral Palsy Sports Society of Punjab, has come up in the state with the formation of an executive body at Dashmesh Khalsa College in Zirakpur. Sukhdarshan Likhi has been elected as the chairman and Nirmaljeet Singh as the president of the society. Ajit Singh has been elected as the general secretary. Former Indian women hockey team captain Kamla Dalal has been nominated as the adviser. The society aims at elevating the ability of children suffering from the disorder with the help of sports. TNSthree booked for thrashing manChandigarh: Three persons have been booked for thrashing a Kharar resident. According to the police, complainant Virender Kumar reported that Shivam Rana, Ashraf, Ram Kumar and others thrashed him near Fauji Enclave, Maloya. The victim, who suffered injuries, was admitted to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. The police have registered a case at the Maloya police station. TNSillegal cracker factory sealedPatiala: The police have sealed an illegal firecracker factory that was being operated on the outskirts of Gopal Colony here. The owner of the factory has also been arrested. Acting on a tip-off, the police conducted a raid at the factory and seized a large quantity of raw material and firecrackers from the factory. A case was registered against the factory owner, Krishan Kumar Singla, under Section 5 of the Explosive Substance Act, 1908, and Sections 285, 188 and 120B of the IPC at the Kotwali police station. The total value of crackers and raw material is more than Rs2 lakh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-killed-in-road-mishap-134557
