01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports two deaths, 119 fresh Covid cases||Chandigarh reported two more COVID-19 fatalities on Thursday, taking the death toll to 164, while 119 new cases pushed the infection count in the Union Territory to 12,057.There are 1,884 active cases of the disease in the city as of now, as per a medical bulletin issued here.A total of 196 more patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 10,009, it said.As many as 78,390 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 65,866 tested negative, while reports of 159 samples were awaited, as per the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-two-deaths-119-fresh-covid-cases-149477
01-10-2020||---||Mohali reports 148 new Covid cases, three deaths||Chandigarh, October 1Mohali district reported 148 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths on Thursday.As many as 155 patients also recovered.While Mohali urban reported 135 cases, Dera Bassi 2, Kharar 3, Kurali 6 and Lalru saw 2 new infections.A 58-year-old make from Kumbra died in Sohana Hospital. He had ALD, cirrhosis of liver. A male (67) from Jastna Kalan near Dera Bassi, died in Healing Touch hospital Ambala, while another male (65) from Kambala died in GMCH 32. He had heart disease.The total tally in the district stands at 10,535, with 8,624 cured.The death toll has risen to 197. Active cases stand at 1,714.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-148-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-149463
01-10-2020||---||No ‘vulgar, alcoholic and weaponry’ songs in Chandigarh buses||Chandigarh, October 1Following the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the Chandigarh Transport Department has ordered bus drivers and conductors not to play “vulgar, alcoholic and weaponry” songs in buses.After a request letter by petitioner Panditrao Dharenavar, Director, Transport Department, physically verified and checked music systems in all the busses, an official spokesperson said here on Thursday.In a written notice to bus conductors and drivers, the Director mentioned that “no vulgar, alcoholic and weaponry songs will be played in buses” and violators would face “strict action”.Petitioner Panditrao Dharenavar thanked the Home Secretary and Secretary, Transport, for the order and called for general public to follow the instructions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Following Dharenacar's petition, the court had on July 22 observed that alcoholic, drug and violent songs had bad impact on youngsters, and therefore, such songs could not be played anywhere even in live shows.The High Court order has also been adopted and accepted by the Punjab Transport Department and the Haryana Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-vulgar-alcoholic-and-weaponry-songs-in-chandigarh-buses-149454
01-10-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||20 more affected areas declared mini containment zones in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Administration on Thursday declared 20 more affected areas as mini containment zones.Part of Sector 7, 15, 20, 22, 23, 27, 28, 37B, 37C, 38D, 40A, 44D, 47, 63 and part of Mauli Complex in Mauli Jagran are going to be containment zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-more-affected-areas-declared-mini-containment-zones-in-chandigarh-149447
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||As monsoon withdraws, Punjab & Haryana receive deficient rainfall||The south-west monsoon has withdrawn from Punjab and Haryana, leaving the two states with deficit rainfall, the meteorological department said on Thursday.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also received 7 per cent less rains, an official of Chandigarh's Meteorological Department said here.With the withdrawal of monsoon from the grain bowl states of Punjab and Haryana on September 30, the weather department recorded scanty rains by 17 per cent and 14 per cent in the two states, respectively.Between June 1 and September 30, Punjab received rainfall of 387.6 mm against a normal of 467.3 mm, leaving a deficit of 17 per cent.In comparison, the neighbouring state of Haryana received 376.1 mm rains against a normal of 438.6 mm, leaving a deficit of 14 per cent, a MeT official said.Chandigarh received 791.1 mm rains as against normal of 846.5 mm, with the deficit being 7 per cent, he said.Notably, the country received above-normal monsoon rainfall during the four-month season for the second consecutive year and recorded the third highest precipitation in the last 30 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said on Wednesday.The monsoon season in India officially starts on June 1 and lasts till September 30.Among the places in Haryana which received scanty rains between June 1-30 period included Panchkula, which saw 322.2 mm rains as against normal of 925 mm, leaving a big deficit 65 per cent.Rohtak witnessed 215.9 mm of rain against a normal of 502 mm, with the deficit being 57 per cent. Ambala saw 547 mm rain against a normal of 850.4 mm, leaving a deficit of 36 per cent, the MeT official said.However, according to the official, places including Sirsa, Kaithal, Karnal, Fatehabad, Gurgaon and Kurukshetra had excess rainfall of 43 per cent, 35 per cent, 29 per cent, 2 per cent, 1 per cent and 9 per cent, respectively.Hoshiarpur in Punjab saw 265.6 mm rain against the normal of 674.8 mm, leaving a deficit of 61 per cent, the weatherman said.Mansa recorded 136.4 mm rain against 301.1 mm, less by 55 per cent, while Tarn Taran had 167 mm rain against normal of 315.1 mm, less by 47 per cent. Amritsar witnessed 380.9 mm rainfall against normal of 506.9 mm, leaving a deficit of 25 per cent, according to the official.Ludhiana saw 337.3 mm rain against normal of 486.2 mm, less by 31 per cent, while Patiala had 392.6 mm rain against normal of 563.1 mm, a deficit of 30 per cent.However, Punjab's districts which had more than average rainfall during the June 1-30 period included Faridkot, which saw 75 per cent rains in excess, while Muktsar recorded 34 per cent more rains, the MeT official added.—PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/as-monsoon-withdraws-punjab-haryana-receive-deficient-rainfall-149435
01-10-2020||---||Members of Valmiki community protest rape of Hathras victim, block Chandigarh-Ambala highway||Mohali, October 1Members of the Valmiki community here on Thursday blocked the Chandigarh-Ambala national highway in protest against the rape and murder of Dalit girl in Hathras.The blockade caused problems for many daily commuters.The protesters carrying banners arrived at the Chandigarh-Punjab border in the morning and blocked the road, resulting in a heavy traffic jam on both sides of the national highway.The protesters raised slogans against the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh for not taking immediate action against the accused, who had gang-raped the Dalit girl, and demanded that all four accused should be hanged. They further warned the government that if immediate action was not taken against the accused, they would be forced to launch an agitation, for which the state and the Central Government would be responsible.The daily commuters going for their offices in Chandigarh were a harassed lot as they had to wait for almost two hours till the dharna ended and the Punjab and Chandigarh police cleared the traffic in their respective area. The police had also diverted the traffic so that the commuters did not face any problem.Sushil Kumar, who works in an IT Company in Mohali, said he was struck in the jam for about two hours and had to take the leave as he could not reach the office in time. He said the administration should have made alternative arrangements in advance.Another commuter who works in a hospital in Chandigarh, Gurmeet Kaur, said as she was stuck in the traffic jam, her senior continued to make calls asking her to reach the hospital by an alternative road. She said as she was stuck in the middle of the traffic, she could not return to take an alternative route to reach the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/members-of-valmiki-community-protest-rape-of-hathras-victim-block-chandigarh-ambala-highway-149430
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19 cases decline, deaths increase in Chandigarh as September ends||As September comes to an end, the Union Territory has started to witness a decline in the number of positive COVID-19 cases, and daily tests. However, COVID deaths have increased with every passing week. September has recorded 100 COVID-19 deaths whereas August reported only 39 deaths. At least three deaths were reported daily this month—due to co-morbid conditions like condition like Diabetes and Hypertension.According to Chandigarh's data, 35 deaths were reported in the fourth week and 31 deaths during the third week. The first and the second week saw 18 and 21 deaths respectively. Former head of the department of community medicine, and school of public health at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Rajesh Kumar, said: "Death is a true indicator of an epidemic as with every death case, it is assumed that are 1,000 infections out there. Usually, there is a log of 7-10 days between the decline in cases and the decline of deaths. The decline of cases has already begun in Chandigarh in the past two weeks. However, the true picture will be seen only after declining in deaths.”During the first week of September, the infection rate increased as 1,822 people tested COVID-19 positive out of 5,802 tests—this implied, that every 30th coronavirus test was positive.  The infection rate declined to 12.8 per cent by the second week. It has been noticed, that the number of infections also decreased in the last 14 days. About 3,353 infections were reported between September 15 and September 30, as compared to 4,042 infections by the preceding fortnight.Dr Kumar said: “The decline is clearly evident when it comes to active cases. The active cases decrease only when less number of positive cases is being reported daily. It has been observed in pandemics like these that the situation starts improving when cases rise abruptly and thus creating fear in public.”“The downward trend is always slower in a pandemic. The national serosurvey results show that very less number of population has been infected with the virus. This implies that a large proportion of the population is still susceptible to virus and outbreak can happen in new areas. The residents should be more cautious in the impending festival season,” said Dr Kumar.Decline in testing: From 1,200 tests per day, the tests have dropped to 700 to 800 in the last four days. Now, the cases in Chandigarh are varying between 120 and 200. Previously, the highest number of infections recorded in a single-day ranged between 350 and 400. Arun Gupta, UT Principal Health Secretary, said: “In the last three to four days, the testing numbers have gone down on a daily average of 700 to 800 tests. Earlier, we were testing up to 1500 tests. A major factor in the decrease in testing observed is that the people do not feel the need to get themselves testing. The numbers have dwindled to 100-150 tests per day in a private laboratory. These labs were testing 300-400 tests daily. An inference can be drawn from here that the infections have decreased.”Gupta added: “Other reasons could be that as less number of people are testing positive, the chain of immediate contacts who require testing has also decreased.”COVID-19 data: Week analysis:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-cases-decline-deaths-increase-in-chandigarh-as-september-ends-149388
01-10-2020||Amit Sharma||Chandigarh has highest rape rate in country||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 30The city has the highest rate of rapes in the country. With 112 rape cases registered during 2019, the UT recorded the highest rate of 20.7, followed by Rajasthan 15.9 and Delhi 13.5, as per a report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).The crime rate is calculated according to the incidence per one-lakh population.As per the report, 65 of the 112 rape victims were below the age of 18. Four of them were below six years of age, nine were aged between six and 12, 31 between 12 and 16 years and 21 between 16 and 18 years of age.As per the report, offenders were known to the victim in 102 rape cases. While 16 were family members, 49 were either family friends, neighbours, employers or any other acquaintance, 37 offenders were friends met on social networking platforms or live-in partners, who raped on the pretext of marriage.The crime against the women has also gone up in the past few years. While a total of 453 incidents were reported in 2017, 442 were reported in 2018 and 515 in 2019.The report further states that a total of 66 incidents of assault on woman with intent to outrage her modesty were reported last year. In 13 cases, the victim was minor. A total of 15 incidents of insult to modesty of woman were reported, besides, other incidents of crime against women.The UT had a pendency percentage of 54.9 in the cases of crime against women in 2019. While there was a backlog of 348 cases pertaining to previous years, 515 cases were reported in 2019, taking the total number of cases for investigation to 863. Of the total cases, 389 cases were disposed of while the investigation was pending in 474 cases at the end of the year.During 2019, 411 persons, including 51 women, were nabbed for crime against women. Chargesheet was filed against 236 men and 16 women. As many as 48 persons, including a woman, were convicted and 98, including three women, were acquitted.Probe pending in 54.9% crime against women casesThe UT had a pendency percentage of 54.9 in the cases of crime against women in 2019. While there was a backlog of 348 cases pertaining to previous years, 515 cases were reported in 2019, taking the total number of cases for investigation to 863. Of the total cases, 389 cases were disposed of while the investigation was pending in 474 cases at the end of the year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-has-highest-rape-rate-in-country-149176
01-10-2020||Panchkula||113 new cases in Panchkula||The district today reported 113 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 5,992.Among the fresh cases, 11 were from Pinjore, 10 from Kalka, nine from Kharag Mangoli, seven from Sector 2, six each from Sector 15, 21 and 7, five from MDC, Sector 4, four from Sector 9, three each from Amravati Enclave, Barwala, Raipur Rani, Sector 12-A, 16, 25, 26 and 8, and two each from Alipur, Barona Khurd, Chikkan, Power Colony, Sector 11 and 27.The district did not see any Covid death today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/113-new-cases-in-panchkula-149177
01-10-2020||---||5 more succumb in Mohali||Mohali, September 30The district today reported five deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 194.Those who died today are a 70-year-old woman from Phase 3, a 61-year-old man from Cholta village, a 75-year-old woman from Dashmesh Nagar, Kharar, a 52-year-old woman from Dappar and a 66-year-old man from Sector 78.The district also witnessed 134 fresh cases today, taking the tally to 10,387.Among the fresh cases, 101 were from Mohali (urban), 12 from Dhakoli, eight from Dera Bassi, five from Kharar, four from Boothgarh, two from Gharuan, one each from Banur and Lalru.Meanwhile, 240 persons recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-succumb-in-mohali-149178
01-10-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court fixes six-month deadline to clear encroachments in Mohali||Chandigarh, September 30Rapping the “statutory authorities” for being remiss in discharge of statutory duties, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed the Mohali MC Commissioner and the GMADA Chief Administrator to remove all illegal and unauthorised encroachments from public paths, footpaths, open spaces, parks, corridors, streets, roads and pavements within the municipal limits of Mohali.For the purpose of removing the encroachments “strictly in accordance with law after following principle of natural justice”, the Bench of Justice Rajiv Sharma and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu set a six-month deadline.The Bench also directed the statutory authorities to initiate disciplinary proceedings within three months against the functionaries in whose tenure the encroachment and unauthorised constructions took place within the municipal limits.The Bench also made the MC Commissioner and the GMADA Chief Administrator personally responsible to implement and execute the order. The Senior Superintendent of Police, Mohali, was also directed to render all assistance to the statutory authorities.The directions came on a petition filed by the Area Social Welfare Association against the State of Punjab and other respondents, alleging that a large number of street vendors, including fruit and vegetable sellers, had encroached upon open space in front of the residential houses in Phase XI. It was added that they had also set up temporary kiosks on the footpath without getting a licence from the competent authority."The public paths, footpaths, open spaces, parks, corridors, streets and roads cannot be permitted to be encroached upon. It is the duty cast upon the statutory authorities to ensure that no unauthorised construction takes place in public places. The encroachment of public paths, footpaths, open spaces, parks, corridors, streets and roads causes immense hardship to the public at large. The state is the custodian of the public property," the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-fixes-six-month-deadline-to-clear-encroachments-in-mohali-149179
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man found murdered in forest area||A 25-year-old man was found murdered in the forest area of Sector 54 here this morning. The victim had injury marks on his head and a stab wound on his back.According to the police, a passer-by saw the body lying in the bushes, following which the police were informed. Cops rushed to the spot and initiated a probe.The victim, Sonu of Palsora, worked as a painter with a contractor, Kallu, in Sector 33.A police official said the victim was hit with some heavy object on his head and was also stabbed on the back.The body has been shifted to a mortuary at Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16.Sources said the police questioned several persons were regarding the murder. Meanwhile, a case of murder has been registered at the Sector 39 police station.The victim is survived by his wife and a one-and-a-half-year-old daughter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-murdered-in-forest-area-149180
01-10-2020||---||Vita booth owner robbed at gunpoint||Panchkula, September 30In a broad daylight incident, two bike-borne miscreants looted a Vita booth owner of Rs20,000 in Sector 28 here today.The complainant, Kuldeep Singh (52), said the incident took place around 3:40 pm.“The suspects, covering their faces with a mask, came to my shop pretending to be customers. They asked for milk packets. As soon as I turned around to give them milk packets, they sprayed some chemical on me. It fortunately didn’t get into my eyes. Later, they started hitting me and knocked me down,” the victim said.As the victim tried to push them away, one of them pulled out a gun and pointed it at him. He threatened to shoot him if he didn’t stop resisting. The miscreants took Rs20,000 from the cash box and fled on a black bike without a registration plate.The police said they were inspecting the footage of CCTV cameras installed near the crime scene. Sudhir Kumar, brother of the victim, said Kuldeep also sustained minor injuries in the incident. The victim’s medical examination was conducted at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here. A case in this regard has been registered at the Chandimandir police station.A police official said: “Investigation is on. The suspects will be nabbed soon.”This is the second robbery at the gunpoint in the past 20 days. Earlier, four masked men had robbed a man of his SUV at gunpoint near the Rally village market in Sector 12-A here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vita-booth-owner-robbed-at-gunpoint-149181
01-10-2020||---||4 fall prey to virus in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 30Four more Covid patients succumbed to the virus here today, taking the UTtoll to 162. The city also witnessed 129 fresh cases of coronavirus today, raising the infection tally to 11,938.A 61-year-old man from Sector 50 died at the PGI. He had acute kidney injury, encephalopathy and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.A 48-year-old man from Mani Majra breathed his last at the PGI. He was suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension and chronic kidney disease.A 30-year-old man from Dhanas died at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16. He was a case of acute respiratory distress syndrome.A 49-year-old man from Sector 41 lost his life to the virus at Mayo Hospital in Mohali. He was suffering from diabetes mellitus and hypertension.A total of 215 patients were discharged after being cured.The city has 1,963 active cases, while 9,813 patients have recovered from the disease so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-fall-prey-to-virus-in-chandigarh-149182
01-10-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Soon, NHAI to open another stretch on Kharar flyover||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 30After opening a section of the much-delayed Mohali-Kharar flyover a few days ago, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) will soon open another section of the flyover for vehicular traffic on the Ludhiana route. It will further streamline the movement of traffic on the road.According to information, the NHAI is going to complete a stretch on the flyover on the Kharar side, which connects to the Ludhiana road.Confirming the same, Pardeep Kumar, incharge of the Mohali-Kharar flyover project, said they hope to complete it in a month. Vehicles going towards Ludhiana would be allowed on the flyover, which would decongest the traffic on the Mohali-Kharar road, he said, adding that they hoped to complete the project by the end of December this year.It is pertinent to mention here that the Kharar flyover project has been delayed by about two years. Only 80 per cent of the work has been done so far even as several deadlines expired from December 2018 to January 2020, then March and on to June, July, September, November and now December.The two-month lockdown in the wake of the Covid pandemic further delayed the project as the highway authority faced shortage of skilled labour.The NHAI had handed over the Rs368-crore project to Larsen & Toubro (L&T), which began the construction of the flyover in November 2015. The project was initially planned to complete by December 2018.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-nhai-to-open-another-stretch-on-kharar-flyover-149183
01-10-2020||Mohali||New Mohali SSP takes charge||Satinder Singh today took over the charge of the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) of Mohali district.  His predecessor Kuldeep Singh Chahal, has been sent on a deputation to Chandigarh as the SSP. The PPS officer held a meeting with senior officials after assuming the charge. He had joined the Punjab Police in 1990 as an Inspector. and served as the SSP of Kapurthala, Khanna, SBS Nagar and Jalandhar (rural).  —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-mohali-ssp-takes-charge-149184
01-10-2020||---||Now, October 15 last date to apply for PG courses in Panjab University||Chandigarh, September 30Panjab University has extended the last date for applying to various postgraduate courses in the teaching departments/ institutes/regional centres to October 15.The last date has been extended in view of the result of undergraduate courses that is likely to be declared by October 10.Till date, the total number of candidates registered for postgraduate admissions is 32,157. Of this, 10,666 have deposited their fee and completed their form and 12,261 have only submitted their forms. As many as 1,595 candidates have deposited the fee and completed their forms.Admission to UG coursesThe VC also extended the last date for admission to undergraduate courses with late fee to October 10 in PU-affiliated colleges. Meanwhile, sources said the last date for admission to postgraduate courses has also been extended. However, no official notification was received on late fee charges in this regard. Reports suggested that the late fee charges are hiked by Rs 560 for both undergraduate and postgraduate courses.Senators unhappyWith VC approving the hike in the late fee charges without the approval of the Syndicate, fellows are unhappy with the decision. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the university has not organised a Syndicate meeting. “Issues such as scraping of entrance tests, postponing elections, hike in the late fee charges are some major important issues which should be addressed by the authorities to the Syndicate. This is not a way to run the institution,” said one of the fellows.Students vacate hostels AT varsity Chandigarh: After the Panjab University authorities reached out to the parents of hostel inmates, requesting them to take students back, many among them have now opted to vacate hostels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-october-15-last-date-to-apply-for-pg-courses-in-panjab-university-149185
01-10-2020||
||Police turned blind eye to BJP rally: Congress||Chandigarh, September 30 Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra and senior leaders of the party issued a joint statement to condemn the tractor rally taken out by the city BJP unit on cycle tracks yesterday. The rally was conducted in support of the farm laws. Chhabra also took a strong exception of the attitude of senior officials of the Chandigarh Police, who had turned a blind eye to all violations of law during the rally. City Congress leaders said the police found faults in protests organised by the Congress, but they had not initiated any action or FIRs against the BJP leaders. They said the condition of the city roads had already gone from bad to worse in the past six years and now BJP leaders had started driving tractors on cycle tracks. City Congress leaders said Chahar should have shown the strength to meet the protesting farmers and farm unions if he was so sure of the benefits of the draconian farm laws passed by the BJP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-turned-blind-eye-to-bjp-rally-congress-149187
01-10-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Inter-ward contest to better Swachh ranking||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 30To improve the Swachh Bharat rankings of the UT, the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) is organising a monthly inter-ward competition beginning October 2 till January 2021.The 26 wards of the UT will vie for top honours every month based on their score on different parameters related to municipal services.“Nodal officers for each ward have been appointed. The evaluation will be done by a panel headed by Nazuk Kumar. The panel will include officials from the UT Administration,” said Sorabh Arora, Joint Commissioner, MC.Besides cleanliness, the civic body has identified 20 parameters on which the progress of each ward will be evaluated.“The whole process has been designed to prepare the city for the Swachh Bharat rankings next year,” he said. Chandigarh has been placed 16th in the latest Swachh Survekshan rankings.The ward that collects the maximum hazardous waste (e-waste) gets a prize. There are prizes for waste segregation and people’s participation (RWAs) among others.“The cleanliness part roughly carries 30 per cent weightage. Seventy per cent weightage is for the amount of waste generated in a ward and how it is transported, processed without creating pollution,” said an MC official.The maximum accountability will be of the councillors as they will supervise their teams and all operations of their ward.Soon, the MC will launch a mobile van, ‘Swachh Savari’, which will go from ward to ward and collect reusable things from the residents as donation and display these so that needy people are benefited.It is based on the 3R initiative (reduce, reuse and recycle) to build a sound-material-cycle society through the effective use of resources and material.Beyond cleanlinessGenerally, a Swachh Sarvekshan gives a perception of a ranking based on cleanliness, but it goes far beyond that. The Swachh Sarvekshan counts people's involvement, their civic sense, the enforcement of rules, how funds are generated and what new ventures were floated during the fixed time period. There is also a focus on slaughterhouses and the existing sewerage system in the city. Each complaint made at the MC office is accounted for and points are deducted on delay on an hourly basis.Mobile van to be launchedThe MC will launch a mobile van, ‘Swachh Savari’, which will go from ward to ward and collect reusable things from the residents as donation and display these so that needy people are benefited. It is based on the 3R initiative (reduce, reuse and recycle) to build a sound-material-cycle society through the effective use of resources and material.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inter-ward-contest-to-better-swachh-ranking-149188
01-10-2020||---||AAP seeks restoration of street lights in Chandigarh villages||Chandigarh, September 30The local unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded immediate restoration of street lights in all UT villages.The Electricity Department had disconnected streetlights in the UT villages due to the non-payment of electricity bills.In a communication to the MC Commissioner, AAP chief spokesman Nitin Goyal said the Electricity Department had disconnected the supply of electricity for street lights to several UT villages, including Dhanas, Sarangpur, Khudda Lahora and Khuda Jassu.These villages were merged with the MC in 2018 with a promise of development, while there has been zero improvement in the condition of roads, sanitation, water supply, parks, etc. On the contrary, the condition has only worsened.“People have started saying that if you want to experience hell like living, stay in UT villages. And on top of this, the residents are now facing disconnection of street lights too. Dark spots will add to the agony of these villagers in the coming nights,” he said.At the time of merger, the MC had also taken over all assets and properties of gram panchayats of these villages. For example in Dhanas alone, besides other properties, eight commercial shops belonging to the panchayat were taken over by the MC, from which the MC is earning a monthly rent of about Rs40,000, but still the corporation failed to pay the electricity bills of the street lights for over six months.Goyal said the Commissioner should initiate departmental inquiry to fix the responsibility of the officials responsible for non-payment of electricity bills despite reminders and follow-up by the Electricity Department.The party also demanded compensation to each household of the affected villages, which should be recovered from the officials found responsible in the departmental inquiry.Protests gang rape of UP girl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-seeks-restoration-of-street-lights-in-chandigarh-villages-149189
01-10-2020||---||Go for a movie in Unlock 5.0||Chandigarh, September 30After remaining closed for nearly seven months, cinema halls and multiplexes in the UT are set to reopen with up to 50 per cent seating capacity from October 15 under Unlock 5.0.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) today issued fresh guidelines for reopening of various activities such as schools and colleges and swimming pools for training purpose, only outside the containment zones. The new guidelines will come into effect from October 1.The MHA has allowed cinemas, theatres and multiplexes to open with up to 50 per cent of their capacity, business-to-business (B2B) exhibitions, swimming pools for training purpose and entertainment parks from October 15. The ministry will issue standard operating procedures (SOPs) in this connection.In the Unlock 5.0 guidelines, the UT has been given the flexibility to take a decision on reopening of schools and coaching institutions after October 15 in a graded manner. However, the decision is to be taken in consultation with the respective school/institution and subject to the SOPs prepared by the UT with health and safety precautions.The Department of Higher Education (DHE) may take a decision on the timings of the opening of colleges/higher education institutions in consultation with the MHA, on the basis of an assessment of the situation. Online/distance learning shall continue to be a preferred mode of teaching and shall be encouraged.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said they would implement the MHC guidelines for Unlock 5.0 in toto.UT to decide on extending limit on gatheringSocial, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions besides other congregations have already been permitted with a ceiling of 100 persons. Now, the UT has been given the flexibility to permit such gatherings beyond the limit of 100 after October 15, but with a rider. In closed spaces, a maximum of 50 per cent of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 persons.Reopening of Education Institutes What is permitted from Oct 15||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/go-for-a-movie-in-unlock-5-0-149277
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Court rejects bail application of murder bid accused||Additional Sessions Judge Sanjiv Joshi has dismissed the bail application of Sahil and Deepak of Hallo Majra, who were arrested for allegedly stabbing two brothers.An FIR had been registered against the accused on a complaint of Neeraj, who alleged that Sahil and his friends stabbed him and his brother Vishal on February 27, 2020, near Government School, Hallo Majra. The petitioners’ counsel sought bail on the ground that they had been in jail for seven months’ now. These youngsters were not involved in any other criminal case, except the present one, he said.The public prosecutor opposed that their bail plea was not maintainable as their previous applications were also dismissed. The judge said the court had already dismissed two bail applications. As there was no change of circumstances in the present case, he dismissed the bail application again. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-rejects-bail-application-of-murder-bid-accused-149284
01-10-2020||---||Southwest monsoon withdraws from Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 30The southwest monsoon has withdrawn from Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Chandigarh, announced today.A further dry spell of weather has been predicted for the next week. The maximum and minimum temperatures will hover around 35 and 19 degrees Celsius in the city for the next week.There has been a departure of -7 per cent in the performance of monsoon from June to September. The city witnessed 791 mm of rainfall against the normal of 846.5 mm during this monsoon.According to the data provided by the Weather Department, the city witnessed 22.2 mm of rainfall against the normal of 80.7 mm in September, a departure of -72 per cent.Chandigarh IMD Director Surender Paul said an anticyclone had been established over the western parts of the country at lower level and cessation of rainfall activities and significant reduction of moisture content in the region had been noticed in the past four-five days.In 2019, the IMD announced the withdrawal of monsoon around October 10.Punjab and Haryana have witnessed a departure of -17 and -14 per cent departure from the normal monsoon this year.OfficialspeakChandigarh IMD Director Surender Paul said an anticyclone had been established over the western parts of the country at lower level and cessation of rainfall activities and significant reduction of moisture content in the region had been noticed in the past four-five days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/southwest-monsoon-withdraws-from-chandigarh-149286
01-10-2020||Panchkula||Farmers lock market  panel office in Barwala||Farmers today locked the office of the market committee and staged a sit-in at the Barwala grain market in protest against the non-procurement of paddy and non-availability of gunny bags.They claimed that their produce was not being purchased and it had been lying in the open area.Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Bahadur Singh said they had given an ultimatum to the market committee secretary and tehsildar to start the procurement process by 1 pm, but nobody came forward to hear their grievances.“The government is sleeping. Commission agents have not been given any ‘bardana’ bags by the government yet,” Singh added.Gurvinder Singh, a farmer, said, “Commission agents told us they don’t have bardana bags, which is making things difficult for us. Even though the government claimed to start paddy procurement officially from Sunday, the on-ground situation has exposed its false propaganda.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-lock-market-panel-office-in-barwala-149287
01-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Paddy procurement begins in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, Sept 30Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra today inaugurated the process of procurement of paddy in the district.The MLA was accompanied by the District Food and Civil Supply Controller, officers of procurement agencies and Mandi Board. They reviewed the arrangements made in mandis for farmers.The MLA said the state government had made elaborate arrangements for smooth procurement of paddy and farmers would not face any difficulty. He called upon the farmers to bring paddy to mandis as per the government specifications.He said the payment for the procured paddy would be ensured in 72 hours.DM bans burning of residueDistrict Magistrate Officiating Sonali Giri has issued an orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (2 of 1974) for ban on burning of the paddy residue in the district. In the orders, she mentioned that the burning of the paddy residue has a detrimental effect on the environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/paddy-procurement-begins-in-fatehgarh-sahib-149289
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Power supply to be hit today||Woman held with ganjaChandigarh: The police arrested a 43-year-old woman from Daria village and seized 1.20-kg ganja. A case has been registered against the woman under the NDPS Act at the Industrial Area police station. TNSVarsity scraps entrance testsChandigarh: The PU decided to scrap all entrance tests — PU-CET (PG), MPhil/PhD, PULEET, PUMEET and MBA (Executive). Registered candidates for the PU-CET (PG) have to fill admission form by October 15. TNSUT admn now on InstagramChandigarh: The Department of Public Relations, UT, is now on Instagram. Rajiv Tewari, Director, Public Relations, said, “The step has been taken to ensure that we are easily accessible to public, especially during the pandemic.” He said, “We will also ensure that the page is updated regularly to keep the general public informed.” TNSCricket tourney from October 5Chandigarh: As many as six teams will participate in the 1st Ashok Kumar Vij Memorial U-16 league Cricket Tournament that will be organised from October 5 at the IVCA-B Cricket Ground, Dera Bassi. TNSMan hangs self to death in Sector 25Chandigarh: A 39-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging at his house in Sector 25. The victim has been identified as Surinder. He is survived by his wife and three children. The incident came to light on Wednesday morning. Cops rushed to the spot on getting information. The victim was taken to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 where he was declared brought dead. The police said no suicide note was found at the spot. Meanwhile, an inquest proceeding has been initiated at the Sector 11 police station. TNSVarsity holds leadership talkChandigarh: Chitkara University on Wednesday organised a leadership talk by Keshav R Murugesh, Group CEO of WNS Global Services. He addressed the students on 'The New Normal: What to Stop, Start and Accelerate'. He shared three key ideas for building career - learning multi-skills and developing out-of-the-box thinking; embrace the new ways of working; and accelerate your agility to reflect, reboot and reinvent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/power-supply%C2%A0to-be-hit-today-149290
