01-11-2020||---||61 Covid cases surface in Mohali||Mohali, November 1Mohali district reported 61 Covid-19 cases during the past 24 hours taking the total tally to 12,299. No fatality has been reported in the district till evening on Sunday.Out of the cases, 48 came from Mohali urban, nine from Kharar, one each from Dhakoli and Kurali, and two from Gharuan. Meanwhile, 78 patients have been cured and discharged from hospital.As of now there are 12,440 cases and out of these 11,647 patients have been cured. There are 556 active cases with 237 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/61-covid-cases-surface-in-mohali-164450
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 61 more COVID-19 cases; tally reaches 14,476||Chandigarh on Sunday reported 61 more coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 14,476, according to a health bulletin.There are 618 active cases as of now and the death toll stands at 226, it said.Eighty-one patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 13,632, as per the bulletin.It said that a total of 1,07,851 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 92,724 tested negative while reports of 111 samples were awaited. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-61-more-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-14-476-164449
01-11-2020||Panchkula||Cattle deaths at Mansa Devi Gaudham: Report still awaited||The three-member committee constituted by Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta to look into the deaths of 71 head of cattle at Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham failed to submit its preliminary report within a time frame of three days, on Sunday.Dr Anil Banwala, Deputy Director of Animal Husbandry Department, Haryana, said they were waiting for a chemical report on feed and water samples from Hisar’s Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences to compile with already submitted post-mortem results, and to arrive at a logical conclusion which could act as a base of the preliminary report.“We can only arrive at any conclusion once we receive the chemical analysis of the food samples. Hopefully, we get chemical analysis of the food samples by Monday,” said Dr Banwala, who is also a member of the three-member committee.The post-mortem report of 71 head of cattle that died at the cow shelter run by the Panchkula Gaushala Trust suggests that the bovines died of food poisoning.The police, in their initial investigation, have ruled out any foul play in the incident. As many as 71 cows and bulls died and 29 were taken ill. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cattle-deaths-at-mansa-devi-gaudham-report-still-awaited-164067
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University Senate term ends, no word on what’s next||The entire Panjab University (PU) administration avoided answering media queries on the issue of Senate’s dissolution, as its term came to an end on Saturday.Amid speculation of formation of a Board of Governors (BoG) by the Vice-President of India (who is also the PU Chancellor), the term of PU’s Senate House ended today. To much surprise of everyone, no official came forward to answer as to what’s next.In the past three months, the Senate elections had been postponed twice and during that period some important decisions, including conducting first ever blended (online/offline) examinations, announcing results, cancelling entrance tests, conducting admissions, declaring new calendar, re-opening hostels for research scholars and others, were taken without any House meeting.Even the syndics kept on waiting about any update on Saturday, but to no avail.In the evening, rumours were doing the rounds that the PU Vice-Chancellor had held a meeting with the Chancellor in the evening and a list carrying the names of the Board of Governors would be out soon.However, sources maintained that nothing would come before Monday, as the authorities didn’t want to make any mistake which could affect the current situation.Also, there have been speculations that BoG would comprise these senators only. However, the sources said there were slim chances of this.“Nothing is clear as of now. This has come a long way. The administration tried convincing senators and called their online meetings — not once but twice.However, they refused to attend online meetings and demanded for a physical one. Everyone wondered, if classes by fellows can be taken online, PUTA’s press conference can be conducted online, why not a meeting?” said a source in the PU.Political interferenceSince the PU’s lawmakers were clearly seen divided into the groups of the BJP and the Congress, a few believed that formation of Board of Governors (BoG) may help in ending this culture. On the contrary, a few persons also believed it would lead to more politics on the campus. “BoG will be appointed by the Central Government and it’s likely to be ‘yes men’ of the Centre,” said a professor. “The involvement of the groups of the BJP and the Congress at the PU is not hidden from anyone. We believe that scholars and eminent personalities should now accept BoG,” said another professor.NEP implementationAccording to a letter (dated October 20) from the University Grants Commission (UGC) under directions from the Union Ministry of Education, Panjab University was to begin the process of governance reforms under the New Education Policy (NEP). “The elected governing bodies like the Senate and its executive arm, the Syndicate, will be disbanded and replaced by a board of governors nominated by the Chancellor as per NEP,” said a professor. He added: “The syndics have now approached everyone but they did not file any objections when the Central Government asked for.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-senate-term-ends-no-word-on-whats-next-164068
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 67% dip in cases in October||The month of October witnessed a fall of 67 per cent in the number of Covid-19 cases reported in the city.The UT had witnessed the infection peak last month when 250 cases were being reported on a daily basis. The number of cases reported this month is even lower than the count of August. While 7,592 cases were reported in September, a total of 3,295 persons contracted the virus in the city in the month of August.This month, the city recorded only 2,480 cases. The average number of cases reported daily this month is 75.The number of deaths due to the virus also saw a decline of about 40 per cent as compared to September.The city has recorded 12,122 cases per million population, while the national average is 6,069. For every 10 lakh people, as many as 89,405 samples were tested in the city. Last week, the number of new infections grew by an average 0.5 per cent every day.A week-wise analysis of the positivity rate in October showed that it was high at 14 per cent in the first week and dropped to 7.5 per cent in the following week. The third week showed a further decline of 5.9 per cent. However, 6.5 per cent positivity rate was observed in the fourth week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-67-dip-in-cases-in-october-164070
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||One fatality, 67 new cases in Chandigarh||The city reported 67 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, raising the total number of infections to 14,418.A 39-year-old man from Sector 46 died at a private hospital in Mohali taking the UT Covid toll to 226.Meanwhile, 82 more patients reportedly recovered from the disease. So far, 13,551 city residents have defeated the deadly virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-fatality-67-new-cases-in-chandigarh-164071
01-11-2020||Panchkula||26 test positive  in Panchkula||The district today reported 26 fresh cases of Covid and the tally rose to 7,150.Four new cases were from Sector 7, three each from Kalka, Sector 26 and Sector 6, two each from Pinjore, Sector 11, Sector 15, Sector 20 and Sector 8 and one each from the MDC, Sector 4, the MDC, Sector 5, and Sector 9.While 6,831 patients have been cured so far, 206 cases are active. The recovery rate stands at 95.53 per cent. The district toll remains 113. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/26-test-positive-in-panchkula-164072
01-11-2020||Mohali||One arrested for immigration fraud, 4 at large||The Zirakpur police arrested a man and booked four others for allegedly duping people on the pretext of sending them abroad.The suspects have been identified as Vikram, a resident of Zirakpur, Manoj Kumar, a resident of Sirsa, Harman, a resident of Rajpura, Rakesh Bajaj, a resident of Ferozepur, and Vikas Goyal, a resident of Panchkula.The suspects were running an illegal immigration firm in Zirakpur. They duped several persons to the tune of Rs4.52 lakh. The police had got complaints of around 25 persons against them. Vikas had rentd out showroom to Vikram and Manoj.Rakesh Bajaj has been arrested by the police while the remaining four suspects are at large. The police said hunt was on to nab them.A case has been registered under Sections 419, 420, 406, 467 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 24 of the Immigration Act at the Zirakpur police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-arrested-for-immigration-fraud-4-at-large-164074
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||History-sheeter lands in police net with firearm, cartridges||A team of the operations cell, Sector 26, today arrested a criminal with a country-made pistol and two cartridges. Balwant Singh, 23, was out on parole since March this year and was involved in several heinous crimes since then.The suspect was arrested at a naka near the Botanical Garden road. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against him at Sarangpur. A resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, Balwant is involved in cases of murder, dacoity, robbery, theft, riot and vehicle theft registered at police stations of the city, Zirakpur, Balongi and Panchkula.During interrogation, he revealed that he was awarded 10 years of imprisonment in a rape case in Zirakpur, seven years of jail in a case in Panchkula and four years of imprisonment in a case of dacoity in Chandigarh. He was out on a parole from Burail Jail since March this year.During the parole period, he was allegedly involved in two cases of rioting committed under the jurisdiction of the Sector 36 police station and a murder case in Balongi. He also revealed that he allegedly procured the pistol from Muzaffarnagar in UP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/history-sheeter-lands-in-police-net-with-firearm-cartridges-164078
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Three youths held for Ram Darbar man’s murder||A day after a man was stabbed to death at Ram Darbar, three persons have been arrested for the murder.The victim, identified as Attar Singh, a resident of Ram Darbar, was killed while his 28-year-old son Anil got injured in the attack.The incidentAnil, a resident of Ram Darbar, was returning home when Vishal, one of the suspects, and two others had a fight with him. Around 8 pm, Anil was sitting outside his house with his father Attar Singh when Vishal and two others came and allegedly stabbed them with a knife and an ice pick.The suspects have been identified as Vishal, 21, Anil’s neighbour Bobby, 22, and Ravi, 26. They were arrested near the Industrial Area, Phase 1. The weapon used in the crime is yet to be recovered.Anil and Vishal had an argument over obstructing the path. On Friday, Anil, who works as a sweeper at Government College in Sector 50, was returning home when Vishal and two other boys had a fight with him. Around 8 pm, Anil was sitting outside his house with his father when Vishal came there with two unknown persons. They stabbed him and his father with a knife and an ice pick.Residents of the locality gathered as Anil shouted for help. The suspects then ran away from the spot.Neighbours took Anil and Attar Singh to the GMCH-32 where doctors declared Attar Singh dead. The post-mortem was conducted and the body was handed over to the kin for the last rites. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-youths-held-for-ram-darbar-mans-murder-164081
01-11-2020||Mohali||One death, 81 fresh infections in Mohali||The district saw a fatality due to Covid-19 and 81 new cases today. Besides, 32 patients were cured of the disease.Among the new cases reported today, 41 were from Mohali, 22 from Kharar, 11 from Dera Bassi, five from Dhakoli, and two from Lalru. The district tally stands at 12,379 with 11,568 recoveries.The number of active cases is 574. With one more death today, the toll reached 237. On Friday, 49 new cases were reported from the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-81-fresh-infections-in-mohali-164083
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Can CJM extend probe time? HC to examine||Can a Chief Judicial Magistrate grant extension of time to an investigating agency for completion of probe in a case under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act? The vital question of law will be examined by the Punjab and Haryana High Court during the hearing of a “default bail” plea filed by an accused arrested by the Punjab police.The caseThe petitioner’s case is that 90 days have lapsed and challan has not been submitted by the investigating agency. As such, he is liable to be released on bail.Appearing before Justice Arun Monga’s Bench on behalf of accused Tejinder Singh, alias Teja, advocate Saurav Bhatia contended that the Chief Judicial Magistrate was not competent to grant extension of time to the investigating agency for completion of investigation.Bhatia submitted that the Court’s decision to grant extension had resulted in denial of default bail to the petitioner under Section 167(2) of the CrPC. The provision deals with grant of default bail in case of non-completion of investigation in 90 and 60 days, depending upon the offence.Bhatia added the petitioner had been implicated under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1967, and only the Sessions Court was competent to grant any such extension. He further contended that even a notice on application seeking extension of investigation was not issued to the petitioner, which is in violation of the apex court’s judgment in the case of “Hitendra Vishnu Thakur versus the State of Maharashtra”After hearing preliminary submissions, Justice Monga issued a notice of motion to the State of Punjab and other respondents. Accepting the notice, state counsel PS Walia sought time to get instructions on the issue. Accepting his prayer, Justice Monga adjourned the hearing of the matter to November 23.An FIR in the matter was registered on June 1 under Sections 153-A, 171, 465, 467, 468, 471, 473 and 120-B of the IPC for forgery, criminal conspiracy and other offences, besides the provisions of the Arms Act and UAPA Act, at State Special Operations Cell in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/can-cjm-extend-probe-time-hc-to-examine-164084
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Badnore launches ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme in Chandigarh||UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore launched the “One Nation, One Ration Card” (ONORC) scheme in the city during the Rashtriya Ekta Diwas celebrations at Sukhna Lake here today.UT Adviser Manoj Parida, Secretary, Food and Supplies and Consumer Affairs and Legal Metrology, UT, Vinod P Kavle, and other senior officials were also present on the occasion.Chandigarh is the first UT to introduce the ONORC scheme with integration of the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme.UT First to introduce schemeChandigarh is the first UT to introduce the ONORC scheme with integration of the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme.Helpline numberThe Food and Civil Supplies Department has setup a helpline number, 14445, and a dedicated service window in the office. Any migrant person has to either call on 14445 or visit the service window in the department to register under the “One Nation, One Ration Card” scheme.This ONORC scheme enables migrant beneficiaries to get ration, even when he moves out to other states or UTs. This is particularly helpful for the migrant labour, who stays a few months at one place and thereafter goes to other state for work. Without portability of the ration card, these migrant people were deprived of their entitlement of ration under the National Food Security Act, 2013.For this purpose, the Food and Civil Supplies Department has setup a helpline number, 14445, and a dedicated service window in the office. Any migrant person has to either call on 14445 or visit the service window in the department to register under the ONORC scheme.Migrants have to bring their Aadhaar card, ration card and provide bank details and address in Chandigarh. They have to visit the office for biometric authentication. After successful registration, the food subsidy amount in lieu of food grains will be transferred into the migrant’s bank account as per the entitlement under the National Food Security Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-launches-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-in-chandigarh-164085
01-11-2020||---||Congress councillors want civic body to be dissolved||Chandigarh, October 31Congress councillors today wrote a letter to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore asking him to dissolve the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation and hand it over to the Administration over the “failure of the ruling BJP in carrying out city’s development.”In the letter, they alleged that the BJP had failed so miserably to run the Municipal Corporation that now it was putting all blame on MC officials.“Till date, nobody knows about the MC’s Rs500-crore fixed deposit (FD) and there is not even a single tax left that hasn’t been imposed on city residents. Mayor Raj Bala Malik has only burdened the city residents by imposing taxes on them,” they added.The opposition councillors said the BJP increased parking rates, property tax, sewerage tax, water tariffs and imposed cow cess.“Whereabouts of city MP Kirron Kher are not known,” the councillors wrote.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-councillors-want-civic-body-to-be-dissolved-164086
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ stir hits Northern Railways’ freight earnings||Farmers’ ‘Rail Roko Andolan’ has hit the freight earnings of the Northern Railway’s Ambala division. According to Divisional Railway Manager GM Singh, the division has suffered a loss of almost Rs200 crore this month.Following the Punjab Bandh call to protest against three agricultural ordinances (now bills), the Northern Railway had issued a circular detailing a list of parcel and passenger trains that were cancelled, diverted and terminated on September 23.“Since a month, trains have not moved beyond Ambala,” said GM Singh. He said about 40-45 goods trains ply over Punjab area daily, from both Ambala and Ferozepur divisions.“Maximum of these trains carry food grains. The division had doubled its freight earnings this year, but it has suffered a loss of Rs200 crore this month,” he said.The division cashed in on freight services to ride through the pandemic, even though its passenger trains remained largely cancelled from March 24 and were partly resumed in May. The division has recorded a rise of 68 per cent freight revenue in the first half of financial year 2020-2021 (April-September) as compared to the earnings of the same period in the previous financial year.The division recorded Rs234.4-crore revenue this September, which is 63 per cent higher than its earnings in the same month last year. Till September, the division recorded its goods revenue at Rs1,393.68 crores.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-stir-hits-northern-railways-freight-earnings-164088
01-11-2020||---||Additional 10-day time sought for filing objections, suggestions||Chandigarh, October 31Additional 10 days’ time was sought for filing objections or suggestions on the draft of Model Tenancy Act.In a letter to UT Adviser Manoj Parida, Advocate Ajay Jagga stated that they were grateful that the UT Administration had sought objections and suggestions from the general public on the draft of Model Tenancy Act, prepared by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.He said the last date of the suggestions had been mentioned as October 31 and the objections and suggestions were to be submitted to the Superintendent Estate-II, UT Secretariat, Sector 9.However, October 30 and 31 were holidays. So, it was requested that the last date may be extended to November 10 to enable people to file objections/suggestions in the interest of justice, he said.“Since this exercise is being undertaken after decades, it is urged to grant 10 days more time to have maximum suggestions/objections,” he requested.In order to establish a framework for the regulation of rent and to balance the rights and responsibilities of landlords and tenants and provide fast adjudication process for resolution of disputes, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, has drafted a Model Tenancy Act, 2020.The UT Administration had invited suggestions or objections, if any, from the general public by October 31 in a notice issued on September 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/additional-10-day-time-sought-for-filing-objections-suggestions-164089
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Get registered, plastic bag manufacturers told||To check the misuse of plastic, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) has directed all producers, brand owners, recyclers and manufacturers of plastic carry bags and plastic-allied items to register themselves with the committee within a month.The Member Secretary, CPCC, said they were required to obtain registration from the committee under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. Failure to do so would invite legal action as per the provisions of law.Violation of these rules contravene the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, which will be punishable with imprisonment for a term, which may extend to five years or with fine which may extend to Rs1 lakh or both. In case of failure or contravention continues, additional fine will be imposed which may extend to Rs5,000 for every day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-registered-plastic-bag-manufacturers-told-164090
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Bar elections become virtual battleground||It has become a virtual battle for 19 candidates who are fighting for various posts in the District Bar Association elections to be held on November 6.With strict guidelines imposed by the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the candidates have increased their presence on social media platforms by creating WhatsApp groups and Facebook pages.The guidelinesAs per the guidelines, no candidate is allowed to do canvassing by visiting houses of the electorate. Social gathering for canvassing and hosting parties by candidates have also been prohibited. Printing and distributing any handbills for canvassing has been prohibited as precautionary measures. No candidate is allowed to print any poster, paste posters and affix hoardings.Though the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has allowed to hold physical elections of bar associations all over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, it has imposed strict restrictions on the candidates for the campaigning.As per the guidelines, no candidate is allowed to do canvassing by visiting houses of the electorate. Social gathering for canvassing and hosting parties by candidates have also been prohibited. Printing and distributing any handbills for canvassing has been prohibited as precautionary measures. No candidate is allowed to print any poster, paste posters and affix hoardings.Candidates are only allowed to canvas via social media, telephone and issuing audio and video appeals through the social media.Ankit Gupta, candidate for the post of vice-president, said his dedicated team of supporters were working on the social media. He was personally calling voters on their mobile phones.Advocate Neeraj Hans, who is in fray for the post of president, has prepared the vision plan 2020 for voters which he shared through WhatsApp and other social media platforms.This time three candidates will fight for the post of president of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh. The election is going to be held after a delay of over six months. Advocate Munish Dewan, advocate Neeraj Hans and advocate Bhaag Singh Suhag are fighting for the post of president.Advocate Amrit Veer Singh, who is fighting for the post of vice-president, said the election scene was different this year. With no parties and door—door campaign, he had been focusing on personal phone calls to voters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bar-elections-become-virtual-battleground-164096
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Free Covid testing camp today in Chandigarh||The local unit of the BJP, in association with the Health Department, will organise a free Covid-19 testing camp at a community centre in Sector 8 and a community centre in Mani Majra from 10 am to 1 pm tomorrow.Prince Bhandula, president, BJP Medical Cell, UT, said the camp in Sector 8 would be organised under the supervision of Councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu. The Mani Majra camp would be held under the supervision of Deputy Mayor Jagtar Singh Dhillon. Any healthy person could get his or her coronavirus test done at the camp free of cost. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/free-covid-testing-camp-today-in-chandigarh-164097
01-11-2020||Mohali||144 evacuees from Sharjah land in Chandigarh||An evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 144 passengers from Sharjah, landed at the Chandigarh International Airport here today.The Indigo-operated Air Bubble flight carrying 144 stranded passengers from Sharjah arrived at the local airport at 7.40 am.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of respective state government representatives where they will be home quarantined as per the government guidelines. Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport with joint efforts of all authorities/agencies.A Health Department spokesperson said health officials took utmost precaution during the screening and passengers also maintained social distancing.He said no passenger was found suffering from fever, cough and cold and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus. Health Department teams deployed at the airport asked all passengers to take all health-related precautions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/144-evacuees-from-sharjah-land-in-chandigarh-164099
01-11-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula administration gears up to check Covid surge in festival season||Ahead of the festive season, the health authorities are trying to identify groups of people in jobs, which involve high contact frequency, like vendors, salespersons, shopkeepers and sweetmeat stall owners to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.Health officials today held a meeting in this regard with their representatives to chalk out strategy to save hard-won gains during the festival season.The Panchkula Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “Shopkeepers and vendors come in contact with many people every day. Their contact frequency will definitely go up during the festive season when large crowds tend to gather. This can increase transmission of virus within population.”“Hence, continuous testing will be carried out among these groups to prevent the Covid surge,” she added.Moreover, officials of the district administration said they were taking all precautions to limit gatherings.Extensive sampling of govt officialsThe plan of action includes a close watch on government officials working in various state offices in Panchkula. Government officials will be tested extensively before they re-join duties after their return from festive vacations. This decision was taken at a meeting of heads and officials of the Health Department.“The testing schedule will be announced soon,” the Civil Surgeon confirmed.Dip in temperature increases +ve casesAfter reporting cases in single digits for two consecutive days, the district witnessed a marginal rise in daily Covid numbers during the last four days.Officials said the dip in temperature played an important part and increased risk of Covid-19 transmission.Covid sampling to get a boostEven though health officials have vowed to boost Covid sampling ahead of the festive season, the numbers suggest further improvements can be made in this drive. The authorities conducted at least 2,372 Covid tests during the last three days at an average of 790 per day in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-administration-gears-up-to-check-covid-surge-in-festival-season-164101
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Congress pays tributes to Indira, Sardar Patel||Congress leaders and workers paid homage to former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on her death anniversary and the first Home Minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel on his birth anniversary.Tribute was paid to both leaders at the Chandigarh Congress Bhawan where party leaders and workers had gathered in the presence of Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra.Speaking on the occasion, Chhabra said, “The Congress has a rich legacy. We are proud that Loh-Purush Sardar Patel and Iron Lady and former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi have led the party and the country in the building years of post-Independence.”A blood donation camp was also organised by the Chandigarh Congress in the Bapudham area in memory of Maharishi Valmiki and Indira Gandhi. As many as 104 units of blood were donated by Congress workers and the public present at the camp.Speaking on the occasion, Chhabra said, “Valmiki Samaj has always lived upto high ideals set by Maharishi Valmiki, who was not only the author of Ramayana, but also inspired generations to come to walk on path of righteousness and courage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-pays-tributes-to-indira-sardar-patel-164103
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Follow ideals of Iron Man of India: Badnore||The Chandigarh Administration today celebrated ‘Rashtriya Ekta Diwas’, the birth anniversary of the Iron Man of India Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel here at Sukhna Lake.The Punjab Governor and the UT Administrator, VP Singh Badnore, who was the chief guest on the occasion, was welcomed by Adviser Manoj Parida followed by the police band.After the National Anthem was played, Badnore administered pledge to senior officials of the Administration and to all present on the occasion.The Administrator motivated all to ensure development of the country as did Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, whose lofty ideals of patriotism need to be followed in the letter and spirit by one and all. The event was managed by the UT Tourism Department. All guidelines regarding Covid-19 were followed by guests, present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/follow-ideals-of-iron-man-of-india-badnore-164107
01-11-2020||Mohali||Airport Road opposite TDI City open invitation to accidents||The Airport Road, near bridge opposite the TDI City, is in bad shape with garbage littered and construction debris dumped presenting an abhorrent site. Stray cattle roam around the area posing a great threat to motorists at night.On October 27, a 19-year-old man died in a road accident while his two friends were injured when their car fell down the bridge on the Airport road. The incident occurred around 12.30 am on the Airport road when Desraj, Pradeep and Deepak, all residents of Balongi, were going towards Mohali from Sunny Enclave in their car. The driver lost control of the car after stray cattle came in front of the vehicle. The car hit the bridge on the road and fell down.Residents said the condition of road was worsening with each passing year. “The pile of garbage keeps increasing every month. Hardly, anyone comes here to lift garbage. Often we see people throwing bags of garbage from their vehicles and speed away. Neither the Municipal Corporation nor any other body keeps a check here,” said KS Wadhwa, a senior executive in the TDI City.Eyewitnesses said they had not seen any agency lift garbage. Rather, garbage was frequently burnt at night, which caused a lot of pollution, they added. Plus, it drastically reduced visibility on the road, they said.“Already, it is considered a risky road and the smoke of burnt garbage reduces visibility further in winters,” said KS Sharma, a retired government servant living nearby. “Liquor vends and other nearby eateries too throw garbage along the road,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/airport-road-opposite-tdi-city-open-invitation-to-accidents-164111
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Government Model Sr Sec School||St Joseph’s Sr Sec SchoolChandigarh: “Bird week” was observed at the kindergarten (KG) block of St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44-D. Teachers of KG shared some unique facts about birds, including ostrich, owl, parrot, penguin and woodpecker, during the week. Tiny tots were amazed to learn about their habitats, young ones, food habits and special features. They enjoyed learning about feathered creatures with fun and excitement. TNSDelhi Public SchoolChandigarh: Delhi Public School planned a number of fun-filled online activities to make the festival of Halloween special for students of the pre-primary wing. It was indeed a treat to see students dress up in various outfits to celebrate the spirit of Halloween. Students were familiarised with the idea behind celebrating the festival. Enthusiastic children eagerly participated in some spooky activities like pumpkin patch stomp, spider walking game, mummy wrap and spider race. There was excitement all around and the day ended with little ones relishing the Halloween treat. TNSBhavan VidyalayaPanchkula: Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 15, organised three-day session on cyber security in collaboration with Smile Foundation and Kips Publication. Mridula, CEO, Nex School, conducted sessions for students of Classes III to VII. She sensitised them about fake IDs, cyber bullying, password security etc. Smile Foundation presented certificates to attendees. Jatinder Kaur from Kips Publication took sessions for students from Class VII to XII. She apprised them about phishing, sextortion, cyber abuse, digital frauds etc. Sonia Arora, HoD, IT, and Rachita Khurana, technical in-charge of the school made the meetings possible through virtual mode. School principal Gulshan Kaur advised students to follow tips given by experts and be safe while using social media. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/government-model-sr-sec-school-164115
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar on vigilance awareness||Discussion on Nat’l Education PolicyChandigarh: A webinar on “National Education Policy 2020 – Roadmap for implementation at Panjab University, Chandigarh” was organised by the UIET. Faculty members, research scholars and students of various departments and other institutes participated in the event, conducted under the guidance of Prof Savita Gupta, Director, UIET, Panjab University (PU). The PU Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, deliberated upon how the university was contributing to the implementation of the NEP 2020. TNSAnti-corruption measures discussedChandigarh: The University School of Open Learning and Vigilance Cell, Panjab University, organised a webinar on “Anti-corruption measures and role of citizens” as a part of the initiative of the PU under the vigilance week. Justice Alka Sarin, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, delivered the keynote address. She said corruption was like a cancer and spreading its tentacles everywhere. She highlighted various issues faced by citizens. She also spoke on the role of citizens in reducing corruption. She insisted on how schools need to teach moral values to students, which would take care of corruption to a certain level. TNSPUAA organises Online mushairaChandigarh: The Panjab University Alumni Association (PUAA) organised an online ‘Grand mushaira’, which was moderated by Shams Tabrezi, an Urdu poet. Speakers invited at the event were Pardeep Panwar, Kashish Moradabadi, Sangeeta Sharma Kundra, Dr Anjum Barabankvi and Dr Zia Tonki. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-on-vigilance-awareness-164118
01-11-2020||---||Seminar dwells on NEP||Chandigarh, October 31The Navi Umeed Foundation and Punjab Educationists Forum jointly organised a seminar on “New Education Policy” (NEP). LR Nayyar, IRS, Chief Commissioner of Income Tax (retired) and working president of the Navi Umeeed Foundation welcomed all delegates.The proceedings of the seminar were conducted by Dr Shinder Pal Singh. As many as 200 delegates participated in the seminar. “The NEP must provide to all students, irrespective of their place of residence, a quality education system, with particular focus on historically marginalised, disadvantaged, and underrepresented groups,” said Nayyar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seminar-dwells-on-nep-164119
01-11-2020||Chandigarh||Online Fraud: Two Chandigarh residents duped||Cycle rally flagged offMohali: The Department of Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, organised a cycle rally from Phase 5 to Phase 11 to spread awareness among people about non-communicable diseases. People from different walks of life took part in the rally. The rally was flagged off by Dr Manjit Singh, Director Health Services. He said diabetes, blood pressure, stroke and heart diseases were on the rise among the people. “People need to exercise and use bicycle more to prevent such diseases,” he said. Traffic police personnel also took part in the bicycle rally. TNSSC scholarship scheme launchedMohali: Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu launched Dr BR Ambedkar Post-Matric SC Scholarship scheme at a virtual event in Bhankarpur. Sidhu said to facilitate larger number of SC students for pursuing higher education in government and private institutions, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh-led state government had increased the family income criteria for this scheme from earlier Rs2.5 lakh to Rs4 lakh. This scheme was to be effective from academic session 2021-22. Sidhu inaugurated a modern anganwari centre at Bhankarpur village. The anganwari centre has been set up at a cost of about Rs10 lakh, of which Rs6.5 lakh was spent by philanthropists. TNSInteractive session heldChandigarh: Members of the Indian Institute of Architects (IIA), national body of architects in the country, held an interactive session with Sujata and Rajan of Zeba Design studio here on Saturday. Surinder Bagha of the IIA stressed upon the need for coordination between living, dining and bed space by dressing up walls, floors, windows, beds and dining. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-fraud-two-chandigarh-residents-duped-164120
