02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Four more COVID-19 cases reported in Chandigarh; tally climbs to 450||Four more people tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the tally in the Union Territory to 450, as per a medical bulletin.Three members of a family were among the fresh cases, it said.A total of 22 COVID-19 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection. A total of 389 people had been cured of the virus so far, the bulletin said.A total of 7,938 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 7,457 tested negative while reports of 29 cases are awaited, as per the bulletin.There are 55 active cases as of now in the city while six people have, so far, died of coronavirus in the city. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-covid-19-cases-reported-in-chandigarh-tally-climbs-to-450-107670
02-07-2020||Mohali||246 evacuee passengers from Auckland and Kuwait arrive at Chandigarh International Airport||Two evacuation flights, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indians abroad, carrying 246 passengers landed at the Chandigarh International Airport here on Thursday.  The first Air India flight no AI 1317 carrying 71 evacuated Indian passengers from Auckland via New Delhi arrived at the Mohali airport at 7.25 am.Another evacuation flight, GoAir flight no. G8 7230 carrying 175 Indian passengers from Kuwait landed at the airport at around 5.51 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per government guidelines. Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport with joint efforts of all the authorities/agencies which were involved in the processing of passengers which were governments of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, CISF, Immigration, Customs and Punjab Police etc., along with Chandigarh International Airport.Health department spokesman said during the screening the health officials took utmost precaution and the passengers also maintained social distancing.He informed that no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold etc and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus.He further elaborated that all the passengers were also impressed upon by the health department teams deployed at the airport to take all health related precautions such as cover their face with masks, using hand sanitizers, washing hands as much as possible and observe social distancing guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/246-evacuee-passengers-from-auckland-and-kuwait-arrive-at-chandigarh-international-airport-107664
02-07-2020||Ambala||16 fresh cases take Ambala’s COVID-19 tally to 344||Sixteen fresh COVID-19 cases were reported here on Thursday, taking the district tally to 344.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said 13 fresh cases were from Ambala City, 11 of whom were contacts of Covid patients, while three were from Ambala Cantonment.Two patients were tested positive after being found with ILI symptoms during the ongoing survey, one was having travel history, and two, including a chemist in Ambala Cantonment, were tested positive during routine check-up.Meanwhile, 16 more patients were discharged after being cured on Thursday, taking the active cases to 32.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-fresh-cases-take-ambalas-covid-19-tally-to-344-107633
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Diagnostic centre with OPD facility to be set up in Mata Mansa Devi shrine premises||A diagnostic centre with OPD facility will be established in the premises of Shri Mata Mansa Devi shrine in Panchkula to provide treatment facilities to people on subsidised rates.The decision was taken at the 18th meeting of Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board (SMMDSB), Panchkula which was held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday.Various new works worth about Rs 45 crore, including establishment of a diagnostic centre with OPD facility, were approved in the meeting, an official release said.The chief minister also directed to explore the possibility of transferring additional 10 acres of adjoining and unutilised land of Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) to SMMDSB for providing amenities to the devotees in a planned manner.Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Chief Secretary Keshni Anand Arora were also present in the meeting.Khattar, who is also the chairman of the Shrine Board, directed the officers concerned to start the process for construction of the diagnostic centre at the earliest.He said that besides the retired doctors, services of medical practitioners associated with different NGOs should also be taken for providing medical facilities to those visiting the diagnostic centre which would come up on land measuring over half acre.The diagnostic centre, which would be built, managed and run by the Shrine Board, would be equipped with all modern and latest facilities. The treatment and test facilities would be provided on the subsidised rates, the release said.While reviewing the progress of work for the setting up of Sanskrit college in Shri Mata Mansa Devi shrine complex, Khattar directed the Higher Education Department to take possession of land at the earliest and initiate the process for the construction of the building.The Sanskrit college, which would be named as Shri Mata Mansa Devi Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, would come up over 2.10 acres of land. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/diagnostic-centre-with-opd-facility-to-be-set-up-in-mata-mansa-devi-shrine-premises-107610
02-07-2020||---||A day after Haryana youth hangs self, his girlfriend commits suicide||Mohali, July 2A day after Sahil Kumar (22) of Kurukshetra, hanged himself to death from a wooden ladder at his paying guest accommodation in Phase 11 here, his girlfriend also committed suicide on Thursday in the same manner.As per the police, the victim, Pragya (26), is a resident of Jamshedpur in Jharkhand and was Sahil’s girlfriend.Pragya was also seen near Sahil at the time of the incident on Wednesday, which was captured in the CCTV footage.Also read: Haryana youth hangs self, CCTV captures actPragya hanged herself from an iron ladder with the help of a ‘dupatta’ on her PG’s terrace around 6 am this morning.ASI Nirmal Singh said Pragya and Sahil were working in the same company — Bestech Towers, Sector 66, Mohali. They were staying in their respective PGs in the same locality in Phase 11, Mohali. The duo wanted to get married and their families had no objection as well.The reason behind the extreme steps taken by Sahil and Pragya was still unknown, the ASI added.“Parents of both victims have been informed. Pragya’s dead body was also sent to Civil Hospital in Phase 6 where the post-mortem examinations of both victims will be conducted,” said ASI Nirmal Singh.The Phase 11 police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-day-after-haryana-youth-hangs-self-his-girlfriend-commits-suicide-107591
02-07-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula registers first Covid death as 74-year-old woman passes away at Sector-21 hospital||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 2Panchkula on Thursday reported its first Covid death after a 74-year-old woman suffering from a kidney ailment died.She was receiving treatment at a private hospital in Sector 21 here.Meanwhile, 10 fresh cases of coronavirus surfaced in Panchkula on Thursday. Of these six are from Panchkula, three from Chandigarh and one from Punjab. With this, the total numaber of coronavirus cases in the district has reached 119. Of these 28 are active cases.Of the six new cases from the district, two are from Sector 17. They are a 25-year-old man and a 59-year-old man from the same family. One is a 29-year-old man from Housing Board Colony, Kalka, one a 63-year-old man from Vishvakarma Colony, Pinjore, one a 22-year-old man from Indra Colony and a 20-year-old woman from Marranwala village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-registers-first-covid-death-as-74-year-old-woman-passes-away-at-sector-21-hospital-107576
02-07-2020||---||Four more cases surface in Mohali||Mohali, July 2With the surfacing of four more positive COVID-19 cases in Mohali, the tally in the district have gone up to 280.Meanwhile, five patients have cured and were discharged from hospital.The persons affected with the virus include a 33-year-old man from Sector 91, a 43-year-old man from Phase 10, a 41-year-old man from Dhakoli and a 43-year-old man from Kurali.Divulging details, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the 33-year-old patient was an NRI and returned from Spain while the 43-year-old and 41-year-old men were ILI cases. He added that the 43-year-old man from Kurali had recently returned from Delhi.All patients have been admitted to the COVID Care Centre of Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Dr Manjit Singh said the district also saw as many as five patients recovering from the virus and were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital.The recovered patients include a 37-year-old, 48-year-old, 15-year-old, 24-year-old men and 16-year-old girl. All are residents of Mohali.As of now, there were 280 positive cases, of which 203 have been discharged, 73 active with four deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-cases-surface-in-mohali-107554
02-07-2020||---||4 of Sector 50 family among 6 +ve||Chandigarh, July 1The city today reported six new Covid cases. The UT tally has now risen to 446 with 73 active cases.Two cases were reported from separate houses in Sector 41. A 21-year-old woman tested positive for the virus and is a family member of a Covid patient. A 33-year-old man has been found infected. He is a permanent resident of Himachal Pradesh but is working in Chandigarh. He contracted the infection from a family member, who was reported positive for the virus earlier.Four of a family in Sector 50 also tested positive for the deadly disease. They are two men, aged 31 and 64, a 31-year-old woman and a nine-month-old girl.According to UT health officials, one of the family members had returned from Punjab on June 22.Meanwhile, three patients have been discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital and have been shifted to Sood Dharamshala, a post-discharge quarantine facility.Bapu Dham houses off perimeter controlChandigarh: The UT Administration on Wednesday removed the perimeter control from all houses and lanes in Pocket 14 of Bapu Dham Colony. Manoj Parida, UT Adviser, said the perimeter control in the areas was removed on the basis of recommendations received from the Affected Areas Assessment Committee as the houses remained unaffected by Covid-19 for the past 28 days. However, regular screening and monitoring of the areas by medical teams will continue. Regular sanitisation of the areas by the municipal authorities will be conducted and residents will be advised to maintain social distancing, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. After over a month and a half, the UT Administration had denotified the last containment zone of the city – Pocket 15 of Bapu Dham Colony — on June 22. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-of-sector-50-family-among-6-ve-107294
02-07-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh gives major relief to motorists in Unlock 2.0||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 1In a major relief to motorists, the UT Administration has allowed a pillion rider on two-wheelers, four persons in a car and three persons in an auto-rickshaw.Adviser Manoj Parida said the Unlock 2.0 orders passed by the Ministry of Home Affairs had been adopted in the UT.After detailed discussions, more relaxations were given to residents of the city, he said.Now, a maximum of two persons will be allowed on a scooter or motorcycle, four in a car and three in an auto-rickshaw, including the driver. However, all riders will use masks and the vehicles will be regularly sanitised by the owners.On the demand of various market associations, the Administration has decided to discontinue the odd-even system being followed in select markets such as the motor market at Mani Majra and the booth markets in Sectors 19 and 22. This will also apply to street vendors.With a change in the night curfew timings (10 pm to 5 am), the UT has allowed all shops and restaurants to remain open from 10 am to 9 pm.In another decision, the Administration has allowed call centres and industrial establishments to operate in night shifts provided their employees do not come out of the office or factory premises during the curfew period.In a minor relief to Bacchus lovers, the Administration has permitted serving of alcoholic drinks at marriage functions, but after obtaining specific permission from the Excise Department.As a preventing measure, Apni Mandis and organic markets will continue to remain closed till further orders.The inter-state bus service will continue to remain suspended till further orders.There will be a complete ban on social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations. Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, spas, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will remain shut.There will be strict implementation of the norms pertaining to wearing of masks and social distancing at public places. Violators will be penalised.What remains closedActivities that are bannedThere will be a complete ban on social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations. Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, spas, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will continue to remain shut.Odd-even system in markets discontinuedThe odd-even system being followed in select markets has been discontinued. This will also apply to street vendors. Call centres and industrial establishments can operate night shifts, but employees will not be allowed to come out during the curfew period.Liquor allowed at marriage functionsThe Administration has permitted serving of alcoholic drinks at marriage functions, but after getting permission from the Excise Department. However, bars will continue to remain shut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gives-major-relief-to-motorists-in-unlock-2-0-107295
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||22-yr-old youth electrocuted at Colony No.4||A 22-year-old youth was electrocuted while reportedly taking a “kundi” connection at Colony No. 4.The victim, Rocky, a resident of K Block in the colony, had returned from Ferozepur on Tuesday. Sources said he cleaned his shanty and got electrocuted while trying to illegally connect an electricity wire.The police were informed and the victim was rushed to the GMCH-32, where doctors declared him brought dead. The victim was a labourer.Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Industrial Area police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/22-yr-old-youth-electrocuted-at-colony-no-4-107296
02-07-2020||---||Panchkula woman molested||Panchkula, July 1 A 25-year-old woman from Abheypur was allegedly molested near Ashiana Complex recently. In the FIR, the victim told the police that the incident occurred late in the evening when she was strolling near Ashiana Complex after throwing waste in a nearby dustbin. Ashok, a resident of her locality, suddenly came there and held her hand. He started misbehaving with her after which she raised the alarm. According to the FIR, a woman passing by came to her rescue. Spotting her, the suspect pushed the victim away. The victim sustained injuries on her face and knee. Before leaving the spot, the suspect threatened her with dire consequences if she reported the matter to the police. A case has been registered under Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the Sector 20 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-woman-molested-107297
02-07-2020||---||Another doctor of Panchkula hospital gets infection||Panchkula, July 1A doctor from the city and two others from Delhi and Chandigarh tested positive for Covid-19 today.The 34-year-old doctor, who lives in Sector 5, Mansa Devi Complex, is a colleague of a doctor at Alchemist Hospital in Sector 21 who had earlier tested positive for the virus.A 20-year-old youth, who had recently shifted to Panchkula from Delhi along with his family, also tested positive for coronavirus. The infected person lives at a rented accommodation in a group housing society in Sector 20 here.Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said the youth would not be added to the Panchkula Covid tally as he was not a permanent resident of the district. He was receiving treatment at the Sector 6 Civil Hospital, she added.A 55-year-old man from Mani Majra in Chandigarh also contracted the virus. His samples were taken at the flu corner on the Civil Hospital premises. When asked why he wasn’t sampled in Chandigarh, Dr Rajiv Narwal, Covid nodal officer for the district, said he did not know the actual reason but they could not deny test to anyone.Long wait for testingA large number of people were seen waiting for hours outside the flu corner at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 to get tested for Covid.Sandeep, a 20-year-old youth from Indira Colony, said, “It has been more than two hours since I am waiting here. It is too hard to get tested here. I have common Covid symptoms like fever and cough. A long wait for the test also exposes others, including hospital staff, to the infection.”Three members of a family from Sector 21, who recently arrived from Delhi, also had a similar story to tell. They urged the authorities to make the Covid testing process smooth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-doctor-of-panchkula-hospital-gets-infection-107298
02-07-2020||---||Vigilance sleuths nab Punjab senior asst taking Rs15K bribe||Chandigarh, July 1The UT Vigilance Department today nabbed a senior assistant working with the Punjab Health Department while allegedly taking a bribe of Rs15,000.Vigilance officials said a medical officer, working at the Civil Hospital in Faridkot, Punjab, visited the Vigilance police station in Sector 9 and stated that he had been selected for MD/MS at the PGI, Chandigarh, as a sponsored candidate.He stated that for the purpose, an NOC was required to be signed and forwarded by the Director (Health Services) to the Punjab Secretariat.The officials said the complainant today visited the Health Department, Punjab Mini-Secretariat, Sector 9, to know the status of the NOC where he met a person named Shah, who demanded Rs15,000 for issuance of the NOC.The complainant then approached Vigilance officials and submitted a complaint. Acting on the complaint, a trap was laid on the rear side of the Punjab Mini-Secretariat and the suspect was arrested while taking the bribe.“The bribe amount was recovered from the suspect,” said an official.During the investigation, the name of the suspect was established as Surinderjit Singh Shah, a senior assistant in the Health Department, Punjab Mini-Secretariat.The suspect was caught taking the bribe, allegedly at the behest of Under Secretary Gurlal Singh, whose role is being investigated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vigilance-sleuths-nab-punjab-senior-asst-taking-rs15k-bribe-107299
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Tell Mani Majra SHO to join probe, CBI asks UT police||A day after booking a UT police inspector in a graft case, the CBI today sent a written communication to the Chandigarh Police Department asking it to direct Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, a suspect in the case, to join the investigation.The CBI had booked Jaswinder Kaur and Bhagwan Singh, a conduit, for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh from a man in lieu of not registering a case against him. Bhagwan Singh was nabbed by CBI sleuths while taking a bribe of Rs1 lakh.The agency had asked Inspector Jaswinder Kaur to join the investigation at its office in Sector 30 on Tuesday. However, she did not turn up.CBI sources said they had written to the UT Police Department, asking it to direct the cop to join the investigation. “Since she is a suspect in the case, she is supposed to join the investigation,” the sources added.In his complaint to the CBI, Gurdeep Singh had alleged that Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, the SHO of the Mani Majra police station, had told him that a person named Randhir Singh had filed a complaint against him, mentioning that he had taken around Rs28 lakh from him to get his wife a government job.Gurdeep alleged that the SHO asked him to return Rs28 lakh to Randhir or she would register a case against him.As per the complaint, the SHO allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs5 lakh for closing the complaint and not registering an FIR.Gurdeep was told to pay the bribe to Bhagwan Singh. It is alleged that Gurdeep gave Rs2 lakh, the first instalment of the bribe, to Bhagwan Singh at Sangrur on June 19. Later, he approached the CBI with a complaint following which Bhagwan Singh was nabbed while taking a bribe of Rs1 lakh on June 29. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tell-mani-majra-sho-to-join-probe-cbi-asks-ut-police-107300
02-07-2020||Mohali||Haryana youth hangs self, CCTV captures act||A 22-year-old youth hanged himself to death from a wooden ladder at his paying guest accommodation in Phase XI here this evening. The victim has been identified as Sahil Kumar, a resident of Kurukshetra in Haryana. Sahil was working with a private company at Bestech Towers in Sector 66 here. ASI Nirmal Singh said they had received information about the incident around 7.30 pm following which they rushed to the spot. Sahil was found hanging from a wooden ladder on the terrace of the building. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera. The footage showed Sahil walking from his room to the terrace with a piece of cloth in his hand. The victim’s roommates said Sahil was at his room today as it was his weekly off. In the footage, a girl is seen near the victim at the time of the incident. She is said to be Sahil’s friend. Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Phase XI police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-youth-hangs-self-cctv-captures-act-107301
02-07-2020||---||3 nailed for painter’s murder in Mohali, 5 still at large||Mohali, July 1Three days after a 35-year-old painter was murdered by unidentified persons over a petty issue at Badmajra village near Balongi here, the police today arrested three suspects, while five suspects are still at large.The police also recovered a knife, a brick and a bike used in the crime by the suspects. The police said, “Our investigation revealed that eight persons were involved in the murder of Sanjay Yadav, of whom six have been identified while the identity of two suspects is not known.”Inspector Amardeep Singh, SHO of the Balongi police station, said those arrested were Manoj Kumar, a resident of Balongi, Pradeep Kumar, alias Kalu, a resident of Phase 1, Mohali, and Raj Kumar, a resident of Madanpura village here. He said the trio was arrested from Badmajra village during a raid.The trio was produced before the Kharar court today, which remanded them in five-day police custody. According to the police, the suspects who are at large have been identified as Balwant, Rohtash, alias Bhaya, and Chaandu, besides two unknown persons.Chaandu had allegedly attacked Sanjay with a knife, said the police. During preliminary investigation, the police found that various cases of fight had been registered against Balwant, Bhaya and Chaandu at police stations in Chandigarh.Sanjay Yadav, a resident of Badmajra village and native of Uttar Pradesh, was killed on Saturday night near his house. The assailants had fled from the spot on three bikes after committing the crime. The incident occurred when Sanjay saw three persons urinating near his house. As he objected to their act, they started abusing him and a scuffle broke out between them following a heated exchange. The drunk assailants then repeatedly attacked Sanjay on his legs with a knife. They also hit him on his head with a brick. A case under Sections 302, 450, 148 and 149 of the IPC has been registered against the suspects at the Balongi police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-nailed-for-painters-murder-in-mohali-5-still-at-large-107303
02-07-2020||Naina Mishra||PGI banks upon steroids in fight against Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 1The PGI is not banking upon antiviral drugs – Remdesivir and Favipiravir — in the fight against Covid-19 as these have not proven to be “game changers” in the treatment of critically ill patients.On the other hand, steroids such as dexamethasone, tocilizumab and methylprednisolone have been proven “reasonably effective” in treating moderate to severely ill patients who develop inflammation in lungs.Dr Pankaj Malhotra, Department of Internal Medicine, PGI, said: “The infection caused by any virus is segregated into two phases. In the first phase, the virus replicates and it usually happens in the first seven days. The impact on heart or lung happens due to the inflammation after seven days.”Dr Malhotra said: “Remdesivir and Favipiravir can shut down viral replication in the body, but only if administered in the first seven days. The antiviral administered to the patient after seven days will not be as effective. Usually, patients don’t report to us in the first week and that’s why, we are not using these antiviral drugs.”According to Dr Malhotra, the steroids drugs – dexamethasone, tocilizumab and methylprednisolone — reduce pulmonary inflammation (relating to lungs) that sometimes develops in Covid-19 patients as the immune system overreacts while fighting the infection.“Steroids have fared better in the fight against Covid-19 than antiviral drugs,” he said. “Dexamethasone and methylprednisolone are interchangeable and either of the one can be given based on availability. Both belong from the category of corticosteroids.”“It has been found that the steroids have proven reasonably effective in calming the hyper-immune response by acting against inflammatory chemicals to fight infection,” said Dr Malhotra.The PGI is also administering a drug called heparin to patients who develop the problem of blood clotting so as to avoid organ failure.‘Don’t start medication without prescriptionDr Malhotra warns that if any patient with active infection of virus — the first seven days — is given dexamethasone, the infection can increase. For other drugs also, it is dangerous if patients start self-medication without taking doctors’ prescription and can lead to complications.Covid drugs used by the PGI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-banks-upon-steroids-in-fight-against-covid-19-107305
02-07-2020||---||Test fever, SARS patients, Badnore tells Health Department||Chandigarh, July 1VP Singh Badnore, UT Administrator, has now directed the Health Department that all cases of fever, ILI, SARI, SARS and vector-borne diseases be tested for Covid-19.Badnore also appealed to the residents to inform the authorities about any suspected case in the neighbourhood so that a medical team could arrange for testing.During the daily review meeting, the Administrator congratulated doctors on World Doctor’s Day and mentioned that due to their hard work and commitment, the city had been able to keep the Covid-19 pandemic under control.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, said out of 468 samples tested, 10 were found positive of which 5 belonged to Chandigarh. Dr BS Chavan, Director Principal, GMCH, said all 90 samples collected were tested negative. Dr G Dewan, Director Health Services, said 200 tele-medicine cases were dealt with in the hospitals.Doctor’s Day: PGI Director honouredChandigarh: The Strategic Institute for Public Health Education and Research (SIPHER) honoured Padma Shri awardee Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, with an award for his distinguished services in the field of medicine during the virtual celebrations of National Doctor’s Day. In the event, experts of national and international repute were present where the annual report of SIPHER for 2018-19 and 2019-20 was released. A two-minute silence was observed for all Covid warriors who lost their lives while treating patients. Extending gratitude to all the medicos working tirelessly, Vini Mahajan, Chief Secretary of Punjab, noted: “In the pandemic, doctors have been at the forefront of the battle. We salute the bravehearts for rescuing the society with their exceptional service.” tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/test-fever-sars-patients-badnore-tells-health-department-107306
02-07-2020||---||Chandigarh Education Department set to exempt fee for Class IX, X||Chandigarh, July 1The UT Education Department would exempt the fee for Classes IX and X for government and government-aided schools on Thursday, said a senior official of the department.The formal orders in this regard will be released on Thursday. The move is aimed at supporting parents from the economically weaker section.The existing fee structure for Classes IX and X includes annual charges of Rs164 and monthly dues of Rs152. However, no tuition fee is charged from girl students and Scheduled Caste (SC) students. Scheduled Caste boys and girls had to pay half of all other funds — monthly and annual. Besides, no tuition fee is charged from the OBC boys, wards of ex-servicemen, widows and physically challenged students with parental annual income less than Rs1.5 lakh.Over 5,000 vacant seatsThe UT Education Department is planning to advertise more than 5,000 vacant seats from Classes I to VIII for the 2020-21 session, confirmed Director School Education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar. However, it has been clarified that no seats have been increased to accomodate the rush of students from private schools.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, several parents have been finding it difficult to bear the expenses of private schools.Hundreds of request made by parents to exempt fee in private schools have fallen on deaf ears. So, parents are now finding government schools a feasible option.The Education Department is planning to hold online admission via portal. An advertisement will be released mid-July.Calling teachers to schoolAfter the Ministry of Human Resource Development issued letter to the University Grants Commission Chairman on “guidelines for phased reopening — Unlock 2.0” called for work from home for faculty members/ teachers/ researchers/ non-teaching staff till July 31, the UT Education Department will take a view on whether to call government teachers to schools.Recently, the department allowed school heads to call 50 per cent of their staff to schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-set-to-exempt-fee-for-class-ix-x-107308
02-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Patiala Division Commissioner’s working  under High Court lens||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 1The working of the Patiala Division Commissioner during the Covid-induced lockdown has come under judicial scanner in a land acquisition matter.Taking up a petition alleging the passing of an order by the Commissioner when the entire government machinery was virtually in hibernation, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the operation of the impugned order. A notice of motion was also issued to the Patiala Division Commissioner and other respondents.The order by Justice Arun Monga came on a petition filed against the Arbitrator-cum-Commissioner by Asha Rani and other owners of the land in Khamano, Fatehgarh Sahib, through counsels Charanpal Singh Bagri and Gurjit Kaur Bagri. Appearing before Justice Monga’s Bench through videoconferencing, Bagri contended the government had declared a lockdown owing to the pandemic and citizens across the country were advised to stay indoors. The entire government machinery had placed under suspension the visits by people to public offices. The holding of public hearings was also suspended to avoid the community spread of the disease.Notwithstanding, the Arbitrator-cum-Commissioner, Patiala Division, passed the impugned order on May 22 while hearing dispute regarding compensation to the petitioners for their land acquired by the National Highway Authority of India.Taking up an application pending before him, the Commissioner directed that the National Highway Authority of India would deposit Rs 75 lakhs per acre and the land’s possession would be handed over to the highway authority subject to disbursement of the amount to the landowners. Bagri added the order was passed without issuing notice to the petitioners and in the absence of their representatives.“Prima facie, it seems that the case was taken up by the Arbitrator without any notice to the petitioners and the impugned order also appears to have been passed behind their back. Without commenting on the merits of the impugned order dated May 22, this Court is of the view that the petitioners ought to have been heard before passing of the same,” Justice Monga asserted. Issuing notice of motion for August 25, Justice Monga added the operation of impugned order would remain stayed till the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-division-commissioners-working-under-high-court-lens-107309
02-07-2020||---||Theme park in bad shape||Chandigarh, July 1 The theme park in Sector 49, Valley of Animals, has been crying for attention for a long time now. Broken wall structures, damaged animal statues, wild growth of grass and stagnant water welcome the visitors here. Meant to be a spot for attracting visitors, it has rather been irking residents. Even fountain installed has not been put to use. Residents lament that garbage from the park is dumped near their houses. “They have spent so much money on the park, but are least bothered about its maintainence. The park is dotted with broken structures. The authorities should regularly visit parks and look after their upkeep,” said Rahul Mahajan, a resident. He has even filed a complaint to the MC in this regard.  Later in the day, about 30 MC workers turned up at the park. They cut the grass and took away the damaged animal statues. They also cleaned the premises. Mahajan said today they did 70 per cent of work in a few hours. “If they want, they can regularly work like this. But, they are not bothered,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theme-park-in-bad-shape-107310
02-07-2020||---||Association hails doctors on Covid duty||Patiala, July 1 Expressing gratitude to the doctors risking life in fight against Covid-19, Dr Harjinder Singh, Principal, Government Medical College (GMC), said doctors of Rajindra Hospital were making all efforts to save Covid patients. A special meeting to mark National Doctor’s Day was organised by the Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association, Dr Renu Bala, principal, Government Dental College, said the world had come to a halt, but doctors were performing duties round the clock. She said everyone should hail them for their sense of dedication and commitment to duty. Dr DS Bhullar, president of the association, said National Doctors’ Day was celebrated in the memory of physician and Bharat Ratna awardee Dr BC Roy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/association-hails-doctors-on-covid-duty-107311
02-07-2020||Our Correspondent---||Illegal constructions, chemist shops raided in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, July 1 A special team, constituted by the Deputy Commissioner and led by Fatehgarh Sahib SDM Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, today conducted surprise check at chemist shops in Sirhind and Fatehgarh Sahib, especially near the Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Hospital. The action was taken in the wake of complaints received regarding high prices of masks, sanitisers and certain medicines being charged by chemists. The SDM said the chemists were warned against charging high rates of medicines from customers.  Later, the SDM, accompanied by PSPCL officials, police and Excise Department officials,  conducted raids at Pearl Colony, Naino Colony and other colonies on the complaints of residents regarding migrant labourers residing in illegally constructed accommodations. Hundreds of labourers were found living in unhygienic conditions in 40 small rooms constructed illegally without any civic amenities. Moreover, electricity was being supplied illegally.  A case was registered under Section 188 and 270 of the IPC, Section 51 of the Disaster Management  Act, 2005, against the owners of illegal constructions — Navjivanjot Singh of Ferozepur village, Rashpal Singh of Chanarthal Kalan, Bikram Pal Singh, a resident of Modern Valley, and Sukhwinder Singh of Fatehpur Rayian.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-constructions-chemist-shops-raided-in-fatehgarh-sahib-107312
02-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Shuttlers want practice hours at Sector 42 Sports Complex||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 1Local masters’ badminton players are demanding a dedicated time slot for practising at the Sector 42 Sports Complex.They said after the lockdown restrictions were lifted, the UT Sports Department allotted time slots to professional and recreational groups, but did not bother to adjust the local masters’ fraternity.They said even during the pre-Covid-19 period, they were given only an hour to practice. “We have approached the authorities on various occasions, but to no avail. I have been playing in the international circuit and have never witnessed this kind of treatment. We represent the city in various national and international championships, but at home, we are struggling to get a dedicated space for practice,” said Ashish Sharma, a 12-time masters’ state champion.“We request the Administration to give us a dedicate slot so that we don’t have to start from zero for any competition. We are ready to follow all norms and regulation,” said another international player, Varun Sharma.In a representation by eight players submitted on June 19, they demanded two-hour practice slot in the morning and evening session. “We fall under the non-student category, but the Sports Department preferred recreational groups over us. We requested them to let us practice for two hours daily in morning and evening. There are around 25 national players, five of whom have also played in international tourneys,” said international player Pankaj Naithani.Meanwhile, an official of the Sports Department said time slots were awarded on a first-come-first-served basis. “Due to the limitation in operating hours, we are unable to cater to all players. Hopefully things would settle down soon and all may be adjusted. This Covid-19 pandemic has given us all a tough time,” said the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shuttlers-want-practice-hours-at-sector-42-sports-complex-107313
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University releases admission notice||Panjab University advertised an admission notice for various courses today.The interested students, including those who have already applied for entrance test to be held in July/August, are required to submit online admission forms for all undergraduate and postgraduate course latest by August 8 (tentative), irrespective of the declaration of results. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-releases-admission-notice-107316
02-07-2020||---||PG owner faked loot||Panchkula, July 1 The police on Wednesday said five persons, including the owner of a paying guest in Sector 12-A, faked a loot, whereas it was just a matter of physical assault. On Monday around 8:30 pm, the police received a complainant from Sector 12-A that two assailants robbed five persons at gunpoint. Subsequently, a police team, including Sector 14 police station SHO Inspector Joginder Singh, rushed to the spot. Later, ACP Satish Kumar reached the spot.  Inspector Joginder Singh said, “We couldn’t confirm any robbery during our investigation. We found both parties had a dispute over an unknown issue that is still under investigation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pg-owner-faked-loot-107318
02-07-2020||---||Kuwait flight arrives at city airport with 177 evacuees||Mohali, July 1  The ninth evacuation flight and second from Kuwait, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 177 passengers landed at the Chandigarh international airport here on Wednesday.    The GoAir flight number G87228 arrived at the airport via New Delhi at 7.15 pm.  All repatriated persons, who mostly belonged to various parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines.  Spokesman of the Health Department said health officials took precautions while screening and passengers also maintained social distancing. He said no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold, etc, and all were asymptomatic for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kuwait-flight-arrives-at-city-airport-with-177-evacuees-107319
02-07-2020||Sandeep Rana---||Chandigarh Forest Department to distribute 75,000 medicinal plants||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 1 The UT Forest Department will distribute 75,000 medicinal plants among the city residents in order to boost their immunity in the wake of Covid-19. Plants such as aloe vera, neem, curry leaves, ‘patharchatta’, ‘giloy’, tulsi and ashwagandha will be given to the residents till July 31. The department will deliver the plants at door step. The details regarding their visit to different sectors will be posted on its website. “We are just waiting for the monsoon to arrival, after which we will start delivering plants to the residents. We will put details of our visit to different sectors on our website. People are not required to register themselves,” said Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT. The distribution of plants is an annual feature of the Forest Department. The objective is to encourage people to grow plants and increase greenery in city.  The department has been giving flower or fruit plants, but this time, all medicinal plants are given in the wake of Covid-19. As there is no medicine to beat Covid as of now, boosting immunity is a major factor to curb the danger of this virus. “Medicinal plants boost immunity. We will give five plants per person. Those who need more than can contact us, we will arrange,” said Dalai. Dr Naresh Mittal, Shri Dhanwantri Ayurvedic College in Sector 46, where Covid-19 patients are admitted, said, “Medicinal plants have a major role to play. We offer ‘kadha’, a combination of 10 herbs, to our staff to build their immunity. It also controls sugar level and has shown good results.” Of the 200 patients admitted here, only 32 are active now, others have cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-forest-department-to-distribute-75-000-medicinal-plants-107320
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||Association closes public toilet after workers protest over salaries||The residents’ welfare association today closed a public toilet in Sector 22 after toilet workers protested over not getting salaries. The closure of the toilet, which is situated near the Shastri Market in Sector 22, is troubling the shopkeepers and visitors.  A shopkeeper said on the one hand, the MC is claiming to make the city open defecation-free, while on the other, they are closing toilets. It is leading to open defecation.  Arvind Singh, a social activist, alleged, “Workers and sanitation staff of the public toilet in Sector 22 have not received salaries for the past several months. They even raised the issue with the contractor, but to no avail.” Arvind, along with the toilet workers, met MC chief engineer Shailender Singh. “We have brought the matter to the notice of the MC chief engineer. He has assured us of doing the needful. We will take the matter further if the issue is not resolved,” he said. Officials said the contractor and the corporation had payment related issues due to which the workers were suffering.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/association-closes-public-toilet-after-workers-protest-over-salaries-107321
02-07-2020||---||Plea alleges violation in allotment of liquor vends||Chandigarh, July 1Less than 10 days after the allotment of liquor vends in Chandigarh, an application was today filed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court for staying the process.Among other things, it was contended that the entire process of allotting the liquor brands was being done in complete violation of the very object the policy. Directions are also sought for maintenance of status quo in the matter.As the petition filed by Rajbir Singh came up for hearing before the Bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma through video-conferencing, senior advocate Anand Chhibbar and Vaibhav Sahni claimed that one of the grounds for challenging the UT excise policy was monopolisation and cartelisation of the trade as it did not prevent a single person or a group from obtaining more than maximum 10 vends through different entities and backend deals.Chhibbar said a perusal of results would show that one entity had been allotted 15 vends through two corporate entities. He said a background check of the two entities revealed that the directors of both entities were common. Even their registered email ID was same.The High Court has already ruled that allotment of liquor vends would be subject to final outcome of the writ petition challenging Chandigarh’s excise policy for 2020-21. The notice and assertion came after the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh was told on the previous date of hearing that certain departmental stores had been given licence to sell foreign liquor at Rs20 lakh, while L-2 retailers had to pay approximately Rs4 crore as licence fee.Chhibbar had also described the policy adopted by the Administration as “wholly arbitrary” and beyond the “scope of legislative bounds” while submitting that the policy was leading to complete cartelisation and monopoly of certain individuals through their firms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plea-alleges-violation-in-allotment-of-liquor-vends-107323
02-07-2020||Mohali||5 more contract  virus in Mohali||Five new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district today.A 39-year-old woman from Zirakpur and a 61-year-old man from Khanpur, who had returned from Bihar recently, were found positive for the virus. A 19-year-old girl and a 35-year-old woman of Behra village, both contacts a Covid patient, were found infected. They are employees of a meat factory at Behra village. A 20-year-old girl from Sector 71, Mohali, was also reported to have contracted the virus today.Meanwhile, a 40-year-old woman from Dera Bassi was discharged from a hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-contract-virus-in-mohali-107329
02-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Firm seeks contempt action against MC||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, July 1The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Vijay Singh has given a week’s time to the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) to file a reply on a petition filed by Jaiprakash Associates Ltd against the civic body’s decision of taking over the management of the garbage processing plant in Dadu Majra.The court has fixed July 6 as the next date of hearing. The counsel for the MC sought adjournment on the grounds that their reply was not ready, which was opposed by the counsel of JP Associates.JP Associates had filed a petition after the management of the garbage processing plant was taken over by the MC on June 19. In the petition, it had alleged disobedience of the order of the court and said that the action of the MC was illegal. After that JP Associates prayed for contempt action against the MC officials and restoration of the status of the plant before June 19.In the petition, JP had said that the MC gave a 24-hour notice to the company to handover the possession of the municipal solid waste (MSW) plant by 5 pm on June 19. The MC served the notice after the expiry of the stay period given by the court against its order terminating the contract with the company. On March 12, the court stayed the termination order of the MC for three months, which ended on June 12. On getting the notice, JP moved the court again and hearing was held through video-conferencing on June 19 at 3 pm.After hearing both sides, the court extended the stay granted vide order dated March 12 for one month. Upon receipt of information, the counsel for JP Associates immediately sent an email to the counsel for the MC and the Commissioner at 5 pm informing them about the passing of the order by the court and advising them not to take further steps pursuant to their order dated June 18. A copy of the email and details of the phone calls dated June 19 have been attached with the petition as proofs.“Despite being informed about the order passed by the court, which was duly in their (MC) knowledge, the civic body through its employees and with the assistance of the police forcibly took over the plant at 5.30 pm and locked it. They also drove out all employees present at the plant forcibly and upon repeated requests insisted that until a certified copy of the order was produced, they would not hold their hands.” the petition read.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firm-seeks-contempt-action-against-mc-107337
02-07-2020||Chandigarh||6 violate District Magistrate’s order, held||52-year-old man hangs selfLalru: A 52-year-old man on Wednesday allegedly committed suicide at his room in Dappar Colony, Lalru.The victim has been identified as Daulat Ram, a resident of Rajasthan. Daulat Ram has been working under a local contractor for the past 30 years and was staying alone in a room, said the police. When the contractor, Manga Singh Randhawa, reached the victim’s room, he found Daulat Ram hanging from a ceiling fan. A suicide note was also recovered in which the vicitm had mentioned that he was under stress and no one was responsible for that.The body of the victim has been kept at the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, for postmortem. The police ahve initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. TNSGardener’s murder: cops grope in darkMohali: A day after a gardener was murdered by unidentified persons near YPS Chowk here, the police are still groping in the dark to trace the assailants. “Our teams are investigating the case from various angles. No clue has been found yet,” said Inspector Rajnish Choudhary, SHO at the Phase 8 police station.The victim, Raja Ram (30), was murdered on Monday night. He was attacked multiple times with the handle of a hand pump on his face and head. The postmortem of the victim was conducted at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 here on Wednesday and the body was handed over to the family. TNS5 fined for not wearing maskMohali: Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan on Wednesday directed officials to take strict action against those not wearing face masks at the District Administrative Complex (DAC). A team under the District Revenue Officer (DRO) Gurdeep Singh Benipal challaned five persons to the tune of Rs 2,500. TNS61 challanedChandigarh: Continuing its anti-encroachment drive, the local Municipal Corporation on Wednesday issued 61 challans across the city. Enforcement wing staff said vegetable and fruit vendors squatting on V1, V2 and V3 roads were challaned on the directions of Commissioner KK Yadav. The drive will continue under the supervision of inspector Sunil Dutt. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-violate-district-magistrates-order-held-107340
