02-04-2020||---||Two more test positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh; tally 18||Chandiagrh, April 2A 59-year-old woman and her 10-month-old granddaughter have tested positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh.They are primary family contacts of an NRI couple who have already tested positive for COVID-19.With two new patients, the total number of cases in the Union Territory has gone up to 18, the Health Department said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-chandigarh-tally-18-64628
02-04-2020||---||TBRL provides food to 1,000 needy persons in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 2In view of prevailing curfew to curb the spread of Coronavirus, Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) Resident Welfare Committee has come forward to provide meals to the needy and poor people in the city.The volunteers along with a representative of the local administration went to different areas of the city and distributed food and ration to the daily wagers and labourers. Over the last three days, about a thousand persons were served food and this will continue till the lockdown ends.TBRL personnel have also appealed to the people of the city to comply with the orders given by the administration and government to avoid the spread of this pandemic and maintain social distance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tbrl-provides-food-to-1-000-needy-persons-in-chandigarh-64614
02-04-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Leopard or cops, who enforces better curfew, asks UT Adviser||Chandigarh, April 2Amidst the repeated leopard scares in Chandigarh, and the subsequent jokes about it, UT Adviser Manoj Parida has tweeted to ask if the wild cat was better at keeping people indoors than the police.One leopard was rescued by forest officials from a house in Sector 5 on Monday after it strayed into the city. There was a second scare from Sector 44 on Tuesday, but no leopard presence was confirmed.In his latest tweet, Parida wrote: “Who can enforce curfew better, leopard or police?”Who can enforce curfew better ,leopard or police?☺️😊☺️😊  City residents were quick to respond.One wrote: “None can stop the 4 aunties in my sector from going on their evening walk post sunset”.To this someone replied: “Kindly put stamp on the hand of such people saying: Not to be entertained in any healthcare facility for next 14 days. Hope I don't sound inhumane but such negative reinforcement is probably necessary as of now.”While many appreciated the work being done by the Chandigarh Police, others thought the leopard scare was more effective in keeping people indoors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/leopard-or-cops-who-enforces-better-curfew-asks-ut-adviser-64586
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||2 violate curfew, abuse cops, held||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-violate-curfew-abuse-cops-held-64365
02-04-2020||Kharar||2 Kharar youths test -ve||Residents thank safai sewaksPatiala: Residents of Gurbaksh Colony and Sant Nagar, Patiala, gave flowers to sanitation workers today for working tirelessly during Covid-19 scare. A video doing rounds on social media show residents of Sant Nagar clapping for workers. In another photograph, residents of Guru Nanak Nagar can be seen offering flowers to workers. TNSTwo spread rumours, heldPatiala: Despite repeated requests, anti-social elements have been spreading rumours on social media related to the Covid-19. The police have booked two people for spreading rumours on WhatsApp today. Patiala Senior Superintendent of Police Mandeep Singh Sidhu said a message went viral on WhatsApp claiming that the administration has cancelled all passes /relaxations and there will be no supply of essentials. “A man and a woman, both residents of Gurbax Colony, Patiala, have been identified. They both are neighbours.” “The message regarding curfew and cancellation of relaxations is fake. An FIR under Section 188 of the IPC, 52-54 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, has been registered. The duo was arrested and their mobile phones seized,” said the Senior Superintendent of Police. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-kharar-youths-test-ve-64364
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||152 detained||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/152-detained-64360
02-04-2020||Naina Mishra---||Sans safety gear, nursing staff helpless||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 1 The recent case wherein 36 health workers at the PGIMER were exposed to the virus for treating Covid patient sans safety gear has sparked a debate on the safety of health workers. On Tuesday,  a 32-year-old nursing officer, who was posted at the emergency medicine ward of PGIMER had tested positive after coming in contact with the a 65-year-old man from Nayagaon (near Chandigarh) without any safety equipment. UT Adviser Manoj Parida said today that: “Our doctors have been told to go for medical consultation and give advice to patients through video-calling for cases which are not critical. The list and timing will be finalised soon.” A nursing officer at the PGIMER said: “The nursing staff kept on emphasising that the patient has symptoms of Covid and some protective gears should be given to them but to no avail. Doctors are leading the war front from the distance. It is the nursing staff that has been dealing with patients closely.” A letter written by all nursing officers to the PGI Director has highlighted deplorable condition of emergency wards. It reads: “The patient (Nayagaon Covid case) was incubated by the health team, including junior resident and nursing officer without PPE, N95 mask as he was suffering from acute respiratory disease syndrome. On March 29, he was found positive for Covid. The staff of Emergency Medicine Ward had been exposed already. There is a common washroom for EMW-22, EMW ortho and ortho OT. The Covid patient had roamed in all these areas.” It may be mentioned here that the covid patient from Nayagaon was initially being tested for HINI and was tested as Covid positive after three days “We have no time to ask about the travel history from a patient who comes to the emergency ward gasping for air. Our role is to cehck vital signs and by that time, we are exposed already. We are working in the same clothes that we wear from our houses. We know that PPE cannot be given to us and hence we have demanded N95 masks, disposal gowns, and head caps,” said a nursing officer. The PGI Nurses Welfare Association has demanded PPE, N95 masks and prophylaxis treatment for health workers in ATC OPC, Emergency OPD, ES OPD, APC Emergency, CCU and eye emergency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sans-safety-gear-nursing-staff-helpless-64357
02-04-2020||Priya Tandon||Patience, prayers are all it will take||More than a week has passed since the lockdown was announced. It’s been a never-before experience for every household.For some, it may be a experience of staying with family, but for others, it’s a nightmare. My house has become a co-working space. My husband and children are all working from home. As for me, being primarily a home maker, I have my hands full. But I am happy because I get to see my husband and kids a lot more than normal and have the comfort of knowing that they are safe as well as constructively occupied. No one here is whiling time away, because they are working all day. We get to have our meals together nowadays and that’s a lovely feeling.The Navratri festival is going on. Who would have thought that in the Navrati, which is celebrated by the Hindus across India, the temples would be closed? Come to think of it, even the gurdwaras, churches and mosques are closed. It’s almost as if the God is annoyed with humans.Haven’t we abused all bounties given to us? Man has abused the land, water and air — taking a note of the pollution levels. Man has been insensitive and avaricious. Perhaps, it is time to introspect and ask ourselves where we went wrong. We need to apologise and of course, make amends.One thing that everyone is realising is that life after Covid-19 shall be very different from what it was before. We shall learn to understand what is really valuable. We all should realise that life is not about accumulation of wealth but about how you can use it to help those in need. Suddenly, all your properties, business, lands, expensive clothes, jewels, handbags, shoes and cosmetics have no meaning. Our only concern is making through this all. It’s all about surviving. And for that, we have to live a life of discipline and austerity. Restraint from going out is also a form of discipline. Utilising resources judiciously and going out only when necessary requires a lot of patience.In the time of adversity, everyone should try to pitch in to help those who have no means of earning. The daily wagers have no work so they are the worst affected. How are we ever going to repay the selfless work being done by doctors, paramedical staff, the police, the media and milk and vegetable vendors? Not to forget, NGOs who have suo moto taken up the cause of giving food to many. All of these are surely working more than they do in normal times.The world is applauding India’s foresight and promptness in reacting to the impending situation.Chandigarh is doing pretty well in terms of social distancing. A number of NGOs as well as the Administration, religious organisations, political parties and business houses have come forward to give raw ration/ cooked food packets to those in need. There are several Good Samaritans out there. May their tribe increase!With the cooperation and efforts of all, and with God’s grace we can fight the virus. I, along with other members in family, pray to the Almighty for the wellbeing of all every day. We seek His ‘karuna’ to tide over coronavirus! Collective prayers are very potent. It’s time that we realise that God is all we are left with and God is all that we really need.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patience-prayers-are-all-it-will-take-64356
02-04-2020||Juzar Singh||Their quest  for identity||“We are what we are, we want a normal life, dignified life and a family, we want equal study and work opportunities. How we talk, how we walk, how we behave and how we look is all because of our hormones. We want people to accept us, adjust us and avoid the negativity that comes to their mind when they see us. We, too, are human beings,” said Oshin Sarkar, a transgender student at the Department of Women Studies, PU.All that they need is people to behave normally with them. They are barely respected and often ridiculed. They have to hide their identities for the fear of being taken to ‘Deras’ for ‘hijras’. Those who somehow manage to reach educational institutes face several difficulties there.In 2017, the first transgender student at the PU, Dhananjay Chauhan, succeeded in getting separate washrooms on the university campus. In 2015, the PU added a third column for transgenders. Dhananjay Chauhan said society should create a friendly environment for transgenders. “There is a difference between sex and gender, sex is related to a physical state whereas gender is a mental state. Nowadays, one could undergo a surgery for changing sex in Chhattisgarh, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu,” said Dhananjay. She says they need separate hostels also as people don’t want to rent their rooms to us.“If seats are reserved for transgenders, they can come to educational institutes for higher education, their presence in educational institutes and interaction with other students could be helpful in normalising their life. Reservation in jobs and education could help them with social acceptance,” said Dhananjay.Recently, Rajya Sabha MP from Odisha, Sasmit Patra, had introduced a Constitution Amendment Bill in the Upper House on March 13 which seeks reservation for transgenders in the Parliament and state assemblies.Dhananjay Chauhan runs an NGO ‘Saksham’ for the welfare of transgenders. The purpose of the NGO is to pull their community out of the begging practice and provide them with higher education so that they can live with dignity.Oshin Sarkar has another version about the reservation, separate hostels and washrooms. According to her, these things are needed but what is desperately needed is creating awareness in society. “In a society which is accepting and tolerant, there will be no need for separate accommodations and washrooms. It is sad that people seek our blessings, but don’t accept us,” said Oshin.Parliament had passed the Transgender Persons Bill, 2019, to protect the fundamental rights of the community, but the law raises concerns as it mandates a two-step procedure in which transgenders can get a ‘transgender certificate’ through self-declaration about their gender. In the second step, they can apply for ‘change in gender certificate’ but it requires surgery and documents confirmed by a medical authority. The WHO recommends that there should be no medical requirement for a person’s self-defined identity.We need to stop stigmatising identities and accept each in its own beautiful and refreshing way — without this, there is no way ahead for any of us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/their-quest-for-identity-64355
02-04-2020||Rajnish Wattas||Rendezvous with nature||During the time when everyone is staying at home, life doesn’t have to essentially become boring. For me, necessary joy is being generated by keeping in touch with nature.With the change of our quotidian rhythm, instead of the usual brisk morning walk in a neighbourhood park, I now do a leisurely stroll in our tiny lawn. I pause to admire the bottle brush trees across the boundary wall laden with red brush-like flowers, popping out from dainty feathery leaves. The small-sized trees with rough barks make them a favourite with squirrels who do a myriad acrobatics and scamper from one branch to another. Suddenly, I spot a parrot in its green feathery coat with a red band around its neck, fluttering his magnificent plumage. The similar red and green colour combination of the bottle brush trees might have perhaps fascinated him too.Looking down on the surface of the uncut lawn, I spot little star-like yellow flowers carpeting the surface. Wondering if these could be a ‘desi’ version of dandelions, I call my horticulturist friend to identify them. The answer is no! These are just seasonal weeds, but how beautifully they embroider the green carpet of lawn with nature’s artistry.In the distance, I espy a ‘kachnar’ tree in bloom with its pink-white blossoms. Even if I can’t go near it, its powdery sprinkle of blossoms fallen on the ground can be smelt by my mind’ eye. A sleeping seed of nasturtium suddenly sprouts out from slumber and shows up its orange yellow flower in a small crack in the driveway.In the little vegetable patch in our backyard, brinjal plants have overnight adorned small purple flowers. Even if they bear little fruit, the patch is worth its floral beauty. And right next is a patch of ‘methi’ (fenugreek) that with the onset of warm weather has become overripe for eating, but gets speckled with yellow flowers in preparation for bearing seeds. These are short-lived flowers and remind me of Robert Bridges words:“I have loved flowers that fade,Within whose magic tentsRich hues have marriage madeWith sweet unmemoried scents…”In spring, there is much mellifluous birdsong to bow our heads to for their divine orchestra. If you spot the long-tailed tree pie bird you can expect a ‘grating overture followed by tinkling of bells’ unlike the coppersmith’s ‘drab koob koob’. Of course, the ever quarrelling noisy babblers will have to be ignored. In March, the dwarf variety of a mango tree in our backyard begins to don fragrant blossoms holding promise of basketfuls of luscious fruit. If you get lucky, you may spot or at least hear a ‘koel’ hiding amid the foliage. If you’re lazy, then you will rue like the poet James Stephen:‘I heard a bird at dawnSinging sweetly on a tree,That the dew was on the lawn,And the wind was on the lea;But I didn’t listen to him,For he didn’t sing to me.’My favourite readings on identifying trees, flowers and birds is Khuswant Singh’s ‘Nature Watch’ and Indian Birds by Martin woodcock.The ‘stay at home’ can turn into a houseful of wonders, if only we see and hear them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rendezvous-with-nature-64354
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Police call up elderly to ensure well-being||To ensure well-being of the senior citizens in the city, the Chandigarh Police has started calling them.  The policemen are ensuring them of medical assistance during the lockdown. A total of 810 calls were made by the police to senior citizens out of which, 415 were answered.  The police said only 16 senior citizens had sought police help so far. Providing them with sanitisers, vegetables, mobile recharge and withdrawl of money from ATMs were some of the demands raised by the elderly. Meanwhile, some of them also demanded pick-and-drop service. An expectant mother was also given assistance and provided with pick-and-drop from the Sai Temple, Daddu Majra, to Sector 20, Panchkula (HR), on March 31. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-call-up-elderly-to-ensure-well-being-64353
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Leopard on prowl, residents asked to stay indoors||The Forest  Department will carry on with the search operation as fear of a leopard prowling in the southern sectors of the city continues with the authorities having no  clue about the wild cat.  Officals of the department have asked the residents to stay indoors and remain alert. Yesterday, the department received information that a leopard was sighted in the area. The police were also using drones to carry out the search operation. On Monday, too, a leopard was spotted in Sector 5 residential area, following which it was rescued by forest and wildlife officials. With people staying indoors during the 21-day nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19, wild animals, including endangered ones, have been spotted on the deserted streets at several places in the country over the past few days. Sambars have also been seen crossing roads in the northern sectors of Chandigarh in the recent days. “We will continue with the search operation for a couple of days until we are very sure that there is no such wild beast roaming around in the city,” said Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/leopard-on-prowl-residents-asked-to-stay-indoors-64352
02-04-2020||A Correspondent---||12 from Mohali may have attended Tablighi event in Delhi||Mohali, April 1 The police have launched a search operation to identify those who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi.  Mohali Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Saigal said so far, a total of 12 persons had been identified, who might have attended the event last month. Of these, eight were from Mohali town while the rest were from other divisions of the district. “We have tracked 12 persons so far, of which four are admitted in the Dhakoli Civil Hospital while the rest are under home quarantine. Our search operation is on and village sarpanches are also helping us and the police to find the attendees from Mohali,” said the SDM. Civil surgeon Dr Manjit said four persons were admitted to the Civil Hospital in Dhakoli today. “Their samples will be collected tomorrow. We are working hard to identify all those who had visited Nizamuddin,” said the Civil Surgeon. According to sources, three persons from Samghauli village and one from Chhat village had been admitted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-from-mohali-may-have-attended-tablighi-event-in-delhi-64351
02-04-2020||---||Covid infection can directly affect heart: Doc||Mohali, April 1 Covid infection can cause myocarditis, an inflammation in heart muscle, and is lethal. Though it mostly affects lungs and causes pneumonia, but a lot of cases have now come forward wherein it has affected heart lethally, said Dr Virendar Sarwal, cardiothoracic and vascular surgeon here today. A study led by Dr Zhibing Lu at Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University has found that 20 per cent of Covid cases had some evidence of heart damage. Many were not known to have underlying heart disease. But they often had abnormal electrocardiograms in addition to elevated troponin levels, which sometimes soared to levels seen in patients with heart attacks, he said. “The risk of death in such patients is four times more than in a normal patient in heart attack and surprisingly, most of the patients do not have history of heart disease,” said Dr Sarwal.  Myocarditis could likely be caused either by the virus itself, or the body’s immune and inflammatory response to the virus, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-infection-can-directly-affect-heart-doc-64350
02-04-2020|| ---||5 juveniles get leave of absence for 21 days||Chandigarh, April 1 Five children have been granted leave of absence from the observation-cum-special home for a period of 21 days, as per the directions of the Chairman, Juvenile Justice Monitoring Committee, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and the Executive Chairman, State Legal Services Authority, UT, Chandigarh. Other necessary directions have been issued to the representatives of the Social Welfare Department. Justice Jaswant Singh, Chairman, Juvenile Justice Monitoring Committee, directed to the Principal Magistrates, Juvenile Justice Board, to consider the cases of children in conflict with law as per Section 98 of the Juvenile Justice (Parent Protection of Children) Act, 2015. The children placed in observation home, special home and place of safety be released on “leave of absence”, considering the Covid-19 outbreak. The children who are undertrial or convicted for committing of offence, other than heinous offences, may be considered for leave of absence for a period of up to 21 days as per the advisory of the Government of India. However, the following categories of children in conflict with law may not be considered: 1. All children convicted or undergoing inquiry for intermediate or large quantity recovery under the NDPS Act or under 379B of the IPC or under the POCSO Act or offence of rape or offence of acid attack. 2. All convicted or undertrial children who are foreign nationals. 3. All convicted or undertrial children who are convicted or undergoing inquiry in more than two cases or for any heinous offence even if the number of cases is two or less. 4. All convicted or undertrial children belonging to other states since they shall not be able to travel to other states on account of lockdown/sealing of borders/curfew. Likewise the juveniles were examined medically and the consent was taken by them as well as parents of juveniles if they are willing to go to their respective houses. After their medical examination was conducted, the application for released on leave of absence was filed and total five (in which three juveniles whose inquiry was pending and two convicts) in number were handed over to their parents and the undertaking of the parents was taken accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-juveniles-get-leave-of-absence-for-21-days-64349
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||3 children homes inspected in Chandigarh||As per directions received from Justice Jaswant Singh, Punjab and Haryana High Court-cum-Executive Chairman, State Legal Services Authority, UT, Chandigarh, an inspection team comprising Paramjeet Singh, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), UT, and Ashok Kumar Mann, Chief Judicial Magistrate-cum-Secretary, DLSA, UT, conducted a visit to Snehalaya, a shelter home for destitute and abandoned children in Maloya; Children’s Home for Girls, Sector 15, and Observation and Special Home, Sector 25, Chandigarh.  During the inspection, Rajni Gupta, Company Secretary, Chandigarh Child and Women Developsment Corporation, and Bisman Ahuja, programme manager, Union Territory Child Protection Society, were present as representatives of the Social Welfare Department.  The team said in all three homes, adequate sanitisation had been conducted by the authorities, children had been provided with adequate quantity of soaps, clean towels, masks and sanitisers and medical room had been prepared for quarantine in case of requirement. The team directed the staff to conduct compulsory medical screening of all children and hold awareness sessions. The team was informed limited staff had been given access and permission for entering the premises of child care institutions, adequate cleanliness and hygiene was ensured in the institution, all new admissions were being thoroughly examined. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-children-homes-inspected-in-chandigarh-64348
02-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Panel to assess bed capacity in Mohali private hospitals||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 1Taking a serious view of under-reporting by private hospitals about the hospital inventory, the district administration today constituted an advisory committee headed by the Civil Surgeon to assess and identify the required private health infrastructure to be set aside in view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the district.There have been reports that many hospital managements had refused to admit Covid-19 patients as their staff had refused to attend them. There are also complaints that private hospitals were not only under-reporting bed capacity, but were also charging exorbitant rates for syringes and medicines from the patients.According to sources, one of the hospitals had allegedly under-reported that they had 180-bed capacity instead of 300. Under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, private hospitals have to provide beds and isolation wards on pro-rata basis to district health authorities depending on the overall capacity of the hospital and strictly on the principle of equity.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “This is an unprecedented situation and at this time, parochial profiteering objectives cannot be justified. Concerted efforts will be required in order to be fully prepared as the public health infrastructure is grossly inadequate, given the potential magnitude of the pandemic. The private sector in the district has a strong health infrastructure, which is crucial to supplement ICU beds/ventilators needed in the district, so it is imperative to take urgent and essential steps to synchronise the strategies/infrastructure for prevention and treatment of the pandemic.”Dayalan said an advisory committee had been constituted, which would assess and decide the number of beds/ventilators/ ambulances, etc, on the basis of overall capacity of the hospital and strictly on the principle of equity. He said private hospitals (having 10 beds or more) in the district would set aside isolation beds/wards/other infrastructure as specified by this committee to be placed at the disposal of the Civil Surgeon (CS), Mohali, to be called into service as and when the need arises. The cases referred by the CS shall not be charged by the hospitals concerned; except for consumables (such as medicines, syringes, etc,) actually used in the treatment.The Deputy Commissioner further said private hospitals had been directed to ensure that staff, including doctors, nurses and paramedics, etc, were all available on duty and no one shall refuse treatment to Covid-19 positive/suspected cases. He said the district was also home to considerable population from low-income groups, especially migrant labour, who could not afford private medical care. The survival or life of any person cannot be dictated by his paying capacity as access to healthcare is a fundamental part of right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-to-assess-bed-capacity-in-mohali-private-hospitals-64347
02-04-2020||---||9 more contacts traced in Panchkula||Panchkula, April 1As many as nine persons were kept at an isolation ward of the Civil Hospital and tested as part of contact-tracing efforts after the identification of second Covid-19 case in Panchkula, Dr Saroj Agarwal, Deputy Civil Surgeon of the Civil Hospital, said.Their samples were sent to the PGI for testing this evening, she said. Yesterday, five members of the family were picked by the Health Department for testing. They had also been admitted to an isolation ward of the Civil Hospital.The total number of samples collected for Covid-19 so far stands at 80, while the results of 17 persons are awaited.According to the latest bulletin on Covid-19, as many as 289 persons are under home quarantine.Total persons in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital are 28 (old 13, new admissions 15).Three persons have been admitted to Command Hospital. A total of 116 persons have completed their quarantine period of 28 days.With the admission of 36 more persons, who had returned from Maharashtra and Rajasthan, the number of persons quarantined at Nada Sahib stands at 44.317 at temporary shelter homesAs many as 317 persons are being provided necessary facilities at 12 temporary shelter homes set up in the district. According to officials, these shelter homes can accommodate up to 1,045 persons.Fact file||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-more-contacts-traced-in-panchkula-64346
02-04-2020||---||2 unidentified bodies found  in Panchkula||Panchkula, April 1 The police today found bodies of two unidentified persons from near Old Labour Chowk in Sector 17 and near Gurdwara Nada Sahib here.  “They been kept at the Civil Hospital’s mortuary refrigeration unit,” an official of the hospital said. Dr Amarjeet Singh, Head of the Emergency Wing of the Panchkula Civil Hospital, said, “The bodies are being taken care of as per the provisions defined under the Epidemic Act. They will remain in the mortuary if their identification is not completed within 72 hours.” Inspector Joginder Singh, Station House Officer at the Sector 14 police station, said, “We found no injury marks on body recovered near Labour Chowk in Sector 17. We had reached the spot after getting an intimation around 10 am and subsequently informed the health officials.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-unidentified-bodies-found-in-panchkula-64345
02-04-2020||Mohali||Mohali DC forms panel for smooth supply of fertilisers||Mohali Deputy Commissioner-cum- District Magistrate Girish Dayalan constituted a committee to ensure smooth supply of fertilisers to Cooperative Societies.  The Deputy Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Mohali, has been made chairman while District Manager, Markfed, Mohali, and District Manager, IFFCO, Mohali, will be convenors. Agriculture Officers and Block Development Panchayat Officers (BDPO) have been made members of the committee.  The BDPO concerned shall make arrangements for engaging labourers under the MGNREGA and ensure that labourers practise social distancing, use masks and hand sanitisers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-dc-forms-panel-for-smooth-supply-of-fertilisers-64344
02-04-2020||Ravneet Singh||Family of 5 survives on one meal a day||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 1Residents of Gopal Colony have been a harried lot in the wake of Covid-19 scare.Munna, who earns Rs 8,000 per month by ferrying schoolchildren has lost his livelihood after the government imposed curfew in the state. As a result, a family of five is surviving on one meal comprising two chappatis, cereal and rice provided by area councillor.Suraj, who works as a helper, has been waiting for essentials. “Only food is provided to us. From first day of curfew, we have not received ration.”Residents having pucca houses continue to live there while those living in jhuggis left the area after it was flooded in July 2019. “This area is flooded time and again,” said a 15-year-old youth.Pointing towards a family of six, Bunty said, “This family feeds themselves by picking up vegetables. The authorities should provide them some relief. There are over 150 houses in the area. Some do not get cooked food as well.”Residents claimed they have submitted the list twice, but have not received essential items till date.Harish Nagpal, area councillor, said, “We are providing cooked food to over 3,000 people in different parts of the city. Ration has not been provided in our area. Lists of residents were prepared though.”Poonamdeep Kaur, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said, “We are providing cooked food to people and are working on providing ration to the needy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/family-of-5-survives-on-one-meal-a-day-64343
02-04-2020||Satinder Pal Singh---||Police inspect mosque in Zirakpur||Zirakpur/Dera Bassi, April 1 The Mohali police have inspected a mosque in Zirakpur after sudden spike in Covid-19 patients across the country, who participated in Tablighi Jamaat conference held in Nizammudin in mid March in New Delhi.  Mohali Deputy Superintendent of Police (Traffic) Guriqbal Singh, said the police have been directed to check mosques in Zirakpur and Dera Bassi. He said they met a Maulvi today and asked him to cooperate in order to combat Covid-19. The Deputy Superintendent of Police said there were no reports related to worshippers visiting mosques, especially for prayers on Friday.  He said they just found a Maulvi and Imam at the mosque. “We have asked Imams to post video messages requesting people to stay indoors on social media,” he said. The Deputy Superintendent of Police said they have been visiting every part of Zirakpur to spread awareness regarding Covid-19. We wear masks and practise good hygiene during the drive, he said. Zirakpur Station House Officer Gurwant Singh said, “Zero tolerance is being shown towards curfew violators. Irrespondible behaviour won’t be tolerated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-inspect-mosque-in-zirakpur-64342
02-04-2020||---||Mohali, Panchkula admn should restrict number of passes, says Badnore||Chandigarh, April 1Expressing happiness over reduction in number of vehicles plying on roads in the city, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore once again emphasised that Punjab and Haryana must restrict number of passes of people coming to Chandigarh. Badnore reviewed arrangements made for anti-corona operation in the War Room today.He discussed issues regarding availability of medicines, medical staff, safety measures and other facilities with PGIMER Director; Director, Health Services; and Director Principal, GMCH. Deputy Commissioners of Mohali and Panchkula took part in the meeting video conferencing.Adviser Manoj Parida briefed the Administrator and said the Central Government was providing all necessary assistance to Chandigarh to combat Covid-19.Parida said fake curfew passes have been detected in the city. He said legal action will be taken against culprits.He mentioned that funds have been provided for wheat and pulses to beneficiaries in Chandigarh, which will be in addition to ration money being provided through Direct Benefit Transfer.KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said they have roped in eight more companies, including Punjab Agro, Punjab Markfed, Reliance, Big Bazaar, Bigbasket, 24X7, Bhejo and Groffers for delivery of groceries on the doorsteps.He said necessary arrangements have been to provide fodder to cattle. The MC has also taken charge of feeding stray dogs in the city.Yadav informed the Administrator that safety kits have been provided to sanitation staff. The MC has announced a bonus of Rs 1,000 for staff engaged in sanitisation duty.The Administrator directed Yadav to ensure that operation in Sector 26 mandi is streamlined.Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner, said 41,754 cooked ood packets were distributed to the needy on Tuesday.Badnore expressed satisfaction over introduction of new Covid application and directed Nazuk Kumar, Director, IT, to ensure that information is updated regularly.Ajoy Kumar Sinha, Finance Secretary, said people can withdraw money from banks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-panchkula-admn-should-restrict-number-of-passes-says-badnore-64341
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid cases to be shifted to PGI; docs oppose move||The UT health administration has decided that all Covid patients will be shifted to the Nehru Extension Block of the PGI from April 3.  Three city hospitals — PGI, GMSH-16 and GMCH-32 — will continue to screen and take samples of suspected cases, who will be kept in isolation wards of the respective hospital till the receipt of test report. The confirmed cases will be shifted to the PGI. Dr Uttam Thakur, president, Association of Resident Doctors, said the move was unscientific and could expose more health workers to infection. A Covid-19 patient should not be moved from one place to another under any circumstances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-cases-to-be-shifted-to-pgi-docs-oppose-move-64340
02-04-2020||---||Sector 35 man tests positive||Chandigarh, April 1A 49-year-old man, who resides in Sector 35, has tested positive for Covid-19. The count of Covid cases in the city has jumped to 16.He was admitted to an isolation ward at the GMSH-16 on Monday. He had typical pneumonia with bilateral pneumonitis. He has no travel history to any Covid-hit country. However, he has a contact history with two of his relatives at Mansa, Punjab. One of the two relatives had come from Dubai and the other from Singapore.Hotel accommodation for UT, PGI doctorsThe UT Administrator has announced that all doctors who want to stay in quarantine and not with their families will be provided free accommodation and food at Hotel Parkview. Any doctor of the UT or the PGI could avail of this facility. The UT Administration has also ordered more PPEs for doctors.His three family members have been home-quarantined. The Health Department has sanitised the residence. The information about his contacts in Punjab has been shared with the authorities in the neighbouring state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-35-man-tests-positive-64339
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||5 from Chandigarh attended Tablighi event||The UT police have launched a search operation to trace those city residents who attended the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi. The drive is being conducted in view of Covid-19 cases reported from the gathering.Police officials said five persons had been identified in the Mauli Jagran area, who attended the gathering in Delhi. They had been sent for a medical examination.Meanwhile, a resident of Mata Raj Kaur Gurdwara, Mani Majra, had also attended Jamaat at a mosque in Ramganj, Jaipur, Rajasthan.Fifteen persons residing on the premises of Noorani Masjid, Bapu Dham, Sector 26, were also identified who belonged to Tablighi Jamaat and had returned to the city on March 17 after attending Jamaat in Maharashtra.“As per information provided by their president, Hazi Mohamad Yunus Ansari, the identified persons arrived from Mumbai by the Chandigarh Express, which they had boarded on March 16 from Borivali, Mumbai. He also stated that 14 students of Madrasa are also staying on the same premises for the past one year,” said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-from-chandigarh-attended-tablighi-event-64338
02-04-2020||---||10 hurt as residents clash with cops at Mani Majra||Chandigarh, April 1High drama was witnessed when residents of Bangla Colony, Shanti Nagar, Mani Majra, attacked police personnel this afternoon. The incident led to a clash in which four cops and six local residents were injured.According to the police, constable Reena Kumari, who was posted at the Mani Majra police station, along with constable Sunita, was on patrolling duty at Street No, 10 in Shanti Nagar.Woman declared dead at GMSHThe woman was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, in a PCR vehicle where doctors declared her brought dead.Reena reported that in the afternoon they received information from an unknown person that a woman had collapsed in the adjoining Street No. 9, following which she, along with the other constable, reached the spot and found the woman lying unconscious.A local resident called the emergency number following which a PCR and an ambulance reached the spot.In the meantime, a person, identified as Chander Shekhar, informed the woman’s family about the incident.Cops claimed that someone informed the woman’s family and other residents that the police were taking her to the police station for violating the curfew orders following which she collapsed.The police claimed that on getting this information, residents, including women, of Bangla Colony in Shanti Nagar, armed with sticks and rods, reached the spot.The residents started throwing stones on the cops and charged at them with sticks. In response, the cops also used force.A few people came out of their houses and made a video of the incident in which residents are seen throwing stones on police personnel and in return the cops are seen throwing lathis on the residents.Another video shows a few residents, including women, stopping the ambulance and throwing stones on it. The driver somehow managed to speed away from the spot.The woman was then rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, in a PCR vehicle where doctors declared her brought dead. In the meantime, the SHO, Mani Majra, Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, also reached the spot.The Police Control Room was informed following which additional police force was rushed to the spot following which the people started escaping.The cops then chased the residents and identified a few who were part of the mob.The police said Sub-Inspector Baldev Singh, Constable Veer Angad and two women constables, Reena and Sunita, were injured.Some residents, including Neeta (32), Badal (30), Dharampal (35), Sambhu (25) and a 17-year-old juvenile, were also injured in the incident. The injured were taken to the Civil Hospital, Mani Majra. An ambulance and a PCR vehicle were also damaged in the incident.The autopsy was conducted by a board of doctors and it was videographed.The police have registered a case under Sections 341, 323, 506, 147, 148, 149, 332, 353, 186, 188 and 427 of the IPC at the Mani Majra police station.No arrests have been made by the police in line with the orders not to arrest accused due to the situation arising out of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-hurt-as-residents-clash-with-cops-at-mani-majra-64337
02-04-2020||Manpriya Singh||I’d love to be amidst nature, says artist Prem Singh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 1Before the lockdown, we all had a life, but ironically, it’s the lockdown that has taught us how to live. In the process, reflect on things, reconnect with things, especially those around us — pets, people, plants.As the question, ‘How’s the lockdown going’, temporarily replaces the traditional form of greetings, novel ideas emerge every time it is put to someone.“I spend quite a bit of time gazing out of the window,” laughs Prem Singh, an eminent artist and former principal of the Government College of Art. It’s cruel ironies of time and the lockdown that has reversed the roles for good. “One of my sons is in Canada and the other in the UK. Now, they call us up daily to check if we are home and haven’t ventured out.”In fact, that’s not where the instructions end. “They even tell us to stock on ration and other groceries for the rainy days ahead because this problem, unfortunately might take time to end completely.”While he hopes his children and grandchildren were with him during the lockdown, but since that couldn’t be so, much of the time these days is also spent in conversations and exchanging notes on the Covid-19 situation in the countries where his immediate and extended families are based. “Every day there is an update, there is a hope and there are measures taken. Let’s hope we get out of it, changed for good.”Reading is something that he enjoys, but ironically, “I had ordered a few books to read from Amazon and that order is stuck in the lockdown.”Even though artists are famous for spending significant time of their day in the studio, he still misses the freedom, because “Freedom is something the most dear to the artist. But I don’t feel that freedom now. I’d love to be outside, amidst nature.”He adds, “I miss interacting with my friends and sharing my work with them.”This is perhaps one of the few instances in history when the ironic lack of freedom has actually given freedom of time and space.An individual cannot remain unaffected by what’s happening around; an artist even more so. This is why his drawings inspired by the lockdown depict several things like, “We in conversation with the things around — pets, people and plants. The works also reflect on how we are breathing the present.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/id-love-to-be-amidst-nature-says-artist-prem-singh-64336
02-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh's first case hale & hearty||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 1The first Covid patient of the city, a 23-year-old woman from Sector 21, today completed two weeks in an isolation ward at the GMCH-32.As per the protocol, a patient can only be termed Covid negative after two consecutive tests. She was sampled for Covid on eighth day, which tested positive for the virus. The first patient was again tested on Wednesday evening, the results of which are awaited.The city’s first Covid patient is stated to be having no fever, sore throat, cough or difficulty in breathing. It is learnt that she was not given any medication for the past 10 days as she was stable.Dr Dasari Harish of the GMCH said, “If she tests negative, another test will be conducted after a gap of 24 hours. If the two consecutive samples test negative, the patient will be discharged with a condition that the doctor on duty finds the patient symptomless.”“The patient’s condition is normal. She is hale and hearty. There has been an improvement in her condition. She did not complain of any signs as of now. We do daily monitoring of Covid patients. Most of her close contacts, who were tested positive, are also stable,” said Dr Dasari.The girl had returned to the city from the UK on March 15 as her college abroad was shut due to Covid outbreak. She developed symptoms like fever the following day and got her tested on March 18. She was found infected with coronavirus.“I am really hopeful that my results test negative,” said the 23-year-old patient.Meanwhile, another 26-year-old woman, who was treating Covid patients in the UK and herself tested positive for the disease at the PGIMER on March 20, has tested negative after a week of her admission to the hospital. She will be discharged on the 14th day after following the discharge protocol for Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-first-case-hale-hearty-64335
02-04-2020||Mohali||3 more test +ve, Mohali count 10||With the surfacing of three more Covid cases in the district today, the total number of positive cases reported from the district has gone up to 10. One of them, a 65-year-old man from Nayagaon, has died of the disease. All 13 contacts of deceased test -ve Among the new cases, a woman (74) and her granddaughter (10), residents of Phase IX, had come in contact with the NRI couple, who tested positive for Covid on March 30.The third new case is a 55-year-old resident of Jagatpura village, who was in contact with the 22-year-old man of Sector 30, who had returned from Dubai and tested positive for Covid on March 27.The surfacing of a Covid-19 case at Jagatpura village has put the health authorities on their toes as a large number of workers, including migrant labourers, from the village come to Chandigarh and Mohali for work. Even maids working in houses in adjoining Sector 48 and 49 come from Jagatpura village.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said all three positive cases had come in contact with Chandigarh cases. He said the three had been admitted to an isolation ward at Gyan Sagar Hospital in Banur and were stable.He said they had also collected samples for testing from the area.A Nayagaon resident, Om Prakash (65), who was found Covid positive and was undergoing treatment at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, died on Tuesday.He was the first patient in the district and the tricity to die of Covid-19.All 13 samples of close contacts of the 65-year-old deceased man had been found negative, said Dr Manjit Singh. — TNSHad come in contact with Covid cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-test-ve-mohali-count-10-64334
02-04-2020||---||Patients with scheduled surgeries a harried lot||Chandigarh, April 1 Several patients, who had scheduled critical operations/surgeries and follow-ups, are a harried lot with the healthcare services closed in city hospitals due to the Covid-19 outbreak.   Patients have been enquiring about the status of their cases over the phone for the past few days. Some of them, in the initial days of the restrictions, tried to visit the hospitals to know about the next date of their cases.  “We are telling them to call up once the situation improves,” said a PGI official. A GMCH-32 official also had the same thing to say.  “Hospitals should start providing WhatsApp numbers of consultants of all specialities so that post-operative/follow-up patient care can be undertaken. Urgent medical attention, whatsoever possible, should be provided,” said Chetan, whose relative had a brain tumour surgery scheduled a few days ago at the PGI. He had a tough time as his case status was not clear. He finally had to get him admitted to the emergency as the child’s health deteriorated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patients-with-scheduled-surgeries-a-harried-lot-64333
02-04-2020||Chandigarh||5 from Chandigarh were  at Tablighi event||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-from-chandigarh-were-at-tablighi-event-64269
