02-05-2020||---||Chandigarh admn to lift curfew from May 3 midnight||Chandigarh, May 2The UT Administration on Saturday decided to lift curfew in the city from midnight of May 3, while the lockdown period will be extended by two weeks i.e. up to May 17.The containment zone in the city will be restricted to the pockets identified and notified by the Administration. There will be Intensive Screening and Testing of all cases within the containment pockets as per protocol.The Sector Markets will remain open from 7 am to 7 pm.The vehicles will be allowed to be used between 7 am to 7 pm without passes, as per protocol.Odd-Even formula will be applied in respect of both opening of shops and use of vehicles. For example on Monday, May 4, only shops ending even number such as 2, 4, 6, etc., and similarly vehicles carrying registration no. whose last digit is 2, 4, 6 etc. will be allowed.The rotation will continue accordingly.The essential shops like groceries, vegetables, medicines etc. can remain open on all days.The restaurant/eating places will remain closed.Delivery of cooked food by online agencies will not be allowed. Apni Mandis will remain closed.Distribution of fruits and vegetables by Government buses will continue.Big shopping malls and complexes such as in Sector-17 Market or those on sector dividing roads will remain closed.These decisions were taken during the daily war room meeting presided over by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-to-lift-curfew-from-may-3-midnight-79452
02-05-2020||---||2 more test positive in Mohali; district toll reaches 94||Mohali, May 2Two more people have reported coronavirus positive in Mohali. The cases surfaced at Desu Majra village and in Phase 10, taking the total count in the district to 94.They are a 25-year-old woman from Desu Majra village and a 67-year-old man from Phase 10.Giving details, Dr Manjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the woman lives in a paying guest accommodation and had already been quarantined as she had complained of flu-like symptoms.The 67-year-old man also had complained of flu-like symptoms.Their samples had been sent for testing which turned out positive on Saturday morning.  Both have been sent to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that till date 94 positive cases of coronavirus had been reported from the district of which 47 had surfaced from Jawaharpur village while 21 were Sikh pilgrims, including one from Ambala, who had returned from Nanded.He said 62 cases were active while 30 had cured and were kept at the quarantine centre in Sector 70. He said that as of now, 2,488 people had successfully undergone quarantine period while 745 are still under quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-test-positive-in-mohali-district-toll-reaches-94-79364
02-05-2020||---||Six more cases reported in Chandigarh, tally crosses 94||Chandigarh, May 2Chandigarh recorded six more positive COVID-19 cases, of which five are from Bapu Dham Colony and one from Manimajra. With this, the total tally of COVID cases in the city has crossed 94.A 14-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony has three family contacts and 24 community contacts. Another 34-year-old positive case from the colony has one roommate while a 30-year-old man living in same building has three roommates.The 42-year-old male positive case from Bapu Dham has one roommate and 27 community contacts while a 20-year-old female positive case has five family contacts and 17 community contacts. The family contacts have been sampled for COVID-19, results of which are awaited.The 49-year-old man tested positive from Manimajra is the father of the 19-year-old girl from Bapu Dham Colony, who had delivered a baby at GMCH-16. He has 26 community contacts, of which two have been sampled and both are negative. Further, his two-family contacts — wife and son-in-law — have been sampled and have tested negative for COVID.The grandmother of the 11-month-old COVID-19 survivor was also discharged from the PGIMER.A 59-year-old female, who was tested COVID-19 positive, was also discharged from the PGIMER today after she was found negative in her retest. With her discharge, all four members of her family from Sector 33, who were tested positive have been cured — her son, daughter-in-law and 11-month-old granddaughter have already been declared cured and discharged from the PGIMER.“I don’t have words to thank all healthcare workers who looked after and treated me round the clock, even at the risk of their own life. Today, I have won my war against COVID-19, but the real warriors behind this battle are healthcare workers, who not only saved me but my entire family. We all are indebted to them for life,” stated the cured patient paying her gratitude to the PGIMER team while she was leaving the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-more-cases-reported-in-chandigarh-tally-crosses-94-79357
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||202 detained for curfew violation||Mouse lands man in police station!Chandigarh: A Sector 23 resident, Ajay Kumar, had not imagined that a mouse caught in a trap would land him in a police station. Ajay had gone to release the mouse near his house when a patrolling team rounded him up for curfew violation and took him to the Sector 17 police station. A police team constituted to keep a check on morning walkers was on patrolling duty when it saw the man holding a mouse trap near Mother Teresa Home in Sector 23. By that time, Ajay had released the mouse and was heading back home when the police caught him and took him to the police station. Ajay said he was about to take a bath when he noticed the mouse in the trap and thought of releasing it first. “I told the police that I had left the house just to release the mouse. However, they didn’t listen,” he said. Ajay was released after several hours. TNSMay Day observed at Rayat BahraMohali: International Labour Day was celebrated at the Rayat Bahra University here today. To mark the occasion, a special programme was organised through video conferencing where tributes were paid to the martyrs of Chicago. Speaking on the occasion Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor, Rayat Bahra University, said May Day is a celebration of labourers and the working classes, promoted by the International Labour Movement. The university recognises the valuable contribution of labourers towards development, he said. Dr Daljit Singh, Vice-Chancellor of the university, thanked employees and appreciated the hard work of workers. . TNSTwo held with 40-gm opiumKharar: Kharar City police today arrested two suspects — Gurmeet Singh Ghoga village and Devinder Singh of Kharar — and recovered 40 gm of opium from their possession. Kharar City SHO Bhagwant Singh said a case under the NDPS Act has been registered against them. TNS250 boxes of whisky stolenKharar: Around 250 boxes of scotch whisky were stolen from the godown of Tinku Wines located on the Sanipur road near GT Road. The police have registered an FIR on the complaint of Ashok Kumar. He said thieves broke the locks of the godown and took away around 250 boxes of whisky. They even damaged an almirah and CCTV cameras installed there, he said. Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Amneet Kondal SSP said an FIR has been registered and a probe is on. OCProf Singla takes charge as PU DUIKharar: Prof RK Singla took the charge of Dean of University Instructions, Panjab University, Chandigarh, today from Prof. Shankarji Jha whose two year tenure ended today. Prof. Singla earlier served as the Dean (Research) and was the Director of Computer Centre. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/202-detained-for-curfew-violation-79230
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Academic connects with pupils online; yoga, cooking her pastime||“I can’t believe a time like this has befallen mankind,” says Madhu Chitkara, one of the co-founders of Chitkara Education Trust.However, for the academic, this cloud comes with a silver lining. She is living her life the way she hadn’t in the past 44 years. “I’ve spent all my life teaching. Never before did I get so much time at home. For me, even Sunday wasn’t a day off. It was another working day. So, preparing self for the lockdown was a challenge.”“It’s a different experience. Something I am now cherishing. The morning routine is still the same, but work is now online — keeping in touch with the staff, students and monitor things via Internet.”Madhu is joyous about having four generations together under one roof. In March, she had brought her parents, who are in their 80s, to Chandigarh from Delhi. Back then, none of us was aware of the gravity of the situation, but it all turned out a blessing for her. “I am glad they are here with us. To have your parents and grandchildren together is a special experience. Although that implies knowing and understanding different habits, different food tastes and different time slots for everything.” Seeing everyone make an effort to coordinate with varied needs of each other makes her happy. “My grandson is 14 years old and granddaughter is eight; the way they are adjusting with everyone, it is remarkable.”Her evenings comprise exercising, yoga, playing with grandkids, reading story books and trying new recipes. “My daughter-in-law keeps coming up with something interesting every day. What adds to the fun is kids participating in kitchen.”However, she is worried for her students. “If the lockdown stretches, students will start to panic. They are already restless because the lockdown happened right at the time of their placement.”“Thanks to the technology, we are all still connected. We had started some online courses five years ago, so, we have been able to take control of the current scenario.”At the same time, Chitkara is working on introducing new concepts. The organisation has started research on Covid-19. This, says Madhu, is her way of keeping students motivated and making a difference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/academic-connects-with-pupils-online-yoga-cooking-her-pastime-79228
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Helping the needy greatest service’||DC Mandip Singh Brar appreciated the efforts of Joshi Foundation and Heart Foundation for helping the needy by providing them food in this hour of crisis.“I am happy that both NGOs are not only providing food packets to the needy, but are also organising medical camps to help the deprived section of society. I hope they will continue this noble work,” said Brar.“The Jan Jan Bhojan campaign was started on April 3 and till date, it has contributed over 1 lakh food packets. Two thousand food packets are given to the Chandigarh Administration daily and nearly another 2,000 food packets are distributed among the needy in Sectors 14, 15, 16, 24, PGI, Panjab University and periphery areas, including, Kacchi Colony, Dhanas, EWS Colony, Dhanas, small flats, Maloya and Nayagaon,” said Vineet Joshi, chairman of Joshi Foundation. Dr HK Bali, chairman of Heart Foundation and an expert on heart diseases, was also present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/helping-the-needy-greatest-service-79227
02-05-2020||Kharar||One killed in road mishap||Bhupinder Singh of Badali village, who was working as a security guard, was killed while Harbans Singh was seriously injured after their motorcycle was knocked down by a canter near Bhukri village here yesterday evening.Kharar City police station Station House Officer Bhagwant Singh said when their motorcycle was knocked down by the canter, both victims fell on the road.They were taken to the Civil Hospital, Kharar, where Bhupinder Singh was declared brought dead while Harbans Singh was referred to the PGI.A case under Sections 279, 427 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against canter driver Sandeep Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-killed-in-road-mishap-79214
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Tributes paid to Chicago martyrs||On the occasion of May Day, The Tribune Employees Union paid tributes to the Chicago martyrs here today.In view of social distancing norms the employees were addressed through a Facebook live session using a public address system.A two-minute silence was observed in memory of the Chicago martyrs.Anil Kumar Gupta, president of the union, spoke about the struggle and sacrifice of the Chicago martyrs, who laid down their lives while seeking better working conditions for workers.He also spoke about the challenges faced by the media industry due to the pandemic. He appreciated the role of the staff in bringing out the newspaper in these trying times and ensuring that it reached the readers every day.Among others, who addressed the staff, were Ruchika M Khanna, general secretary, Karam Vir, senior vice-president, and Dr Joginder, vice-president. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tributes-paid-to-chicago-martyrs-79188
02-05-2020||Zirakpur||Crowd erupts on road to MC office||A huge crowd, including women and children, came out on road flouting social distancing norms. People were seen walking in droves on the road towards Zirakpur MC office and back towards Lohgarh. Close to 30-40 families of migrant labour are taking shelter near Vishwakarma temple in Lohgarh vegetable market and there have been distress calls by them for dry ration. Earlier, migrant labour and daily wagers in Baltana had protested that they were not being provided ration.They had also alleged that there is favouritism in providing ration.Zirakpur SHO Gurwant Singh said, “Sometimes people spread rumours that free ration is being distributed and labourers rush to the spots.” There is a sizeable population of migrant labourers and daily wagers who work as construction workers and in other unskilled jobs in unorganised sector in Zirakpur and surrounding areas.Shopkeepers in Zirakpur market alleged that police stopped them from opening shops despite orders from district administration from 7am to 11am. They alleged that they have a copy of order but were not allowed to open their shops. They urged the district administration to clear the air and direct the police accordingly. “Fifty percent of the market was allowed open today,” Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crowd-erupts-on-road-to-mc-office-79178
02-05-2020||Mohali||Two youths held for eloping with sisters||The Sohana police have arrested two youths for allegedly eloping with two girls to Haridwar on the pretext of marriage during the lockdown.The two suspects have been identified as Ajit (18) and Manish (19), both residents of Kambala village. The duo had eloped with two girls, including a minor.The police said the two suspects along with two girls, both sisters, were working at a factory in Industrial Area here. On April 22, the duo made a plan to take girls with them to Haridwar.Investigation officer (IO), ASI Sikandar Singh, said the suspects along with girls reached Ambala from Mohali on foot and from there they hired a truck to Haridwar.The mother of two girls complained to the police following which, an alert was sent to cops in Uttarkhand, the IO added. The police arrested the suspects from Haridwar and brought them to Mohali yesterday, the IO said.The suspects were produced in a local court, which sent them to jail in Ludhiana while the two sisters were sent to Nari Niketan in Jalandhar today, the IO added. A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 363 (Punishment for kidnapping) and 366 (Kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage), at the Sohana police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-youths-held-for-eloping-with-sisters-79176
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||RWAs seal entry points to Sec 22||The Residents’ Welfare Associations of Sector 22 here today sealed multi-entry points to the sector leaving the Aroma light point as the only entry point with the support of the Municipal Corporation and the UT police.Vinod Vashisht, president, Sector 22 Government Houses Residents’ Welfare Society, said only the Aroma light point would be used as the entry point to the sector. Persons or vendors entering the sector would be scanned at the entry point. The number of vendors would be limited further.He said the entry point would be manned by representatives of the RWAs and the police personnel. Government officials and medical staff on Covid management duty, who are residents of Sector 22, would be allowed entry and exit from the Sector 22/23 light point also against their official ID.There would be no restriction on emergency vehicles and ambulances, he said. For any further clarification, one can check with the area councillor, respective presidents of the RWAs, Sector 22 police post in-charge or the Sector 17 SHO, he said.These preventive measures would be operational from tomorrow, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rwas-seal-entry-points-to-sec-22-79173
02-05-2020||Mohali||Lukewarm response to curfew relaxation||The curfew relaxation received a lukewarm response as most of the people preferred to stay indoors on the first day in various parts of the city.During a random survey, it was found that only two of around 12 shops were open from 7 am to 11 am in Phase 7, whereas in Phase 3B2, which generally remains abuzz with people during normal days, only chemist shops were open.However, apart from grocery and chemists shops, hardware, cycle repair, ready-made garments shops were found open in Phase 11, 10, 7, 3B2 and 5.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said they had been receiving demands for opening of non-essential shops. He said the state government had decided to relax curfew for four hours on a rotational basis. The idea was to given some respite to public and shopkeepers. He said the shops would open on odd-even basis.Residents and shopkeepers demanded that the state government should change the relaxation timings from 9 am to 2 pm. They said under the current timings (7 am to 11 am), it was too early for people to reach shops to buy clothes or get their electronic items repaired.Manmohan, a resident of Phase 7, said he wanted to purchase clothes for his grandson, but could not go due to the odd relaxation timings.Sarabjit Singh, general secretary, Mohali Beopal Mandal, said the government should review the decision on timings. He said people would come to the market only if the timings were changed to 9 am to 2 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lukewarm-response-to-curfew-relaxation-79172
02-05-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula marked orange zone||In what could pave way for partial relaxations in the lockdown measures in the district after May 3, Panchkula has been marked as an orange zone in a latest list released by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Of the total 22 districts in Haryana, two have been put in the red zone, while the remaining ones are in the orange and green zones.Fresh guidelinesAs per the new guidelines issued by the Haryana Government, approval for industrial units, commercial establishments and construction projects to operate in Panchkula will be granted on the basis of development block/town or zone.“If the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the last 28 days in any block/town or zone reaches 10, then no industrial unit, except essential goods and services, will be allowed to operate,” the guidelines said.OPD services to resume from May 4The district Health Department said that the OPD services would resume at Saket Hospital, Sector 1, from Monday (May 4).Patients can register themselves between 8 am and 10 am and their treatment hours will be between 8 am and 2 pm. OPD services were stopped in the district in view of the nationwide lockdown. Only emergency medical services were being provided.As many as 12 vans as mobile OPDs and dispensaries for health-related problems and distribution of medicines are already operational.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, said: “OPD services for patients with psychiatric problems and and skin diseases will be operational on Mondays and Thursdays. Orthopedicians will render services on Tuesdays and Fridays and oncologists only on Tuesdays. Surgeons will be available on Wednesdays and Saturdays.”Schools, colleges, gyms, malls to remain closedWhile extending the lockdown for two more weeks, the Central Government on Friday made it clear that schools, colleges, coaching institutions, hotels, restaurants, cinema halls, malls and gyms will continue to remain closed. Social, political, cultural and other kinds of gathering, places of worship are also prohibited till further notice.Aarogya Setu app for containment zonesThe district administration may ask residents living in Sector 12 and Sector 15, both defined as containment zones, to download Aarogya Setu app as per the new guidelines. “The local authority will ensure 100 per cent coverage of Aarogya Setu app among residents of the containment zone,” it said.Of the total 18 cases reported so far from the district, 17 patients have been cured and discharged. Now, Panchkula has only one active Covid positive patient, who is undergoing treatment at the Sector 6 Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-marked-orange-zone-79171
02-05-2020||Kharar||Minister distributes ration at Batta village||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-distributes-ration-at-batta-village-79155
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration issues advisory on PCPNDT Act||The UT Administration today issued an advisory regarding implementation of the PCPNDT Act. To comply with the Centre’s notification, all centres registered under the PCPNDT Act are directed to ensure that all its provisions are followed and all reports, records mandatory to be maintained/prepared as per the law with due sincerity.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-issues-advisory-on-pcpndt-act-79151
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||100 units of blood collected||As many as 100 units of blood were collected at a donation camp organised by advocate Amarjeet Singh Gujral and his wife Ravinder Kaur Gujral, councillor from Ward 15 here.The camp was organised at Shaheed Udham Singh Bhawan, Sector 44. Among others, 38 police personnel, including DSP SPS Sondhi, donated blood. Mayor Raj Bala Malik, SSP Nilambri Jagadale, Director, Food and Supplies, Tejdeep Saini, were present. The camp was held under the supervision of a team of doctors and other medical staff from the PGIMER.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-units-of-blood-collected-79150
02-05-2020||Mohali||Akal Ashram Colony residents rue shortage of drinking water||Residents of Akal Ashram Colony in Sector 77, near the district administration complex here, are facing a shortage of safe drinking water for the past 10 days.Due to the curfew restriction, they have been unable to meet any official concerned about the problem.Colony residents, including Jaspal Singh Negi, Ravinder Singh Sohal, Surjit Kaur Kalra and others, said they had been fetching water from taps in Sri Harkrishan Sahib Charitable Eye Hospital, Sohana, and the Samadhi of Bhagat Asa Ram. However, GMADA and water supply officials are playing blame games.Residents said due to lack of coordination between the Water Supply Department and GMADA officials, they had been facing the problem since the time the colony was established. They said the problem worsened during the summer months. They said a few houses were using submersible pumps and many houses had taps, but their water was unsafe for drinking and could only be used only for washing bathrooms or utensils.Residents said earlier, they were supplied water by the Water Supply Department and in January this year, the responsibility was handed over to GMADA. However, officials concerned say the charge of supplying water was not handed over to GMADA.Residents said streetlights in their area were also non-functioning and the condition of roads was also bad.They say they had informed the Cabinet Minister, Deputy Commissioner and others about the problem in writing and in person, but to no avail.GMADA XEN Pankaj Mehmi clarified that the Water Supply Department did not hand over the charge to GMADA. Area JE Ravinder Singh has written to GMADA in this regard and also submitted a field survey report, but the issue was yet to be settled. He said GMADA was supplying water, but the pipeline in the colony was old and could not bear the pressure, thus, causing leakage at various places.Meanwhile, Water Supply Department XEN Sahil Sharma said supplying water was the responsibility of GMADA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/akal-ashram-colony-residents-rue-shortage-of-drinking-water-79149
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Won’t regret dying in bid to save others, says ASI||Everyone in the city wants to avoid roads leading to the Covid-19 “affected pockets”. However, for UT police personnel, these areas are their battleground.ASI Hushinder Kumar (49) is among the policemen on duty in one of the pockets — Sector 30-B, which has witnessed the second highest number of cases in the city after Bapu Dham Colony.Asked about the risk involved in patrolling the area, he says: “I won’t regret if I die saving the lives of several others.”He says people are wise enough not to step out of their houses. However, there are still many who don’t understand the need for staying indoors and social distancing. “I have a personal protective equipment kit with me, which keeps me protected when I patrol the area,” he says.His duty starts around 8 am and he stays on his toes till 10 pm. “Besides patrolling, I have to make sure that residents get essentials and medicines. Everyone has my phone number and they call me when needed. I leave only after ensuring that residents don’t need anything more,” he says.On returning home, Hushinder maintains a distance from his family. “After reaching home, the first thing I do is remove my uniform and take a bath. These days, I sleep in a separate room as my family’s safety is important to me,” he adds.Hushinder says though his family is worried about his safety, they also encourage him to prioritise his work and serve society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wont-regret-dying-in-bid-to-save-others-says-asi-79146
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Home quarantine for those with mild signs||The UT Administration will make arrangements for home-quarantine of those who would like to stay at home instead of availing of hospital facilities, provided they have the infrastructure for physical distancing at home.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), said it would cover only cases with no symptom or mild symptoms of Covid-19. During the daily review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore stressed the need for providing routine services for regular patients of TB and vaccines for children, which might have been disturbed during the curfew period.Doctors of various medical institutions expressed apprehension regarding patients from other states coming to Chandigarh for emergency care without prior checking for Covid-19. The Administrator directed the Principal Secretary (Health) to prepare a list of such cases so that the matter could be taken up with neighbouring states.Meanwhile, the Principal Secretary (Health) denied rumours about sealing of some other areas in Chandigarh. He clarified that only six affected pockets had been sealed — part of Bapu Dham Colony; part of Sector 30-B; Kacchi Colony, Dhanas; part of Shastri Nagar; part of Sector 38; and part of Sector 52. However, he said only a few adjoining houses had been cordoned off in Sector 15-A from where a Covid positive case was reported today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/home-quarantine-for-those-with-mild-signs-79115
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Patrolling up in affected pockets||The UT police have increased patrolling in the “affected pockets”, especially Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, that has witnessed the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the city.The police said with the rise in the number of Covid cases, they had further intensified patrolling to ensure that people did not venture out of their houses.Patrolling in Bapu Dham Colony has been intensified and a close watch is being kept to ensure people do not violate the curfew orders.Police officials said police personnel who had been patrolling on foot inside the “affected area” in Sector 30, were today provided a motorcycle to ensure effective patrolling. “The motorcycle will help in effective patrolling as police personnel can easily check all parts in that area,” said a police official.The police said a part of Sector 15-A was also sealed after a positive case of a 67-year-old man was reported from there and patrolling was stepped up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patrolling-up-in-affected-pockets-79102
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 214% spike in cases in a week||In just a week, the city has witnessed a rise of 214 per cent in Covid-19 positive cases, with a majority of these surfacing in Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30-B.Till April 24, the tally of Covid-19 positive cases stood at 28. Now, the figure stands at 88. Of the 60 cases reported in the past week, at least 60 per cent cases (37) have been reported from Bapu Dham Colony.The case of a 30-year-old ward attendant from the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, who belonged to Bapu Dham Colony, reported on April 24 changed the dynamics of the city regarding Covid-19.After the first case surfaced from Bapu Dham Colony, at least 411 contacts were traced and quarantined.A total of 348 persons from Sector 30 have also been traced and put under home-quarantine till now. Of them, 177 are yet to complete the quarantine period while a few have tested positive for Covid.The problemOne-third of the city population resides in colonies or peripheral areas such as Mauli Jagran, Dhanas, Ram Darbar and Bapu Dham. Houses in these colonies are closely packed.Lockdown orders were violated in the colonies due to which a single positive case formed a large chain of contacts. The first case from Bapu Dham Colony had attended an anniversary party, a gathering that included hundreds, while he was incubating infection. Now, 37 cases have been reported from Bapu Dham Colony, which accounts for 40 per cent of the total cases in the city.Jafer Khan, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, said: “In my area, people form groups and stand on roads. They rush inside their homes as soon as the police arrive. Children are also going to parks to play.”Officials hassledInspector Narinder Singh, who is stationed at Sector 26, said: “It is hard to make people understand. They think what harm an invisible thing can do to them. We keep strict vigil, sometimes even till 2 am.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-214-spike-in-cases-in-a-week-79087
02-05-2020||Mohali||6 more test positive in Mohali, tally 92||Six more Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the district today, taking the tally to 92. Five Sikh pilgrims, who had returned from Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded, and a person from Jawaharpur village tested positive for the virus.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said a total of 21 Sikh pilgrims, including one from Ambala, who had arrived in the district on April 28, had tested positive for the disease. He said these pilgrims were among 39 Sikh pilgrims and two students from Kota who had been quarantined at a centre in Sector 70. He said the 21 Sikh pilgrims had been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He said reports of 11 samples were awaited. Dayalan said the person who tested positive from Jawaharpur village is the son of Malkit Singh, who was in quarantine after his reports came negative, taking the tally to 46 in the village. He said of these, 28 were active cases, while 18 patients had recovered and were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital.The DC said a total of 92 persons had tested positive for the disease in the district. While there were 60 active cases, 30 patients had been cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-more-test-positive-in-mohali-tally-92-79086
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration may lift curfew||After being “home-bound” for over 40 days, city residents can breathe easy beginning May 4 with the UT Administration deliberating on certain relaxations, including lifting the curfew and reconsidering its decision of declaring the entire city as a containment zone.Also read:Sources said the Administration could consider lifting of curfew after the end of the second phase of the lockdown and the affected areas could be declared as containment zones instead of the entire city.However, the Central Government today extended the lockdown in the entire country by another two weeks from May 4.Follow latest updates on coronavirus hereThe sources said the decision on complete lifting of the curfew would be taken only after thorough discussion within a day or two.“The Administration is actively considering declaring only the affected areas as containment zones instead of the entire city so that some relaxations can be given to residents,” the sources said, adding that the Administration was also mulling over opening of non-essential shops in the non-containment zones.The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Thursday retained Chandigarh in the new list of 130 hotspot (red zone) districts. A total of 88 Covid positive cases have been reported from the city so far. Earlier, the UT was declared as a hotspot district by the Centre on April 15. The city was declared as a “containment” zone on April 18 by the Administration to speed up screening and testing of suspected cases to prevent further spread of the virus.“The entire city is now a red zone and is under a single containment pocket. The MHA has decided what can be allowed within the red zone in the ‘non-containment’ area. Only if the Administration decides to redraw/restrict containment area, some exemptions will flow. Await decision by Monday,” tweeted UT Adviser Manoj Parida.In another tweet, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore stated: “MHA directions are for 2 weeks of lockdown from May 4. As Chandigarh is already on the curfew will May 3, we will decide regarding the curfew/lockdown in a day or so.” Apart from part of Bapu Dham Colony, part of Sector 30-B and Kacchi Colony, Dhanas; the UT Administration today sealed three more areas. Three areas are part of Shastri Nagar, part of Sector 38 and part of Sector 52.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-may-lift-curfew-79085
02-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bapu Dham — Chandigarh’s big concern||A total of 14 Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the city today, taking the tally to 88. Of the total, 12 cases were reported from Bapu Dham Colony, one from Sector 15 and one from Sector 30.Of the 12 positive cases reported from Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, here, today, eight are family contacts and four are household contacts of the already diagnosed Covid positive cases.The family contacts include a 17-year-old male, a 27-year-old female, a five-year-old male, a 30-year-old male, a nine-year-old male, a 35-year-old male, a 17-year-old male and a two-year-old male. The household contacts are two 40-year-old males, a 36-year-old female and an 18-year-old male.All positive Covid-19 cases are community contacts of the previously diagnosed cases from Bapu Dham Colony.A three-and-a-half-year-old boy from Sector 30 also tested positive. He is the family contact of the already diagnosed positive case from Sector 30. A 67-year-old male from Sector 15 also tested positive for Covid. He has eight family contacts and 13 community contacts. The source of infection is being investigated. The patient was admitted to the PGI emergency. Later, he was shifted to the advanced cardiac centre due to chest pain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bapu-dham-%E2%80%94-chandigarhs-big-concern-79084
