02-11-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 87-yr-old dies, 55 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Monday reported one more COVID-19 death, taking the toll to 227, while 55 new cases took the infection count to 14,528 in the Union Territory, according to a medical bulletin.An 87-year-old man, who tested positive for novel coronavirus, died at a private hospital in Mohali.He was suffering from hypertension and asthma, as per the bulletin.There are 593 active cases in the UT as of now, it said. Seventy-six patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 13,708.A total of 1,08,911 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 93,726 tested negative while reports of 106 samples are awaited, it stated. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-87-yr-old-dies-55-new-cases-in-chandigarh-164969
02-11-2020||---||27 fresh Covid cases reported from Mohali district||Mohali, November 2Twenty-seven new Covid cases surfaced in the Mohali district during the past 24 hours taking the tally to 12,467.Meanwhile, no death due to Covid has been reported while 57 patients have recovered from the virus.Out of 27 cases, 20 came from Mohali urban, four from Dera Bassi, one from Kurali, and two from Gharuan.As of now there are 12,467 positive Covid cases. Of these, 11,704 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospitals. As of now there are 526 active cases with 237 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/27-fresh-covid-cases-reported-from-mohali-district-164947
02-11-2020||Mohali||Sports Minister Rijiju inaugurates SAI's new Regional Centre in Zirakpur||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Monday virtually inaugurated Sports Authority of India's (SAI) new Regional Centre in Zirakpur, Punjab, which will now act as one of the main SAI centres for North India.During the event, the Sports Minister congratulated the coaches and athletes who would be training at the new centre."The northern belt of India covers a huge region, right from Jammu and Kashmir and Leh to Himachal Pradesh and we are doing a lot of development in this region with the aim of building world-class sporting facilities in India," Rijiju said in a statement.The virtual launch ceremony was attended by over 300 participants, including Punjab Sports Director DPS Kharbanda, SAI Director General Sandip Pradhan, SAI Secretary Rohit Bhardwaj, various SAI regional directors, coaches and athletes, among others. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-minister-rijiju-inaugurates-sais-new-regional-centre-in-zirakpur-164916
02-11-2020||Patiala||Punjabi University's Punjabi Computer Help Centre on verge of closure||Scarcity of funds and lack of proper teaching faculty are now affecting the functioning of various departments of Punjabi University. One such department is Punjabi Computer Help Centre, which is struggling to execute its daily work. The centre’s coordinator has written to the university Vice-Chancellor (VC) suggesting that the department should be closed.The centre, established for the promotion of computing in Punjabi in consonance with the university’s mission to promote language, is being run with a single faculty member for the past 10 years.In his letter, the centre’s co-ordinator, Dr Devinder Singh, has stated, “The university authorities have been repeatedly informed about shortage of faculty, but to no avail.”Pointing toward centre’s shortcomings, Dr Devinder stated, “The university has failed to increase faculty members at the centre. It has also failed to provide required equipment, including laptops and computers at the department for years’ altogether.”“Also, the centre’s staff has been funding its functioning as the university failed to clear small expanses. The department currently needs at least an assistant professor, a computer instructor and a Class III employee to ensure proper functioning,” Dr Devinder added.“It is not favourable to run the department in the present circumstances. The university administration also does not seem eager to run it. As such it will be right to close the department,” Dr Devinder stated.Meanwhile, the university has not yet taken any decision with regard to the letter written by Dr Devinder a month ago. Dr CP Kamboj, who is the only faculty member at the centre, said, “No decision has been taken in this regard yet.”Meanwhile, university professors requesting anonymity said there were other such departments on the campus, whose functioning was marginalised due to lack of proper faculty and funds. In some departments, students’ footfall was quite low, they added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-universitys-punjabi-computer-help-centre-on-verge-of-closure-164475
02-11-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||SC scholarship scheme launched in Fatehgarh Sahib||Deputy Commissioner (DC) Amrit Kaur Gill launched Dr BR Ambedkar SC Scholarship Scheme of the state government in the district by distributing certificates among five students.Addressing gathering on the occasion, the DC said to provide free higher education to students belonging to the SC category, the state government had initiated the scheme. It would enable them to progress like other sections of society, the DC added.“No deserving SC student will be deprived of benefits of this scheme. Students will not have to make any payment to government/private educational institutions under the scheme. The state government will give direct subsidy. Students will also get monthly allowance for purchasing books and uniforms,” the DC said.The DC directed officials of the Education Department and Social Justice, Empowerment and Minorities Department to publicise the scheme at the grass-root level in the district so that all eligible students benefit from it. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sc-scholarship-scheme-launched-in-fatehgarh-sahib-164476
02-11-2020||---||Staff should wear GPS watches: CRAWFED||Chandigarh, November 1The Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) today said MC employees should wear GPS watches without any fear and should not raise unnecessary issues in this regard.“These watches are already in use in three-four cities of India. The system is running successfully and giving desired results. So the Municipal Corporation staff of Chandigarh should also wear these watches without any fear or without raising unnecessary issues,” said Surinder Sharma, vice-chairman of CRAWFED, at its executive committee meeting held today at Gandhi Bhawan, Sector 16.The federation slammed the MC and the administration for various issues pending for a long time. Its chairman Hitesh Puri was forced to say, “If our federation fails to work as a pressure group and our issues are not resolved, we will close it.” The meeting was attended by the representatives of RWAs.Rajat Malhotra, general secretary, CRAWFED, urged MP Kirron Kher and Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood for their intervention in resolving the issues facing dwellers of CHB schemes by giving them one-time general amnesty on the pattern of “Amnesty Scheme for regularisation of unauthorised construction in plotted area” launched by the Municipal Corporation of Delhi in 1999.Major (retd) DP Singh, patron, CRAWFED, said vendors were selling vegetables and fruits much above the rates fixed by the Market Committee.Hitesh Puri said he had already appealed to the Administrator and the MC Commissioner that they should not hike water tariff manifold and people did not want 24-hour water supply at such high rates.Puri also raised the issue of shifting of garbage dump from Dadu Majra. He said thousands of people living near the dump were falling sick. He said there was no need to privatise the Chandigarh Electricity Department as it was already running in profits and residents were satisfied with the power supply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/staff-should-wear-gps-watches-crawfed-164477
02-11-2020||---||11 scientists of Panjab University in top world rankings||Chandigarh, November 1Eleven scientists from Panjab University have adorned the most coveted list of ‘World Ranking of Top 2% Scientists’ in the Indian subcontinent.The subject-wise analysis was meticulously conducted by a team of scientists at the Stanford University, USA, led by Dr John PA Ioannidis. The database has just been published in one of the highly rated journals, PLOS Biology. The scientists of Stanford University have created a database of more than 100,000 top scientists of the world on the basis of standardised citation indicators such as information on citations, H-index, co-authorship and a composite indicator.All scientists were classified into 22 scientific fields and 176 sub-fields. For analyses of the citations and the composite indicators, SCOPUS data provided by Elsevier was used with data freeze as on May 6.The Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, expressed his felicitations for the scientists for bringing laurels to the PU and Prof VK Sinha, Dean Research, extended his heartiest congratulations to all for their commendable work which got due recognition through this study.Those on the coveted list||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-scientists-of-panjab-university-in-top-world-rankings-164478
02-11-2020||---||Mohali MC gets machines for cleaning choked sewers||Mohali, November 1In order to clear the chocked sewers in the city, the Municipal Corporation has bought two sewer suction-cum-jetting machines and a mini super suction machine at a cost of Rs 1. 45 crore.Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu flagged off these machines to the Phase 5 market to clear the chocked sewers.Addressing the gathering, Sidhu said now, people would not have to wait for a long time after lodging their complaints about chocked sewers. A series of development works are under way in Mohali under the dynamic leadership of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Earlier, a machine was procured with funds from his discretionary quota for the pruning of trees at a cost of Rs 35 lakh. The MC is going to purchase two more such machines, he added.Sidhu also laid the foundation stone of various development works worth Rs 1.5 crore in the city. These include laying paver blocks, installing LED lights and uplifting parks in SCL Employees Cooperative House Building Society in Sector-70 at a cost of Rs 14. 82 lakh, at Ivory Tower (Rs 3.63 lakh), at Rishi Apartments (Rs 29.76 lakh), at Darshan Vihar Society in Sector-86 (Rs 25.70 lakh), at United Cooperative Society (Rs 23.96 lakh), at Mohali Employees Cooperative Society (Rs 15.43 lakh), at Climate Vihar Society in Sector 67 (Rs 5.49 lakh), and at Riot Victims Cooperative Society (Rs 31.79 lakh).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-gets-machines-for-cleaning-choked-sewers-164479
02-11-2020||---||Vans to spread awareness on diseases in villages||Mohali, November 1The Department of Health and Family Welfare, Punjab, launched an awareness campaign on non-communicable diseases from the government dispensary in Sohana here today.Flagging off two vans, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu stated that several initiatives had been taken to improve health services to realise the dream of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to make Punjab a healthy state as well as to fight the Covid pandemic.He said as part of this awareness campaign, two special awareness vans had been fabricated. Awareness material had been displayed, along with the LED and audio-visual address system, in these vans.Balbir Singh Sidhu said these vans would reach out to different villages of Punjab to make the people aware of non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, blood pressure, heart diseases, paralysis and cancer. Blood pressure and diabetes tests would be done free of cost in these vans.He said elderly persons and patients already suffering from any non-communicable disease were at greater risk of Covid. He appealed to people of the state to make the most of this campaign and be aware of non-communicable diseases so that these could be prevented.Sidhu said he had sent special letters to patients suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes in which he had appealed to them to take all preventive measures to protect themselves and get timely treatment during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vans-to-spread-awareness-on-diseases-in-villages-164481
02-11-2020||---||5.32L children to be given polio drops in Punjab: Minister||Mohali, November 1The three-day pulse polio campaign launched by the state government will target 5.32 lakh children across the state. For this, a total of 8,436 locations have been identified.This was stated by Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu while launching the campaign by administering polio drops to children at a state-level function held at a government dispensary at Sohana village.Only high-risk areas to be coveredDue to the Covid pandemic, the campaign would cover only high-risk areas, migrant population, brick-kilns, construction sites, slums and settlements, he said.Balbir Singh Sidhu said a total of 4,180 door-to-door medical teams had been formed to make the campaign a success. As many as 559 mobile teams had also been deployed for the purpose. A total of 21,143 vaccinators and 802 supervisors had been deployed to monitor the campaign. In addition to this, 2,734 ANMs, 7,696 anganwari workers, 8,965 ASHA workers and 2,143 other workers would also contribute to make the campaign a success.Director Health Services Dr Manjeet Singh appealed to people to give full support to the Health Department.Civil Surgeon DR GB Singh, state immunization officer Dr Balwinder Kaur, district immunisation officer, Mohali, Dr Veena Jarewal, village panchayats and other health officials were also present on the occasion.Campaign kicks off at PanchkulaPanchkula: The Panchkula Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, on Sunday launched the polio campaign at an anganwadi centre in Ashiana Colony, Sector 20, by administering anti-polio drops to children. The drive is to last till November 3. "High-risk areas such as brick-kilns, industrial areas, construction sites, stone-crushing and mining areas, slums where mostly migrant population reside will be covered," she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-32l-children-to-be-given-polio-drops-in-punjab-minister-164482
02-11-2020||Naina Mishra||48 excluded from Covishield trials||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1Of 197 volunteers screened for the ongoing trial of the Covishield vaccine at the PGI here, 48 volunteers have been excluded.Twenty volunteers have developed antibodies against the virus, implying that the IgG seropositivity to Covid-19 was found among 10 per cent volunteers enrolled for the trials. Besides, 18 volunteers were excluded after they expressed unwillingness to proceed with the trials. Six volunteers tested positive for Covid and two were found to be alcohol-dependent.The institute has vaccinated 149 volunteers with Covishield till now, of which 103 will be assessed for immunogenicity. The remaining volunteers have been included in the safety cohort.‘Results Promising’The results of Covishield appear promising without major side effects.The volunteers will be kept under observation for six months. —Prof Jagat Ram, Director of PGI47 volunteers to be assessed for T cellsThe immunogenicity of the vaccine is checked in two ways – antibody response provoked in the human body after administering the vaccine and the T cell response. A total of 47 volunteers, of the immunogenicity cohort, will be checked for the cell-mediated immunity (T cell).The T cells play an important role in the immune response to viral infections. Some T cells are responsible for killing viruses inside infected cells.The antibody levels of the volunteers will be checked before administering the vaccine and the increase in antibodies thereafter. This study will assess both the quantity and quality of antibodies found in the participants’ blood samples. The quality of an antibody is its ability to neutralise virus so that it cannot infect cells when initially contracted.Antibodies will be checked four timesThe quality and quantity of antibodies among the volunteers will be assessed four times throughout the vaccine trial i.e. at the beginning of the trial, 28 days after each dose of vaccine is given and six months after the trial. The ratio of average of antibody titers against specific S protein of Covid produced by the Covishield vaccine (developed by Serum Institute of India) and ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 (developed by University of Oxford) 28 days after the second vaccination will be evaluated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/48-excluded-from-covishield-trials-164483
02-11-2020||Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi residents reel under 7-hour power cut||Residents complained of a seven-hour power cut in several areas here today. Bhagat Singh Nagar, Shakti Nagar, Balaji Nagar, College Colony, banks and eateries near the highway remained affected.Being Sunday, most of the residents were at home today and they had to endure a tough time without electricity. Residents said the seven-hour cut exhausted power backups. “Power cuts are frequent in Dera Bassi. Today, there was no power for close to seven hours, which made life miserable,” said Vikas Narang, a resident of Shakti Nagar. Day-to-day business was also affected as there was no power in shops. “If there is no power supply, our business gets affected,” said Ram Charan, an owner of an eatery in the main market.PSPCL official Gaganpreet Singh said: “Some repair work was going on in the area. Some people were reluctant to install new poles in the area due to which the four-hour repair work got delayed”.Officials said there was no plan to snap power supply in the coming days. Whenever repair work had to be done, supply had to be cut. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-residents-reel-under-7-hour-power-cut-164485
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||OPDs to resume at PGI, GMCH, Sector 32, today||Two tertiary care hospitals of the city — the PGI, Sector 12, and the GMCH, Sector 32, — are all set to open OPDs from Monday. Patients will be given appointment in both hospitals through tele-consultation only. However, the PGI has planned to screen patients for Covid-19 before sending them to OPDs directly.Dr Naveen Pandey, Deputy Medical Superintendent of the OPD at the PGI, said: “A team of healthcare workers will be stationed at the screening area near the entrance. Doctors will stamp the appointment card with red and green colours. Those screened negative will be stamped with green colour and sent to their respective OPDs. Patients found symptomatic for coronavirus through interview questions will be stamped red and sent for Covid testing near the emergency block.”The timings for the registration for tele-consultation at the PGI will be from 8 am to 9.30 am. The general surgery, internal medicine, paediatric medicine, obstetrics and gynaecology and ophthalmology departments will start daily OPDs at the PGI.Dr Pandey said: “Patients will be called in hourly slots as mentioned in their appointment cards. One patient will be allowed with one attendant only. They will be seated in the waiting area and will be sent to their respective OPDs in batches of 10. There is only one entrance and one exit for patients. There will be a separate entry for staff.”The departments for which the service will be restored include are pulmonary medicine, radiotherapy, paediatrics, obstetrics & gynaecology and psychiatry.The hospital authorities have decided to adopt the PGI model - appointment through tele-consultation - for resuming the OPD services.Tele-consultation will continue to remain the initial point of contact of patients and doctors at both hospitals. Patients will be evaluated first through tele-consultation. Only those requiring further evaluation and examination will be called to the OPD by appointment. — TNSRegistration timings at PGIThe timings for the registration for tele-consultation at the PGI will be from 8 am to 9.30 am. The general surgery, internal medicine, paediatric medicine, obstetrics and gynaecology and ophthalmology departments will start daily OPDs at the PGI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/opds-to-resume-at-pgi-gmch-sector-32-today-164487
02-11-2020||---||Day 1: 700 enjoy boat, cruise rides at Sukhna||Chandigarh, November 1Nearly 700 people enjoyed boat and cruise rides at Sukhna Lake on the first day of reopening of the activity here today. The boating was closed due to the lockdown earlier and has been reopened after seven months. CITCO earned a revenue of about Rs1.64 lakh today.The boats were operated at 50 per cent capacity. In a boat, which has a capacity of four, two persons were allowed. While in the 24-seater cruise, 14 people and in the 15-seater cruise, seven persons were allowed to ensure social distancing.“Being the first day, it was a good start even though the footfall was half of what we get on weekends during normal times,” said Vineet Chopra, DGM, Lake and Parkview Hotel.CITCO had made arrangements for following SOPs.The Administration has been losing out on revenue, almost Rs50 lakh a month due to the closure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-1-700-enjoy-boat-cruise-rides-at-sukhna-164490
02-11-2020||---||Six days on, no clue to three abducted sisters||Panchkula, November 1Six days have passed but the police have failed to get any clue to the abduction of three sisters, aged two, four and six, from a park in Sector 6 on October 26 here.The local police today made an appeal to the media to help them find the girls.In CCTV footage, an unidentified woman is seen walking while carrying the youngest of the three girls, identified as Saroj, and Saloni (4) and Sonakshi (6) were following them.The PRO to Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), in a press note, said, “If anybody has information related to the three girls abducted from a park in Sector 6, then they should immediately contact on following numbers – 8146630014, 8146630063, 0172-2569200 or 100.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-days-on-no-clue-to-three-abducted-sisters-164491
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Hit by  motorcycle, cyclist dies||PGI bids farewell to three profsChandigarh: Prof Anil Bhansali, Prof Rakesh Kochhar and Prof Savita Kumari were given a warm send-off on their superannuation at a function at the PGI on Saturday. Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said: "All three have been role models and exemplary professionals by being astute clinicians and passionate care-givers. Their compassion, proactiveness and 'never say no' approach deserve a special mention, which made them doctors par excellence". TNSTruck, car collideDera Bassi: The police had a tough time regulating traffic on the Dera Bassi-Ambala road after a truck and a car collided head-on near Adarsh Nagar. The occupants of the car, including the driver, had a narrow escape. Eyewitnesses said the accident happened while a truck was overtaking another.The police took the two drivers to the police station. TNSRation kits distributedChandigarh: The 11th Monthly Ration Distribution Programme was organised by the Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation wherein one-month ration kits were given to 45 widows on their doorstep. The programme, started by the president of the foundation, Sanjay Tandon, is held on the first Sunday of every month. The first three programmes from January to March were held at Khuda Ali Sher village where ration kits were provided to widows. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-motorcycle-cyclist-dies-164492
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 61 infections||The city recorded 61 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the infection tally to 14,476. Now, 618 cases are active in the city. As many as 81 patients recovered today, taking the tally of cured patients to 13,632. The city has witnessed 226 deaths so far. A total of 836 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-61-infections-164493
02-11-2020||Open House||Don’t worry, the MC move is only to check shirkers||Use CCTVs, WhatsApp to check locationChandigarh has already an established network of CCTVs. All crossroad junctions have the live footage. Visual clips can be collected daily by the supervising authorities. The mobile GPS is more handy and trustworthy. Complainants can use these alternate systems to mark attendance. Instructions can be passed on by SMS or emails. Sector-wise WhatsApp group of workers with video attendance is a good solution. The UT MC has to be a bit more accommodative and prudent.Rajpartap Singh, ZirakpurTalks across the table can helpThe assertion of sanitation workers that watches are not good for their health and give wrong locations seems incorrect. The best way out is medical test for those complaining of health issues. The MC can also conduct random tests for checking location of workers wearing watches. The authorities should hold talks with sanitation workers across the table on the two issues. Ensure that workers wear watches so that the authorities have a better control over them.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhDon’t tighten the noose on workersTightening the noose on employees to an extent that they suffocate isn’t fair at all. Full time watch on employees’ activities will certainly frustrate them resulting in decline in efficiency. Senior officials of the MC should visit various areas daily in the city to check the ongoing work. Unnecessary expenditure should not be incurred on providing such gadgets. Rather, this money should be used for honing skills of workers and for their welfare.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliSupport MC’s initiativeResidents are fed up of priva te garbage collectors as they charge arbitrarily from each floor, are absent frequently and allow stray dogs to trail them by feeding waste. They are also arrogant because of a strong coterie. We must support the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, but their method should include collection from bins. Sanitation workers should not expect residents to come and dispose of garbage in vehicles. Garbage can be collected on alternate days. Payment for garbage collection can be added in water bills for efficient management.Col PS Gill (retd), ChandigarhStep taken without creating awarenessThough the Chandigarh MC’s move of introducing GPS-enabled watches for the field staff is laudable, the authorities have imposed it without creating awareness and apprising union leaders and workers of its benefits. At this stage, withdrawing it will not be in the interest of the MC as well as residents. The MC should start this venture in one sector where resistance from workers may be manageable. RWAs should also be consulted before asking workers to wear watches.BS Dhillon, MohaliSanitation poor in all sectorsSanitation workers need GPS enabled watches as they do nothing rather than passing time while sitting together. The sanitation of every sector is in poor condition. Workers should be hired on contract basis. The MC should suspend workers if they don’t join duty. There are many unemployed, who can be given job.Opinder Kaur Sekhon ChandigarhImplement decision to wear watches in totoThe menace of ghost employees/absenteeism is at its peak, which affects delivery of services and increases the cost of governance. Wearing GPS-enabled watches should be compulsory for all sanitation employees. It will ensure judicious use of taxpayers money. Change is always resisted, but the MCC should ensure that this decision is implemented in toto without entertaining any lame excuses.KC Rana, ChandigarhCleanliness will improve in cityResidents often complain about sanitation workers absence from duty. Watches will definitely help MC officials check their whereabouts. The sanitation staff will attend their duty on time if they wear watches. It will improve cleanliness in the city. When Municipal Commissioner and other staff can wear watches then what is the problem with sanitation workers. Their union should allow the field staff to wear watches. If there is any issue, it can be resolved amicably by taking officials concerned into confidence.Tarlok Singh, ChandigarhCity Beautiful left to stinkThe MC’s move of making the sanitation staff wear watches has backfired. The city was left to stink during workers’ protest. The reason behind refusal to wear GPS-enabled watches does not hold any water. The present situation could be avoided if Mayor could call the shots and satisfy city’s electorate. The Municipal Commissioner wants every employee on MC’s pay roll to do the assigned duty.SC Luthra, ChandigarhWill increase workers’ efficiencySmart watches are to increase efficiency and punctuality in the work field. So, there should be no problem in wearing GPS-enabled watches. Sanitation workers should not oppose the move rather they should appreciate and cooperate with the Municipal Corporation to make the city cleaner.S Kapil, ChandigarhWatches will only check absenteesIt is unfair on the part of workers to refuse to wear GPS-enabled watches in the name of health issues. There is a concrete proof that these watches are not harmful for health as these are already worn by the Municipal Commissioner and other staff. Sanitation workers need to understand that watches are only to check shirkers/absentees, who should be rightly punished for dereliction of their duty. The ones who are doing their duty with honesty and dedication need not worry.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhWill check wastage of man hoursProviding smart watches by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation to its sanitation staff is undoubtedly an appreciable step. Watches will help the MC in effectively supervising sanitation workers and curtail wastage of man hours.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliDon’t inconvenience residentsTo keep a tab on MC sanitation workers and bring transparency in the system, GPS enabled watches must be worn by the field staff. If watches are faulty, showing wrong locations or posing any health problems to workers, these can be rechecked and replaced. Non-performance of duty, showing anger by holding protests and strike and inconveniencing residents is not a good move amid the ongoing pandemic.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliConsider demands of waste collectorsThe UT Municipal Corporation should consider demands of waste collectors because it is not advisable to allow piling up of garbage in the city even for one day. Waste collectors always try to keep the city clean. When Covid-19 had spreading and every resident stayed indoors, they worked continuously even during that period. Their job is health hazard prone. Still they do their duty sincerely. So, their genuine demands must be taken up by the UT authorities.MR Bhateja, NayagaonPolitics ruined civic body’s moveThe GPS-enabled watches would have undertaken multiple tasks and ensured judicious use of the MC funds. The manner in which the Congress and the BJP supported sanitation workers clearly establishes the fact that the forthcoming MC elections and the huge vote bank played a crucial role. Sanitation workers do not undertake their assignments. They want salaries without doing their duty. Hence, all this is hullabaloo. The MC Commissioner needs to take a tough stand on the matter.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurMonetary benefits to improve efficiencyGPS-enabled watch is not suitable for sanitation worker. There should be proper attendance system for these employees. An emergency number can be provided for availing sanitation services in case of unavailability. The MC can give small monetary benefits according worker’s performance to improve his/her efficiency.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhMC, workers should negotiateMost city residents were affected by sanitation workers’ protest. Many times, the authorities mark workers absent on residents’ complaint. They should check location of workers physically before marking him/her absent. All genuine facilities should be provided to workers and they should be treated properly. A mediator can negotiate between the MC and workers to solve the issue of wearing watches and related health problems.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliDevelop waste management appThe UT Municipal Corporation must instal GPS trackers in garbage collection vehicles as research about health concerns in wearable technology is still going on. A waste management app should be developed to monitor and provide updates about garbage lifting, nearest available bin and shortest route to the bin. It can help redress grievances by taking and uploading pictures of non-lifted or scattered waste in the city.Komal Singh, ChandigarhWatches will promote sincerityGPS watches are useful. We always notice garbage lying in streets and on roads. If city is garbage free there will be more tourism activities, which will increase income of the UT Administration and the MC. Wearing GPS-enabled watches will make sanitation workers sincere in their job.Akshar Kumar Singla, PunjabStick to your guns MCThere is no denying that the claim of MC sanitation staff, currently up in arms against the authorities for the introduction of GPS-enabled watches, is bereft of any logical reasoning. The decision came in the wake of a surfeit residents’ complaints asserting workers were rarely seen at their designated location of work. The staff asserted that watches do not show their right location of work, besides being a health hazard, a claim rubbished by the Municipal Commissioner. The MC should go ahead with its decision to introduce the GPS-enabled watches.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhWorkers’ freedom, not watches is issueThe issue of wearing GPS-enabled watches by the sanitation staff has caused lot of resentment among employees. Watches showing wrong location can be easily verified and checked by the authorities concerned. Normally, GPS-enabled instruments give correct location. Watches can be repaired if giving a wrong location. It appears that sanitation workers want more freedom as watches will create a problem for them by showing their exact location. The matter can be sorted out with positive dialogue between the MC and sanitation workers. It’s a step towards Digital India.Wg Cmdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliNo sir, this is not the wayIf I had been an employee of the Chandigarh MC, I would also have protested against wearing a GPS-enabled watch. Who wants to be snooped around – be it under on any pretext – marking their online attendance or checking their location etc? No sir, this is not the way. Officials may wear it, but you have to understand the psyche of Class IV employees. They will be defensive when cornered. Their dignity is also hurt. So, instead of treating employees like ‘cattle’, let’s build trust and a good work culture in them. It is possible if senior officials of the MC set an example of sincerity and uprightness and spend time with the sanitation staff.Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttGive incentive for wearing watchChange is always challenging and difficult to implement. So, introduction of GPS-enabled watches is no exception. You need a leader, who can implement it gradually and not abruptly. Psychology of sanitary workers should be studied. Some incentives can be given to motivate workers to wear watches.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhA pat on the back goes a long waySafai karamcharis are required to wear GPS watches so that their movements can be traced minute to minute. Why do we try to discipline the lowest cadre of the government service as if seniors and officers are ‘doodh ke dhule’? We all are human beings. Let the human touch and feeling not get eroded. If you want to make us machines employ robots. A pat on the back carries a person long way and constant watch betrays life and promotes hatred. GPS can be faulty as often on my smart phone my location is shown in Uttrakhand while I live in Mohali.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliWear watches on trial basisIt is good news that sanitation workers have ended their strike.It is always difficult to accept and implement a change. The MC has hastened to implement wearing of GPS watched mandatory. Sanitary workers union should have been taken into confidence before taking this step. The MC and workers should not adopt confrontation attitude. First, worker should wear GPS watches on trial basis. If results are good, then the MC can make GPS watches mandatory for the field staff.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaA kind of modern slaveryIncorporation of GPS-enabled watches for sanitation workers is a kind of modern slavery. This would invade privacy of employees, who are not aware about modern gadgets.Some garbage collectors alleged that they faced some health issues like vomiting and swollen wrists after wearing these watches. Considering privacy, health and dignity of the labour class the higher authorities should take some other measures to keep a check on the performance of workers instead of providing watches.Nakhpreet Kaur, Sangholeducate staff about its benefitsAfter introduction of GPS-enabled watches for sanitation workers, cleaning in the city has improved. Now, workers don’t have to assemble and wait for their supervisors for attendance. But, a new scheme should have a trial and the staff should be educated about its benefits before implementation. MC officials must address problems faced by the field staff, give incentive to those working hard and employ a few ex-servicemen as supervisors so that the City Beautiful remains one of the cleanest cities in the country.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhProve ill-effects of wearing watchesAbsenteeism is a worst kind of indiscipline spread in all departments. This menace should be checked to save thousands of man hours lost every year. The protest against watches is just an excuse. No health hazards are reported by any athletes, who wear similar gadgets, while playing or practicing. A tough stand should be taken against any such demand. The field staff should prove the ill-effects of watches if any.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhTake advice from health authoritiesIt is no secret that sanitation workers often skip their duties, which creates problems for residents. Providing GPS-enabled watches to the sanitation staff to check their location and mark e-attendance is a good move. An advice on wearing watches and its adverse effects can be sought from the health authorities. If the MC gets a green signal only then the sanitation staff should be asked to wear watches.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliIt’s time to check appeasementThe stand to the demand of sanitary workers to withdraw GPS-enabled watches is a blunt no to be fair to public purse and convenience. In our democratic set up, voters don’t decide issues. They decide who will decide issues. This big gap is exploited and politics creeps into purely administrative matters. Sadly, discipline is considered antithetical to democracy. It’s time to check appeasement, the bane of vote-bank democracy. Striking work, is striking the country. Everybody getting paid out of the public purse must prove worthy for employment.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaImbibe exemplary work cultureOwing to last week’s strike of sanitation workers, residents plunged into a filthy environment as garbage remained piled up on road sides across the city. The main demand of sanitation workers was withdrawal of GPS-enabled watches. Why the lowest strata of employees are made victims of indiscipline? Why not bureaucrats, who control city’s administration? There is a need to imbibe the spirit of exemplary work culture, discipline, dedication, honesty and bring awareness among residents. But, certainly not GPS-enabled watches, which create untrustworthiness and need to be dispensed with.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONThe condition of roads in the tricity is pitiable, which poses a danger to motorists. The Chandigarh MC has been citing fund crunch for potholed roads. The situation is the same in neighbouring towns, including Panchkula, Mohali, Kharar, Zirakpur and Dera Bassi. What do you think is lacking and what needs to be done to ensure a smooth ride for commuters?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-worry-the-mc-move-is-only-to-check-shirkers-164494
02-11-2020||Mohali||61 new cases, no death in Mohali||The district saw 61 new Covid-19 cases during the past 24 hours, taking the case tally to 12,440. No fresh fatality was reported.Of the 61 positive cases, 48 were reported from Mohali (urban), nine from Kharar, one each from Dhakoli and Kurali, and two from Gharuan. Meanwhile, 78 more patients were cured of the disease. The district has so far witnessed 12,440 positive cases and 11,647 patients have been cured. There are 556 active cases. A total of 237 people have died of the virus in the district. — TNS23 new cases, 1 death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported 23 fresh coronavirus cases today, taking the tally to 7,173.Among the fresh cases, four were from Sector 7, three from Pinjore and Sector 12, two from the MDC, Sector 6 and one each from Bhainsa Tibba, Sector 12-A, Sector 2, Sector 20, Sector 21, Sector 24, Sector 25, Sector 26, Sector 27, Sector 4 and Sector 6.The district also witnessed one Covid death.A 51-year-old man from Pinjore, who did not have any comorbidity, succumbed to the virus. The Covid toll now stands at 114. While 6,849 patients have been cured so far, 210 cases are still active.The recovery rate of the district is 95.48 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/61-new-cases-no-death-in-mohali-164495
02-11-2020||Panchkula||Thieves decamp with jewellery worth Rs 25 lakh||Unidentified thieves reportedly decamped with jewellery worth about Rs25 lakh from a Sector 26 house last evening. The police said the family was away when the burglary took place.The victim, Trilochan Sharma, told the police that they had left home around 6 pm and returned by 9.30 pm.“After returning, we found all almirahs and lockers broken. There were three silver bangles, weighing 150 gm, a gold chain, a bracelet, two gold bangles, six pairs of earrings, a ring, a nose pin, three pairs of silver anklets and at least 10 silver coins,” the complainant said.He said his daughter’s marriage was scheduled for December 10 and they had kept the jewellery and other precious items at the house for the purpose. The family informed the police. An FIR was registered under Sections 380 and 457 of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station.“Based on a written complaint, we have registered an FIR. We are checking the CCTV footage of cameras installed in the area to trace the suspects,” a police official said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-decamp-with-jewellery-worth-rs-25-lakh-164498
02-11-2020||Naina Mishra||Diabetics gained from lockdown: Study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 1Contrary to popular belief that the lockdown has an adverse influence on lifestyle, contributing to weight gain, a group of PGI doctors has observed an improved glycemic (presence of glucose in blood) control among people with long-standing diabetes during this period.The doctors carried this prospective study on people with long-standing type 2 diabetes to assess the effect of over three months’ duration of the lockdown on glycemic control.Promising FindingsThe study observed an improvement in glycemic parameters as compared to the pre-lockdown period with a significant reduction in HbA1c and postprandial (after meal) blood glucose after a minimum of three months of the lockdown.According to the study, the possible reasons behind better glycemic control were decrease in work-related stress, adequate time for self-care, better compliance with medications, adherence to dietary recommendations (home-cooked food), lack of availability of outside calorie-dense diet and an increase in indoor physical activity.“Excessive sedentary behaviour and lack of exercise are a problem area in the management of diabetes due to lack of adherence, which is likely to be further worsened due to the pandemic. However, we observed that most of the respondents engaged themselves in physical activity doing household chores and indoor exercise consequent upon availability of time,” reads the study. The doctors also observed that unstructured physical activity such as performing household chores is known to help in weight management, controlling postprandial hyperglycemia (high sugar level) and overall improved glycemic control by reducing the total sedentary time.About the studyAs many as 750 participants of the 2,240 people with pre-existing type 2 diabetes, who were regularly attending diabetes clinic at the PGI prior to the Covid-induced lockdown and had access to home-based capillary glucose monitoring by glucometer during the lockdown period, were invited by the researchers.A total of 422 of the 750 individuals (303 men and 119 women) with diabetes responded with the requisite glycemic parameters within the stipulated duration. The median age of the participants was 58 years and the duration of diabetes of 11 years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/diabetics-gained-from-lockdown-study-164499
02-11-2020||---||Newborn girl’s body found near garbage in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, November 1The body of a newborn girl child was recovered from near Yadavindra Colony on the rear side of Paras Down Town mall in Baltana here today.Investigating officer Naathi Ram of the Baltana police post said they received information around 5 pm that the body of a newborn child was found wrapped in a cloth near a pile of garbage behind Paras Down Town mall.The child was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead on arrival. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, and the matter was being investigated, said the police.The police are combing the slum areas and societies near the spot to get any clue.The investigating officer said a case would be registered and strict action would be taken against the culprits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/newborn-girls-body-found-near-garbage-in-zirakpur-164500
02-11-2020||---||Bathinda Youth Cong chief among five held with arms by Chandigarh Police||Chandigarh, November 1Five persons, including the Bathinda district Youth Congress president, were nabbed by the Chandigarh Police while illegally possessing pistols and cartridges at nakas laid by the police on the intervening night of October 31 and November 1.The miscreants, riding a Swift, tried to escape from the spot. However, the suspects were chased and nabbed near the Sector 7/8/18/19 roundabout.DSP (Central) Krishan Kumar said the nakas were laid in the wake of recent firing incidents reported from the city. The police had laid a naka on the road opposite the TDI mall in Sector 17 when a Scorpio was stopped for checking around 11.30 pm.The SUV was being driven by 31-year-old Lakhwinder Singh, a resident of Bathinda. The police said during checking, a pistol and seven live cartridges were recovered from his possession.Lakhwinder is the Bathinda district Youth Congress president. On a complaint of ASI Tejinder Singh, a case was registered against Lakhwinder at the Sector 17 police station.In another incident at the same naka, the police signalled a Swift car to stop. However, the person driving the car sped away from the spot. A police party chased the car following which the suspects were intercepted by a team, led by Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO of the Sector 17 police station, at the Sector 7/8/18/19 roundabout. During a search of the car, a country-made revolver and five live cartridges were recovered from 45-year-old Amritpal Singh, a resident of Bathinda, and seven live cartridges were recovered from Harpreet Singh (29), a resident of Mansa district.Both suspects are “farmers”. A case has been registered against them at the Sector 17 police station. All suspects were produced in a court today, which remanded Lakhwinder in one-day police custody and Amritpal and Harpreet in two-day police custody.Two suspects were also nabbed at a naka on the road separating Sector 8 and 18.The police said a Ford Endeavour (PB 31 V0011) was stopped at the naka followng which a person sitting next to the driver’s seat tried to escape. However, he was nabbed at the spot.The suspect was identified as Varun Garg (35), a resident of Zirakpur. The police recovered three live cartridges from him. The police then checked the person driving the SUV, identified as Kuldip Singh (32), a resident of Mansa district, from whom a revolver and two live cartridges were recovered.A case against the suspects has been registered at the Sector 3 police station.Special nakas on weekendsFollowing shooting incidents in the city, the UT police have started laying special nakas during weekends to check the movement of suspicious people in the city. Three persons were nabbed with weapons during a similar naka last week on the road separating Sector 8 and 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bathinda-youth-cong-chief-among-five-held-with-arms-by-chandigarh-police-164501
02-11-2020||Chandigarh||Financier attacked at office in Sec 44||A financier was attacked by two unknown miscreants at his office in Sector 44 last night. The victim, Ravinder Kumar of Sector 51, alleged that the suspects also robbed him of his gold chain. However, the police are verifying the claim.The two suspects, who had their faces covered, walked into his office and attacked him. The footage of CCTV cameras installed in the victim’s office was scrutinised in which the two suspects are seen talking to the victim. The victim then suddenly caught them after which he was stabbed, said a police official. He received stab injuries on an arm and back. The duo then escaped from the spot.The footage of cameras installed in the market area is being scrutinised by the police. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/financier-attacked-at-office-in-sec-44-164503
02-11-2020||Balwant Garg||New mgmt in saddle, Gian Sagar looks for fresh start||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, November 1Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital in Banur, which was closed in 2017 due to fiscal mismanagement, is once again on the path of revival after a Gurugram-based group dealing in real estate and automobile business has taken over its management. The college was originally owned by Nirmal Singh Bhangu, the main accused in Rs 45,000 crore chit fund scam by the Pearl Group.After taking over the college’s Rs 200 crore liabilities, the new management was successful in getting the Medical Council of India and Punjab Government’s approval to admit 150 students for the MBBS course from this academic session.It’s not only Gian Sagar Medical College which shut down in 2017. Similar was the fate of Chintpurni Medical College in Pathankot. While fiscal mismanagement was the reason for the closure of the Banur-based college, the Pathankot college was closed for various anomalies.The closure of both colleges was not only the loss of 300 MBBS seats to medical aspirants, it also left the Department of Medical Education and Research in a difficult situation when it had to shift about 700 MBBS students of Gian Sagar Medical College and 250 students of Chintpurni Medical College to other colleges in the state for the completion of their courses.Besides the shift causing extensive academic loss to the students of both colleges, the students were deprived of Rs 9,000 per month stipend in the last year of their course.One of the old staff members and Dean of Gian Sagar College AS Sekhon said the new management had paid the old pending power bills and salaries and had already started work to rebuild the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-mgmt-in-saddle-gian-sagar-looks-for-fresh-start-164744
02-11-2020||---||Student union opposes move to ‘change’ Panjab University status||Bathinda, November 1Members of the Punjab Students’ Union (PSU) (Lalkar) have opposed the decision of “doing away” with the Senate and Syndicate of Panjab University, Chandigarh.They have exhorted students’ organisations to oppose the move, as the decades-old university, which has been governed by the state government to date, would come under the direct control of the Central Government.In a press statement released today, the PSU members said it had been learnt that the UGC had sent a letter to the university stating that as per the new education policy, the Senate and Syndicate would not be formed, and instead a Board of Governors would be formed, whose members wouldn’t be elected but rather be nominated by the Central Government.The term of the Senate, the apex body of the university, ended on October 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/student-union-opposes-move-to-change-panjab-university-status-164752
