03-01-2021||Chandigarh||16 new Covid cases recorded in Chandigarh; tally 19,881||Chandigarh recorded 16 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the infection count to 19,881, a medical bulletin issued here said.One more fatality pushed the death toll to 320, it said.There are 281 active cases as of now, as per bulletin.A total of 54 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 19,280, it said.A total of 1,83,954 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,62,803 tested negative while reports of 61 samples were awaited, as per bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-new-covid-cases-recorded-in-chandigarh-tally-19-881-193163
03-01-2021||Amit Bathla||Chickens die en masse at Barwala farms||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 2Thousands of chickens died at poultry farms in Barwala here due to some unknown reason, causing panic in the area. The authorities have sprung into action to ascertain what led to the fatalities.Assn blames it on cold weatherIn a press release, Darshan Kumar, president, Haryana Poultry Farmers’ Association, Barwala, ruled out the role of any virus behind the mortalities. “Chicks have died mainly due to extreme weather conditions. We have issued instructions for taking precautions to protect the birds from harsh cold. If you ask me, there is no reason to panic,” he said.Caters to tricityPoultry farms in the region cater to consumers in Panchkula, Mohali, Chandigarh, Ambala and the states of Himachal Pradesh and Delhi.No effect on egg, chicken salesAsia’s 2nd largest poultry beltBarwala is Asia’s second largest poultry belt with daily production capacity of 1 crore eggs.However, poultry farm owners have ruled out any mass death of chickens at their farms. They hesitated to speak out due to a fear of impact on their sales, which would worsen their financial condition. The poultry business has of late started recovering from the Covid-19 effect.“As the news of birds dying en masse will spread, it will have an adverse impact on the sale of chicken and eggs in the region,” said a poultry farm owner from Barwala, who didn’t wish to be named.Officials of the stated Animal Husbandry Department and a team of doctors have inspected the affected farms in several pockets of the region and collected samples of the dead and alive chickens. The samples have been sent to Jalandhar for testing.Dr Anil Banwala, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Haryana, who inspected the affected poultry farms today, confirmed that there has been a high mortality among chickens in Barwala due to an unknown disease.“The exact cause of the deaths is yet to be established. We have collected samples of the dead and alive chickens from the affected farms and sent these to the Regional Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar. A preliminary report is expected in a few days,” he said.“Further action will be taken on the basis of the preliminary report. If poultry farm owners are found violating the norms to check the spread of infectious disease, they will be held accountable,” Banwala said. According to him, at least 15 poultry farms in several pockets of the region have witnessed a large number of fatalities.Though the exact reason behind the death is unknown yet, intensive cold and Ranikhet disease are being considered as probable causes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chickens-die-en-masse-at-barwala-farms-192979
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Thief arrested with jewellery, 20 cell phones||The police have arrested a 25-year-old youth, Gaurav, and recovered stolen diamond and gold jewellery and 20 cell phones from his possession.The suspect, a resident of Ram Darbar, is accused of committing a theft at a house in Sector 22 on December 31. The complainant, Sandeep Kumar, had reported theft of a diamond ring, a stone ring, a gold ring, a gold chain and Rs10,000 from an almirah at his house.During investigation, it came to fore that the suspect used to steal mobile phones from persons sleeping in verandahs outside shops at various markets in the city.At least 10 cases of theft, snatching and loot were registered against him, said the police. The suspect was today produced before a court, which sent him to one-day police remand.The police said the suspect was seen coming out of the house with a bag in the CCTV footage. He was arrested near Sanatan Dharam temple on January 1.A case has been registered against him. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thief-arrested-with-jewellery-20-cell-phones-192980
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh suggests staggered timings to beneficiaries||The UT health authorities successfully conducted dry run for Covid vaccination at three identified session sites – GMSH-16, Civil Hospital, Sector 22, and Civil Hospital, Mani Majra, – here today.29 more infected in UTChandigarh: The city on Saturday reported 29 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 19,865. A total of 117 patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. TNSThe authorities have suggested that staggered timings should be provided to beneficiaries during the vaccination drive so as to avoid any hassle when 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated.The dry run is being undertaken to anticipate any issues or challenges in connection with Covid-19 vaccination. Arrangements at the sites were made as per the Government of India protocols. These included three-room protocol, signage, data entry provision, observation room and provision for managing cases of adverse event following immunisation.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, said: “We will suggest the Centre to allow us to call beneficiaries as per staggered timings so that no snags are encountered when 100 beneficiaries will be sent push messages or their data will be uploaded on the portal. It was observed that we can vaccinate 25 beneficiaries in two hours.”The time slot was 10 am to noon for 25 beneficiaries at each site. The beneficiaries reached the sites on time. A vaccination mock drill was carried out and data uploaded on Co-WIN application.A confirmation message for vaccination was successfully generated and received by the facility in-charge. The beneficiaries were made to wait under observation for 30 minutes. They were later sent home after giving the number on which they could contact in case of any problem.The entire session was carried out under the guidance and supervision of Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT.Teams from the PGI and the GMCH-32 visited the session site at the GMSH-16 to observe the dry run. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-suggests-staggered-timings-to-beneficiaries-192981
03-01-2021||Panchkula||Drive runs smooth in Panchkula health centres||The state’s first dry run for Covid-19 vaccination at four sites concluded smoothly with minor hiccups that could be addressed in the second drill to be held on January 7. This was stated by Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur here today.The mock exercise, which was conducted at community health centre in Raipur Rani, primary healthcare centre in Kot and civil dispensaries in Sector 4 and Sector 8, aimed at testing the use of Co-WIN application, uploading the data of healthcare workers, receipt of vaccines and vaccine allocation, session planning, deployment of vaccination teams and logistics mobilisation at session sites. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drive-runs-smooth-in-panchkula-health-centres-192982
03-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||Warring Kher, Tandon groups unite against Sood’s candidature||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2Throwing his hat into the ring as a candidate for the Mayor’s post, city BJP president and councillor Arun Sood has apparently united the two warring factions of party councillors to oppose his candidature.Poll on jan 8The mayoral elections are slated for January 8 and the BJP high command is expected to declare the names of the party nominees for the three posts on January 4.The two groups, it is said, owe allegiance to former city BJP chief Sanjay Tandon and MP Kirron Kher. The development has given a birth to a new political grouping within the local unit of the saffron party.Party sources said the BJP believed in the principle of ‘one person, one post’. “Though there are little chances of Sood becoming the Mayor, even if he is named he will not be able to run the MC House smoothly with opposition from councillors of his own party. If he is chosen the Mayor, we will also press for appointing a new regular president of the city BJP,” said party leaders, preferring anonymity.“The Mayor’s post is open for the general category twice in the five-year term. In the last MC term (2012-2016), he was the mayoral candidate on both occasions. In the current MC term (2017-2021), he pressed for the candidature of his own associate councillor Asha Jaswal, revolting against the party’s choice Davesh Moudgil in 2018. This time, he is pressing for his own candidature directly. Why one person wants to become the Mayor every time?” questioned another disgruntled leader not wishing to be named.Sources claimed barring a few councillors on Sood’s side, most of others, who are considered close to Kher and Tandon, were against him. They are said to have written the names of either Shakti Prakash Devshali or Maheshinder Singh Sidhu while giving their preference for the party’s candidate before BJP incharge Dushyant Gautam on December 30. Councillor and Senior Deputy Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma is also a front runner for the post.However, a leader close to Sood claimed that 60-65 councillors and officer-bearers spoke to the party incharge and 90 per cent of them voted in his favour. The supporter further claimed, “Many BJP presidents have been mayor or MP too.”Meanwhile, Sood denied any groupism against him or within the party. “The party will decide the candidate,” he said. The nominees for the mayoral posts are expected to be declared on January 4. Factionalism in the BJP was apparent in the previous elections. Kher and Tandon have always denied groupism in the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/warring-kher-tandon-groups-unite-against-soods-candidature-192996
03-01-2021||---||Met predicts rain for 3 days||Chandigarh, January 2The Chandigarh Meteorological Department has predicted cloudy sky with rain/thundershowers for the next three days.The city today recorded 0.6 mm of rainfall before 8:30 am, while 0.5 mm rainfall was witnessed during the day.The maximum temperature recorded on Saturday was 15.7°C, five degrees below normal, while the minimum stood at 6.1°C, one degree above normal.Cold wave conditions are expected to continue in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/met-predicts-rain-for-3-days-192997
03-01-2021||Mohali||1 fatality, 18 fresh cases in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-fatality-18-fresh-cases-in-mohali-192998
03-01-2021||Panchkula||20 fresh cases, one death in Panchkula||A 76-year-old woman from Sector 11, who was suffering from diabetes mellitus type-2 and heart disease, succumbed to the infectious disease. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-fresh-cases-one-death-in-panchkula-193000
03-01-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Congress, SAD launch same MC works||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 2In view of the forthcoming Assembly elections, the politics of inaugurating development works by the two mainstream political parties — the SAD and the Congress — has begun. Both parties today launched the same development works, including installing stainless steel signboards, laying pavers and road repairs, at Phase IV here. The works will be carried out by the MC at the estimated cost of Rs65 lakh.The ClaimAfter Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu inaugurated development works, former SAD councillors Gurmukh Singh Sohal and Kuldeep Kaur Kang inaugurated these at their own level. They claimed that the works were passed during their tenure.On the one hand, Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu inaugurated the development works and on the other hand, former SAD councillors Gurmukh Singh Sohal and Kuldeep Kaur Kang inaugurated the same works at their own level stating that the works were passed during their tenure. They said after issuing the tender work to a contractor, the government had deliberately stopped the work and now, the same contractor has been given the work again.Balbir Singh Sidhu today formally inaugurated the development works worth Rs1.5 crore to be carried out in Phase V, Phase IV and Phase III-A, along with the party workers and the Municipal Corporation officials. Sidhu said the Punjab Government had been working tirelessly for the overall development of Mohali city. Congress candidates from Ward No 5 (Phase IV) Rupinder Kaur Reena, Karan Johar, Dr Gurdeep Singh and residents were present.However, drama was witnessed when the former SAD councilors inaugurated the same development works from the road separating Phase II and IV. Addressing the gathering, they said the development works had been passed by the MC House, led by former Mayor Kulwant Singh, and the work order had already been issued. They hoped that the problems faced by residents of the wards would be resolved after the completion of the work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-sad-launch-same-mc-works-193001
03-01-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||3 firms submit bids to operate e-buses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2Three firms have come forward to operate electric buses in the city.The Transport Department had recently floated tenders to hire 40 electric buses on a kilometre basis for 10 years.The Centre had in September 2020 sanctioned 80 electric buses for the UT under Phase II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme.After getting approval from the Centre, the UT Administration had started the process for the procurement of the buses. Under the scheme, the Centre will provide Rs50-lakh subsidy for each bus to the seller.Uma Shankar Gupta, Director, Transport, said three companies had submitted their financial bids to operate 40 electric buses in the city. The bids would be opened in a week, he added.The procurement of the buses will give a major boost to the plan of the UT Administration to replace its entire fleet of ordinary buses of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) with electric buses.At present, the CTU has 514 buses — 361 buses run on local or suburban routes and 153 buses run on inter-state routes.As the electric buses would not emit any pollution, it would improve the quality of air in the city, said an official.The Centre had refused to finance 40 electric buses in 2019, but the UT Administration had decided to procure these buses on a revenue-sharing basis. The Administration had floated tenders for the purchase of the 40 electric buses in January 2020, but had to suspend it as the revenue had been affected adversely due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The department had then floated a fresh tender for the hiring of the 40 buses for 10 years in December last year.The Department of Heavy Industries had launched the FAME India Scheme in April 2015 to promote adoption of electric and hybrid vehicles in the country||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-firms-submit-bids-to-operate-e-buses-193003
03-01-2021||---||Mohali industry sends dry ration to protesting farmers||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 2Expressing solidarity with farmers sitting on dharna at Singhu border near Delhi, members of the Mohali Industries Association (MIA) gave dry ration and other essential items to the farmers.Yogesh Sagar, president of the association, said the entire industrial fraternity expressed solidarity with farmers sitting on dharna at the Delhi border. The industry and agriculture worked together for mutual support and growth. In this hour of crisis, the industry stands with the farmers. Sagar said the association urged the Centre to resolve this matter amicably at the earliest so that the farmers sitting in protest could return peacefully to their houses.He said 36 members of the MIA went to Delhi and handed over dry ration, packaged drinking water, sweets, spices, blankets, mufflers, masks and medicines to the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-industry-sends-dry-ration-to-protesting-farmers-193004
03-01-2021||---||5 Covid deaths in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 2Five more persons succumbed to Covid in the district today. As many as 26 fresh cases were reported.The total confirmed positive cases in Patiala district so far are 15,797, while the death toll has mounted to 482.Those who succumbed to the virus today include four women aged 65, 75, 60 and 50 belonging to Pipal Kheri, Kauli, Rajpura, and Babu Singh Colony, respectively. The fifth victim, a man, was a resident of Nabha block of the district. All of them had comorbidities, said the Health Department.All those who tested positive were reported from OPDs and none of the cases was detected through contact tracing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-covid-deaths-in-patiala-193005
03-01-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Covid: Mohali Dec toll up 50%||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 2Even as less Covid cases were recorded in December from the district, the fatalities increased about 50 per cent. As many as 61 deaths were reported in December against 43 in November.In December, the death toll had gone up to 340 in Mohali district while in November, the toll stood at 279. In October, the toll was recorded at 236 and in September, it was 194.In the last month of the previous year, the total number of positive Covid cases was 2,715 whereas in November, the number was 3,219 — a decline of about 16 per cent. However, 1,863 cases were reported in October.There was a considerable decline in the active cases — only 1,100 on December 31 against 2,069 in November. There was about fourfold increase in the active cases in the month of November as there were only 526 cases on October 31. On September 30, there were 1,714 positive cases, exhibiting a decline of 69 per cent in October.A senior official of the Health Department said the main reason for increase in the number of deaths due to Covid was the festive season as after the second week of November, many persons with diabetes, hypertension and suffering from kidney problems were infected with the virus. He said people did not take precautions due to the festivities. He said the health authorities had been regularly warning people above 60 years of age and those with comorbidities not to move out of their houses as they were the high-risk groups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-mohali-dec-toll-up-50-193006
03-01-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Realtor told to refund Rs21L to buyer for deficiency in service||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2Observing that a consumer cannot be made to wait for an indefinite period for handing over the possession of a flat, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed a builder to refund Rs21.32 lakh to a consumer. Holding the delay a deficiency in service, the commission has also directed the realtor to pay Rs50, 000 as compensation to the complainant on account of mental tension, physical harassment and litigation cost.Jatinder Singh, a consumer, approached the commission after the builder failed to deliver physical possession of a flat within the stipulated period and also refused to refund the amount. The complainant had booked the flat in 2013 at Orchard County, Mohali, constructed by Ansal Lotus Melange Projects Ltd.The flat was proposed to be delivered by the opposite party in 48 months (extendable up to six months) from the date of booking/allotment, but the builder failed to deliver it in time. During the hearing, the builder denied the allegations.After hearing the arguments, the commission noted that Jatinder Singh had booked the flat in 2013 and had not been given the possession till now despite the fact that a substantial amount of Rs21.32 lakh against the total sale consideration of Rs51.71 lakh stood paid to the opposite party (builder). The commission noted that opposite party are not sure as to by which date the possession of the flat can be given to the complainant. The panel said the complainant could not be made to wait for an indefinite period on bald assurances given by the opposite party that they were ready to pay a compensation for the period of delay in delivering the possession of the flat.“It is well-settled law that the non-delivery of the possession of apartments/units in a developed project by the promised date or within a reasonable period is a material violation on the part of a builder and in those circumstances, the allottee is well within his/her right to seek refund of the amount paid,” states the order.The order further read that from the peculiar circumstances of this case, it has been proved that the opposite party made false representations. The complainant is thereby involved in a disadvantageous contract with the opposite parties and suffered financial loss, mental agony and physical harassment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/realtor-told-to-refund-rs21l-to-buyer-for-deficiency-in-service-193008
03-01-2021||Zirakpur||Police hand over stolen Rs4.54L, jewellery to owner||The police today handed over 270-gm gold jewellery, 310-gm silver jewellery and Rs4.54 lakh to a complainant in a theft case registered at the Zirakpur police station. The stolen jewellery items and money were recovered from two suspects.“One of the suspects was arrested on the same night, while the other was arrested within two days,” said Rajpal Singh Gill, SHO.The suspects have been identified as Harvinder Singh Kalra, a resident of Pabhat, and Ashok Malhotra, a resident of Ambala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-hand-over-stolen-rs4-54l-jewellery-to-owner-193009
03-01-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Finally,  swimmers start practice at Sec 23 pool||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2After a wait of almost 10 months, local professional swimmers finally started practising at the Sector 23 all-weather pool here today. The pool opened on December 28 and swimmers started coming from yesterday.“It’s appreciable that the UT Administration has opened swimming pool for swimmers. As many 15 swimmers have verified their admissions forms. On the first day around 11 swimmers came for practice,” said Sharinpreet Singh, swimming coach.“As per guidelines, swimmers below 12 years are not allowed to practice as of now. Only five swimmers are allowed to practice at one time for one-hour. We are expecting good number of swimmers if all goes well in the coming months,” he added.As per the annual roster, the winter of this swimming pool gets over in mid March before entering a 15-day break period.“We still have around three months for practising. All that we need is regular access to pool for honing our skills. It was tough on the first day in water after a gap of almost 10 months. Hopefully, everything will get normal within a week,” said Ankiet, a swimmer.Earlier in October, the MHA had given a go ahead to opening of swimming pools for pro-swimmers. Thereafter, the UT Sports Department was planning for the same. Only this pool was expected to open for trainees as it has the facility to maintain the water temperature. The facility was shut since the implementation of the lockdown. The department took almost two weeks to carry out the repairs, cleaning and maintenance work.Meanwhile, sources maintained that the facility is not likely to open for the general public and members in this winter session. “The facility will accommodate general public in summer session, which usually starts from April. It depends on the situation and approval from the higher authorities. All seven swimming pools under the UT Sports Department witness huge rush in summers,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-swimmers-start-practice-at-sec-23-pool-193011
03-01-2021||Naina Mishra||Study finds changes in healthcare workers’ physiological parameters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2A study conducted by doctors of the PGIMER has found significant changes in the vital physiological parameters of healthcare workers after they wear the personal protective equipment (PPE). Shifting patients a challengeThe other important factor is the inevitable need to transfer patients for diagnostic procedures, especially radiological imaging, that can be laborious for healthcare workers wearing PPEs. As the temperature crosses 40°C with humidity reaching up to 80 per cent in the northern states of India, the working conditions have become more hostile for HCWs wearing the PPE. This has resulted in frequent breaches often due to syncopal attacks that make them susceptible to infection.As per the study, even in volunteers wearing the PPE and the ones performing usual OT work have significant changes in their vital physiological parameters, which might sometimes be alarming. This is more so in case of healthcare workers (HCWs), who have underlying compromised physiological conditions, but are presumed to be healthy due to lack of any proper health assessment before being recruited for donning the PPE, the study states.The institute did a small observational study to assess the physiological parameters of five HCW volunteers while wearing PPE for six hours. The study was titled “Effects of personal protective equipment on the physiological parameters of healthcare workers”.All physiological parameters, including heart rate, blood pressure and oxygen saturation, were monitored every hour for six hours. One HCW had to remove the PPE prematurely as the oxygen saturation dipped from 99 per cent to 96 per cent within three hours of donning the PPE. It was also accompanied by tachycardia, while the blood pressure remained stable.The study has suggested that a mechanism should be in place to have a thorough physiological assessment of HCWs to find out their capacity to work under these strenuous conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/study-finds-changes-in-healthcare-workers-physiological-parameters-193012
03-01-2021||---||Session on injury, stretching held for cricketers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 2A session on injury and stretching for players at Cricket Hub was organised by Dr Simerjeet Sharma, head, Department of Physiotherapy, Amar Hospital, here today.Dr Sharma explained the role of stretching and strengthening in sports to participants. He apprised young cricketers about the role of high water intake, proteins and carbohydrates in their diet. Protein and carbohydrates were important for muscle recovery, he added.“Stretching, strengthening and agility together help in conditioning muscles of players,” he said.“Playing seven days a week decreases stamina for the next week game. One day rest is required for the relaxation of muscles,” he added.“Players get injurer due to over practice, lack of concentration, less warm up and cool down,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/session-on-injury-stretching-held-for-cricketers-193013
03-01-2021||---||PU centre gets new director||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2Dr Sonal Chalwla, Professor, Department of Computer Science and Applications, has taken over as Honorary Director at the Centre for IAS and Other Competitive Examinations, Panjab University. The centre helps aspirants, who compete in various national and state level competitive examinations, including the UPSC, State Judicial Services and the UGC-NET.Chawla said her priority as Director was to strengthen the centre for IAS and other competitive examinations and make it vibrant so that aspirants of the region in general and PU in particular benefitted from courses offered at the centre.Chawla has been an active researcher and a proficient academician with over 30 research publications in international and national journals. She has completed various research projects through national agencies like the UGC and the AICTE.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-centre-gets-new-director-193014
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab varsity to release updates on reappear exams||Panjab University will soon release updates, including date sheet and instructions, for conducting reappear exams for undergraduate, postgraduate and professional courses starting from January 15.The university has announced that the exams will be conducted online. Students, who have already filled reappear forms for May 2020, have been asked not to register again.“The process to finalise the date sheet is also complete and instructions to appear in exams have also been finalised. We have been receiving many queries. Within few days all updates will be uploaded on the university website,” said Dr Jagat Bhushan, controller of examination (CoE), PU.The examinations will be conducted for odd semesters (professional courses reappear category), deficient subjects of intermediate even semesters, candidates of environment education sitting for a golden chance, reappear aspirants of intermediate semesters, who could not clear exam. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-varsity-to-release-updates-on-reappear-exams-193015
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha to youth: Hard work only way to success||Former track and field athlete Milkha Singh gave a motivational talk and shared his inspiring life journey with young minds during an online workshop on the Vidyadaan online platform. Hard work was the only way to success, said Milkha to participants.The online workshop “Immunity and strength an ultimate key” was organised by Vidyadaan in association with Sports 13 to inspire the youth to adopt a healthy life amid the ongoing pandemic.Other speakers at the online workshop were Yadvinder Singh, former national athlete, and Dr Satbir, sports medicine consultant and former Indian hockey team physician-cum-exercise physiologist. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-to-youth-hard-work-only-way-to-success-193016
03-01-2021||Chandigarh||Course on culture of translation||Expert talk on generic drugChandigarh: The MHRD Institution’s Innovation Council and Placement Cell of the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) organised a webinar under expert talk series on the topic “Administrative requirements for generic drug filing with Food and Drug Administration (FDA)” by Dr Bobby George, vice-president and group head, regulatory affairs, Reliance Life Sciences Pvt Ltd, Mumbai. Prof Indu Pal Kaur, chairperson and head, UIPS placement cell, welcomed everyone and introduced speaker Dr Bobby George, who is an alumnus of the UIPS, with an industrial experience of more than 23 years. He worked in Dabur Research Foundation, Sahibabad, in clinical research division for oncology drugs. TNSPedalling marks New YearChandigarh: A bicycle drive was organised by inmates of Girls Hostel No. 8 and the NSS to mark the first day of the New Year 2021 as a healthy day - healthy year ahead. The was organised to mark the New Year as a healthy, prosperous and happy year for everyone. Dr Simran Kaur, warden, Girls Hostel No. 8, coordinated and shared the idea behind the drive. Prof Sukhbir Kaur, dean student welfare (Women), inaugurated the drive. She accompanied participants in the bicycle drive on the campus. TNSFormer Davis cupper to assist MLTAChandigarh: The Mohali Lawn Tennis Association (MLTA) announced that former Davis Cupper Harsh Mankad will assist the association for players coaching and development programme under the Tenicity, which is a high performance coaching programme based in the USA. TNSHookah: Cafe owner bookedChandigarh: The police have booked Veda Cafe proprietor Diya Malik, its manager Manish and staff members Animesh Manna, Shivam Pathak and Parkash Negi for serving hookah to customers in Sector 26 on January 1. For the violation of the orders of the District Magistrate, UT, Chandigarh, a case under Section 188 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against them at the Sector 26 police station. TNSsix arrested for public drinkingChandigarh: The police have arrested six persons for consuming liquor at public places. A Kharar resident, Kanwarpal Singh, and Gagandeep Singh of Mohali were arrested at the Sector 8 market on January 1. A Jalandhar resident, Pawal Kumar, was found drinking in the parking area near Sector 22-B. Kajheri resident Anil Kumar was held in the village. Palsora residents Kishan Singh and Balwinder Singh were held near a wine shop in the village. All suspects were booked under Section 68-1(B) of the Punjab Police Act-2007 and Section 510 of the IPC at various police stations in the city. They were arrested and later released on bail. TNSPhone stolen at Sukhna eateryChandigarh: A Sonepat girl reported that an unknown person stole her iPhone from the pocket of her jacket at the counter of the Sukhna Lake restaurant on January 1. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. TNSTwo held with illicit liquorChandigarh: The police have arrested a Sector 56 resident, Shinder, and recovered 90 quarters of country-made liquor from his possession on December 31. A case under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered. He was later bailed out. Another suspect, Amit Kumar, was held with 25 quarters of country-made liquor in Shahpur, Sector 38(W), Chandigarh. TNSOne arrested on gambling chargeChandigarh: The police have arrested a Mani Majra resident, Suraj, on the charge of gambling in New Indira Colony. Later, he was released on a bail. TNSBeopar Mandal poll on Jan 17Chandigarh: The election to the post of president of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM)) will be held on January 17. Baljinder Gujral, general secretary, CBM, said a General Body Meeting of Mandal was held on Saturday. It was attended by 200 members. Anil Vohra highlighted the achievements during his tenure of approximate five years as president of the association. Accounts for the year 2018 and 2019 were discussed and unanimously passed by the House. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/course-on-culture-of-translation-193017
