03-09-2020||---||Chandigarh DGP’s tweet expressing gratitude creates a flutter on twitter||Chandigarh, September 3A tweet by Chandigarh DGP Sanjay Baniwal, over attaining the DGP scale, in which he thanked Lord Ram, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, received mixed response from twitter users.The tweet posted two days ago has received around 2,990 likes, 358 retweets and 451 comments so far.Many bureaucrats, including IAS and IPS officers, besides others congratulated Baniwal on attaining the DGP scale.With grace of Prabhu Shri Ram, blessings of parents and Guru Ma and astute guidance of honble PM @narendramodi, honble HM @AmitShah and HE Governor of Punjab @vpsbadnore, I feel humbled on attaining the DGP scale today.Need prayers for visible performance !! pic.twitter.com/7Ve59B7x9g  However, Baniwal’s gratitude towards Modi and Shah didn’t go down well with few twitter users, who trolled him.One of the comments on the post stated: “Disgusting. These promotions should be based on the grace of merit and experience. I feel sorry for the people of Chandigarh.”Another comment mentioned, “What about your dignity as an IPS officer? Has Narendra Modi and his party selected you as an IPS officer? Does Prabhu Sri Ram favours only a few? Just be the man you are.”“DGP sahab is ensuring his entry into the good books of ruling establishment,” read another comment.Baniwal is a 1989-batch IPS officer of AGMUT cadre and has been posted in Chandigarh since 2018.The DGP didn’t respond to the call made to him for his comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-dgps-tweet-expressing-gratitude-creates-a-flutter-on-twitter-135835
03-09-2020|| ||PU International Hostel new COVID Care Centre on payment basis||Chandigarh, September 3 Now, residents suffering from COVID-19 can avail facilities at Panjab University International Hostel on payment basis.Earlier, the UT administration had roped in James Hotel to function as a COVID Care Centre on payment basis from August 16 with certain conditions but the hotel has now been exempted as a COVID Care Centre on their request. So, the UT administration has decided to keep the Panjab University International Hostel, Sector-25, as a COVID Care Centre on payment basis.With regard to shifting of the COVID Care Centre from James Hotel to Panjab University International Hostel, doctors and nurses will be deputed by the Government Multi-Specialist Hospital, Sector 16 (GMSH-16), as required.GMSH-16 will also take care of sanitisation and medical waste disposal with an ambulance being provided by the UT Additional Deputy Commissioner.The spokesperson said food would be served by the contractor of GMCH-32 on payment basis and laundry services would be taken care of by Hotel Shivalik View.The payment will be collected by the staff deputed at the hostel and deposited in the COVID Care Fund.The spokesperson said: “The facility will be available to doctors of GMCH-16 and GMCH-32, and if they test positive for the virus or are asymptomatic, no charges will be taken from them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-international-hostel-new-covid-care-centre-on-payment-basis-135830
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 4 deaths, 276 COVID-19 cases; city crosses 5,000-mark||Chandigarh reports four deaths and 276 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the Union Territory's death toll to 63. The city's coronavirus tally stands at 5,065.  COVID-19 deaths:1. A 72-year-old man, a resident of Mauli Jagran, tested COVID-19 positive and expired at CH-48. He had hypertension. 2. A 65-year-old man, a resident of Sector 48, had a history of hypertension and asthma. He tested COVID-19 positive, and passed away at Grecian Hospital, Mohali.3. A 58-year-old woman, a resident of Mauli Jagran, tested COVID-19 positive. She had a cardiac arrest and died at CH-48. She had hypertension and diabetes.  4. A 44-year-old woman, a resident of Manimajra, had a history of Type-2 diabetes and hypertension. She tested COVID-19 positive. She died at GMCH-32.  At present, the city has 2,116 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-4-deaths-276-covid-19-cases-city-crosses-5-000-mark-135829
03-09-2020||---||Hospital, labs, chemists allowed to operate 24X7 in Mohali||Mohali, September 3 The Mohali administration has waived off the lockdown restrictions to healthcare institutions such as hospitals, laboratories, diagnostic centres and licensed chemist shops.They are allowed to operate on all days 24X7 hours.The orders shall remain in force till September 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hospital-labs-chemists-allowed-to-operate-24x7-in-mohali-135826
03-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports one death, 130 COVID-19 cases; death toll 90||Mohali reports one death and 130 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the district's death toll to 90.The district's coronavirus tally stands at 4,223.In the last 24 hours, 79 patients have recovered from the virus.COVID-19 death:A 60-year-old woman from Shahpur died at GMCH-32.COVID-19 cases:Now, 1,872 infections remain active in the district. About 2,261 patients have been cured of the deadly disease.On Wednesday, Mohali recorded four deaths and 160 coronavirus cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-one-death-130-covid-19-cases-death-toll-90-135824
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Cong launches social media campaign on MP Kirron Kher's 'absence'||The Chandigarh unit of the Congress launched a social media campaign on Thursday questioning the alleged absence of BJP MP Kirron Kher from her constituency during the COVID-19 pandemic.Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee president Pradeep Chhabra said Kher, a second-time MP from here, should have been touring the city during the pandemic to listen to people's grievances, "but she is nowhere to be seen".The city unit of the Congress put out a tweet in Hindi, asking Kher to step down and take rest."Sansad Kirron Kher ji ek kaam karo, kursi chodo aaram karo!! Ghumshuda_Sansad_Kirron Kher," read the tweet, while claiming that the MP is "missing" from the city.सांसद किरण खेर जी एक काम करो, कुर्सी छोड़ो, आराम करो..!! #गुमशुदा_सांसद_किरन_खेर pic.twitter.com/m36MZw9jK3The Congress also asked netizens to share the post "so that the voice of the people of Chandigarh reaches all and possibly, even the missing MP"."Kirron Kher has not been seen in public for the last few months. Though she attended a meeting with administration officials virtually a fortnight ago, she has not been seen making public appearances and listening to people's grievances," Chhabra said."The pandemic has spread in Chandigarh. The municipal corporation does not have enough money to pay salaries. Common people are facing a lot of problems and there is great resentment among the public, who are asking where is their MP? "During these difficult times, it is the primary responsibility of the MP to solve people's problems, but she is missing. Therefore, our party has launched a social media campaign so that the voice of the people of the city reaches every nook and corner...," he added.Chhabra also criticised the Union Territory administration's efforts to curb the spread of COVID-19, saying the situation is not being aptly handled.Chandigarh has registered nearly 5,000 COVID-19 cases and 59 fatalities due to the disease.While Kher could not be contacted over the phone, she had responded to similar allegations levelled by the Congress a few months ago.In April, she had sought to take on those who criticised her on social media over her alleged absence from her constituency during the COVID-19 outbreak.Kher had said she was very much in the city and ensuring that essential items reached the needy.In a video clip shared on her Twitter handle, Kher had said she was being constantly targeted by certain people, who write against her on social media.She had also said she does not like to get photographed while distributing food and added that her first priority is to ensure that poor people get food and ration in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak."I have been here in Chandigarh from day one and everybody should have known that. Everybody knows in the (city) administration," Kher had said."I want to say that it is not necessary to show your presence. It is a lockdown. It means you have to stay indoors," she had said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cong-launches-social-media-campaign-on-mp-kirron-khers-absence-135805
03-09-2020||---||PGI sets up plasma bank to boost Covid treatment||Chandigarh, September 3Amid growing number of Covid-19 cases, PGI Chandigarh has established a plasma bank in the Department of Transfusion Medicine.   The move follows the directive of Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.The plasma bank will cater to the needs of patients admitted in PGI Chandigarh as well as other government and private hospitals of the city on a first come first serve basis, stated a PGI release.   As per a committee formed by the Director PGI in this regard, convalescent plasma (Covid-19) will be issued exclusively based on the ICMR guidelines for its off-label use.The request form must contain information on the clinical condition of the patient and severity of disease as per the ICMR treatment guidelines, the panel stated.The committee has further recommended that government and private hospitals in Chandigarh, desirous of using convalescent plasma treatment, should register with Department of Transfusion Medicine, PGIMER Chandigarh.The release further read that the nodal officers of the government and private hospitals will send the patient details to PGI through e-mail (plasmabankpgi@gmail.com).Once clinical indication for transfusion of convalescent plasma is approved by the PGI team, patient attendants can submit request form along with patient’s sample, declaration form and patient’s clinical form at PGI (Room No. 3056, 3RD floor service B-block, Nehru Hospital).A minimum of three hours would be required to process the request following all Covid-19 precautions.After confirmation of the blood group of the patient, one unit (200ml) of group specific convalescent plasma will be issued.Convalescent plasma will be issued free of cost to patients admitted in PGIMER and other government hospitals in Chandigarh. However, for private hospitals, a minimum processing charge would be levied.Plasma bank committee, PGI Chandigarh, has recommended that nodal officers of hospitals outside PGI, should share a list of Covid-19 recovered patients discharged from their hospitals with Department of Transfusion Medicine, PGIMER, and motivate them for plasma donation in PGI, Chandigarh.Recovered patients, who are willing to donate convalescent plasma, can contact Dr Suchet Sachdev (7087009487) and Dr Divjot Singh Lamba (7087003371) and fix their appointment for screening and testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-sets-up-plasma-bank-to-boost-covid-treatment-135771
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Cricket tourney postponed||Guru Nanak open varsity gets VCChandigarh: Prof Karamjeet Singh, Registrar, Panjab University, was on Wednesday appointed as first Vice-Chancellor of the Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University for a period of three years by the Governor of Punjab. He has two years of experience as Registrar and 36 years of experience in teaching and research. On his new assignment, he said it was a challenging job and it would be his endeavour to live up to the expectations of all. He solicited support from all for the betterment of the university. Singh is a professor in finance and strategic management, University Business School, Panjab University, Chandigarh. He is the former president of Indian Accounting Association. He has been a PU fellow for eight years from 2008 to 2016 and a Syndicate member for three terms. He has been a member of a number of committees of the University Grants Commission and NAAC.TNSRlys did well in lockdown: GoyalChandigarh: Sanjay Tandon, member of the BJP National Executive Council, deliberated upon national development aspects with Piyush Goyal, Minister of Railways, Trade and Commerce, Government of India, during the virtual edition of programme ‘Ashwamedh - Elara India Dialogue 2020’ on Wednesday, wherein delegates from business domains also participated. Goyal said the Railways had done fairly well in terms of freight during the lockdown. He said freight in August 2020 was far higher than it was in August 2019 and it had increased by 4 per cent, which came out to be 94.33 MMT despite heavy monsoon. He said speed of freight trains had increased by 94 per cent and dedicated freight corridors were being made, of which three had been earmarked for private companies. Meghnath Desai, member, House of Lords, the UK, also attended the programme. TNSSurgery conductedMohali: Dr Sandeep Gupta, senior bone and joint consultant, Fortis Hospital, successfully operated upon Amritpal (20), who was unable to walk after he suffered tibia fracture (leg) around 10 months ago. He used a rail-plate technique that regenerates the patient’s natural bone. — TNSStone laid for works in MohaliMohali: Health and Family Welfare and Labour Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone for various development works in Phase VII and X here at a cost of Rs60.39 lakh and Rs66 lakh, respectively. Sidhu said all markets from Phase I to Phase XI and Sectors 70 and 71 were undergoing a complete rejuvenation, including improvement and renovation of infrastructure at a cost of over Rs6 crore. In the two markets, red stone, lights and grills would be installed and ornamental plants would also be planted. The authorities have been directed to complete the entire renovation work as soon as possible. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricket-tourney-postponed-135636
03-09-2020||Mohali||Sewa Kendra timings changed in Mohali district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sewa-kendra-timings-changed-in-mohali-district-135635
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Elderly woman’s purse snatched in Sector 44||Two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a purse from a 64-year-old woman in Sector 44 here on Wednesday evening.The victim, identified as Charanjit Kaur, was returning home when the miscreants snatched her purse.After getting information, the police rushed to the spot and initiated investigations into the matter. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area was being scrutinised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-womans-purse-snatched-in-sector-44-135634
03-09-2020||---||Probe sought into illegal sale of heritage furniture of Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 2An investigation has been sought into the illegal sale of heritage furniture of Chandigarh at permanent shops in Switzerland.In a letter to External Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar, Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, stated that in view of the inaction on part of the Indian authorities, auctioneers have now set up shops to sell goods on a regular basis.He said due to Covid-19, heritage auctions were not taking places over the world. So, art smugglers were now setting up permanent shops like the two in Switzerland and the one is coming at Morocco in 2021.He said Indian embassy in Switzerland and North Africa be asked to step in and attempt to stall illegal sale of Chandigarh heritage items. It should be probed as to how these banned items went beyond Indian territory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/probe-sought-into-illegal-sale-of-heritage-furniture-of-chandigarh-135633
03-09-2020||---||Woman accused of cheating people of crores denied bail||Chandigarh, September 2The Court of Additional Sessions Judge Sanjiv Joshi has rejected the anticipatory bail application of Munmun Ghosh, wife of Saurav Ghosh, former official of a private bank. She is facing the charges of cheating several high-profile people of the city.Munmun sought the pre-arrest bail in a case registered on March 17 this year under Sections 420 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on a complaint by Kuldeep Singh Grewal.In his complaint, Grewal had alleged that officials of a private bank duped him and 10 more persons, including two former judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.He alleged that they were cheated by the relationship manager in the Delhi branch of a private bank. The complainant had lost Rs52.50 lakh, while his relatives/friends lost up to Rs6.60 crore.The public prosecutor opposed the bail application, alleging that Saurav had lured these people to invest money in the bank on the pretext of returning the amount with an interest of 18 per cent to 20 per cent per annum.The prosecutor claimed that Munmun was a party to the fraud as she was the director in one of the companies to which Saurav fraudulently transferred money on forged signatures.After hearing the arguments, the court rejected her anticipatory bail application.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-accused-of-cheating-people-of-crores-denied-bail-135631
03-09-2020||---||Eateries, hotels struggle to revive from financial blows||Chandigarh, September 2Though Unlock 4.0 brings slight relief to the hotel and restaurant industry, a part of it is still struggling to revive from the financial blows of the pandemic.Open after five months now, the industry is now battling shortage of staff and payment of licence fee.Ankit Gupta, president of the Chandigarh Hospitality Association, said: “Most outlets haven’t opened. Some have opened while others are in the process of opening. It will take a few more days to start operations as these are facing staff crunch and payment of licence fee.”He said: “People apply for bar licence fee to get the permit issued to lift stocks. This is a statuary requirement and is still underway for most restaurants.”Arvinder Pal Singh, president of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Chandigarh, said: “There is a shortage of staff at most of the restaurants. Some people don’t have enough money to pay licence fee. We will request the Administration to take licence fee in two or three instalments.”Post-lockdown, some restaurants decided to reinvent and find a way to fight the pandemic.Manav Suri of Four Folks said: “We decided to reinvent Four Folks, which will still continue as a delivery outlet. We are also coming up with a range of pre-packed, pre-cooked format under the name of Four Folks pantry, which will be exclusively available on another brand we are doing called Stock Home, apart from a whole variety of other products which is bound to launch in mid-September.”Vipul Dua, owner of Peddlers, which is all set to open tomorrow, says: “We have deposited the fee. We are cleaning and sanitising the place. After more than five months now, we are getting ready for operations.”Rohit Shekhar Sharma, owner of Lord of Parties, Sector 35, said: “We are not opening yet. We will wait it out for now. The hotel and restaurant industry has taken a hit because of the pandemic. Covid cases are rising like never before. Though we are happy with the unlock after five months, we are apprehensive about opening.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eateries-hotels-struggle-to-revive-from-financial-blows-135629
03-09-2020||---||Opening of bars: Chandigarh likely to earn Rs 5 crore from licence fee||Chandigarh, September 2The Excise and Taxation Department, UT, has generated revenue of nearly Rs3 crore as licence fee within two days after the government allowed hotels and restaurants to open bars for the first time since the lockdown was imposed on March 23.RK Chaudhary, Additional Commissioner, Excise and Taxation Department, UT, said they hoped to get Rs2 crore more in the next few days. The department was likely to earn a total of nearly Rs5 crore in the form of licence fee.Chaudhary said the department had set up special teams for this task so that hotel and restaurant owners do not face any problem in paying the licence fee. They were providing all possible assistance to the licence holders so that they do not face any kind of problem in getting the fee deposited.The city has nearly110 licence holders of L3, L4F and L5 licenses. Of this, 60 have submitted their fee so far.The remaining licence holders would also deposit the fee in the next two days, he said.Due to the lockdown, the Administration has decided to charge the licence fee for seven months only which will be application from September 1.As the bars remained closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Administration had lost crores of rupees in the form of revenue. Hotels and restaurants could not serve liquor to customers without paying the licence fee.Arvinder Pal Singh, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Chandigarh, said it would take nearly 10 days to restart the business properly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/opening-of-bars-chandigarh-likely-to-earn-rs-5-crore-from-licence-fee-135626
03-09-2020||---||Third suspect in Mani Majra firing arrested||Chandigarh, September 2Sent to judicial custodyA team, led by Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO of the Mani Majra police station, nabbed the suspect, identified as Azad Hassan, a resident of Samadhi gate, Mani Majra, on Wednesday. He was produced before a court, which sent him to judicial custody.The UT police have arrested third suspect involved in a firing incident that took place at Mani Majra in February this year.A team, led by Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO of the Mani Majra police station, nabbed the suspect, identified as Azad Hassan, a resident of Samadhi gate, Mani Majra, today. He was produced before a court, which sent him to judicial custody.The case was registered on a complaint of Randeep Singh. He had reported that unknown persons were having arguments near RIMT School on February 12. A suspect fired two gunshots after which all persons escaped from the spot.During the course of investigation, suspects Balwinder Singh, alias Bachi, of Mouli Complex was arrested on February 20 and Ausaf Ahmad, alias Sappa, a resident of New Indira Colony Mani Majra, was arrested on August 28.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/third-suspect-in-mani-majra-firing-arrested-135625
03-09-2020||---||Minor dispute claims life of man, 2 sons in Ambala||Tribune News ServiceAmbala, September 2The Ambala police have booked three men on charges of murder, causing hurt and criminal intimidation after a man was killed and his two sons suffered injuries over a minor dispute in Barara here today.While the deceased has been identified as Niranjan Das, a resident of Barara, the injured have been identified as Kamal and Bharat. The suspects have been identified as Roshan Lal, Rajan and Sumit, residents of Barara.Niranjan’s son Kamal Taneja, in his complaint to the police, stated that he has a gift gallery in Barara and there is a jeweller shop adjacent to his shop. Around 11:30 am, Roshan Lal, who owns the jewellery shop, tied a cloth sheet on a stick. The sheet started shaking due to the wind. As a result, goods fell on the road. They asked Roshan Lal to remove the sheet and get a permanent board installed, to which Roshal allegedly started abusing Kamal and his brother Bharat.Later Roshan’s nephews Rajan and Sumit, along with four youths, entered Kamal’s shop and attacked them. Rajan, who was allegedly holding a sharp weapon, hit Kamal, while Sumit hit Bharat on his head with a wooden flowerpot. After hearing the noise, Kamal’s father Niranjan Das also reached there. They attacked Niranjan Das as well. He fell on the ground and fell unconscious. After hearing screams, other shopkeepers also reached there, following which the suspects fled away. While Niranjan was shifted to MM Hospital, Mullana, where he was declared brought dead, Kamal and Bharat were taken to the CHC, Barara.Sub-Inspector Virender Singh, SHO of the Barara police station, said: “A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 148, 149, 452, 323, 506 and 302 of the IPC. They are yet to be arrested.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-dispute-claims-life-of-man-2-sons-in-ambala-135624
03-09-2020||Sandeep Rana||Soon, e-challans to shopkeepers, vendors for encroachment in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 2Pay challan on the spotViolators will be able to pay challan on the spot. With the help of the app, officials need not to seize goods and take the items to the store. It will reduce unnecessary burden on the Municipal Corporation and also save its money.The enforcement wing of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation will soon start issuing e-challans to shopkeepers and vendors for encroachment in the city.It will be for the first time that the enforcement wing will be using an app to issue e-challans to shopkeepers and vendors in the city. Staff will click pictures of violation outside shops or of vendors and will send the challan to violators.Violators will be able to pay challan on the spot. With the help of the app, officials need not to seize goods and take the items to the store. It will reduce unnecessary burden on the Municipal Corporation and also save its money.MC officials said it would bring a transparency in the system. They would also be able to keep a track on the location of its officials.“The app is being tested. Once the testing is complete, it will be launched in the city. We hope that this system goes a long way in bringing transparency and improving the efficiency of officials,” said MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora, who is heading the enforcement wing.According to MC officials, they have issued a record number of challans to the violators in the past two months.In July, a whopping sum of Rs17 lakh was recovered from challans for encroachments. In August, an amount of Rs16 lakh was earned through these challans.“I have been holding review meetings twice a month and discussing that how many challans have been issued and what action has been initiated against the violators. I have asked the staff to issue challans again and again to those violating the norms repeatedly,” the Joint Commissioner said.Meanwhile, the officials said they had been strict with the violators. Most of the shopkeepers rue that due to the pandemic, their business had been affected drastically and the challaning drive was affecting their business. They seek leniency from the officials. However, the enforcement staff said they were tough against the violators.Shopkeepers display their goods in the corridor leaving any space for the visitors to walk in the markets. Some of them have tied ropes in front of their shops in the name of social distancing. The violators are issued a challan for Rs2,000.However, in the past such drives had a little impact as shopkeepers pay the fine and again indulge in violations. Vendors too are penalised if they do not sit at the allotted place or if they display their goods outside the designated space.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-e-challans-to-shopkeepers-vendors-for-encroachment-in-chandigarh-135623
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Protesting PU students detained||High drama was witnessed at Panjab University (PU) when members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), PU, protested at gate number 2 of the university over the fee issue.The protesting students were later detained by the police. ABVP PU president Harish Gujjar said though some demands were fulfilled by the PU authorities, other demands, including fee waiver for EWS students, disabled students and needy students, had been left unheard.“We are not satisfied with the 5 per cent fee waiver for all students. The university should give full fee waiver of fee to all students,” said Gujjar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesting-pu-students-detained-135622
03-09-2020||---||Alma mater honours Arjuna Awardee footballer Sandesh Jhingan||Chandigarh, September 2Indian footballer Sandesh Jhingan, who was recently honoured with the Arjuna Award, was today felicitated by his alma mater Shishu Niketan School, Sector 22-D.He was presented a shawl and a citation by the school Principal Amita Khorana. Jhingan represented the school during his initial years.While studying in the school, he was selected as member of the Chandigarh U-19 team, which won the DR BC Roy Trophy for the first ever time. This was his first major win and on the basis of his performance, he was selected for the Indian junior camp. “I am happy to get this honour from my alma mater. It’s always good to visit the grounds that motivated you to achieve the best,” said Jhingan, who plays as a defender for the Indian football team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/alma-mater-honours-arjuna-awardee-footballer-sandesh-jhingan-135621
03-09-2020||---||‘Entrance test should be must for admission’||Chandigarh, September 2A day after the Punjab and Haryana High Court directed Panjab University (PU) not to proceed with admissions to BA, BCom, LLB (Hons) and five-year integrated law course on the basis of a circular dated August 11 and guidelines uploaded on the website of the university on August 25, a majority of the aspirants supported the decision and maintained that the entrance test should be mandatory to take admission in the course.In a representation to the Bar Council of India (BCI), some aspirants had said, “The entrance test also facilitates the assessment of comparative talent of the candidates by application of a uniform standard and is always preferable to evolution of comparative merit on the basis of marks obtained at the qualifying examination. Primarily, it ensures a common yardstick for judging the suitability of candidates coming from different sources. When more than one source of institution taking qualifying exam is available, it will be extremely difficult to compare the performance of such students coming from different backgrounds. The common entrance test, therefore, serves the useful purpose of common yardstick for judging the suitability of these students.”“The entrance test should be mandatory for taking admission to a professional course in the PU. Considering the Covid-19 pandemic, the authorities can postpone the test for as along as they want, but it should not be cancelled. Admission on the basis of Class XII marks will be a setback for students,” said Akhil Goyal, a city-based lawyer.Meanwhile, the standing committee for conducting the PU examinations has already requested the Vice-Chancellor (VC) to be present while taking any decision on conducting examinations. And the matter to conduct the exams will be discussed in the same meeting, which is likely to take place later this week.“The PU admits students on the basis of Class 12 marks (50 per cent) and entrance exam marks (50 per cent). However, this year, they are considering admissions on the basis of Class XII marks, which is not the right way. The authorities should have taken experts’ views before taking any decision. The authorities should have decided to conduct the exams amid precautions,” said a professor.He said the Kerela Management Admission Test (KMAT) for three-year and five-year integrated LLB course was conducted online. They had followed the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and the UGC.Bhavya Jain, one of the applicants, said, “Delhi University has decided to conduct online entrance test from September 4 to 12. Why can’t our university conduct online test?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/entrance-test-should-be-must-for-admission-135620
03-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||‘Adequate funds to honour meritorious sportspersons’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 2Awaiting VC’s approval: PU sports directorOnce approved, the matter to honour the sportspersons and colleges would be taken up in the first meeting of the committee, said officials.At a time when Panjab University (PU) is facing a financial crisis, its Directorate of Sports has ensured sufficient funds to honour last year’s meritorious sportspersons and colleges with cash awards and individual trophies, respectively.Parminder Singh, Sports Director, PU, said, “The process to form the Panjab University Sports Committee (PUSC), which is the final authority to approve funds, is almost over. Now, we are waiting for an approval from the Vice-Chancellor.”Once approved, the matter to honour the sportspersons and colleges would be taken up in the first meeting of the committee, said officials.The Directorate of Sports, PU, organises its annual prize distribution function in the last week of March every year. However, due to the countrywide lockdown, the authorities did not organise the event this year.They also did not bother to transfer the prize money directly into the accounts of beneficiaries as they expected to conduct a grand function for the same. Recently, after winning the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy for the second consecutive time, officials have been facing the wrath of sportspersons for not giving their dues.“There’s no dearth of funds as the department has its separate allocation and distribution process. The PUSC is the final authority to approve the budget. As we are expecting to distribute cash awards of nearly Rs1.5 to Rs2 crore, it is essential to have committee’s approval,” said the Sports Director.“The process to form the committee is almost over. A meeting will be conducted to decide on the process of honouring the sportspersons, our units and colleges. Things did not progress normally due to Covid-19,” he said.A decision on how to distribute cash awards whether online or offline will be also taken during the committee’s meeting. Last year, the department had distributed approximately Rs2 crore among the sportspersons. This year, in addition to the international, national and state achievers, those who performed in the first Khelo India University (Odisha) Games are also expected to be honoured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adequate-funds-to-honour-meritorious-sportspersons-135619
03-09-2020||---||JEE (Main) Day 2: Students find exam easy, scoring||Chandigarh, September 2Nearly 500 students took the JEE (Main) for BE, BTech at five centres set up in Chandigarh and Mohali on the second day today.While some students found chemistry easy and numerical moderate, others found all three — physics, chemistry and mathematics — easy and scoring.Priyanshu, a JEE aspirant, said paper was easy keeping in view the Covid-19 situation. “Compared to previous papers, this set was much easier and students, who have reallystudied for two weeks, will be able to crack the exam, he said.“Students were seated at a distance and we were cautioned about basic measures repeatedly. Even at the exit and entry, proper social distancing was observed, said Shubham, another student.The students said protocols to maintain social distancing and hygiene were followed meticulously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jee-main-day-2-students-find-exam-easy-scoring-135618
03-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Use dedicated TV channel for PISA test: Centre to Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 2The Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) (now called the Ministry of Education) has asked Chandigarh to use a dedicated television channel for students participating in the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA).The ministry said a dedicated television channel might be used for PISA-related programmes for which the State Council of Education Research and Training, Chandigarh (SCERT), will create a framework and a proposal would be submitted to the MHRD.The UT Education Department has been asked to make an action plan on how to reach students with gaps and challenges and ways to overcome these. The local department has also been asked to plan teacher training during vacation time to avoid straining of teachers after the opening of the schools.Besides, mentor teachers may be identified for each set of five to 10 teachers for hand-holding and providing support to the students.The ministry said, “Since schools are closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This time may be utilised to focus on children’s reading ability and speed with comprehension. Students’ learning should be ensured through e-learning and other media such as television, community radio, traditional mobiles and smartphones with the objective to achieve coherent access for a seamless reach to the target audience.”Chandigarh was selected to participate in PISA in 2018 and the field trial was to be conducted in April and May 2020 for the selected students and the main PISA test was scheduled for April and May 2021, which has been postponed due to the Covid-induced lockdown.What is PISAPISA is a triennial (every three years) international survey, which aims at evaluating the education system worldwide by testing the skills and knowledge of 15-year-old students. Students are assessed in reading, mathematics, science and collaborative problem-solving. Participation in PISA allows benchmarking performance against a wide range of countries. Students from KVs, NVs and government schools in Chandigarh will participate in the programme. The CBSE and the NCERT will be part of the process and activities leading to the actual test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/use-dedicated-tv-channel-for-pisa-test-centre-to-chandigarh-135617
03-09-2020||Ambala||2 thieves strike at ATM in Ambala, make off with Rs 9 lakh||Two unidentified miscreants targeted an ATM of Indian Bank, Shahapur branch, on the national highway in Ambala Cantonment and took away over Rs9 lakh from it after using a gas cutter in the wee hours of Wednesday.In a complaint to the police, Priyanshu Taank, bank manager, said he got information about the theft at 6.19 am. There was an amount of Rs 9,13,600 in the machine when the thieves struck.A case has been registered at the Parao police station under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC.Parao SHO Devender Singh said, “We have obtained the CCTV footage in which two men, wearing monkey caps, are seen. Efforts are on to trace them. Negligence on the part of the security guard has come to light. A probe is on.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-thieves-strike-at-atm-in-ambala-make-off-with-rs-9-lakh-135597
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||PG fire tragedy: HC junks house owner’s bail plea||The regular bail application filed by Gaurav Aneja in the paying guest accommodation fire tragedy case was today dismissed as withdrawn by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Three girls had lost their lives and two were injured on February 23. Aneja is the owner of the house in Sector 32, where the incident took place.In his single-page order, Justice Arun Monga asserted: “The counsel for the petitioner wishes to withdraw the present petition at this stage. Dismissed as withdrawn”.Aneja was seeking bail in the FIR registered under Sections 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. The FIR was registered on February 22 at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pg-fire-tragedy-hc-junks-house-owners-bail-plea-135595
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Sector 10 resident duped of Rs 52 lakh in sale of Mercedes||Two persons have been booked for allegedly duping a Sector 10 resident of Rs52 lakh by selling him a Mercedes car against which a loan was pending.According to the police, complainant Himmat Jakhar had come in contact with the suspects, Punyamanthula Navya Radhakrishan, his father-in-law Chinta Shankar Rao and others, residents of Visakhapatnam, through a website regarding the sale of cars. They assured him and his brother-in-law Manreet Singh that there was no loan against the car. Jakhar paid Rs52 lakh in three instalments in September 2019 and later found that the suspects had forged documents and taken a loan of Rs40 lakh against the car.The complainant asked them to return the money, which, they claimed, they would return. However, they transferred only Rs10 lakh. A case has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-10-resident-duped-of-rs-52-lakh-in-sale-of-mercedes-135594
03-09-2020||---||Kaushalya Dam water level up, floodgates opened||Panchkula, September 2Three of the six floodgates of Kaushalya Dam had to be opened after the water level touched the danger mark of 478 m due to incessant rain in upper areas. No damage due to the opening of floodgates was reported from low-lying areas.The Irrigation Department claimed that they had issued a warning beforehand to the people of low-lying areas such as Amravati Enclave, DLF Valley, Rampur Seuri and parts of NH-22 about the possibility of floods as they were releasing 2,70,000 cusecs of water.Munish Kumar, SDO, Kaushalya Dam, said, “The floodgates were lifted to a height of 10 cm for two hours and a half. If the water level rises again, we will have to open floodgates again.”The level of the Ghaggar usually rises when water is released from the dam.However, officials claimed that the river was currently flowing at low level. The incessant rain in September 2018 had filled up not only the Kaushalya Dam reservoir to the danger mark but also flooded the Ghaggar.On July 29, the district administration had issued orders under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, for taking precautions in view of the forecast of rains, which may lead to an increase in the water level of the Ghaggar and its tributaries.The dam was constructed in 2012 with the primary purpose of water supply to Panchkula city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kaushalya-dam-water-level-up-floodgates-opened-135593
03-09-2020||---||Small-time chemists aiding drug trade?||Chandigarh, September 2The recent arrests of drug peddlers in the city under the garb of chemist shops have once again pointed towards the growing involvement of chemists in the drug trade.The suspects were nabbed with banned tablets and vials, which they sell to addicts at an inflated price to make quick money. Two such peddlers, who were running their illegal drug business under the garb of chemist shops, were nabbed by a team of the Sector 17 police station in the past fortnight.Harpreet Singh, who runs a chemist shop in Mani Majra, was arrested from Sector 17 with 100 capsules of Rimdol and 400 tablets of Clavidol. Similarly, Vivek Sabarwal of Sector 40, who runs a chemist shop at Nayagaon, Mohali, was nabbed with 25 bottles of cough syrup and 12 banned vials. A police official privy to the investigation said the suspects ran small chemist shops. “Drug addicts, mostly from slums and colony areas, are their customers,” said the official.Police sources said the suspects used to sell banned tablets and vials at their shop without a doctor’s prescription. “A tablet priced at Rs5 is sold for Rs100, while vials costing around Rs50 to Rs80 are sold between Rs400 and Rs500,” said a police official.Recently, the crime branch had also arrested Amritpal Singh, who has a chemist shop in Burail village, while possessing banned tablets and syrup bottles.A police official said besides authorised distributors, banned capsules and tablets were easily available in Moradabad and Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh (UP).“Drug peddlers usually get capsules and tablets from these two cities, while vials can be easily purchased from Saharanpur, UP.Police sources said several chemist shops in Nayagaon were also supplying banned drugs to addicts. Many addicts visit Nayagaon to purchase banned drugs.Police officials claimed that they would take up the issue with the Health Department, UT, to keep a check on such chemist shop operators who sell banned medicines without prescription.In March this year, two persons, including Durgesh Mishra, who ran a chemist shop in Sector 29, were nabbed with 448 syrup bottles, 310 tablets and 65 banned vials. Till August 10 this year, the Chandigarh Police have recovered 529 banned vials from drug peddlers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/small-time-chemists-aiding-drug-trade-135592
03-09-2020||Panchkula||In Panchkula, 135 more infected||The district on Wednesday reported 135 new Covid cases, taking its tally to 2,544. The fresh cases include 23 from Pinjore, 22 from Raipur Rani, 15 from Kalka, 10 from the MDC, Sector 4, seven each from Surajpur and Sector 26, six each from Sector 19 and Morni, four each from Devi Nagar and Sector 21, three each from Manakpur, Sector 11 and Sector 16, two each from Bagwali, Chandikotla, Nanakpur, Ratta Tibbi, Sector 9 and Sector 10, and one each from Badhopur, Barwala, Garhi Kotaha, Hangola, Indira Colony, Sector 4, Sector 20, Sector 15, Sector 17 and Sector 25. As many as 990 cases are still active, while 1,531 patients have been discharged. Panchkula has so far conducted 38,784 tests. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-panchkula-135-more-infected-135587
03-09-2020||Chandigarh||Active cases breach 2,000 mark in Chandigarh||The active cases in the city crossed the 2,000 mark for the first time with 239 more persons testing positive for Covid-19 today. The tally now stands at 4,789. As many as 2,670 patients have been cured till date.The day also witnessed two Covid deaths taking the toll to 59. A 27-year-old man from Sector 44, who was a patient of diabetic ketoacidosis, breathed his last at the GMCH-32. A 75-year-old man of Sector 23, who had a history of hypertension, died at the GMCH-32 due to respiratory failure.Mani Majra largest hotspotMani Majra has emerged as the largest Covid hotspot in the city with 170 active cases, followed by Hallo Majra (74) and Ram Darbar (69). Mani Majra has so far reported 360 cases, the highest in the city.The total cases at Mani Majra also surpassed Bapu Dham Colony’s cumulative number of infections – 304. Bapu Dham, which was once the largest Covid hotspot, has 13 active cases.The maximum 2,029 Covid-19 tests have also been conducted at Mani Majra, followed by 1,012 at the PGI campus and 1,020 at Mauli Jagran.64% active cases in urban sectorThe city’s urban sectors account for 64 per cent of the total cases. The positivity rate of the urban areas is 8 per cent, while it is 5 per cent in the peripheral areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/active-cases-breach-2-000-mark-in-chandigarh-135585
03-09-2020||---||4 more die in Mohali, toll 89||Mohali, September 2Four deaths and 160 new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district today. As many as 43 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours.A 20-year-old woman from Lalru was the youngest fatality of the day. She breathed her last at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh. A 49-year-old man from Dera Bassi died at the PGI. He was suffering from a kidney-related disease.Two deaths took place at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. A 45-year-old woman from Nayagaon, who was also a cancer patient, and a 58-year-old woman from Phase X, a patient of hypertension and diabetes, succumbed to the virus.The fresh cases were reported from Mohali urban (55), Dhakoli (33), Gharuan (31), Kharar (29), Dera Bassi (6), Boothgarh (5) and Lalru (1).So far, a total of 4,093 persons have contracted the virus in the district, of whom 1,822 are yet to recover. As many as 2,182 patients have been discharged from hospitals. With four more deaths in the city, the Covid toll of the district touched 89.Yesterday, the district had reported five deaths and 163 new cases.Zirakpur revenue official positiveZirakpur Naib Tehsildar Varinder Pal Dhoot tested positive for Covid on Tuesday. He has been home-quarantined. Dera Bassi Tehsildar Navpreet Singh Shergil will look after Dhoot’s charge.Patient bookedThe Dera Bassi police have registered a case under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC against a Covid patient, identified as Jaswant Singh of Amlala, for not cooperating with officials of the Health Department. He had refused to get admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur after testing positive for the virus at the PGI. He is a symptomatic patient. The case was registered on the statement of the District Nodal Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-more-die-in-mohali-toll-89-135579
03-09-2020||---||CTU to resume interstate service soon||Chandigarh, September 2With the removal of restrictions on interstate and intra-state movement of persons and goods in Unlock 4.0, the UT Administration has decided to resume the interstate bus operations at the earliest.This was decided at a meeting chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.It was also decided that the fruit and vegetable market being operated from the ISBT in Sector 17 should now return to Sector 26 and function with necessary precautions, including sanitisation.A senior official of the Transport Department said they hoped to get back the possession of the ISBT-17 by September 15 and resume the interstate bus service.However, an office-bearer of the Grain Market Association, Sector 26, said they were yet to get orders from the Administration on shifting the mandi back to Sector 26.The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking had briefly resumed the interstate bus services to neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab on June 10, but suspended theseafter a few days over a sudden rise in Covid cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-to-resume-interstate-service-soon-135576
03-09-2020||---||Odd-even for shops in Chandigarh goes from tomorrow||Chandigarh, September 2The UT Administration has decided to discontinue the odd-even system for shops in congested markets from September 4.This was decided at a review meeting, chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, here today. However, the onus of ensuring social distancing and wearing of masks will be on shop owners.In view of the rise in coronavirus cases, the Administration had ordered the closure of shops on the basis of the odd-even formula in 12 congested markets, including Patel Market in Sector 15, Shashtri Market in Sector 22, Sadar Bazaar and Palika Bazaar in Sector 19, in the city.At the meeting, it was decided that apni mandis will not be operated till further orders. However, organic markets can function with necessary precautions near Nagar Van. The Chief Conservator of Forests will ensure proper social distancing and sanitisation of the area.The Administrator appealed to citizens, market associations, volunteers and councillors to advise people to immediately approach the Administration for medical help in case of initial Covid symptoms. Adequate beds, medicines and facilities were available for treatment of Covid patients, he said.KK Yadav, officiating Deputy Commissioner, said 14,594 challans had been issued for various violations such as not wearing masks and failure to adhere to social distancing.Sanjay Kumar Jha, Secretary (Personnel), said the typing test to be conducted by Panjab University for selecting employees of the UT Administration had been suspended due to Covid-19. The university authorities would take appropriate decision on the matter shortly, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/odd-even-for-shops-in-chandigarh-goes-from-tomorrow-135574
03-09-2020||---||Panjab University 4th best in country||Chandigarh, September 2Panjab University (PU) has jumped to the fourth spot in the country in the Times rankings. The Times Higher Education (THE) released its World University Rankings-2021 today.This year, the PU has shown an improvement in its ranking. At the global level, it is bracketed in the 601-800 segment, like last year, but among Indian universities, it has been ranked fourth. Last year, the PU was ranked 16th in India.The world rankings are based on five indicators, which represent key areas in higher education excellence. These are teaching, research, citations, industry income and international outlook.The PU has shown an improvement in its overall score, which is now in the bracket of 30.2-36.3 from last year’s 28.3-35.2. The increase in the score is mainly due to higher appraisal in teaching and research criteria.However, the PU has lost significantly in citations. The overall citation score is 52.9. There is a marginal decrease in industry income and international outlook scores as well, which dropped to 16 points. The research part was also restricted to 15.2 points. In a way, the PU has ranked at the top since the other three institutes above it this year are central technical institutes — the Indian Institute of Science and the IITs at Ropar and Indore.The PU is placed after these three institutes, beating other IITs and universities.The Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, expressed pleasure over the PU performance in the Times rankings and gave the credit to the faculty, students and other stakeholders of the university.“The PU is now making rapid strides towards excellence. Recently, in ARIIA Rankings, the PU was placed second in the country and now in the Times rankings, we are fourth. I am conscious of the fact that this has been primarily due to infusion of innovation and start-up culture in the university over the past two years. I am aware that to be competitive globally, we have to focus on the industry income and international outlook of the university. I am happy to inform that we are now receiving a tremendous interest from overseas students and in due course of time, we shall improve in these parameters too,” said the Vice-Chancellor.“The results are on expected lines. We did an in-depth survey of data parameters this time and due to the innovation buzz at the university, our research output has increased. Our faculty deserves the credit for being productive and ensuring that they walk the talk with students,” said Dr Ashish Jain, Director, Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC).Key stats||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-4th-best-in-country-135571
