03-08-2020||Chandigarh||42 new coronavirus cases take Chandigarh tally to 1,159||Chandigarh reported 42 coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the union territory’s tally to 1,159.Chandigarh administration’s evening medical bulletin showed that of the 42 cases, 27 were contacts of already diagnosed cases. One patient was identified through the rapid antigen test, although this has not been included in the 42 new cases.Three of the newly identified cases were senior citizens over 60 and one was a five-month-old baby boy.  Bapudham colony, Maloya, Kajheri, and Khuda Lahora had two cases---all either from the same family or workplace contacts. Four of a family---including the baby---tested positive in Sector 51; four of a family in Sector 35; and four, including a five year-old girl, in Sector 56.Sector 20 had three cases, and Burail and Raipur Khurd had two cases. Sectors 7, 8, 10, 22, 23, 25, 34, 38, 41, 45, 51, Manimajra, Butrela, Dhanas, and Ramdarbar all reported a case each.    The UT has 434 active COVID-19 cases and 19 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/42-new-coronavirus-cases-take-chandigarh-tally-to-1-159-121647
03-08-2020||Vijay Mohan||Mohali institute uses Aspirin nano-particles for non-surgical, economical prevention of cataract||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 3Scientists at the Institute of Nano Science and Technology (INST), Mohali, have developed nano-rods from Aspirin, a popular medication used to reduce pain, fever or inflammation, for non-invasive treatment against cataract.The delivery of the Aspirin nano-rods to treat cataract non-invasively will be in the form of eye drops. The research can help prevent cataract in an economical and less complicated way.A cataract is a major form of blindness that occurs when the structure of crystalline proteins that make up the eye lens deteriorates, causing damaged or dis-organised proteins to aggregate and form a milky blue or brown layer that ultimately affects lens transparency.“Prevention of the formation of these aggregates as well as their destruction in the early stage of the disease progression is a major treatment strategy for cataract and materials that can carry out this task can make cataract prevention affordable and accessible,” the Ministry of Science and Technology said.This easy to use and low-cost alternative non-surgical treatment will benefit patients in developing countries, who cannot access expensive cataract treatments and surgeries.The INST team used the anti-aggregation ability of Aspirin nano-rods as an effective non-invasive small molecule-based nano-therapeutics against cataract. Aspirin nano-rods prevent the aggregation of crystalline protein and other matter which play a crucial role in cataract formation through bio-molecular interactions.With ageing and under various conditions, the lens protein crystalline aggregates to form opaque structures in the eye lens, which impairs vision and cause cataract. The targeted disaggregation of the accumulated crystalline in aged and cataractous human lenses is considered as a viable therapeutic strategy for the prevention of cataract formation.The Aspirin nano-rods are produced using the process of molecular self-assembly, which is a low cost and high–yield technique to generate the Aspirin nano-rods as compared to the high-cost and laborious physical methods generally used for the synthesis of nano-particles.Computational studies based on molecular dynamics simulations were performed to investigate the molecular mechanism of Aspirin’s anti-aggregation behaviour and the nature of protein interaction. The scientists observed that the interactions eventually transformed the matter responsible for cataract formation into various coils and helixes, thereby preventing their aggregation.Many natural compounds have already been reported as potential aggregation inhibitors but the utility of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as Aspirin will open a new paradigm.In addition, due to their nano size, Aspirin nano-rods will enhance bio-availability, improve drug loading and lower toxicity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-institute-uses-aspirin-nano-particles-for-non-surgical-economical-prevention-of-cataract-121613
03-08-2020||---||Panchkula reports highest ever spike of 64 COVID-19 cases||Panchkula, August 3COVID-19 cases in Panchkula district crossed the 600-mark as the highest spike of 64 cases surfaced in the district on Monday, taking the total count to 663.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur, while confirming the same, said out the 64 cases, the maximum number of cases were reported from Raipur Rani, Nanakpur, Maranwala, Pinjore and Sector-21.From Raipur Rani village, 21 cases surfaced on Monday.On Sunday, the district had recorded 58 cases, of which 23 had surfaced from Raipur Rani village alone.Dr Jasjit Kaur said the COVID-19 cases that were coming to the fore were of those who had come in contact with already infected persons.She said all infected persons had been admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital by the health authorities. Dr Jasjit added that teams from the health department had also swung into action to home quarantine the family members of the coronavirus-infected patients.She said: “The teams have also been deputed to these places to trace and prepare the list of the contacts of the infected persons so that they can also be home quarantined besides taking their blood samples for testing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-highest-ever-spike-of-64-covid-19-cases-121601
03-08-2020|| Chandigarh||Certain pockets in Dhanas, Manimajra in Chandigarh declared containment zones||With a number of coronavirus cases coming to fore, some pockets in Dhanas and Manimajra have been declared containment zones.The lockdown would be imposed from the night of August 4.The containment orders were issued by Manoj Parida, Adviser to the UT Administrator.The decision was taken following a meeting of a committee comprising the Chandigarh Municipal Commissioner, District Magistrate, Senior Superintendent of Police and the Director, Health Services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/certain-pockets-in-dhanas-manimajra-in-chandigarh-declared-containment-zones-121599
03-08-2020||---||Covid patient jumps to death at GMCH-32 in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2A 62-year-old Covid patient reportedly committed suicide by jumping from the fifth floor, that has an isolation area, at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, this morning.The victim, identified as Chunni Lal, a resident of Sector 55, called one of his sons, Deepak, around an hour before taking the extreme step to inform him that he was having a problem in breathing and nobody was taking care of him at the hospital. He asked his son to take him from the hospital. The call was recorded by the victim’s son.An inquiry has been marked into the case. The patient was not very sick due to Covid and was to be shifted to Sood Dharamshala. A nursing officer tried to stop him as she saw him leaving the room. After the staff raised the alarm, the man started walking faster. One of our safai karamcharis also tried to save him. — Ravi Gupta, MS, GMCH The victim jumped from the hospital building around 7.25 am after which security guards shifted him to the minor surgery OT with multiple fractures and a head injury, where he succumbed to the injuries and was declared dead at 8.05 am.Had tested positive on July 28According to the UT Administration, the victim was earlier shifted to Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, a Covid care centre, on July 28 after getting diagnosed positive for the virus. However, he developed breathlessness and was shifted back to the GMCH, Sector 32, where he was administered oxygen.His relative Narayan Prasad said Chunni Lal had called his son and told him that he would die as he could not breathe properly. “The victim told his son Deepak that nobody was looking after him and he would soon die. He also revealed that he was having a problem in breathing,” Prasad said.Meanwhile, Ravi Gupta, Medical Superintendent of the GMCH, said, “An inquiry has been marked into the case. The patient was not very sick due to Covid and was to be shifted to Sood Dharamshala after a proper examination. This morning, a nursing officer tried to stop him as she saw him leaving the room. After the staff raised the alarm, the man started walking faster. One of our safai karamcharis also tried to save him. These facts have come to light in the preliminary inquiry.”Prasad said when the victim was at the quarantine centre in Sector 22, he had received several calls from the victim to inform him that nobody was taking care of him.The victim was a painter and is survived by five sons.The police said they had not received any complaint from the victim’s family. According to the UT Administration, the victim was a reformed smoker and was having a comorbid condition of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). His cause of death was cardio-pulmonary arrest and hypo-volemic shock. His two family contacts have also been reported positive.What the hospital saysThe GMCH authorities issued a statement after the incident stating that the victim was a reformed smoker for 20 years and was referred from Sood Dharamshala on July 30 evening with a complaint of shortness of breath. On admission, the patient was conscious and oriented, and his vitals were checked. The patient was assessed and nebulisation given along with continued oxygen support and supportive management. All routine blood investigations, including Covid profile markers, were sent. The patient was currently stable, maintaining a saturation of oxygen by venturi mask with no other complaints.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-patient-jumps-to-death-at-gmch-32-in-chandigarh-121382
03-08-2020||---||2 Kurali men die, Mohali toll 17||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 2The district saw two more Covid-19 fatalities today, raising the toll to 17. Besides, it also recorded the highest single-day spike of 45 coronavirus cases today, taking the total number of infections to 939.5 patients dischargedFive patients were discharged after being treated. They are a 56-year-old woman from Sector 78, a 62-year-old woman and two men, aged 15 and 32, from Mohali and a 30-year-old woman from Dappar.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said a 62-year-old man from Kurali City and a 63-year-old man from Singhpura near Kurali died of Covid-19. Both patients had comorbidities such as blood pressure and diabetes.A 45-year-old man from Sector 69, a 19-year-old girl from Balongi, two women, aged 60 and 28, and a 39-year-old man from New Chandigarh, two men, aged 50 and 26, and a 47-year-old woman from Sector 115, two men, aged 64 and 45, and two women, aged 74 and 65, from Kharar, a 73-year-old man from Badh Majra, a 30-year-old man from Sector 69 and a 33-year-old man from Zirakpur contracted the infection.Three men, aged 22, 49 and 36, from Phase I, a 27-year-old woman from Sohana, a 57-year-old man from Jhanjeri, a 58-year-old woman from Sector 74, two women, aged 60 and 62, from Phase 3B2, a 56-year-old woman from Banur, a 43-year-old man from Sector 70, a 35-year-old woman from Sunny Enclave, Kharar, a 45-year-old man from New Sunny Enclave, Kharar, a two-year-old girl and a 67-year-old man from Sunny Enclave, Zirakpur, and three women, aged 36, 28 and 50, from Nayagaon were found infected.Two boys, aged 21 and 18, and a 45-year-old woman from Kurali, a 42-year-old woman from Baltana, a 52-year-old woman from Zirakpur, a 25-year-old woman and a 24-year-old man from Dera Bassi, two men, aged 52 and 22, from Tira, a 24-year-old man from Jujhar Nagar, a 24-year-old woman from Phase IX, a 24-year-old man from Phase XI and a 29-year-old man from Teur were found suffering from the contagion.There are 389 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-kurali-men-die-mohali-toll-17-121383
03-08-2020||---||Bapu Dham man loses battle to virus||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2A 63-year-old man died of Covid last night at the PGI, taking the city toll to 19.The man, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, was admitted to the SARI ward on July 31, where he was sampled for Covid. He tested positive on August 1. According to an official statement, he was a case of SARI along with coronary artery disease with inferior wall myocardial infarction.He has nine family members and four family contacts. All 13 have been sampled. The reports are awaited. The day also saw 38 more cases of Covid, taking the UT case load to 1,117. The number of active cases in the UT has risen to 399.The new cases have been reported from Sector 48, 56, 26,15, 50, 22, 44, 63, 46, 45, 25, 55,14, 38 (West), 52, 20, 42, Khuda Ali Sher, Dhanas, Burail, Mani Majra and Ram Darbar. Among the patients, three are in their 60s, two in their 70s, while one is an 80-year-old.Fourteen cases contracted the virus from their family contacts, while nine got infected through their workplace contacts.Mani Majra reported five cases of Covid and Burail four. Dhanas reported three cases. Meanwhile, 15 more patients have recovered from the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bapu-dham-man-loses-battle-to-virus-121384
03-08-2020||---||Panchkula sees surge, biggest so far||Panchkula, August 2In the biggest single-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, the district saw 58 persons testing positive for the virus today. Since five of them do not belong to the district, they will not be added to its tally. Two of the patients are yet to be traced as they provided wrong details at the time of testing.The fresh cases raised the tally to 650 in the district. Twenty-three persons from Ramgarh, 12 from Pinjore and Kalka, five from Sector 20 and three from Marranwala in Nanakpur were among those found infected today.A 25-year-old man from Sector 27, a 43-year-old man from Sector 15, a nine-year-old girl from Sector 16, a 44-year-old woman from Sector 9, a 30-year-old man from Sector 25, a 37-year-old woman from Sector 12-A, a 40-year-old man and a 37-year-old woman from Sector 15, a 73-year-old man from Sector 20 and a 52-year-old man from Sector 4 were also found suffering from the contagion. As of now, the district has 345 active cases, while 303 patients have been cured and discharged.Over 20,000 testedPanchkula has conducted over 20,000 Covid tests so far. With rising cases, it has also increased its testing capacity.In June, the daily testing capacity was 160. It increased to 320 in July. The RT-PCR lab at the Panchkula Civil Hospital also accepts samples from other districts, including Yamunanagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-surge-biggest-so-far-121386
03-08-2020||---||Sero survey starts at Jawaharpur village||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 2Aimed at estimating the percentage of population that could have developed antibodies against the novel coronavirus, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the Punjab Government jointly started a two-day serological (or sero) survey at Jawaharpur village near here today.The survey is intended to detect whether the person being tested has developed antibodies against the coronavirus. Antibodies are proteins that are produced by the immune system of the body to fight external organisms like viruses that enter the body. Survey teams went from house to house in the village and took blood samples of 125 persons in a random manner on the first day.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, visited the spot and provided all possible assistance to the survey teams from the ICMR. He said the survey was being conducted by the ICMR in five districts of Punjab, including Mohali. He said serological surveys helped assess how widespread Covid-19 could have become in a community.“Since it is not possible to test everyone, it is not clear how many people are infected, especially since most of the patients do not even show any symptoms of the disease. Detecting antibodies in random sets of people is, therefore, an indirect way of estimating the extent of the spread of the disease in a community,” he said. Jawaharpur had earlier emerged as a Covid hotspot of the district, but presently, there are no positive cases in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sero-survey-starts-at-jawaharpur-village-121387
03-08-2020||Amit Sharma||Cops want DNA report, send reminder to CFSL||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2The UT police have sent a reminder to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), Sector 36, to provide the DNA profiling of the disembodied feet and a foetus that were found on a cycle track on the road separating Sector 17 and 18 on June 23.The police are waiting for the CFSL report on DNA of both the disembodied feet and the foetus. The reminder was sent to the CFSL on July 30.Usually it takes several months for the CFSL to give its report. However, the police have requested it to expedite the process to provide the report at the earliest.A police official said a comparison and analysis of the DNA would help in establishing whether the female foetus found at the spot was related to the woman whose disembodied feet were found. “This will help in establishing whether the foetus and the disembodied feet were dumped by same person,” the official said. The report on the examination of the viscera to ascertain any poisoning or intoxication is also pending with the CFSL.“The information we are waiting for will further give some direction to the investigation,” the official said.An SBI manager, who was out on a walk, had seen a disembodied foot wrapped in a newspaper lying on a cycle track on the rear side of the SBI building in Sector 17 near the Press light point. The police were informed and a search in the area was carried out following which they found another foot wrapped in a newspaper and a foetus in a polythene bag.The feet were a few days old as were not decomposed.The police said they had checked for any woman who had gone missing from neighboring states in the past. However, it didn’t lead to any success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-want-dna-report-send-reminder-to-cfsl-121388
03-08-2020||---||Elderly man hangs himself to death||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2A 76-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Sector 10. No suicide note was found from the spot.The police identified the victim as Amrit Singh Thapar. He hanged himself in a washroom using his turban. The victim’s son saw him hanging after which the police were informed.He was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Sector 3 police station.The victim owns a factory in New Delhi and he and his wife had come to stay with their son around a fortnight ago.Sources said the victim had dinner last night after which he went to sleep. Around 8 am, he was found hanging.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-man-hangs-himself-to-death-121389
03-08-2020||---||4 mobile towers removed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2The MC today removed four mobile towers of a private company in the city.The towers were removed from the Industrial Area, near a pumping station in Sector 28 and the Kishangarh community centre.“The work to remove mobile towers started this morning,” said an official.Earlier, an order issued by MC Commissioner KK Yadav read: “Airtel has erected several towers without permission. A notice was issued to it to remove the towers by July 23, but it failed. So, the towers were removed today.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-mobile-towers-removed-121390
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Manisha is Chandigarh choice for post of SSP (Traffic)||The UT has recommended the name of Manisha Chaudhary to the MHA for the post of SSP (Traffic).Manisha will be the first woman SSP (Traffic) if the MHA approves her name. She is a 2011-batch IPS officer of the Haryana cadre, who is presently serving as SP, Panipat. The Haryana Government had sent a panel of three IPS officers — Surinder Pal Singh, a 2010-batch IPS officer, Virender Kumar, a 2011-batch IPS officer, and Manisha Chaudhary.DIG (Security and Traffic) Shashank Anand was relieved from his duties on July 30 and transferred back to his parent cadre. He was a 2006-batch IPS officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manisha-is-chandigarh-choice-for-post-of-ssp-traffic-121391
03-08-2020||Is rejection of UT's lockdown proposal by Punjab||States, Chandigarh Administration must team up to stop contagion||Residents must support ut’s planIt’s surprising to see huge rush at public places in Chandigarh. Loads of people throng Sukhna Lake, Rose Garden and other spots particularly during weekends increasing threat of spreading Covid-19. Many visitors avoid wearing face masks and do not follow social distancing norms. Although the Administrations and healthcare workers of the UT, Mohali and Panchkula are putting in their best possible efforts to contain the spread of pandemic, the number of Covid positive patients are increasing day by day in the tricity. It’s duty of all residents to take ample precautions to keep ourselves and others also safe from the deadly disease and helping in breaking its chain of spread. Punjab and Haryana must support the UT Administration’s proposal to impose weekend lockdown.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliWeekend lockdown serves no purposeA weekend lockdown for a short duration of two to three days serves no purpose. It has to be clearly understood that unless we isolate an infected person for 14 days, they will continue to infect others. That is the nature of the Covid-19 virus. The fight against Covid-19 cannot be won on perceptions. Hard decisions need to be taken. Lockdowns, serve only limited purpose. The Administration needs to step-up confidence building measures and ensure that the public does not live under panic. Moreover, the tricity comprises nuclear families, and bachelors. Weekends are meant for purchasing essentials and household items. So, weekend lockdowns are unwelcome.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurImplement safety measures sternlyInstead of putting too much emphasis on Saturday and Sunday lockdown, the UT Administration should focus on implementing precautionary measures with a stern hand. People can be seen commuting or roaming in markets without mask or observing social distance. Even in housing complexes, people of all ages move/play without any precautions. Punjab and Haryana have rightly disagreed with the UT to impose weekend lockdown as common man as well as governments will have to bear financial losses.KC Rana, ChandigarhNight curfew not enoughAs we know that Covid cases in the tricity have seen a steep rise. It has become even more difficult to stem the spread of coronavirus. A night curfew alone is not enough. The UT Administration and Punjab and Haryana Governments should collaborate and ponder over imposing a total curfew on weekends.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhTurning down UT’s proposal is rightImposing curfew on weekends in the tricity will be counterproductive as it will create more problems for daily wagers apart from loss to already economy, which is in doldrums. It is better to take precautions like maintaining social distance ‘2 gaj ki duri’, wear masks and sanitise hands. These three preventive steps should be taken till we completely get rid of Covid-19. Governments of Punjab and Haryana are justified in turning down UT’s request for imposing curfew on the weekends.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliFollow guidelines or face penaltyMany people from the tricity work in Punjab and Haryana and stay there. They come home at weekends. If weekend curfew is imposed, it would become difficult for them to come home. When the government has opened everything, the weekend curfew is not a good option. There should be strict checking and fine should be imposed on shops, in residential areas and public places if Covid guidelines are not followed. People should realise their responsibility by taking precautions and step out of their homes only if necessary. Otherwise they should be ready to face penalty.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliCurfew not a solution to rising casesWeekend curfew is not a solution to rising Covid cases. Punjab and Haryana were right in rejecting the proposal of the UT Administration of imposing lockdown from Friday to Monday in the tricity. When experts have highlighted that lockdowns just delay the spread of virus rather than prevent it, why is the administration so hell bent on implementing it? How many cases do you think can be avoided with two days of the lockdown.Sikander Singh, ChandigarhDaily wagers will lose workThough the city is witnessing an alarming spike in coronavirus cases, the imposition of lockdown from Friday till Monday will only complicate the matter. Many daily wagers will again lose work and money. Instead, people roaming in parks, streets and markets without masks and not maintaining social distancing norms should be caught and issued Rs5,000 challan. Only then virus cases will drop in the tricity.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhAn exercise in futilityThe UT Administration should study the Delhi model and follow it in letter and in spirit to bring coronavirus cases under control. Asking Punjab and Haryana to cooperate in enforcing the lockdown on weekends to achieve this aim will only inconvenience residents of the tricity. Limited period lockdown has hardly shown any positive impact. Therefore, it will be an exercise in futility.SC Luthra, ChandigarhImpose curfew for 15 daysResidents of the tricity have to decide whether life is important than business or pleasure? Nothing is precious than life. People are openly violating the Covid-19 norms. They not care two hoots for precautions. The only way out is imposing 15 days curfew. We all have to swallow a bitter pill to stop the virus. Punjab and Haryana Governments should have acted responsibly. Even now, it is not too late to cooperate with the UT Administration and go for 15 days curfew.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar (retd), MohaliAct or situation will go out of handThe tricity should have gone ahead with curfew from Friday to Monday as during the weekend majority of people make unnecessary travel plans on one pretext or the other. Sixty cases on an average every day are result of relaxations. Still there is time to act. Otherwise, it would be impossible to contain the pandemic. Even Punjab and Haryana should impose weekend lockdown in Mohali and Panchkula to control the soaring Covid-19 cases.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhCampaign on how to cope with pandemicInstead of imposing curfew and making people fearful and stressed, the government should campaign on “How to live in pandemic,” keeping in mind precautions and leaving behind myths spread on the social media. Educate people and don’t make them dumb.Ruchi Bhutani, MohaliCurfew inevitable in tricityNot to speak of some irresponsible individuals, even the state authorities are oblivious to signals from the surge in Covid cases. Still, Haryana and Punjab did not agree to the weekend curfew in the tricity. This apathy means losing control of the situation. As weekends see rush of residents at public places with self-regulation failing there is no alternative to total weekend curfew like curbs. Mohali and Panchkula must fall in line with Chandigarh for complete curbs on weekends and holidays.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaJoint efforts Need of the hourLack of coordination and cooperation between the authorities is hindering development and economic growth in the tricity. People working in one part of the tricity reside in other. Moreover, most contract infection at home or work place. Joint efforts by the Administrations in the tricity and the public can only help in fighting the pandemic. To interrupt the chain of virus transmission, stricter lockdown over weekends permitting industrial activities should be imposed in the tricity.Col Balbir Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhBest proposal, but not acceptedThe proposal of the Chandigarh Administration to impose weekend lockdown was the best. Punjab and Haryana Governments should have accepted it. No doubt, it would cause financial loss to traders/vendors, but here the quote “Health is wealth” applies. Even now, the state governments should accept this proposal. If they don’t, the UT Administration should implement it in Chandigarh.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliPunjab, Haryana must support UTEveryone knows that a mistake is a mistake. The Chandigarh Administration took risk by giving relaxations in the lockdown. The authorities can control Covid with strict law and order. Now, the virus is spreading fast. Punjab and Haryana should support and cooperate with the Chandigarh Administration and implement weekend curfew in the tricity for the welfare of the people.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliLet law take its own courseLockdown on Saturdays and Sundays in the tricity is must. The best of persuasions and warnings have cut no ice with the people, who find pleasures in violating rules. They are incorrigible. It is a tried truth that a rod tames all. When the people do not understand that they are their own enemies, the law has to take its course and teach them to follow rules. Otherwise, Covid cases will continue to multiply day the day. The Administrations of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula should come down heavily on the people, who move in groups without wearing masks and do not maintain distance. Otherwise, things might go beyond control.Bhavdeep Bedi, MohaliWill have adverse affect on economyWhile India is moving towards opening various other services like gyms, multiplexes etc in the Unlock 3, imposing weekend curfew in the tricity is not favoured. The purpose, effects/achievements of the lockdown are visible since March when the whole economy, businesses, activities and institutions came to standstill. Things are coming back on track slowly and the weekend curfew will affect it adversely. A ship in harbour is safe, but that is not what a vessel is built for. The need is to ensure that people take due precautions, venture out only when absolute necessary and maintain social distance.Sukhwinder Singh Bedi, Mohalilockdow seems Rational approachKeeping in view the mammoth growth of Covid cases, the Administration proposed to impose weekend curfew in the UT. Obviously, curfew in Chandigarh will not be effective unless its simultaneously imposed in Mohali and Punchkula. Time is appropriate for the government to strictly implement the law and save lives.Anita Tandon, KhararMany have lost their livelihoodThe Haryana and Punjab Governments were justified on their stand because lockdown/curfew has shattered lives and livelihood of the common people. No government agencies came to their aid despite tall claims. What purpose will the weekend curfew solve? All these are futile exercises with no positive results. Our nation was under the lockdown/curfew for more than three months, but where India is heading in Covid-19 cases? If three months lockdown bore no result what will be the outcome of the weekend curfew? Can the Administration explain?Gurpreet Malhotra, ChandigarhPreparedness to combat virus missingHaryana and Punjab are not at all justified in turning down the UT’s proposal for the weekend curfew. Their wilfulness shows only their obstinacy to show themselves as independent thinkers and self-reliant decision-makers. They have no accountability even in the face of the grim fact that their irrational stance has resulted in the tricity reporting 60 to 65 Covid cases every day. Confusion in tackling pandemic prevailed from the beginning when various lockdowns without any comprehensive plan and inputs from states and UTs were enforced at the national level. Above all, anticipating the spread of the deadly virus and foreseeing its peak to ensure all-round preparedness to combat it effectively at each stage is totally missing.Dr SS Bhatti, ChandigarhNot easy to stop movement of peopleIf Punjab and Haryana do not support UT’s proposal for the weekend curfew, it will not in the interest of neighbouring cities. It is not easy to stop movement of people from Mohali and Panchkula to Chandigarh. Porous borders of the three cities cannot be sealed effectively, which defeats the purpose of curfew/lockdown. Immediate action is required to check rising Covid cases in the tricity.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhFines, FIRs against violatorsPunjab and Haryana reached a consensus that the weekend curfew was not pragmatic to prevent the spread of virus. It would be disastrous for the economy and lead to unemployment and many more problems. It will not help break chain and arrest the sudden rise in Covid cases. Rather, non-compliance of the safety protocol has led to surge in coronavirus cases. The authorities must ensure effective implementation of safety norms. Surveillance and strict measures, including spot fines and even FIRs against violators of safety norms, is the need of the hour. Public participation will stem the spread of contagion.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaLockdown in UT won’t helpChildren of many residents of Mohali and Panchkula study in schools, colleges and university in Chandigarh. They visit PGI, GMSH-16 and GMCH-32 for treatment. They have relatives and friends in Chandigarh, whom they visit quite often. Being aware of these facts Governments of Punjab and Haryana should have agreed to the UT’s weekend lockdown proposal. The weekend lockdown only in Chandigarh would not be effective. The Governments of Punjab and Haryana are obliged to cooperate with the Chandigarh Administration.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliAuthorities in Tricity must cooperateAlthough the tricity is governed by different authorities, they are interdependent in many ways. Therefore, officials must take decisions keeping in view collective interests of residents. If we take a bird’s eye view on Covid cases, doubtlessly the authorities have not been able to check the spike effectively. Discredit goes to the public for misusing relaxations. More restrictions have to be imposed. The Punjab and Haryana Governments should have given consent to UT’s proposal of the weekend curfew in the interest of the tricity residents.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliStrict precautions, no weekend lockdownPunjab and Haryana are justified in turning down the UT proposal for the weekend curfew in Chandigarh. It would have not served any extra purpose. Need of the hour is strict implementation of precautionary measures by the UT Administration. Follow strict quarantine rules for active cases, wear proper mask, observe social distance and use hand sanitisers. Such precautions are openly flouted in shops, public places and parties. Defaulters must be punished there and then.Colonel RD Singh (retd), AmbalaWeekend curfew must in tricityThere is no exaggeration in confessing that the tricity has witnessed an unprecedented spurt in Covid-19 cases. The decision of the UT Administration to clamp weekend curfew is indeed the need of the hour. It was an unwise and unwarranted decision on the part of Punjab and Haryana Governments to disagree with the UT’s proposal to impose weekend curfew in the tricity. ‘It’s never too late’. The age-old axiom reaffirms our abiding belief in the saying. The ruling dispensations should give a final nod to the proposal without further avoidable loss of time and pre-empt the chances of community spread of the pandemic.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhQUESTIONWith those seeking alms at traffic light points and markets having the potential of spreading Covid-19, what preventive measures can the tricity authorities and residents take for safety?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/states-chandigarh-administration-must-team-up-to-stop-contagion-121394
03-08-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Brisk business on Rakhi eve, but safety takes a back seat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2A day before Raksha Bandhan, people thronged the city markets today for buying sweets and ‘rakhis’, throwing caution to the wind.Though most people were seen wearing a mask, many were seen flouting the social distancing norms recommended by the Centre as one of the safety measures for preventing the spread of Covid-19.Sectors with bigger market areas, including Sector 32, Sector 44, Sector 34 and Sector 21, witnessed heavy rush in the evening.Waiting for his turn outside Gopal Sweets, Vishesh Handa, a resident, said: “This is an important festival. People have lined up at sweet shops and the markets are witnessing heavy movement. This can be problematic.”Inside the sweet shops too, especially at the counters, social distancing norms were flouted. “There’s no check on people at the counters. This is a risky situation, but then I can’t avoid it because of the festival,” said Deepika Rathore, who visited Sindhi Sweets at Sector 32.The shopkeepers were, however, happy with the earnings they made due to the last-minute footfall. Chander Bajaj, owner of Sindhi Sweets, said: “The business had picked up on the eve of the festival. We are trying to manage the rush and are allowing only one person at a time, especially at our outlet in Sector 17. Even in Sector 32, people are allowed inside only after we check their temperature.”At ‘rakhi’ stalls set up outside markets, people were seen flocking in a large number to buy ‘rakhis’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/brisk-business-on-rakhi-eve-but-safety-takes-a-back-seat-121395
03-08-2020||Naina Mishra||CBSE survey to check schools’ preparedness||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has started a survey to know the level of preparedness of schools on various issues related to migrant labourers’ children and education in the changing ecosystem in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.A special emphasis is being laid on students belonging to the families of migrant labourers. The board is asking the schools about the identification and mapping of schoolchildren of immigrants or migrants and whether the schools have submitted the details to the states from where a person or family has emigrated.The board has also sought details whether the continuous learning plan of a school includes providing migrants’ children with resources for learning. The survey includes checking if schools have completed the mapping of each learner’s access to different digital devices such as smart phones, TV, radio or computer for the purposes of continuing schooling from home.The survey seeks to know what percentage of learners from Class I to XII have full and unlimited access to TV channels or radio, but not to the Internet or what percentage of learners have full and unlimited access to the Internet for continuing learning at home through various devices.The board is asking schools if they have arranged TVs at local community centers for students having no digital device with them. The schools have to report if teachers are tracking students’ performance through home visits and have to submit whether textbooks have been delivered to the houses of all learners from Class I to Class XII and if any supplementary learning material, such as workbooks, worksheets and projects, is also been delivered to them at their homes.Schools have been asked to list steps taken to take care of children’s mental and physical health and well-being amid the lockdown.Besides, the board is also looking into the number of online classes organised per class per day, break in between the classes, subject area in which students are facing difficulty in learning and whether students are given homework.“The survey, by examining the preparedness level in schools, will also provide inputs for refining the educational policies to facilitate achievement of optimum level of learning outcome in this period,” stated an official statement of the CBSE.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbse-survey-to-check-schools-preparedness-121396
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-AFT chief to be Uttarakhand cricket assn ombudsman||Justice Virender Singh, former chairperson of the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT), will be the new ombudsman of the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand.The appointment of Ombudsmen for cricketing bodies was the outcome of detailed directions of the Supreme Court in the matter involving the Board for Control of Cricket in India (BCCI) The post provides a modicum of impartiality in matters pertaining to cricket in various states.Virender Singh has served as a judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and Chief Justice of the High Court of Jharkhand before heading the AFT from January 3, 2017, to October 6, 2019. Earlier, he also worked as the Deputy Advocate General, Haryana.In a special session for pending cases of disabled soldiers, he had disposed of almost 400 cases in two days of marathon hearings in the Armed Forces Tribunal when he was the chairperson. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-aft-chief-to-be-uttarakhand-cricket-assn-ombudsman-121397
03-08-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||‘Delayed accident info no ground for rejecting claim’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2Stating that mere delay in intimation about the accident is no reason for rejecting a claim, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed National Insurance Company Limited to pay Rs31,500 claim amount for a damaged vehicle to a consumer.Pawan Kajla, a resident of Sector 34-D,Chandigarh, had filed a complaint against the company for denying his claim on the grounds that he failed to report the incident in time and also mentioned the wrong date of the accident.He said his KTM Duke 390 motorcycle bearing registration No. CH01-BG-6377 was insured from February 5, 2016, to February 4, 2017. The complainant said his son was riding the motorcycle when he met with an accident near Khuda Lohra and was admitted to the Sector 16 government hospital. He said the insurance firm was intimated about it, but the date of the accident was inadvertently mentioned as February 28, 2016, instead of February 6, 2016.An undertaking-cum-affidavit correcting the mistake was also furnished. Later, the complainant got the motorcycle repaired and paid Rs39,000. However, the insurance firm repudiated his claim on the grounds that the plea of the complainant was contradictory as the actual date of accident was February 6 and the intimation was given on March 14, 2016. Violating the terms and conditions of the policy, intimation regarding the loss caused was not immediately given. Hence, the claim was rightly repudiated.The court stated that it had been proved that the vehicle was damaged in the accident that occurred on February 6, 2016. A surveyor, after inspection of the vehicle, had also quantified the loss to the tune of Rs31,500. The insurance cover was provided on the date of accident. The court, while quoting a recent case of the Supreme Court, said mere delay in intimating the insurance company about the accident cannot be a ground to deny the claim. In view of the above, the insurance company is directed to pay Rs31,500 to the complainant, along with the interest @9 per cent per annum from the date of repudiation i.e. May 4, 2017, till realisation.The court also directed to pay Rs15,000 to the complainant as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment to him and Rs10,000 as the cost of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delayed-accident-info-no-ground-for-rejecting-claim-121398
03-08-2020||---||AAP seeks Punjab CM’s resignation||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 2Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today organised protests at various places in Mohali against the Punjab Government led by Capt Amarinder Singh over the recent deaths in Amritsar district due to spurious liquor.Workers of AAP gathered at the Phase 7 roundabout and raised slogans against the state government and liquor mafia. They also demanded the resignation of Capt Amarinder Singh over the hooch tragedy.Leading the protest, Raj Lalli, president of the women wing of AAP, said Capt Amarinder Singh was responsible for the death of several persons after they consumed spurious liquor. She even though the deaths due to illicit liquor were reported from Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Batala and other places, illicit liquor was being sold at every nook and corner of the state. Gobind Mittal, Gurmej Singh, Prabhjot Kaur, Mandeep Singh, Jaspal Singh Koni, Jang Bahadur and Dr Sunny were among those present during the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-seeks-punjab-cms-resignation-121399
03-08-2020||---||31,683 apply for admission to colleges||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 2The office of the Director Higher Education has received a total of 31,683 applications for admission to various courses till date.As many as 17,508 have applied for non-centralised courses and 14,175 have applied for centralised courses.A total of 5,678 applications have been received for BCom and 2,802 for BBA. For BCA, the number goes up to 1,706 and 1,247 applied for BSc (non-medical) and 754 for BSc (medical). The applicants for BA are 9,613 in four government colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/31-683-apply-for-admission-to-colleges-121401
03-08-2020||---||Rain likely for 3 days: Met||Chandigarh, August 2The Chandigarh Meteorological Department has issued a forecast of light rain for the next three days."The city will witness generally cloudy sky with thundery development and light rain," said a Met update.According to the Met, 277.1 mm of rainfall was recorded in the month of July.Last year in July, the city witnessed 321.4 mm of rainfall.However, in July 2018 , 263.6 mm of rainfall was witnessed."The rainfall in July was below normal. However, we expecting good downpour in August, " said a Met Official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-likely-for-3-days-met-121403
03-08-2020||Dera Bassi||Man found dead near canal||A 40-year-old man was found dead near a canal in Morinda here on Sunday. The victim has been identified as advocate Kulbir Chauhan, a resident of Kharar. He was practising as an income tax consultant in Sector 22, Chandigarh. He had left for Khanauri village near Morinda on July 31 and was missing since then.Biker killed in road mishapZirakpur: A 25-year-old youth was killed after his bike skidded near Chhat village on the Zirakpur-Patiala road. The deceased has been identified as Ajay Kumar, a resident of Rampur Kalan, Zirakpur. He was trying to save a stray dog that came in front of his two-wheeler and he slipped. He was taken to a hospital where he breathed his last. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-near-canal-121404
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Plant stolen from Sec 37 house in Chandigarh||The UT police have registered a case of theft of a plant from a house on the complaint of a resident of Sector 37.According to the police, Prof DN Jauhar, former chairperson of the PU Law Department, reported that an unknown person stole a pot with a plant from the boundary wall of his house. The incident was reported around 5 am on July 30. The incident was recorded in the CCTV camera installed at the complainant’s house. The police have registered a case of theft. In December last year, DN Jauhar and his wife Adarsh, former head of the Department of Botany and Environment, Government Post Graduate College, Chandigarh, had filed and executed a ‘living will’ in a local court for passive euthanasia in case they suffer from terminal illness. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plant-stolen-from-sec-37-house-in-chandigarh-121405
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Rakhi wishes for soldiers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rakhi-wishes-for-soldiers-121407
03-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to follow Centre’s directive on  valved respirators||The Union Health Ministry has warned against the use of N95 masks with valve respirators. UT Health Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta stated that no special advisory will be issued on masks with valves and the Administration would follow the guidelines issued by the Centre.Earlier, in a letter to all states and UTs, the DGHS, Dr Rajiv Garg, said, “N95 masks with valved respirators do not prevent the virus from spreading.” A doctor at PGI’s Covid-19 ward said, “Persons wearing valved masks are protected against the virus as the filter guards them. However, if infected persons wears the valved mask, others around them can contract the virus through the unfiltered air exhaled by them from the valve.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-follow-centres-directive-on-valved-respirators-121408
