03-06-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports seven new coronavirus cases||Mohali reported seven new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, officials said.A 40-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman from Banur’s Naggal Salempur were tested positive.  The woman was pregnant and was found having the infection during a prenatal check up.Baltana reported two cases---a 50-year-old man and his 21-year-old son.District authorities have sealed off the house and medical teams have begun tracking and isolating their contacts.A Class 4 employee working at a local health centre tested positive in nearby Dhakoli.Two men in their thirties---a 39-year-old from Dera Bassi and a 36-year-old from Mohali’s Sector 78---were the district’s other two cases.The developments take the number of COVID-19 cases in Mohali to 123, officials said---although Punjab government's official coronavirus tally for the district still stands at 120.There is ususually a lag between district tallies and the the state's official tally.Moihali has 17 active COVID-19 cases currently, and has reported three deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-seven-new-coronavirus-cases-94005
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Below normal day temp at most places in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||The maximum temperature at most places in Haryana and Punjab continued to hover below the normal limits on Wednesday, the Meteorological department said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a maximum temperature of 35.4 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, according to the MeT department.In Haryana, Ambala's maximum temperature settled at 35.9 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, while Karnal recorded a high of 35 degrees Celsius, it said.The maximum temperature in Hisar was six notches below normal at 36.5 degrees Celsius, the Met department said.Narnaul registered a high of 35 degrees Celsius, which was seven notches below the normal limits, it said.In Punjab, Ludhiana recorded a high of 35.2 degrees Celsius, down five notches against normal limits, the MeT department said.Amritsar registered a maximum of 36 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, while Patiala's maximum temperature was 36.3 degrees Celsius, four notches below the normal limits. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/below-normal-day-temp-at-most-places-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-94004
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Uttarakhand man tests positive for COVID-19 in Chandigarh||A 25-year-old man from Uttarakhand tested positive for COVID-19 in the city on Wednesday, officials said.The man, who lives and works in Delhi, came to Chandigarh 10 days ago to visit his mother who works as a domestic help here. This case will not be counted among Chandigarh's COVID-19 cases, which still stands at 301 with five deaths. Chandigarh currently has 83 active COVID-19 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uttarakhand-man-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh-93965
03-06-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh schools barred from hiking fee||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3 The UT Administration on Wednesday declared that private schools will not be allowed to increase the fee for the year 2020-21, without specific approval from the administration, and will continue to charge the same fee as in 2019-20.While charging tuition fee, the schools will not include any “hidden or additional charges”, the administration said in its order. Furthermore, all private schools have been mandated to display the details of the fee structure (specifically tuition fee), as per the provisions of section 5(C) of the Fee Regulation Act, 2016 on their website and also intimate the same to the Administration by June 15. The orders have come by the Governor of Punjab and Administrator, UT, Chandigarh, as Chairperson of State Disaster Management Authority, in the exercise of powers conferred under Section 39 (i) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.School found violating Fee ActThe order stated: “Private schools were asked to upload income, expenditure account and balance sheet as per the provisions of Section-5 of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, as extended to U.T., Chandigarh but most of the private schools have not complied with the said provisions of the Act and, therefore, the exact financial status of the most of the schools could not be ascertained.”“Moreover, most of the schools have not uploaded the complete fee structure on their website as per the provisions of the Act. The affiliation bye-laws of CBSE, 2018 (7.3) also stipulate that all affiliated schools shall charge a fee under the heads prescribed/approved by the State Government,” the order read.As per conditions of allotment of land to educational institutions (schools) on a leasehold basis in Chandigarh Scheme, 1996, amended in 2001 and 2005 (Para no. 18), all private schools have to follow the directions regarding the fee structure issued by the Chandigarh Administration from time to time.The order also said that the District Education Officer has reported that “several complaints have been received from the parents that schools are collecting extra charges in the name of tuition fee and have also increased the tuition fee substantially (after the issue of the order dated 18.05.2020 and enactment of Fee Regulation Act).”Previously, considering the financial hardships of the parents due to the nationwide lockdown, directions regarding deferment of fees were issued on March 30 and revised orders regarding payment of monthly tuition fees were issued on May 18 in compliance with the interim directions of High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-schools-barred-from-hiking-fee-93964
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh private schools barred from hiking fee for 2020-21 session||The UT Administration on Wednesday declared that private schools will not be allowed to increase the fee for the year 2020-21, without specific approval from the administration, and will continue to charge the same fee as in 2019-20.While charging tuition fee, the schools will not include any “hidden or additional charges”, the administration said in its order. Furthermore, all private schools have been mandated to display the details of the fee structure (specifically tuition fee), as per the provisions of section 5(C) of the Fee Regulation Act, 2016 on their website and also intimate the same to the Administration by June 15.Also read: Haryana to start schools from July; colleges, universities from AugustHRD minister releases academic calendar for Classes 11, 12The orders have come by the Governor of Punjab and Administrator, UT, Chandigarh, as Chairperson of State Disaster Management Authority, in the exercise of powers conferred under Section 39 (i) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.School found violating Fee ActThe order stated: “Private schools were asked to upload income, expenditure account and balance sheet as per the provisions of Section-5 of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, as extended to U.T., Chandigarh but most of the private schools have not complied with the said provisions of the Act and, therefore, the exact financial status of the most of the schools could not be ascertained.”“Moreover, most of the schools have not uploaded the complete fee structure on their website as per the provisions of the Act. The affiliation bye-laws of CBSE, 2018 (7.3) also stipulate that all affiliated schools shall charge a fee under the heads prescribed/approved by the State Government,” the order read.As per conditions of allotment of land to educational institutions (schools) on a leasehold basis in Chandigarh Scheme, 1996, amended in 2001 and 2005 (Para no. 18), all private schools have to follow the directions regarding the fee structure issued by the Chandigarh Administration from time to time.The order also said that the District Education Officer has reported that “several complaints have been received from the parents that schools are collecting extra charges in the name of tuition fee and have also increased the tuition fee substantially (after the issue of the order dated 18.05.2020 and enactment of Fee Regulation Act).”Previously, considering the financial hardships of the parents due to the nationwide lockdown, directions regarding deferment of fees were issued on March 30 and revised orders regarding payment of monthly tuition fees were issued on May 18 in compliance with the interim directions of High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-private-schools-barred-from-hiking-fee-for-2020-21-session-93948
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||80 Punjab passengers reach home as flight with 153 Indians from Dubai lands at Chandigarh airport||A special Air India flight has brought back 153 stranded Indians from Dubai under the Centre's Vande Bharat Mission, Chandigarh international airport officials said on Wednesday.The AI 1916 flight landed at the international airport on Tuesday night.This was the third flight under the mission to land here. Earlier, 244 Indians were brought back through special flights from New York and Ukraine's capital Kiev. Eighty of the passengers who landed on Tuesday here belonged to Punjab, the officials said. Thirty-seven of them belonged to Himachal Pradesh; 13 from Haryana; 11 from Chandigarh; four each from Delhi and J-K; and two each from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.All passengers will be taken to their home districts under the supervision of officials where they will be quarantined according to the government guidelines.All precautionary measures related to COVID-19 were at place at the international airport. The passengers were screened by the Punjab Health Department authorities.The Centre had recently said the mission to bring back stranded Indians will continue till June 13 and the extended phase will cover 47 countries. As per the government policy, Indians having "compelling reasons" such as pregnant women, elderly people, students and those facing prospects of deportation are being brought back. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/80-punjab-passengers-reach-home-as-flight-with-153-indians-from-dubai-lands-at-chandigarh-airport-93940
03-06-2020||Vijay Mohan||IAF indigenising Russian night vision goggles for use in helicopters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3The Indian Air Force (IAF) is indigenising Russian night vision goggles that are used by pilots flying the Mi-17 medium lift helicopter. IAF’s No. 3 Base Repair Depot here, that is responsible for the maintenance and overhaul of Russian-origin helicopters, has been tasked to execute the project.“The design and development of the NL-93 night vision goggle (NVG) variant will be done in collaboration with the Indian industry, for which the public and the private sector is being approached,” an officer said. “NVG is categorised as a critical equipment and it has to be compatible with the Mi-17’s cockpit and operating parameters,” he added.NVG is a helmet-mounted electro-optical device based on image intensifier technology that allows images to be produced in levels of light approaching total darkness.  NVGs  can intensify ambient light to over a thousand times and can function effectively in minimal  moonlight  conditions or even starlight.By increasing the air crew’s situational awareness due to improved visibility in the dark, NVGs enhance manoeuvrability and navigation, thereby facilitating better air-to-ground tactics and thereby enhancing mission effectiveness.The  essential  features  of  NVG  vision include monochromatic image in a field of view reduced to a cone of 40 deg with diminished visualacuity  as  compared  to  daytime  vision. Consequently, pilots have to continually turn their heads to see to the sides.The use of NVGs, however, also has medical and physiological implications. It adds to the weight of the helmet, causing increased stress on the neck and spine. Given the device’s limited field of view of about 40 degrees, the pilots have to constantly rotate their heads for wider arc of vision. Air crew are also required to undergo brief training capsules on the use of NVGs.The IAF began using NVGs in helicopters in 2002 for operation flying such as special heli-borne operations, troop deployment, search and rescue and communication. It carried out its first NVG-assisted rescue in 2007, when it evacuated two injured soldiers, one of them with a serious head injury, in the north-east.According to IAF sources, once the indigenous NVG for the Mi-17 is certified for use, it would be adapted for other helicopters in the IAF’s inventory such as the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited-developed Dhruv and Rudra as well as the upcoming Light Combat Helicopter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/iaf-indigenising-russian-night-vision-goggles-for-use-in-helicopters-93917
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Normal monsoon likely in tricity||Webinars on latest technologiesChandigarh: The Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC), under the aegis of the Department of Information Technology, organised a series of webinars for students of Chandigarh Group of Colleges from May 28 to June 2. The webinars were conducted with Webex Training Solution developed by CISCO. The webinars were organised on Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud computing, data science and its tool and web development application with PHP. Nazuk Kumar, Director, Information Technology, UT, said, “To ensure that there is no hiatus in education and students get full access to classes like before, virtual classroom is the way forward. The education sector should use the opportunity to understand the existing loopholes and strategise the inclusion of virtual learning in their existing learning system.” TNSKharar-Morinda toll starts todayKharar: Motorists travelling from Kharar to the Morinda side will have pay user fee from now on as the toll plaza at nearby Bhago Majra village will start functioning from Wednesday. The fee for single journey for cars, jeeps, van, etc, will be Rs65, while heavy vehicles will be charged Rs430 for single journey. Commercial vehicles registered in the district have some concession in the toll tax. OCRWAs called for meeting in PanchkulaPanchkula: Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur on Tuesday called for a meeting with the presidents of all resident welfare associations (RWAs) of the district at the IMA Hall, Sector 15, to discuss a strategy for transportation in the district. TNS2 more arrested in murder casePanchkula: The police have arrested two residents of Surajpur in connection with the murder of Gurjit Singh, a resident of Manakpur Thakurdas, on May 28. The suspects have been identified as Kuldeep Singh and Jarnail Singh. Two persons have already been arrested in the case. TNSPoster-making competitionPanchkula: Kirti Sharma of DC Model Senior Secondary School, Panchkula, Bishnu Kumari of GMSSS, Sector 33, Chandigarh, Vardha Verma of St Kabir Public School and Govind of Guru Harkishan Model School were declared winners in an inter-school online poster-making competition organised by Sahayta Charitable Welfare Society. The theme of the competition was the harmful effects of tobacco and the spread Coronavirus. TNSSBI federation chief appointedChandigarh: Deepak Sharma, general secretary of State Bank of India Officers’ Association, Chandigarh circle, has unanimously been elected the president of All-India State Bank of India Officers’ Federation (AISBOF). He took the charge on Monday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/normal-monsoon-likely-in-tricity-93632
03-06-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Panchkula Sector 20 society now containment zone||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 2The district administration today declared Milan Cooperative Group Housing Society in Sector 20 a containment zone and its nearby areas a buffer zone after a Covid-19 positive case was reported from the society yesterday.A 63-year-old man, who had come from Delhi, tested positive for the virus yesterday. Though the building is secured with boundary walls with two entry and exit points, it has not been barricaded. “After the duty magistrate’s order, the police presence was ensured around 4:30pm today,” said the Station House Officer at the Sector 20 police station.Health teams carried out a door-to-door survey to check for SARI and ILI symptoms. The Municipal Corporation and solid waste management group have sanitised the area and arranged for garbage disposal in the containment and buffer zones. The samples of the family members of the patient have already been taken and the process of contact tracing is on.No new caseNo new case was reported from Panchkula today. Of the 26 positive cases reported from the district so far, 25 have recovered and discharged. Meanwhile, the police checked on 23 home-quarantined people today and issued slips to 164 offenders.In Sector 20, 47 samples have been collected, while in Kailash Heights, Kalka, 111 samples have been sent for testing. Overall, four results of samples are expected shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sector-20-society-now-containment-zone-93599
03-06-2020||Naina Mishra||Sector 30-B residents feel caged||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2Residents of nearly 590 houses in Sector 30-B, which is a containment zone, are being forced to live under strict perimeter control since April 22 even as 23 Covid cases have been reported from just nine houses.Hapless residents are left at the mercy of authorities, who even fear to step inside the containment zone.Narrating his ordeal, the grandson of an 80-year old-woman, who died due to comorbidities and was tested positive for Covid posthumously, said, “I requested a team of doctors standing outside the sealed area to check my grandmother. But I was told that the team can’t enter inside, so I requested them to provide a stretcher so that she could be lifted, but to no avail. I then lifted my grandmother and took her to a hospital in an ambulance. She may’ve expired on her way to the hospital.”He said, “It’s still a mystery how my grandmother contracted the virus as only I was stepping out of the house for buying essentials. A girl staying at the ground floor of our house had tested positive and returned from the hospital 14 days ago.”Another 20-year-old girl, whose father died of a cardiac arrest while he was standing in a queue to buy essentials, said, “I had called an ambulance for emergency medical services for my father, but I was repeatedly asked Covid-related questions. I faced harassment as I belong to a containment zone. My father could have been saved, had there been no delay in medical attention. He was depressed as there was no income for two months.”A 50-year-old man from Sector 30-B died at the PGI on May 25. He was admitted to the hospital after he reportedly collapsed while standing in a queue to purchase vegetables. Since the residents could not move out of the containment zone, the man had to be taken to the hospital in an ambulance. It is alleged that the ambulance arrived late.Harpreet Singh Uppal, Resident Welfare Association, Sector 30-B said, “So many of us have lost our jobs and are reeling under depression and constant fear.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-30-b-residents-feel-caged-93600
03-06-2020||Sandeep Rana---||MC cancels Rs 2.82-crore tender issued for procuring safety gear||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 2 The Municipal Corporation today cancelled tenders issued for procuring sanitisers, gloves, masks and PPE kits worth Rs2.82 crore. Some councillors had alleged that the government guidelines were ignored in the procurement process and questioned why experts were not consulted in the entire exercise. Congress councillor Satish Kainth said, “Orders were not placed through Government e-Market Place portal. Several other anomalies have been pointed out by members in the process.” BJP councillor and party chief Arun Sood had also raised questions over the floating of tenders. “No public health expert or councillor was part of the purchase committee. It should have been done. Do we really need these many items?” he had said in the Friday’s house meeting held via video-conferencing. The material to be procured, included purchase of 20,000 PPE kits worth Rs2.10 cr, sanitisers worth Rs46.8 lakh and gloves and masks worth Rs25.26 lakh.  An MC official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “There are several discrepancies in the tenders. No records were shown about what has been donated and what is being bought. Donated items are being mentioned among those purchased.” However, MC Commissioner KK Yadav refuted all allegations. He said, “We have honoured the sentiments of the house. Councillors Arun Sood and Devinder Babla promised to provide 1,000 PPE kits each in the house. Our requirements have changed. We have received a lot of donation also, so we will have relook at the exercise.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-cancels-rs-2-82-crore-tender-issued-for-procuring-safety-gear-93601
03-06-2020||Patiala||Man flees with car after firing at driver||An unidentified man opened fire on a car driver, a resident of Dullar village, and fled away with the vehicle in Samana today. The victim sustained grievous injuries in the attack. JS Mangat, DSP, Samana, said Mandeep Singh, the victim, was travelling from Samana to Patiala when a man standing on the roadside asked for a lift from him. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-flees-with-car-after-firing-at-driver-93602
03-06-2020||---||Panel takes suo motu notice of minor’s death in Ambala||Ambala, June 2 Taking suo motu cognisance of the death of a nine-year-old girl, who lost her life after coming in contact with a high tension wire in Ambala, the Haryana Human Rights Commission has requisitioned reports from the Police and Electricity departments.  The commission has requisitioned a report from the Superintendent of Police regarding the status of the FIR lodged against the officials of the power department, and a report from the managing director of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) with regard to the fact as to whether they have initiated any proceedings regarding the payment of compensation to the victim’s parents.  Junior engineer (JE) Ishwar posted in the Kardhan area of Ambala Cantonment was suspended for alleged negligence after a nine-year-old girl died due to electrocution. The girl, identified as Saloni of Kardhan village, was playing with an iron rod, which came in contact with a low-lying high tension wire last Friday. A power department official said, “A notice has been sent to the municipal committee for not paying attention to the high tension wires while carrying out the construction work due to which the height of the wire got reduced.”  Superintending Engineer RK Khanna said, “A JE has already been suspended and an inquiry has been initiated. Further action will be taken on the basis of the inquiry.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-takes-suo-motu-notice-of-minors-death-in-ambala-93603
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Waive fixed power charges for industrialists: Tandon||Sanjay Tandon, national council member of the BJP, has asked the UT Administration to waive fixed charges in electricity bills for  industrialists as decided by Punjab and Haryana during the lockdown period. He also forwarded a letter issued by the Power Ministry to Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Adviser Manoj Parida, Finance Secretary AK Sinha and Chief Engineer Mukesh Anand.  In the letter, it has been clarified that a rebate of 20 to 25 per cent on fixed charges in electricity bills should be given to the industrialists, but the same has not been provided to the industrialists of Chandigarh. The city industrialists had raised this demand when they met Tandon last week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waive-fixed-power-charges-for-industrialists-tandon-93604
03-06-2020||---||Parents can approach schools, grievance committee, says HC||Chandigarh, June 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that individual parents and students could approach the schools concerned and thereafter the Grievance Redressal Committee in case they are facing hardships regarding fees.“As adequate arrangement for accommodating the students and parents, unable to deposit the fees on the last date, has already been made by the Chandigarh Administration, no further direction is required to be issued by this court. The petition is, accordingly, disposed of by granting liberty to the individual parents and students, if so aggrieved, to approach the concerned schools and thereafter the Grievance Redressal Committee in case of individual hardship on the basis of facts available in that particular case,” the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli asserted.Taking up a PIL on the issue filed by advocate Pankaj Chandgothia, the Bench observed the Chandigarh Administration had already passed orders giving specific directions to the private schools not to take any coercive steps of de-registration etc. against the students following non-payment of fees and to continue to impart education to such students even in the absence of depositing of fees.“As the UT Administration has also made a provision granting liberty to an aggrieved parent to approach the school concerned for sympathetically considering the case for relaxation or extension of time to deposit fees, we do not find any reason to entertain the present petition particularly and specifically in view of the fact that no instance of such hardship has been brought to the notice of this court,” the Bench added.The order issued by the UT Education Secretary calling for payment of tuition fee by specified dates was questioned in the plea. Appearing before the Bench, Chandgothia had contended that the order on payment of school fee would result in depriving students of their Right to Education on unjust terms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-can-approach-schools-grievance-committee-says-hc-93605
03-06-2020||Manpriya Singh---||Law forgives Manu Sharma, will society?||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 2 This has been one case for which the nation doesn’t need to jog its usually short memory. When The Tribune shared the news of Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal approving the premature release of Jessica Lal murder case convict Manu Sharma, initially hate comments, as expected, poured in. But call it the positive after-effect of the pandemic, subjective comments turned to neutral opinions to a debate that would have been unthinkable some years ago. While the law has finally forgiven Manu, will the society follow suit? It is time to forgive at least, if not forget? It’s been 16 long years since Manu Sharma, son of a former Union Minister Venod Sharma, was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment by the Delhi High Court in December 2006 for killing Jessica Lal in 1999. ‘It’s time to stop judging’, posted a netizen. While there are many that have been left unhappy with the preponed release by three years, his friends vouch for Manu being a changed man now. A close associate of Manu’s father, said, “His behaviour in the jail has been exemplary. He did a wonderful job with the inmates at Tihar Jail, provided insurance to women inmates and even sponsored fee of their kids.” Who would’ve predicted a coming of age story in a jail? The Delhi Sentence Review Board, which comes under the Delhi Government, had recommended Manu’s premature release last month. Many of his friends vouch for Manu being a completely changed man. One of them shared a heart-warming story, “As a partner in family business, Manu Sharma, during one of his paroles, donated a blank cheque to Mother Teresa’s charity. When they filled in Rs5 lakh, he insisted that the sum be turned into Rs50 lakh, his total profit share at that time.” Abhinav Sood, advocate, Punjab and Haryana High Court, reminds us of something that he feels is often forgotten, ‘Justice is blind’, which means all shall be equal before law and famous public perception should not affect what has been done as per procedure. “Manu Sharma has spent long years in jail so I welcome his premature release along with 18 others after they have fulfilled the parameters required for their right. Even Jessica Lal’s younger sister Sabrina Lal had said in 2018 that she forgave Manu and would not object if he would be freed.”  Speaking of which, Sabrina had stated, “His conviction was a closure for me.” Whether it’s a closure for him in public perception remains to be seen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/law-forgives-manu-sharma-will-society-93606
03-06-2020||---||Six pockets in Bapu Dham Colony no more buffer zone||Chandigarh, June 2 The UT Administration today removed the perimeter control of six pockets in the buffer zone of Bapu Dham Colony with immediate effect. On May 4, these pockets were included in the buffer zone of Bapu Dham Colony with strict perimeter control to prevent further spread of coronavirus in the locality. After examining the issue of Covid-19 outbreak by a committee comprising the MC Commissioner, District Magistrate, Senior Superintendent of Police, Director, Health Services, and a representative of the WHO, the UT Administration decided to exempt these six pockets — Pocket No. 2, 3, 9, 17, 18 and 19 — from the perimeter control as these pockets have not witnessed a single coronavirus case till date. UT Adviser Manoj Parida said six pockets of Bapu Dham Colony, which were found clean, had been exempted from perimeter control as recommended by the Affected Area Committee. He said UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore approved end of the perimeter control of these pockets since there had been no positive cases in these pockets till date. He stated that regular review would be done to decide whether more areas could be granted similar relaxation from the perimeter control. For effective implementation of measures to fight Covid-19, the entire Bapu Dham Colony was divided into 20 pockets. Meanwhile, residents of several adjoining areas raised slogans against the Administration for not opening their areas when no case was reported since the areas were sealed. A resident of Pocket 9 said their area with nearly 160 houses was sealed on April 29. As per the guidelines of the MHA, even the containment zone tag is removed after 28 days of the last reported positive case, he said. When no positive case had been reported from their area so far, then why the Administration did not open their locality. He said they were virtually under house arrest for the past nearly 33 days. While reviewing the impact of relaxations on lockdown given to city residents, the Administrator stated that relaxations granted should not be misused. All residents must conduct with self-responsibility to fight coronavirus together by following strict social distancing and hand hygiene. The Administrator advised the chiefs of three medical institutions to enhance OPD facilities so that patients who have been waiting for the past several weeks get treatment on time. Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said 132 passengers came to Chandigarh from abroad and 84 of them had completed their quarantine period. As many as 48 passengers were staying in hotels. All of them would be tested before being allowed to go home. Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar stated that till date 60 lakh cooked food packets had been distributed among the destitute and the needy persons in various parts of the city. Similarly, dry rations had been distributed in Bapu Dham Colony. The matter had been taken up with private employers to ensure that the employees staying in Bapu Dham Colony were not denied their wages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-pockets-in-bapu-dham-colony-no-more-buffer-zone-93607
03-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Small-time barbers, salon owners in a fix||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2A day after the UT Administration issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for salons, small-time barbers are expecting troubled times ahead as they go back to work.Yesterday, the UT Administration had issued SOPs, which included availability of thermal temperature measuring equipment, hand sanitisers, separate disposable towels or washing towels after every use, sanitising equipment, online mode of payment among others.However, according to these small-time barbers, such facilities would add to their service cost, which could affect their business.“We are staring at difficult times ahead. For instance, an authentic thermal temperature screening gun costs around Rs2,700. The cost of sanitisers, disposable masks, towels, etc., is additional. Even if we wash towels after every use, we will need buckets of water for it. We don’t have water storage facility. We charge Rs80, Rs100 or a maximum of Rs120 for a haircut,” said Warris, a barber at the Bijwada Vegetable Market in Sector 22-D.This complex has several small-time salons, which cater to mostly students staying in paying guest accommodations and labourers working in the complex or the nearby areas.“There are no students nowadays. The number of workers in the markets is also less. If we talk about meeting expenses, we have to pay rent, electricity bills and give salaries to helpers. We are earning nothing,” said Manoj, another small-time barber.The story at the Sector 37 booth market and the Sector 15 Azad market is no different. A large number of lower-middle class people visit these markets.“It is important to follow SOPs, but it will add to our service cost, which customers will not be able to pay. Big salons, where a hair cut costs a minimum of Rs250 and other services are been offered at higher prices, can afford all these facilities. We will end up following these SOPs for a week as we have a limited footfall of customers,” said Sunny, who runs a booth in Sector 37.Sunny’s brother Sonu, who is also in the same business, said: “Our shops were shut since March 23. Now, we don’t see any hope of getting a good income. There is a tough competition in our business. If we increase the service cost, it will directly hit our business.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/small-time-barbers-salon-owners-in-a-fix-93608
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||2 juveniles among 4 held for breaking into PNB branch||Two days after unidentified miscreants broke into Punjab National Bank (PNB) branch at Kishangarh and made an unsuccessful attempt to break a deposit machine, the UT police apprehended four boys, including two juveniles.The thieves had returned empty-handed after searching the bank premises.2 sent to Juvenile HomeThe police said Arjun had a criminal past with six cases of theft and burglary registered against him at the Mani Majra police station. Arjun is a car mechanic, while Gaurav works as a waiter. One of the juveniles also had a criminal past. Meanwhile, both juveniles had been sent to the Juvenile Home.Inspector Lakhvir Singh, SHO of the IT Park police station, said earlier it was found that only two persons were involved in the crime. However, on scrutinising the CCTV footage of the area, four thieves were seen.Their pictures were shown in the area, which led to the identification of one of the suspects.Working on the leads, the police nabbed four suspects – Arjun, alias Pappu (18), Gaurav Chand, alias Fauji (18), and two juveniles - from the forest area adjoining Janta Colony, Mani Majra.The police said the suspects used the forest as a hideout. Arjun had a criminal past with six cases of theft and burglary registered against him at the Mani Majra police station. Arjun is a car mechanic, while Gaurav works as a waiter.The police said one of the juveniles also had a criminal past. Meanwhile, both juveniles had been sent to the Juvenile Home. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-juveniles-among-4-held-for-breaking-into-pnb-branch-93609
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Woman loses gold bangle to tricksters||An unknown woman managed to steal a gold bangle from a woman’s hand while they were riding a car to Chandigarh.  The victim, V Sharda, a resident of Zirakpur, who works with the CBI, was looking for an auto to reach the office. A private sharing car offered to drop her. Two women were already sitting in the car, besides driver. On their request, the complainant sat on the back seat of the car, where one woman was already sitting. Another woman was sitting on the front seat. In the meanwhile, the woman sitting on the front seat also came to the back seat of the car and started pushing the complaint. She felt uncomfortable as both women were squeezing her deliberately from both side. The complainant then asked the driver to stop the vehicle and got down. The complainant realised that her gold bangle was missing. A case of theft has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-loses-gold-bangle-to-tricksters-93610
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cops identify one suspect||The UT police have identified one of the suspects involved in the attack on a hotelier’s house in Sector 33 here. Raids are being conducted in different parts of Haryana and Punjab to nab the assailants.Police officials said several persons had been rounded up and they were being questioned.“We are also working on technical details like call detail records (CDRs) of the suspects and mobile dump data of Sector 33.Meanwhile, the police have also recovered the vehicle used in the crime.One of the suspects, Gursewak, a resident of Zirakpur, had borrowed the vehicle from its owner, who is a resident of Sohana.The police said the suspect then used the vehicle for committing the crime and returned it to its owner. The car owner was rounded up and grilled by the cops.At present, Gursewak is absconding. His arrest could lead us to other suspects, said a police official. His accomplices are suspected to be from Haryana.Around four to five assailants had opened indiscriminate fire at businessman and hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33, who is the brother of a liquor contractor.At least 17 bullets were fired at the house of Rakesh Singla. However, nobody was injured in the incident. The suspects had come looking for Rakesh’s brother Arvind Singla, who is an established liquor contractor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-identify-one-suspect-93611
03-06-2020||Mohali||Flight from Dubai lands at city airport||The third evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals, carrying 153 passengers from Dubai via New Delhi, landed at the Chandigarh international airport this evening.Dr Sanjit Singh, one of the passengers and a resident of Phase 3B1, said they were asked to report four hours before boarding at the airport in Dubai. They had to go under rapid testing and were kept under observation.All passengers underwent medical screening and nobody was found symptomatic. The passengers hailing from the district would not be sent home as of now. They would be quarantined at various government facilities and hotels for 14 days as a precautionary measure. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flight-from-dubai-lands-at-city-airport-93612
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||‘Ensure compliance of quarantine protocol’||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed Haryana to ensure strict compliance of quarantine protocol and safety measures required to be adopted at centres. Directions were also issued to the state to ensure strict implementation of restrictions imposed upon the inmates lodged therein. The directions by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came during the hearing of a petition filed in public interest by Devender Mahajan against Haryana and other respondents. He was aggrieved by the act of the respondent-authorities in identifying dharamshalas and other similar accommodations as quarantine centres in thickly populated parts of Panchkula for lodging 73 persons arriving from abroad for undergoing quarantine as per the guidelines.  Appearing for the state, Haryana Additional Advocate-General Deepak Balyan submitted that the quarantine centres had been identified after taking into consideration several aspects prescribed in this regard. Disposing of the matter, the Bench observed the petitioner’s representation before the authorities concerned on the issue was pending consideration, before directing them to take a decision in the matter. The respondent-authorities were directed to take into consideration all facts and factors, specifically the guidelines issued by the Central Government on selection of quarantine centres. “The Additional Advocate-General, appearing for Haryana, fairly submits that the representation dated May 26 filed by the petitioner should be considered and decided by the respondent-authorities at an early date, preferably within a period of one week from today. With these observations and directions, the petition stands disposed of,” the Bench said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ensure-compliance-of-quarantine-protocol-93613
03-06-2020||---||Shramik train to leave for Mau today||Chandigarh, June 2 A ‘Shramik’ train will leave for Mau in Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Wednesday at 2pm. The UT Administration has transported 36,243 migrants to UP and Bihar so far by Shramik trains. Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Social Welfare, said, “We will continue running special trains, depending on alliance with other states and the requirement.”  After assessing the status and in consultation with the UP Government, the Shramik train from Chandigarh to Mau will have a stoppage at Hardoi, Lucknow, Faizabad, and Amedkar Nagar.” The Administration has set up two holding centres at Chandigarh College of Engineering Technology (CCET) in Sector-26 where registered persons are medically examined and sent to railway station through buses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shramik-train-to-leave-for-mau-today-93614
03-06-2020||Mohali||Tree-trimming machine file missing, says ex-councillor||Former councillor of the Mohali Municipal Corporation (MC), Kuljit Singh Bedi, today alleged that records related to purchase of a controversial tree-trimming machine are missing from the office of civic body. He said the MC should recover Rs89.50 lakh spent on the machine from the contractor. Bedi said in January 2017, the MC had decided to purchase the machine. He said after the tenders were floated, an advance payment of Rs89.50 lakh was made to a firm, but the machine was never handed over to the civic body. He said BR Bansal (Retd), Additional District and Sessions Judge, who was appointed to probe the matter, pointed out discrepancies in his report, which was submitted to the government on October 20, 2019. Kamal Garg, Commissioner, MC, said he will investigate the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tree-trimming-machine-file-missing-says-ex-councillor-93615
03-06-2020||---||80-yr-old woman UT’s fifth fatality||Chandigarh, June 2The city today reported its fifth death linked to Covid. An 80-year-old woman from Sector 30-B, a containment zone, tested positive for the virus posthumously. Besides, three more persons from Bapu Dham Colony have been found infected with the virus. With the four fresh cases, the city Covid tally rose to 301 today. The woman had a history of giddiness and had fallen on Monday. This was followed by a bout of vomiting. Subsequently, she was taken in an ambulance to the GMSH-16, where she was declared brought dead.The deceased had comorbid conditions — renal and liver diseases — for which she took treatment from the GMSH-16 and the Civil Hospital, Kharar, in January this year.She has two family contacts, a daughter-in-law and a grandson; both of whom are asymptomatic.Till June 1, the UT Administration had conducted only 125 tests in Sector 30-B.Interestingly, a 23-year-old woman, who lives in the building where the 80-year-old woman too resided, had tested positive and returned home on May 14 after treatment. While she resides on the ground floor of the building, the elderly woman lived on the top floor.On May 31, a team of health workers holding a survey had gone to the elderly woman’s house too, but no samples were collected for Covid test then, even as a positive case was reported from the building. “At the time of the survey, the deceased and her two family members were asymptomatic and had no ILI/SARI symptoms,” said a health official.The last case was reported from the area on May 7. The containment operations were about to end in another four days. With the arrival of a new case, the containment operations will now continue for another 28 days as per the guidelines of the Government of India.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the Administration would review the situation of Sector 30-B again.Meanwhile, two men, aged 40 and 35, and a 15-year-old boy, all residents of Bapu Dham, have tested positive for Covid. The 40-year-old man and the boy belong to one family.Previous Covid deaths in city||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/80-yr-old-woman-uts-fifth-fatality-93705
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Labourer strangled to death, one held||A 60-year-old labourer was strangled to death at Mani Majra here last night. The police have arrested a man for the murder. The victim has been identified as Bhulawan Rawat.The police said they received information at 8.25 am that a man had fallen from the stairs of a shop at Pipli Wala town. They reached the spot and found the victim lying in a pool of blood. There was an injury mark under his armpit. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Bhulawan had been working as a labourer at the shop, “Parveen Aara”, for the past 30 years.The police said the victim’s nephew, Rajan, who worked at the same place, stated that a man, identified as Karan, had an argument with his uncle a few days ago. Yesterday, Karan had threatened his uncle.The police said they scrutinised the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area, which showed Karan holding a liquor bottle and arguing with the victim. Karan’s Aadhaar card was found near the spot.Acting on the leads, a team, led by Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, SHO, Mani Majra police station, nabbed Karan from the bus stand at Mani Majra.During interrogation, the suspect revealed that he used to work at a dhaba. However, he left the job after which the victim helped him financially to open a tea stall.The police said Karan started earning well through the stall following which the victim asked the suspect to adjust his son in the business. The duo had an argument over the issue following which the suspect first strangled the victim and then hit him with a liquor bottle. On a complaint of the victim’s nephew, a case was registered at the Mani Majra police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/labourer-strangled-to-death-one-held-93658
03-06-2020||Amit Sharma||2nd incident in 48 hrs, cops red-faced||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 2The second such incident during the past 48 hours has once again pointed towards the deteriorating law and order situation and prevailing gun culture in the city.In the past 14 months, there has been a sudden rise in shooting incidents, including five killings, two of which took place in broad daylight.On Sunday, four or five assailants, who had come looking for a liquor contractor, had opened indiscriminate fire on his brother’s house in Sector 33. Today, another attack at a liquor vend in the posh Sector 9 market has left the UT police red-faced.Despite stepped up police presence and patrolling in view of the lockdown, criminals are moving in the city without any fear, raising concerns over the safety of city residents.In the recent past, gangsters from neighbouring states have been fearlessly targeting their rivals residing in Chandigarh.In March last year, a former DAV College student leader was shot dead at a flat in Sector 49.Two daylight murders involving gangsters from neighbouring cities shook the city in September.While a youth was shot dead in full public view outside the ISBT, Sector 17, hardly 100 metres from the police station, in the other case, Sonu Shah, a financier with a criminal record, was shot at his office in Burail.In December, two college students were also shot dead at their rented accommodation in Sector 15. Members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang were behind the double murder.This was followed by another shooting in March when a bouncer, Surjit Singh, was shot dead near his house in Sector 38 (West). The murder is suspected to be the handiwork of gangsters who had a rivalry with him.Besides the murders, firing incidents were also reported from the city, including outside a club in Sector 26 and outside the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2nd-incident-in-48-hrs-cops-red-faced-93655
03-06-2020||Chandigarh||Now, bullets fly in Sector 9 Chandigarh||Panic gripped the busy Sector 9 market when two assailants opened indiscriminate fire on employees of a liquor store this evening. At least six bullets were fired, leaving three employees injured. Spot just 200 metres from UT Police HQSources said the assailants arrived in the market on foot and started firing gunshots on the store employees. There were several people in the market at that time, who ran for cover. While many entered shops, some took cover behind cars in the parking lot.The assailants then escaped in a Honda Amaze car, which was parked on the road at some distance from the market.Owner also runs a petrol pump in Sec 35The police recorded the statement of liquor store owner Ram Avtar Batra (69), a resident of Sector 21. Batra has been operating this liquor vend since 2018. He also owns a petrol station in Sector 35, named VPL. Batra revealed that he had a money dispute with some persons.Inspector Chiranji Lal, who is posted in the traffic wing of the UT police, is one of the eyewitnesses. He was in civvies and had come to the market to get his bicycle repaired.The Police Control Room was informed after which cops rushed to the spot. The injured were taken to the GMSH-16. One of them, Rajesh, was hit by a bullet in the arm, while two others received minor injuries. The condition of all victims is stated to be stable.The police recorded the statement of liquor store owner Ram Avtar Batra (69), a resident of Sector 21. Batra has been operating the liquor vend since 2018. He also owns a petrol station in Sector 35, named VPL. Batra revealed that he had a money dispute with some persons. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the market was being scrutinised. A forensic team too reached the spot.A case of attempt to murder and under the Arms Act has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-bullets-fly-in-sector-9-chandigarh-93652
