04-01-2021||Chandigarh||43 more test COVID-19 positive in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Monday reported 43 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 19,936, while another death pushed the toll to 321, according to a medical bulletin.A 45-year-old man succumbed to the infection, the bulletin.There are 267 active cases of the novel coronavirus in the Union Territory, as of now, it said.Sixty-eight more patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, bringing the recovery count to 19,348, the bulletin said.A total of 1,84,844 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing in the city and 1,63,994 of them have tested negative while the reports of 75 are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/43-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-chandigarh-193645
04-01-2021||New Delhi||SC treats Panjab University students' letter on 'excesses against farmers' as PIL||The Supreme Court has agreed to hear a plea by 35 students of Panjab University, who had written a letter to the Chief Justice urging him to take cognizance of "excesses" against protesting farmers. The top court has registered the letter as a PIL.The students have sought direction from the top court to order an inquiry into the Haryana Police action of illegitimate use of water cannons, tear gas shells and lathis on peaceful protesting farmers. The letter contended that farmers are protesting peacefully, but the government is not sensitive to these issues.The students have urged the Chief Justice to direct the Haryana police and Delhi police to withdraw all the cases against innocent farmers which were registered as political vendetta and order a probe into the cases of illegal detention of farmers. "Firstly, in a democratic country, the will and sentiments of people are sine-qua-non. But, here the Government of India is turning deaf and indifferent in toto to the farmers' plight. We believe the course of action taken by the Government of India is insensitive to understand farmers sentiments", said the letter.The students from the Centre for Human Rights and Duties, Panjab University, Chandigarh, sought a direction to both the Centre and state governments to ensure the safety of all protesters, and provide basic amenities to all, especially women, children and the elderly. Mobile toilet vans should be provided at the protest sites.The farmers have been protesting at various Delhi borders for over a month, asking the government to repeal the three recently enacted farm laws.The students also sought a direction to curb fake news and action against media channels indulging in misrepresentation and polarisation of the whole issue.On December 17, the Supreme Court had unequivocally pronounced that it will not interfere with the farmers' protest and the right to protest is a fundamental right. However, it emphasized on forming a committee comprising of independent and impartial persons -- experts in the field of Agriculture -- to resolve the impasse between the Centre and the farmers' unions.A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde and comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian had said: "We clarify that this Court will not interfere with the protest in question. Indeed, the right to protest is part of a fundamental right and can, as a matter of fact, be exercised subject to public order." The observation from the top court came after learning from the Centre that roads are blocked by the police in order to prevent the entry of the protesters/farmers into Delhi.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sc-treats-panjab-university-students-letter-on-excesses-against-farmers-as-pil-193563
04-01-2021||Panchkula||Mayor, ward members of Panchkula MC to take oath on Tuesday||The oath-taking ceremony of newly elected mayor Kulbhushan Goyal and ward members of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation will take place on Tuesday at PWD Rest House in Sector 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mayor-ward-members-of-panchkula-mc-to-take-oath-on-tuesday-193541
04-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Mayoral Poll: Suspense over BJP nominees continues||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3A day before the final date for filing of nominations, the suspense over who will be the ruling BJP’s candidate for the post of Mayor for the January 8 elections continues.Sources said BJP national general secretary Dushyant Gautam arrived at the UT Guest House today. Gautam, who is also the Chandigarh BJP in-charge, had taken the views of party councillors and office-bearers in a one-on-one meeting on December 30 in the city.Having consulted the party high command, he will declare the names of the party candidates for the posts of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor tomorrow after which, the nominations will be filed by the trio.Local BJP president and councillor Arun Sood, and councillors Shakti Prakash Devshali, Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and Ravi Kant Sharma remain the front runners for the post even as some other councillors as also in the race.For the past few days, there has been a lot of talk about who will be the candidates. By pitching himself as a probable candidate, party chief Sood has reportedly brought “friction among councillors” in the open. Many councillors are against his plan saying that it will be against the “one person, one post” principle of the saffron party. However, those close to Sood feel there have been exceptions to this norm in the past. They believe since it will be the last Mayor of the current MC, it is important to have someone like him who can strongly raise issues with officers and is able to bring funds from the Centre for the cash-starved MC.In the current MC, all four times when mayoral candidates were declared by the BJP, infighting came to the fore. In 2017, within days of getting elected as Mayor, Asha Jaswal and party leader Sood were blamed by fellow councillor Heera Negi for her defeat in the F&CC elections. In 2018, Jaswal, along with Sood and other councillors, filed separate nomination against Davesh Moudgil’s candidature.In 2019, Satish Kainth filed nomination in protest against Rajesh Kalia’s name. He lost the poll and later joined the Congress. Last year, when Raj Bala Malik was nominated, Heera Negi criticised the move openly.The front runnersLocal BJP chief and councillor Arun Sood, and councillors Shakti Prakash Devshali, Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and Ravi Kant Sharma are the front runners for the post even as some others are also in the race.Cong has already named its nomineesThe city Congress had on December 31 declared councillor Devinder Singh Babla as its candidate for the Mayor’s seat, while councillor Ravinder Kaur Gujral and Satish Kainth were declared party’s Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor nominees, respectively. They will also file their nominations on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayoral-poll-suspense-over-bjp-nominees-continues-193193
04-01-2021||---||Barwala chicken toll over 1 lakh: DC||Panchkula, January 3Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja was today apprised of the situation at Barwala poultry farms in light of mass death of chickens due to an unknown disease. He was presiding over a meeting on the issue with officials of the Animal Husbandry Department.Ahuja, when contacted, said they had been closely monitoring the situation and frequent site inspections by the Animal Husbandry Department were being conducted to keep everything under control.The Deputy Commissioner said they were surveying the affected farms to ascertain the exact number of fatalities. He added that the toll so far was expected to be more than 1 lakh. “The cause of deaths can only be confirmed after the report. For now, there is no need to panic,” he said.‘Bird flu as death cause unlikely’During our survey, we found poultry workers engaged in farms haven’t developed any symptom of bird flu. It gives us enough reasons to believe that it’s not bird flu. — Dr Anil Banwala, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, HaryanaDr Anil Banwala, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Haryana, said, “We apprised the DC of the current situation to ensure preparedness, control and containment of bird flu, if any such possibility arises.” He, however, added that their survey of affected sites did not suggest avian influenza or bird flu behind the mortalities.“If it would have been bird flu, a strain of the disease generally transmits from birds to humans. During our survey, we found poultry workers engaged in farms haven’t developed any symptom of bird flu. It gives us enough reasons to believe that it’s not bird flu,” Dr Banwala said.There are more than 10,000 workers at about 140 poultry farms in Barwala, the second largest poultry belt of Asia.Meanwhile, the report of samples sent to the Regional Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, is expected in a day or two.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/barwala-chicken-toll-over-1-lakh-dc-193194
04-01-2021||---||Youth dies as car rams into truck in Pinjore||Panchkula, January 3A 25-year-old youth from Baddi died in an accident near HMT factory in Pinjore.The incident took place around 12.30 am on January 1 when the victim, Rajat Parihar, along with his friend Ayush Chauhan, was travelling in a car from Shimla to Chandigarh for business purpose.In his complaint to the police, Rahul Parihar, the victim’s brother, stated that the car belonging to Ayush collided with a truck parked on the road near the factory.The accident left both Rajat and Ayush grievously injured. They were rushed to the Community Health Centre in Kalka where doctors declared Rajat dead.Ayush was referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, in view of his critical condition.A case under Section 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the unidentified driver of the truck at the Pinjore police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-dies-as-car-rams-into-truck-in-pinjore-193195
04-01-2021||Mohali||2 deaths, 47 new cases in Mohali||Two Covid-19 deaths and 47 fresh cases were reported from the district today. As many as 106 more patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours.Among the new cases, 37 were reported from Mohali (urban), four from Gharuan, three from Dhakoli, two from Kharar and one from Lalru. The district has so far seen 18,304 cases, while 16,980 patients have been cured. The active case tally has reached 979. With two more deaths today, the toll has reached 345. — TNSUT sees 16 fresh cases, one deathChandigarh: The city on Sunday reported 16 fresh cases of Covid and one death, taking the UT case tally to 19,881 and the toll to 320. A total of 54 more patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS19 new cases surface in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district has reported 19 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 10,046. The Covid toll remained at 144. While 9,721 patients have recovered from the disease so far, 181 cases are still active. The recovery rate of the district stands at 96.76 per cent. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-deaths-47-new-cases-in-mohali-193196
04-01-2021||---||Farmers’ bid to show black flags to Khattar in Panchkula thwarted||Panchkula, January 3Hundreds of farmers, who were marching towards Red Bishop, a hotel in Sector 1, from the Chandimandir toll plaza to express their anguish against Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and show him black flags in their protest against farm bills, were stopped by the police in close proximity to the toll barrier this afternoon.The farmers raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Chief Minister while waving black flags at the spot. There was no report of any confrontation or use of force by the police.The police kept one side of the Zirakpur-Shimla highway, which approaches Panchkula, blocked by parking buses till around 5 pm.A group of farmers, mostly from towns of Kalka and Pinjore, has been camping at the toll plaza since December 25 to ensure toll-free movement of vehicles till the Modi government takes back contentious farm bills.Khattar has been facing ire of farmers across the state for his government’s actions to stop them from marching towards Delhi and subsequent controversial statements disregarding the farmers’ protests.On December 24, when Khattar was in the city to campaign for the BJP-JJP candidates during the Panchkula MC elections, a large number of farmers were detained by the police to restrict them from protesting against him.Khattar fetes new Panchkula Mayor, councillorsAfter winning the mayoral post and winning a majority of the seats in alliance with the JJP in the recently held Panchkula MC elections, the BJP on Sunday organised a ‘Nargrik Abhinandan, Dhanyawad Samaroh’at a hotel in Sector 1.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Haryana BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar, Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta were among those who attended the event.Newly elected Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal and ward members from the BJP-JJP were felicitated by the CM on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-bid-to-show-black-flags-to-khattar-in-panchkula-thwarted-193200
04-01-2021||---||Start physical court hearings immediately: Bar associations||Chandigarh, January 3Representatives of the Bar Associations of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh discussed that physical hearing in courts should be started immediately. It was further resolved that if no decision is taken to start physical hearing by January 11, then an action committee should launch an agitation.The meeting was attended by presidents/secretaries of the Bars of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, including the High Court Bar Association, under the chairmanship of Karanjit Singh, Chairman of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana. The Advocate-General of Punjab, 19 members of the Bar Council, the president and the secretary of the High Court Bar Association, office-bearer of the Senior Advocates Bar Association and 110 presidents/secretaries of the district and subdivision bar associations of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh were also part of the meeting.The speakers expressed their serious concerns about the present situation of non-functioning of open courts when almost all institutions, establishments or departments had started functioning.Almost all speakers advocated the launch of strike forthwith as they have already waited for almost nine months. About 60 speakers expressed their views and gave suggestions regarding opening of courts and starting of physical hearing.The House today unanimously authorised the Chairman of the Bar Council to finalise the modalities in order to pursue the agenda of opening of all courts and start physical hearing. The meeting unanimously resolved that an action committee of 15 members, comprising four presidents of bar associations from Punjab, four from Haryana, the president of the High Court Bar Association, the president of the DBA, Chandigarh, and five members of the Bar Council, be constituted. This committee shall be headed by the Chairman of the Bar Council.The committee will coordinate with all Bars and take necessary decisions to achieve 100% physical working of courts. It was also decided that a request would be made to the Chief Justice for giving specific directions to all district and sessions judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to list all cases in all courts with specific directions, giving priority for listing of old cases concerning senior citizens, destitute women, matrimonial cases, etc. It was further resolved that all courts, including the High Court, should start working physically forthwith. Initially, half the courts should start working on alternate days on the odd-even system and after three weeks, as the situation develops, all courts should start working.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/start-physical-court-hearings-immediately-bar-associations-193202
04-01-2021||
||Congress protests rising prices of gas, fuel||Chandigarh, January 3 The local unit of the Congress today staged protests in parts of the city. They beat “thalis” and clapped to protest the increasing prices of gas, petrol, diesel and charges of water and electricity. According to the Congress, its leaders and workers in Mani Majra, Maloya, Mauli Jagran, Bapudham Colony, Ramdarbar, Maloya Rehabilitation Colony, Dadumajra, Sectors 34, 35, 25, 26, 29, 49, 20, 19 and 27, Kishangarh and Behlana village came out on roads and raised slogans against the “faulty” policies of the BJP government. They said they were supported by the local people. City Congress president Pardeep Chhabra said by increasing the prices of the basic commodities, the BJP had left no stone unturned to leave the pockets of common people completely empty. The BJP leaders made tall promises and now they are forced to take U-turn on all false promises made to people. “It seems the Modi-led BJP government has taken it upon themselves to completely destroy the nation. The farmers, students, labour, youth and even employees are often seen protesting on roads for their rights, but the ‘chowkidar of Ambani and Adani’ is absolutely deaf to the voice of common people,” he alleged. “The government is only working for the benefits of a few capitalist friends of the BJP and it can be seen in the way NPAs are increasing and huge loans of these industrialist friends of Modi are being waived,” he alleged. Senior leaders, block presidents and other office-bearers of the Chandigarh Congress took part in the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-protests-rising-prices-of-gas-fuel-193203
04-01-2021||Deepankar Sharda||PU’s digital marketing course to begin today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3Listed among top 15 online courses worldwide (among five in India) last year, Panjab University’s highly successful and popular course on digital marketing will start free of cost from January 4.The course, conducted by University Business Studies (UBS), Panjab University, has so far received confirmation of 13,690 participants and more applicants are expected to be registered in the next 10 to 15 days.The course will have 40 online modules, spreading over 15 weeks. The final examination will be conducted to certify successful learners. This course is available on the Ministry of Education’s portal, “SWAYAM”, without any enrolment fee.This course is following application-based teaching-learning pedagogy where learners will be exposed to various tools, platforms and techniques of digital marketing such as WordPress, Google Ads, Email Marketing, Social Media Marketing and Google Analytics.“This online course can be attended by anyone, who has completed or pursuing graduation. This is for the third time this course is being offered on “SWAYAM” platform and the curriculum is based on the industry practices and standards. Anyone who wanted to hone digital marketing skills may join this course on this platform,” said Dr Tejinderpal Singh, Associate Professor, UBS.Applicants can register at https://onlinecourses.swayam2.ac.in/cec21_mg08/preview.“In today’s era, digital marketing is one of the best and effective tools to pursue people. It has seen a vast popularity among both providers and receivers. So, it’s a great opportunity for those who wish to learn and explore,” said Singh.“There is a need to understand fundamentals of digital marketing and to inculcate the skills of digital marketing among students. This course aims at building conceptual foundation of digital marketing and developing students’ skills to plan, implement and monitor digital marketing campaigns in the globalised environment,” said Singh. Conducted by UBSThe course, conducted by University Business Studies (UBS), Panjab University, has so far received confirmation of 13,690 participants and more applicants are expected to be registered in the next 10 to 15 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pus-digital-marketing-course-to-begin-today-193204
04-01-2021||---||Sumit bags wrestling gold on opening day||Chandigarh, January 3Sumit and Aryan claimed first two positions, respectively, in the 57-kg final on the opening day of the Chandigarh State Senior Wrestling Championship at the Mani Majra Sports Complex here today.Manjeet won the 61-kg category gold medal by defeating Shivam, while Naveet bagged the 65-kg event gold by overpowering Vikas.In 70-kg final, Rahul defeated Vikas, whereas Preet won the 74-kg event gold by defeating Ashish. Mehar Singh won the 79-kg final and Manjeet claimed the second position.Vikas emerged victorious in the 86-kg category by defeating Jatin. In the 92-kg final, Ankit and Parveen claimed first two spots, receptively.Ankit Malik won the 97-kg category final by defeating Nitesh. Ashish won the 125-kg event by overpowering Parveen.More than 70 wrestlers participated on the first day. Earlier, Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, UT, inaugurated the championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sumit-bags-wrestling-gold-on-opening-day-193205
04-01-2021||Zirakpur||Blackmailer demands Rs 1 lakh from bizman||The police have registered a case against unknown persons for demanding Rs1 lakh from a businessman for not leaking an ‘obscene video’ of his wife and daughter on the social media.On a statement of the complainant, the police have registered a case under Sections 420, 419, 384, 506 and 120-B of the IPC. Zirakpur SHO Omkar Singh Brar said: “We are still verifying the facts. A case has been registered on a statement of the complainant.”Sources said the complainant, a resident of a housing society on VIP Road, had approached the Mohali SSP and told him that he received a phone call and the caller demanded Rs1 lakh for not leaking the video. He had reported the matter to the cyber crime cell and the Zirakpur police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/blackmailer-demands-rs-1-lakh-from-bizman-193206
04-01-2021||Zirakpur||Dhakoli to get 100-bed hospital||The Community Health Centre (CHC), Dhakoli, will be upgraded to a 100-bed hospital soon. Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu will visit Dhakoli tomorrow and is likely to make an announcement in this regard.In the absence of a hospital, people of the area have to go to Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula in case of an emergency. A full-fledged hospital in Zirakpur has been a pending demand of the residents. Meanwhile, residents said it would save their money and time besides providing them with good health facilities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhakoli-to-get-100-bed-hospital-193207
04-01-2021||---||3 tricity students shine in CAT||Chandigarh, January 3Three students from the tricity have secured more than 99 percentile in the Common Admission Test (CAT), the results of which were declared on Saturday.Kshitiz Garg, who scored 99.61 percentile, said building a strong foundation and taking mock tests regularly were behind his success. He is pursuing engineering from PEC.Himani Goyal from GGDSD College, who scored 99.05 percentile, cited her ability to identify doable questions as her success mantra.Sargam Bansal, who is studying in PEC and is one of the tricity CAT toppers among girls, scored 99.17 percentile. She said: “This year, CAT was a different ball game altogether with surprises on account of both number of questions and timing. So, the key was to have faith in your preparation and not to be unnerved by the unknown”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-tricity-students-shine-in-cat-193208
04-01-2021||Mohali||Two brothers held for murder||Tennis c’ship kicks off todayMohali: The Roots Tennis Academy, Zirakpur, will organise a three-day Challenge Series (CS-III) U-18 National Ranking Championship from January 4. The qualifying matches of the championship will be held on January 4, followed by main draw matches. TNSCricket tourney postponedPanchkula: Owing it to bad weather, the 3rd Shaheed Bhagat Singh (Seniors) Cricket Tournament has been postponed till January 18. The tournament will now be held at TDL Cricket Stadium, Panchkula. A total of four teams - Chandigarh Cricket Academy, Victoria Cricket Academy, Punjab, Royal Cricket Academy, Chandigarh, and Champion’s Cricket Academy, Kharar, - will participate in the championship. TNSCheques given to assns, societiesMohali: Balbir Singh Sidhu, Minister of Health and Family Welfare and Labour, Punjab, called upon NGOs and Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) to increase their participation in social activities. He presented cheques worth Rs4.50 lakh to various associations and societies here for social work. Sidhu said Sanatan Dharam, Phase 7, had been allotted a sum of Rs2 lakh for the construction of a dharamsala. TNS110 attend health campZirakpur: As many as 110 people attended a health check-up and awareness camp for senior citizens at Baltana here on Sunday. Deepinder Dhillon inaugurated the camp organised by a private hospital in Zirakpur. A team of experts from the hospital examined people for various health ailments. Medicine consultation and tests, including blood pressure, complete blood count and RBS, were also provided free of cost at the camp. TNS76 units of blood collected at campChandigarh: Sumna Kumari Nishkaam Sewa & Education Trust (SKNSET), in collaboration with the State NSS Cell, Chandigarh, organised its first blood donation camp at the Trauma Centre, PGI, here on New Year. State Liaison Officer Bikram Rana, SNO, Chandigarh, along with Chhotu Sharma, founder, CS Group, KS Saini, director, SIOC, and Prof Devinder Singh, Department of Law, Panjab University, motivated donors during the camp. A total of 76 units of blood was collected at the camp. NSS programme officer Er Binesh Bhatia deputed a team of 10 dedicated NSS volunteers for the camp. Rana congratulated Gaurav Thakur, founder & chairman of the SKNSET, for conducting the camp. TNSWarm clothes given to kidsChandigarh: Tricity Humans, a group of local residents, celebrated New Year with slum children at Saketri village in Panchkula on Sunday. Warm clothes and sweets were distributed among 150 slum children. Rasna Zakhmi, president of the organisation, along with other volunteers conducted the activity with enthusiasm and zeal. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-brothers-held-for-murder-193209
04-01-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University student parties plan protests||After dissolution of the Panjab University governing bodies, senate and syndicate, student parties are once again preparing to launch a protest against the authorities. The Student for Society (SFS) has urged various stakeholders to come together to press the authorities for immediate senate elections.“Unfortunately, the Vice-Chancellor used Covid-19 as an excuse and has been endlessly delaying the election. Even the Punjab and Haryana High Court refused to pass any directive to reign in the autocratic rule of the Vice-Chancellor. Syndicate members allege that the orders were passed without any consultations with them.“The university’s governing body and decision making rest solely in the hands of the Vice-Chancellor which is totally undemocratic and dictatorial. As lakhs of farmers and workers are protesting on streets to force the BJP-RSS to repeal the draconian farm laws, we all must oppose any kind of undemocratic act. Therefore, we must participate wholeheartedly in the protest,” says a note issued by the SFS.This is not the first time that student parties have decided to protest the dissolution of senate and syndicate. Earlier, the NSUI, former student leaders and students had conducted protests to press the authorities for the senate elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-student-parties-plan-protests-193211
04-01-2021||OPEN HOUSE||Replete with flaws, garbage collection needs a relook||Residents should welcome MC’s moveThe Municipal Corporation (MC) has made a progressive move by introducing collection of segregated waste in vehicles. Informed and educated residents should not only welcome this step, but also support it more so as waste is collected from inside homes and residents do not need to empty their bins. This system is more institutional, hygienic, humane, economical and sustainable. Residents should segregate waste at source, discourage old collectors and also not give tip to any MC worker. The MC on its part should be punctual, collect waste from all floors and provide same level of comfort as before.Col PS Gill (retd), ChandigarhEffective & efficient planning neededWaste segregation drive can help the city fulfil the Swachh Bharat mission. However, the plan seems to go awry due to lack of action. Effective and efficient planning can ensure right implementation of the project. Time slots along with mentioned addresses should be allotted to garbage collecting vehicles. Residents of all sectors should be made aware of segregating waste at source.Charvi Tyagi, ChandigarhMC not serious on Swachh BharatWaste management is the key to Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. This is where Chandigarh has been failing repeatedly. The private door-to-door waste collection model has not worked in the City Beautiful. The UT Administration has to tackle the waste collection issue seriously. Creating awareness through roadshows and multi-media campaigns to educate residents about how to keep city clean and green by segregation of waste at source has to be an ongoing exercise.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurCarrot-and-stick policy can bear fruitIt is our duty to segregate waste and hand it over to collectors in two separate buckets. It’s easy to segregate waste at source rather than at the processing plant. Residents should be apprised about waste segregation at source. Thereafter, violators should fined Rs100 for not complying with waste segregation norms. Only carrot- and- stick policy can bear fruits.KC Rana, ChandigarhStop giving waste to rehriwalasDoor-to-door garbage collection started by the UT Administration is a step towards cleaner city. The Administration has started garbage collection through vehicles, but residents seem unaware of the project. There is a need apprise residents about garbage segregation at source and timing of collection to make the project successful. Residents should stop giving waste to rehriwalas.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliDistribute pamphlets, educate residentsPeople must be educated in small groups about segregation of household wet and dry waste. Many residents are not aware of waste segregation at the source. Awareness camps can be arranged and pamphlets distributed door to door to spread information about segregating waste at source. A date must be fixed for strictly implementing the project and fines imposed on those, who do not follow waste collection norms.Dr Sunil Behl, Chandigarhcooperate with authoritiesHousehold waste and its environment friendly disposal has been a sore subject in Chandigarh. Now, the Chandigarh MC has introduced much awaited specially designed vehicles with separate compartments of dry and wet waste. The MC has also roped in previous door-to-door waste collectors to do their job in tandem with the crew of these vehicles. The ball is now in the court of every household, which have to sincerely segregate their dry and wet waste in separate containers or bags. By and large Chandigarhians are responsible residents and will cooperate with the authorities to make the project successful. However, the MC authorities will have to ensure compliance of the waste collection norms to make the project successful.SC Luthra, ChandigarhGarbage collectors should be friendlyThe UT Administration needs to create awareness regarding segregation of waste among residents by door-to-door visits and electronic and print media. Special garbage collection arrangements must be made for senior citizens, who live alone or working couples, who leave home early in the morning. Proper training must be imparted to garbage collectors to collect waste. Garbage collectors need to be friendly and cooperate with residents and authorities to make the waste segregation plan a success.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliMC must collaborate with welfare assnsTo improve waste collection in the UT, awareness must be spread regarding segregation of waste at the source. Door-to-door garbage collection vehicles that have been introduced by the MC will be successful only if residents are aware of the project. Advertisements and collaboration with RWAs can considerably generate awareness. Rest, residents must take it as their responsibility and the need of the hour to segregate waste at source before handing it over to collectors.Shobhna Kalra, Panchkulaprevious method of collection was goodThe MC has replaced the previous method of garbage collection by introducing vehicles. Chandigarh is a city where many old and retired live. Many have their children working at far flung places even abroad. They are finding it difficult to dispose of garbage in vehicles. With age all suffer from one or the other disease. Many live on the first or second floors. It is difficult for working couples to dispose of segregated garbage in vehicles. The previous method of garbage collection by rehriwalas was good. More so they will lose their jobs once the new project becomes fully functional. We all have social responsibility towards them. The MC must give a second thought and stick to previous method of garbage collection.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhProvide colour-coded disposal bagsEducate people about segregating waste at their homes through various platforms such as interesting TV advertisements, newspapers etc. Providing them labelled material like colour coded disposal bags for segregating waste. Highlight pros of door-to-door collection. Urge people to keep Chandigarh clean. Explain how small steps save time and effort at the higher level.Sapanpreet Kaur, ChandigarhImpose fine for flouting normsIt is true that people know about waste segregation, but are reluctant to do it. They need to understand that the segregation of waste is for the welfare of society. So, they must follow all the guidelines issued by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation. Fine should be imposed on them in case they fail to follow waste segregation norms. Indians take pride in flouting rules and regulations. This type of thinking must be curbed.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhA welcome step of the civic bodyDecision of the Municipal Corporation to segregate waste at source is a welcome step. It will save us from mountains of garbage dumped at Dadu Majra, which gives an unhygienic look to passersby and residents staying nearby. Each sector should setup resource management centre to recycle waste. Dry waste (non-biodegradable) like clothes, polythene, bags, paper boards and used paper plates should be compressed in hydraulic machine to make useful items like planters, benches, tiles etc. Wet waste (biodegradable) like wood, cut vegetables, milk, tea leaves, fruit, food leftovers etc can be put in a rectangular bin to make organic manure. Organic manure will be ready within 50 to 60 days and can be used in kitchen gardens. Our mission should be 3Rs that is reduce, reuse and recycle so that no waste goes out of the sector.Col TBS Bedi (retd), Mohalimake residents aware of the new methodThe Chandigarh MC has purchased some vehicles to collect segregated waste door-to-door. But this method has not been widely publicised. Due to lack of awareness residents still give unsegregated waste to rehriwalas. The MC should make the public aware about waste segregation at source and disposal for at least 15 to 20 days and then switch over to the new method of garbage collection. Residents, who don’t follow MC’s instructions, should be penalised for negligent attitude.MR Bhateja, NayagaonPenalties not a solutionNo system of waste collection will work till residents understand its importance. Penalties for violation of the MC guidelines can never be a solution. They cannot coerce residents to segregate waste at source. Every household must dispose of segregated waste in two bags. Residents and sanitation workers have to be educated about classification of waste.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaAvoid generating waste in first placeTo reduce the household waste plastic bags should be avoided. Say no to bottled water. The best way of dealing with waste economically and environmentally is to avoid generating it in the first place. For effective waste management reuse, recycle and energy recovery are more sustainable than conventional landfill or dumpsite disposal technique. Recycling saves energy, keeps waste out of landfills and incinerators and provides raw material for new products. This will conserve energy, reduce environmental pollution and help to earn money.Akshar Kumar Singla, ChandigarhResidents not aware of new projectGarbage collection vehicles are not much successful in the City Beautiful because residents are not aware of this project. They do not know about waste segregation at source. The UT civic body should organise webinar to highlight the benefits of waste segregation at source and its disposal in a right manner. Posters regarding proper waste management should be displayed in public places.Diksha Sood, AmlohEvery house must have two binsSensitise residents about twin bins. Tell them that green and blue bins are for wet and dry waste (biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste). Display list of items that can be disposed of in green and blue bins respectively. The lackadaisical attitude of garbage collectors towards segregation must be checked.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhScope for improving garbage collectionGarbage collection project introduced by the MCC is good, but there is scope for improvement. The MCC should improve waste collection service and make it user friendly. The civic body should set up an effective system for redressal of grievances related to garbage collection. Rates for garbage collection should be reasonable. The new project should not inconvenience residents, particularly those living on upper floors.Ramesh Kumar Arora, ChandigarhDoor-to-door waste collection betterWaste collection vehicles have been introduced by the MC in haste. The new system should have been tried in a few sectors. It’s almost impossible for each resident to come out from his/her flat and put garbage in the MC vehicle. Door-to-door collection is preferred in flats. Garbage collection vehicles should function under the supervision of the RWAs. People should keep separate bins for dry and wet waste.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhCollection vehicles without attendantsGarbage collection vehicles of the MC are without required manpower. The project should have been prepared after consultations with residents. How can the MC expect residents to wait for the arrival of vehicles to handover waste? There is a place in all houses where waste is kept and should be collected by attendants of vehicles, but they just come and pass. A flow chart should be prepared from house to vehicle, including required manpower, and then the new garbage collection system should be put into place.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhResidents’ habits will not change overnightThe decision of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation to effectively manage garbage in the city seems to be a knee jerk reaction to the impending Swachh Sarvekshan 2021. It has many pitfalls as habits of residents will not change overnight. The MC should have at least created awareness about the whole system. Penalising is no guarantee for success and it will antagonise residents. Many are even not aware about classification of garbage into various categories. Now, all of us should cooperate with the MC to make this drive a success so that City Beautiful climbs up in the 20121 Swachh Sarvekshan ranking.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhCivic body taking project lightlyThe Chandigarh Municipal Corporation started the project to collect door-to-door segregated household garbage. Residents are facing many problems since the start of this project. The MC is also taking this project lightly. People are hardly aware about segregation of the waste. The MC should start awareness programme by involving small number of people to make them aware of waste segregation at the source. The MC should conduct a survey to find out what kind of garbage collection system city residents want before coming up with any policy in this regard.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhNew project will be counter-productiveThe newly-introduced door-to-door garbage collection through twin-bin vans is riddled with flaws and is likely to prove counter-productive if the first day drive, which kicked off from Sectors 1 to 30, is any pointer. The drive left many residents high and dry as a majority of them were unaware of newly-introduced system of segregating waste at the source. The new system, replacing the far more people-friendly door-to-door garbage collection, created confusion among residents. Senior citizens and working couples, especially those residing on upper floors, are hard hit by the new system. Another potential hindrance is jumbo-sized vehicles, which are not able to enter narrow lanes and bylanes with dead ends. The MC authorities would have done better had they kept RWAs and other stakeholders in the loop for making a better and effective system. The authorities need to ensure that the system is implemented in a spirit prioritising residents’ convenience.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhRWAs not taken into confidenceThe new garbage collection method is a long-pending project, implemented in haste and without doing proper homework. Residents were not taken into confidence before formulation of the project. This created confusion among people. Wards RWAs were not involved and were flooded with complaints when the project was launched. There is no labour for picking up garbage from the door step. Besides, ‘rehriwalas’ collecting waste are protesting because they will lose their jobs. To improve garbage collection RWAs must be involved in the implementation and functioning of the project. timing for the arrival of garbage collection vehicles with proper workforce should be fixed for each sector.Vidya Sagar Garg, Panchkulalaunch App for waste segregationTo ensure that the new system of collecting segregated waste is successful, the MC has to work wholeheartedly towards it. An app can be created through which residents can learn how to segregate their waste and also report any problem they are facing. Residents should also be able to track waste collection truck and communicate with its driver through the app. If a person is senior citizen living alone then waste collectors should assist him/her in segregating garbage. The MC should collect waste from every household. NGOs and RWAs can organise workshops to teach people how to segregate waste.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhPut all garbage collectors on MC rollA new project has been launched for door-to-door collection of waste using twin bin vehicles. Residents do not know how to segregate dry and wet waste, at what time collection vehicle will arrive in their area and what will be the fate of residents living on upper floors. Besides, what is the status of present door-to-door rehriwala garbage collectors? If we want to make the project a success, there is a need to bring awareness through media, pamphlets and personal contacting through NGO/RWAs. All door-to-door garbage collectors should be brought on the rolls of the corporation as this is the only source of their livelihood.SK Khosla, ChandigarhCreate awareness on waste segregationThe MC authorities must initiate and fund the scheme for installing bio-compost plants by residents and institutions in the city. Bio-compost is quite suitable for making land fertile and for growing vegetables. Every resident should be duty bound to segregate. The MC should hold awareness camps regarding segregating waste in sectors on regular basis. Once public awareness level is satisfactory then only the UT Administration should implement the segregation process and impose penalties for non-compliance.Sanjay Chopra, Mohali QUESTIONCovid-19 vaccines are going to be rolled out soon. What are your apprehensions regarding the vaccination programme?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/replete-with-flaws-garbage-collection-needs-a-relook-193212
