04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Easing restrictions necessary to bring economy back on track: Chandigarh admn||Chandigarh administrator VP Singh Badnore, on Monday, said that it was necessary to ease lockdown restrictions in the Union Territory to bring the economy back on track and give relief to daily wagers.Shops in the internal sector of Chandigarh’s non-containment zones opened on Monday from 10 am to 6 pm according to the odd-even formula. However, bars, sweet shops and restaurants have not been allowed to open yet.The administration lifted the curfew from May 3 midnight but has imposed a lockdown till May 17 in the city.“After 41 days of the lockdown, it was necessary to ease out restrictions for bringing the economy on track and also for giving relief to daily (wage) earners. Hence, as per guidelines of the Home Ministry, the Chandigarh administration provided certain exemptions in the lockout,” said Badnore in a statement, here.He appealed to the residents of the UT to strictly follow the directions of the administration relating to social distancing.While thanking the citizens of Chandigarh for the positive compliance during the curfew period, he sought their cooperation for curbing the spread of COVID-19.The administration has allowed opening of all government offices under strict social-distancing norms. The office timings have also been changed to 8.30 am to 4.30 pm.This was necessary to reduce the concentration of employees travelling to offices of Punjab, Haryana and the Central government at the same time, he said.However, the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 pm to 7 am, as per the order.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said all efforts were being made to ensure that the relaxations being given were not misused. “All field staff are taking care to ensure social distancing at public places,” he added.Chandigarh has reported a total of 102 coronavirus cases so far. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/easing-restrictions-necessary-to-bring-economy-back-on-track-chandigarh-admn-80337
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Huge rush at liquor shops as lockdown restrictions eased in Chandigarh||People gathered in large numbers outside liquor shops in Chandigarh, forcing the administration to shut them down in various sectors to control the crowd.The liquor vends opened after 40 days on Monday as the third phase of the coronavirus-forced lockdown began with the easing of certain restrictions.The Administration was forced to shut several liquor vends, including those in Sector 18, 20 and 21. Later, several shops were opened after markings to ensure social distancing were drawn up with the help of the police.The Chandigarh Administration has allowed the opening of liquor shops from 10 am to 6 pm only in sector markets from Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/huge-rush-at-liquor-shops-as-lockdown-restrictions-eased-in-chandigarh-80283
04-05-2020||ATM Van||ATM route plan for today||Location to start: PNB House Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Ashwani DhariaContact No. 9779196055Proposed route: Bapu Dham & Ram Darbar (9 am to 2 pm), ChandigarhTime to start: 8.30 amATM Van, Andhra BankLocation to start: Andhra Bank, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Satvinder GurnamContact No. 8146903533Proposed route: Sector 30 and 32 (9 am to 2 pm)Time to start: 8.30 amATM Van, Canara BankLocation to start: Canara Bank, Plot no. 1, Sector 34-A, ChandigarhCoordinator: RavneetContact No. 9872265661Proposed route: Kachhi Colony, Dhanas, and Sector 25 (9 am to 2 pm)Time to start: 8.30 amATM Van, SBILocation to start: LHO, SBI, 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Pawan SharmaContact No. 8728900229Proposed route: Sector 52 and 49 (9 am to 2 pm)Time to start: 8.30 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-route-plan-for-today-80142
04-05-2020||Mohali||Two more cases in Mohali, tally 95||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-cases-in-mohali-tally-95-80084
04-05-2020||Can online classes affect the quality of education?||In nascent stage, online education quite a task for pupils||Online classes keep students busyOnline classes are beneficial for students. Being an assistant professor, I started taking online classes earlier. My students are happy as regular online classes and creative assignments helps in spending their time meaningfully. Two-way communication helps in discussion, debate and interaction. Students from J&K, who have 2g Internet, and those from places where net connectivity is slow do face some problems.Vishiwjeet Singh, ChandigarhSummarise with objective-type syllabiEven if there is a possibility of partial relaxation in the lockdown for some establishments with harsher conditions in the near future, chances of opening educational institutions is still remote. Net-based education cannot fully replace traditional classrooms. Therefore, teachers while interacting with their respective students can sum up with objective-type syllabi.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliShift to teaching with technologyAll education is self-education and best learning is self-learning. Learning is a continuous and ongoing process. The need of the hour is to come out of the pandemic pedagogy to the milieu of teaching with technology. Commit to memory that educational institutes are not closed. Only infrastructure of bricks and concrete are locked. The teaching fraternity is working harder than ever. Gen-X has to learn to think to make true progress and cannot survive on teacher.Dr Bharat, ChandigarhNo substitute for classroomsIt's difficult to monitor all students in online classes. A teacher cannot devote his/her attention to all students. So, online education is not a substitute for classrooms. Physical classrooms provides more effective learning.Sachin Malik, ChandigarhInteraction gets mechanicalNo online education can compensate for actual environment of a school as teacher-taught and classmate bonding is missing. It's all about imparting knowledge whereas in classrooms, the focus is on comprehensive development of students. Education is a lot more than injecting knowledge. Quality of education suffers when student-teacher interaction gets mechanical losing personal touch. Most households are not equipped for online classes or parental contribution to supplement digital instructions.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaMany rural areas devoid of internetHats off to teachers burning the midnight oil to provide online education to students during the Covid-19 crisis. For the time being, it serves the purpose to keep students engaged during the curfew/lockdown, but for sure it will not prove beneficial in the long run. The biggest problem is connectivity with many rural areas totally devoid of Internet. The content sent online is teacher centered whereas it should be student centered.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhNo hope of re-opening institutionsThere is no hope that education institutions will reopen shortly. India is a poor and developing country. Mostly population belongs to rural and slum areas. They are poor and less educated people, who cannot afford expenditure to avail digital facilities. It means they cannot access online education. Poor students will not be able to cover courses due to lack of Internet facility. Online classes will have bad affect on overall quality of education.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliDigital teaching will affect standardTricity residents are responsible for increasing Covid cases because they have paid no heed to advisories of the Central and state governments. Teachers must be acquainted with online teaching. The authorities must provide the infrastructure for digital education. Online classes will affect the education standard, but under prevailing circumstances, these are the need of the hour.M R Bhateja, NayagaonClassroom education only way outOnly classrooms can provide quality education, which a child can learn and retain during his lifetime. Online classes have a short-term retention in child’s mind. Moreover, a child needs physical handholding to grow up. How can computer take place of a teacher or a parent? Online education is the domain of the middle class and the rich. Where will poor and slum children go if everything goes online? Guru-shishya mode is best for giving education.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurPupils may find online teaching difficultContinuity is prerequisite for success. If a student misses school for a day or changes his institution, he finds it difficult to understand lessons taught or adjust to the new environment. Hence, change over to online teaching due to pandemic will definitely affect the quality of education. All teachers may not be conversant with online teaching. The Administration must ensure Wi-Fi connectivity and computers for all students.Dr Gurdev Singh, Mohaliinitiative to keep system afloatDue to Covid pandemic, everything has been put on back burner. This has caused anxiety and increased frustration among students and parents. The Administration's decision to start online classes is silver lining in this gloomy atmosphere. It will help students in many ways and bring discipline in their lives. They will remain focused. It will be an experience to learn for those, who are not adept to technology. With ample time in hand, students can hone up their skills.Veena Mahajan, ChandigarhBridge digital divideWith the spread of Coronavirus pandemic, there have been many changes in children’s lives and the newest is the concept of digital learning. Luckily, it has come as a fun-filled and interactive way to learn. There are many, who cannot access online classes, as they lack resources like computer, smart phones and Internet connectivity. This brings forth the need to bridge digital divide. The authorities should work towards making Internet accessible to all. One to one student-teacher interaction via phone calls can be of great help.Dr Shruti K Chawla, ChandigarhNo comparison with normal classroomOnline classes cannot be compared with normal classroom studies. Nor can proper results be achieved through online learning. A student is neatly dressed and attentive in his/her class whereas at home the same student is in a relaxed mood. In classroom, a student can discuss anything with his/her teacher or classmates, which is not possible through online education. Online classes will certainly affect students' performance.Gurpreet S Malhotra, ChandigarhWish schools open soonMy grandson Vivaan is receiving his Class III lessons daily from his school through my e-mail ID as per the timetable. The child remains busy for at least three hours daily with two shifts. He is happy. But, he misses his classmates, teachers, practical contacts with them, the school classroom and playground. Above all, he misses morning assembly and school discipline. This certainly affects the quality of education. I wish schools open-up soon.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhSafety of students, teachers importantSafety of students and teachers is important. It is also difficult for students belonging to poor families to attend online classes at home. Many students do not have access to smart phones and Internet connectivity. Besides, speed issue and power cuts are dampener for online classes. Moreover, there is no policy or guidelines for online classes. Impractical experience will add further to parents' burden.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhClassroom education better for kidsDuring the nationwide lockdown, around 300 million kids are staying at homes. Many children have no access to online learning through laptops or cell phones. Online courses call for a greater motivation and self-discipline. A classroom has one or more instructors and peers, who can hold a student accountable for his/her work. In contrast, online courses involve setting own goals, tracking progress and meeting deadlines. Classroom education has the benefit of face-to-face interactions.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhCannot inculcate values in studentsOnline education cannot inculcate virtues like discipline, patience, cooperation and coexistence. Moreover, the sense of competition is also not visible. A student learns a lot through interaction with teachers and other students in a classroom. Optional attendance always proves bad and increases involvement in immoral activities. Despite shortcomings, it will not be an exaggeration to say that online study has revolutionised education. Students not opting for online education will lag behind in life.Anita K Tandon, KhararNot a reliable alternativeOnline classes cannot be a reliable alternative for students and their institutions. Concentration and discipline are required for better understanding of tedious subjects, which is achieved in classroom. A good tutor can easily guess through eye contact and facial expression whether contents are clear to students or not.Ghaninder Khanna, ZirakpurNothing wrong with online studiesThere seems to be nothing wrong with ushering in of the novel concept of online studies in the wake of the e Covid-19 pandemic across the country. But the non-availability of requisite PCs, laptops and ipads amongst the student community could possibly be one of the major irritants. But, chances of quality of education getting adversely affected in the process largely appear bleak.SK Gupta, ChandigarhWeak students at receiving endBrilliant students have more capability to understand, but what about average/below average students, who need regular monitoring and repetition of lessons more than once. They will be hit hard. Besides, slow Internet will affect studies of students attending online classes.Sub Lt RK Kapoor (retd), MohaliSaving lives more importantOnline teaching would save many innocent lives. Learning may be on track once normalcy is restored post pandemic. Saving precious lives is more important. Teaching online will keep children busy. Something is better than nothing. Otherwise, an empty mind is devil's house.Charu Malhotra, MohaliOverall quality of education improvedPositively online teaching has enhanced the overall educational quality. Even some students, who do not attend classes regularly, are also getting their study material, learning through various resourceful methods adopted by their respective teachers with convenience of time and place. When the lockdown started, the semester was towards end. Almost 75% syllabus was already completed. Students got sufficient material and time for coursework.Dr Shailja Beniwal, ChandigarhOnline education affects qualityIn the wake of the extended lockdown some educational institutes started digital learning, an elitist approach, as a large number of students don't have access to advanced technology. Besides, digital education involves development of analytical and other intellectual skills. It also means acquiring practical skills, seek solutions to complex problems and learn to work in teams. The government should use services of Doordarshan/radio and ensure that content package provided by competent teachers is shared with students.SK Khosla, Chandigarh QUESTIONCurfew/lockdown norms in the tricity have been eased after a long time. This is expected to spur economic activity, bringing relief to labourers, workers and others. What more should be done to solve problems of those whose livelihood has been severely affected?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-nascent-stage-online-education-quite-a-task-for-pupils-80020
04-05-2020||---||No odd-even for vehicles in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 3Doing away with the odd-even formula, the UT Administration today decided to allow all vehicles to ply in the city from 7 am to 7 pm from tomorrow. Partially modifying its earlier order, the Administration also decided to change the timings of opening of shops. Now, the shops will open from 10 am to 6 pm instead of 7 am to 7 pm as mentioned in the earlier order.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the curfew would be lifted from the city from the midnight, but lockdown would continue from 7 pm to 7 am from May 4. Residents would stay indoors as per the prohibitory orders issued by the District Magistrate.He said the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities would remain strictly prohibited during the lockdown period between 7 pm and 7 am. Parida said inter-state travel would be allowed for permitted activities only.In Chandigarh, the passes issued by the deputy commissioners of Mohali and Panchkula would be honoured. Strict perimeter and thermal scanning would be done at the entry points of the city, he added.The Adviser said no street vendors or hawkers, except for those authorised by the Municipal Corporation for essential commodities, would be allowed to operate.All shops in internal sector market (neighbourhood shops) will remain open from 10 am to 6 pm on odd-even basis. Strict implementation of social distancing and other precautions would have to be ensured. Milk, vegetables, fruits and chemists shops have been exempted from these timings.All government offices will open under strict social distancing norms from May 4, but no public dealing will be done till May 11, so that the premises could be sanitised and pending works could be expedited.Parida said individuals could use their vehicles without formal passes from 7 am to 7 pm. However, all residents were advised to stay indoors and not to come out unless absolutely necessary, for permitted purposes like going to office, factory, hospital and neighbourhood shops. Usage of cycle would be encouraged.Important decisionsWhat’s shutOther directives‘Outer market Bizmen discriminated against’In a tweet, the city Congress stated why should traders having shops in outer markets be discriminated against? If shops in internal markets can be opened with social distancing, why not those in outer markets?Beopar Mandal hails UT moveWelcoming the UT decision to open shops in sector markets, Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said they would ask the Administration to open other markets in the city in a phased manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-odd-even-for-vehicles-in-chandigarh-80019
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||One arrested with heroin||PU to remain closed till May 17Chandigarh: Panjab University and its regional centres, constituent and affiliated colleges will continue to remain close till May 17, said Registrar Prof Karamjeet Singh. In addition, the guidelines issued by the Centre from time to time will also be applicable. TNSEntrance tests rescheduledChandigarh: Panjab University has rescheduled entrance tests for 2020-2021 session for BA/BCom LLB (Hons) 5-year-integrated course; PU-CET (UG); and PUMEET to June 17, June 25 and July 5, respectively. The prospectus (including application form) and revised schedule is available online at uglaw.puchd.ac.in; cetug.puchd.ac.in; and pumeet.puchd.ac.in. TNSBook Released on military pensionsChandigarh: A book dealing with legal issues pertaining retirement benefits to Armed Forces personnel was released online on Saturday. The book titled ‘Military Pensions: Commentary, Case Law and Provisions’ is authored by Major Navdeep Singh. The book contains a variety of unique provisions dealing with pensions in defence services, along with relevant rules, from 1940 till the latest ones promulgated in 2020. It also contains important decisions of the Supreme Court, High Courts and the Armed Forces Tribunal on different facets dealing with pension. TNSGold jewellery, valuables stolenChandigarh: Gold jewellery and valuables were stolen from a house on the Panjab University (PU) campus. According to the police, Subhash, a resident of PU campus, Sector 14, reported that an unknown person committed theft at his aunt’s house who lives in Block A. The police said the theft was discovered on May 2. They said the stolen property was yet to be estimated by the owners. A case has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. TNSMinister gives dry rationMohali: Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today undertook an initiative of distributing dry ration packets containing oil, rice, atta and other items of daily use among 1,100 needy families in Phase 6 and Sector 70 here on Sunday. Sidhu said extending a helping hand to the needy in this hour of crisis was the social obligation of everyone. He said the poor and needy sections would not be made to face shortage of essential supplies in the wake of the curfew imposed owing to Covid-19. He also exhorted the people to stay indoors, step out only when necessary, follow social distancing guidelines, wash hands and exercise every precaution to defeat Covid-19. TNSSanskrit scholar passes awayChandigarh: The literary fraternity of the region mourned the demise of prominent Sanskrit and Hindi scholar Dr Mathura Dutt Pandey, who passed away at 94 after battling a brief illness, at a hospital here on Sunday. Credited with more than 30 literary creations of merit in Sanskrit and Hindi, Panchkula-based Pandey had been decorated with the honour of President’s coveted Lifetime Achievement Award for Sanskrit Language and Literature (2006) and also the Uttaranchal Sahitya Akademi Award (2005). Both honours were presented by the then president of India, Dr APJ Abul Kalam. Winner of the Kalidas Samman, he was bestowed with Punjab Shiromani Sanskrit Sahityakar Award. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-arrested%C2%A0with-heroin-80018
04-05-2020||Amit Sharma||Despite lockdown, traffic police net Rs 57.75 lakh fine||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3Despite the city under a lockdown since March 23, the UT traffic police managed to collect close to Rs 57.75 lakh as fine from traffic violators who drove in the city in violation of the curfew orders.Police figures reveal that a total of 7,510 challans have been issued since the lockdown and 6,661 vehicles have been impounded till May 2."Of the 7,510 challans issued, 3,712 have been disposed of and a revenue of Rs 57.75 lakh has been collected," said a police official.The official said they had expected that hardly any challans would be issued in the city during the curfew, but people still moved out of their houses on vehicles, which led to a large number of challans being issued and vehicle getting impounded.The police said the prime focus was to impound vehicles for curfew violations. However, on further checking, it was found that people were driving without a licence or without complete documents due to which challans for these offences were also added to the total fine.Majority of vehicles impounded two-wheelersClose to 5,100 two-wheelers and around 1,400 four-wheelers, besides auto-rickshaws, have been impounded by the police. Police officials said people whose vehicles were impounded needed to apply for an e-pass to get their vehicles released from the Traffic Lines, Sector 29. "The facility of e-pass was started on April 26 and since then, 770 people have applied for an e-pass to get their vehicles released of which 707 pass requests were approved and the remaining 63 were rejected, mainly due to challan form not uploaded by the e-pass applicant," the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-lockdown-traffic-police-net-rs-57-75-lakh-fine-80015
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||5 new COVID-19 cases detected in Chandigarh; total now 102||The number of COVID-19 cases reached 102 in Chandigarh on Monday, with five more people testing positive for the virus in the Union territory, officials said here.A 13-year-old girl and a 15-year-old boy are among the five fresh cases, a medical bulletin said.All tested positive on Monday were family contacts of a positive COVID-19 patient and were residents of Bapu Dham colony, which had been declared a containment zone and was the worst-affected area of the city, it said.A total of 21 COVID-19 patients had been discharged from hospitals after they were fully cured of the virus, the bulletin stated.A total of 1,678 samples have been tested so far, and of these, reports of 30 samples are awaited, while 80 cases are active in the city. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-new-covid-19-cases-detected-in-chandigarh-total-now-102-80014
04-05-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Dad battling cancer, doctor pandemic||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 2A cancer-afflicted father and an eight-month-old baby at home do not stop Dr Utkarsh Singh Anand (37) from performing his duty. A resident of Sector 15, he daily travels to Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital in Banur, which has the biggest isolation facility in Punjab, to oversee the distribution of protective gear among the staff.A medical officer at ESI Hospital, Mohali, Dr Utkarsh has been clocking an eight-hour shift every day since April 25.“This facility houses Covid-19 patients from three districts of Punjab — Mohali, Fatehgarh Sahib and Ropar. Right now, 70 positive cases are being treated here. As many as 33 have been discharged,” he says.Dr Utkarsh attends to the paramedical staff at the logistics department. “I was on night duty for a couple of days when I had to interact with Covid patients. Now, I am managing the supply of masks, PPE kits, hazmat suits and oxygen cylinders to the staff at the Covid-19 ICU and other wards,” he says.Since he comes in contact with the health staff dealing with Covid, a constant worry has been his 69-year-old father, whose cancer is in the last stage. “My father was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2012 and has been on chemotherapy since 2018. His next chemo is due on May 16,” he adds. “Though I have been relieved for the day, I am worried as there has to be a quarantine period. I don’t want to put my father at risk. But then, this profession has a higher calling.”His son was born premature, weighing 1,100 gm. “He was in the ICU for 45 days. I cannot meet both my father and son, as they are in the high-risk groups. So, I stay in a separate room at the backyard,” he shares.Dr Utkarsh, who follows a strict hygiene routine, only sees his family from a distance through a window, adhering to social distancing. However, he does get to see them closely through video calls. His final message to residents: “Stay at home and maintain social distancing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dad-battling-cancer-doctor-pandemic-80013
04-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Husband, in-laws booked for dowry death||Lalru, May 3Three members of a family were booked for dowry death after a 22-year-old married woman was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her house in Kheri Jattan village near here on Saturday.The victim has been identified as Disha, who belongs from Yamunanagar, Haryana.In his complaint to the police, Krishan Kumar, father of the deceased, alleged that Disha got married to Kamal Kanth, a resident of Kheri Jattan village, Lalru, last year according. After a couple of months, her husband and in-laws started harassing her for not bringing adequate dowry.The complainant stated that they came to know that his daughter was not well. On reaching her in-laws’ place, the family was shocked to see that she had died. The family alleged that their daughter was killed by her husband and in-laws for dowry.Acting on the complaint of the woman’s family members, the police have registered a case against the husband and in-laws under relevant sections of the IPC at the Lalru police post. No arrest was made yet.According to sources, a panel of three doctors had been set up to conduct the post-mortem at the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/husband-in-laws-booked-for-dowry-death-80005
04-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Liquor shop sealed||A team of the district administration, led by Fatehgarh Sahib SDM Sanjeev Kumar and tehsildar Gurjinder Singh, raided Bhamarsi Buland village and found a wine shop open. The salesmen were arrested. Besides, those home-quarantined were seen roaming in village. A case has been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-shop-sealed-80002
04-05-2020||---||In Panchkula, shops to open from 8 am to 6 pm||Panchkula, May 3Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Sunday issued an order regarding timings for the opening of neighbourhood and standalone shops during the lockdown 3.0, which starts on Monday.As per the order, shops selling essentials, including milk, grocery, confectionery and bakery, and books will remain open on all days between 8 am and 6 pm.Furniture, mobile repair and recharge, electrical goods, hardware, photostat, bike and car repair shops besides plumbers and electricians will be allowed to operate on Monday, Wednesday and Friday between 8 am and 6 pm.Garment, gift, jewellery and dry cleaning shop owners can run their businesses on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday between 8 am and 6 pm.The order stated that all establishments shall ensure permanent paint marking outside and inside the premises.Ahuja said shops selling liquor, paan, gutka, tobacco etc. should ensure minimum 6 feet distance between customers and that not more than five persons were present at the shop.Shops and their operation hours from today||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-panchkula-shops-to-open-from-8-am-to-6-pm-79995
04-05-2020||Ambala||Fire at 2 factories||A major fire broke out at a chemical factory near Jatwar village of Shahzadpur block here late on Sunday night. Drums filled with chemicals were lying in the open at the factory. Fire officer Amar Singh said foam was being used to control the fire. Five fire tenders had been pressed into service to douse the flames. It would be checked if the factory had any fire NoC or not. The exact cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. No injury or casualty was reported in the incident so far. Fire-fighters were still making efforts to control the fire till the filing of the report. Meanwhile, another fire incident was reported at Pratap factory in the Saha block of Ambala late this night. The SHO, Saha, who reached the spot, said 6 fire tenders had been pressed into service to douse the flames. No loss of life has been reported yet. The exact cause of the fire was not known yet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-at-2-factories-79993
04-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||Space crunch in colonies a cause for concern in UT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3Chandigarh’s most densely populated colonies, including Bapu Dham Colony (43 cases) and a part of Sector 30-B (18 cases) are among six containment zones. Sixty-one cases out of 97 are from areas where a large number of people have been quarantined in their small houses.This has been a major cause of worry for medical experts, who believe that it will be difficult to practise social distancing in EWS houses where living spaces are significantly cramped. However, the UT Administration seems to be in a deep slumber as new Covid-19 positive cases are being reported every day from Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30-B.The UT had a contingency plan for the worst case scenario and identified quarantine centres. However, primary and secondary contacts of positive patients are being quarantined at their homes, which lack space. Therefore, all such persons should be sent to quarantine centres.There are numerous community centres, government schools and stadiums, which can further be converted into quarantine centres.Containment zones, including Kacchi Colony in Dhanas, part of Bapu Dham Colony, part of Sector 30-B, part of Shastri Nagar in Mani Majra, part of Sector 38 and part of Sector 52, are thickly populated colonies. In Bapu Dham, which accounts for about 45 per cent cases, 10-15 labourers share a single room.Despite people reporting that they have medical issues, the administration is ignoring their requests. Sandeep Kumar, a local, said, “My wife had a heart surgery. People in our neighbourhood are irresponsible. I have written to the UT Administrator and Adviser to shift us to a quarantine facility, but I have not heard from them. I fear for my wife and family.”RK Garg, president, Seconds Innings Association, said, “If the administration has a facility, why not use it? They should be shifted to Panchyat Bhavan in Sector 26 or some other nearby area. Else, cases will continue to increase.”UT’s Health Secretary Arun Gupta, said, “Facility is for those who have no houses for quarantine. Our point is to ensure that they stay wherever they are and not mixing with others.”Even contact tracing and quarantine teams advise people undergoing quarantine to isolate themselves in a separate room.12 Covid care centresSood Dharamshala, Sector 22; Panchayat Bhawan, Sector 18; GMCH-32; Infosys Sarai, PGIMER; Panjab University girls hostel no 8; girls hostel no 9; girls hostel no 10; International Hostel; Government School behind PGI; Parkview Hotel, Sector 24; James Hotel, Sector 17; and private Hospitals/Nursing Homes. There are a total of 2,675 beds.Six containment zones||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/space-crunch-in-colonies-a-cause-for-concern-in-ut-79992
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Flypast, band displays mark armed forces’ gratitude to Covid warriors||Expressing solidarity and gratitude to Covid warriors – doctors, nurses, paramedics, health workers, police and civil officials — the armed forces held fly pasts and pad displays in the tricity.Two IAF C-130 Super Hercules transport aircraft flew in formation over Sukhna Lake, while IAF helicopters showered petals over the PGI, the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, and the Western Command Hospital, Chandimandir.The recently inducted C-130s flew at a height of about 1,000 feet above the ground. They came in from Srinagar and proceeded to Delhi and thereafter on to several other cities across the country before culminating the flight at the Salur airbase in Tamil Nadu.The Army organised programmes at the civil hospitals in Panchkula and Mohali to honour the Covid warriors. They were felicitated by the Station Commander with military bands in attendance playing popular tunes.The Engineer brigade of Zirakpur conducted a 30-minute show of gratitude to the entire medical fraternity at a Covid hospital in Phase VI, Mohali.Tunes like ‘Kadam Kadam Badhaye Ja’ and ‘Sare Jahan se Achha’ were played by pipes and drums. Gifts were also given to the hospital staff. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flypast-band-displays-mark-armed-forces-gratitude-to-covid-warriors-79991
04-05-2020||Chandigarh||Regional Passport Office in Sector 34 to open on May 19||The Regional Passport Office at Sector 34 will now be operational from May 19. Keeping in view the two-week extension of the nationwide lockdown, the Ministry of External Affairs has directed the Regional Passport Office, including passport seva kendras in Ludhiana, Ambala and Chandigarh to suspend all appointments till May 17. Regional Passport Office chief Sibash Kabiraj said: “As per the MEA orders, applicants will have to reschedule their appointments from May 19. So, all those who had applied earlier will now have to apply again.” From three times earlier, applicants can now reschedule appointments for innumerable times without having to pay extra charges. However, a sum of Rs 1,500 for an adult will be charged for after an appointment is reschedule after third time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/regional-passport-office-in-sector-34-to-open-on-may-19-79990
04-05-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Tricity residents befuddled||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 3Tricity residents are befuddled as they are flooded with information which is not easily comprehensible.“Lockdown, state guidelines, city guidelines and the RWA guidelines — it is difficult to understand on what basis they keep changing,” said Sanjay Sapru, a bank official and a resident of Sector 7, Chandigarh.Residents in the Tricity say that even if you are clued in with the local administration’s latest guidelines, it is a different experience when you hit the road. “The whole city was declared a containment zone when there were only 12 active cases (23 overall), now it is in Red zone with 75 active cases,” said Manjari Joshi, a housewife.Strange is the case of Panchkula also, which has one active case (a Pinjore resident), but is still in the orange zone despite the fact that a new case was reported two weeks ago. Panchkula’s Citizens Welfare Association president SK Nayar has been appealing the authorities to lift the restrictions from the Sector 15, market but to no avail.Mohali, declared a hotspot on April 16, has now been designated as an orange zone even though the active cases mark has touched 62. According to local administration’s guidelines, people’s movement in a hotspot is supposed to be extremely restricted.Mohali resident Himanshu Thakur, a student of DAV College, wants to board a bus from Himachal Bhawan, Sector 28, to Manali on May 4 but does not know how he will reach there with baggage.Maze of parametersLoosely, the classification of zones is based on the cumulative cases reported and their doubling rate. But there is a maze of parameters which take into account geographical area, time since a new case is reported, district’s case load with respect to the state count and others.New classificationRed zone is a district with highest case load amounting to more than 80% cases of each district or a district with a doubling rate < 4 daysOrange zone: A district which has not reported a case in the past 14 daysGreen Zone: A district which has not reported a case in past 28 daysContainment zone: A well-guarded area with 500-m radius where more than four cases are reported. When a one-km radius is marked around this zone, it becomes a buffer zone..||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-residents-befuddled-79989
04-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Social distancing goes for a toss in Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, May 3Irrespective of multiple reminders of maintaining at least 3-feet distance between two people, social distancing and other precautionary measures for the prevention of Covid-19 went for a toss at Dera Bassi.Amid lockdown, people were seen violating the rules of social distancing and lockdown in sabzi mandi behind the MC office as they rushed to the vegetable market in large numbers here today.Cocking a snook at the order of refraining from large gathering in the wake of Covid, vendors and cart-pullers started their business at the market here. Consequently, the area was crowded with shoppers as the day passed.Due to a huge rush, people were seen jostling with each other to buy vegetables thus giving an open invitation to Covid-19 infection.Though some police personnel were deployed at the place, they appeared helpless in convincing the people to maintain social distance. One a few persons at the mandi were seen sporting masks.According to sources, people started gathering in the sabzi mandi in morning and the crowds swelled up by noon, with many thronging the market, disregarding social-distancing rule.Notably, several shopkeepers in internal markets opened their shops this morning. People flocked these shops to buy essential commodities.On Thursday, the local administration released an advisory for registered shop owners allowing them to open their shops in a staggered way on a rotational basis for four hours every morning with the condition of ensuring physical distancing and local arrangements of timing.Market in Zirakpur to open on alternate daysZirakpur: Due to the vague and multiple guidelines by the local administration and the state government, Zirakpur residents had a tough time visiting local market. There was a confusion among residents and shopkeepers regarding the opening of market timings as the local administration had conveyed 7 am to 1 pm, while the state government had revised it to 9 am to 1 pm.As most of the shops in the old Zirakpur market have no registered numbers or are unauthorised constructions, odd-even formula too cannot be implemented here. Some shopkeepers alleged that the police sent people back home and asked the shopkeepers to shut down their shops early in the morning.An MC official said: “The market will open on alternate days and the market timings have been revised from 9 am to 1 pm. Let us see how it goes.” Zirakpur SHO Guwant Singh confirmed the move.Meanwhile, confusion prevailed among most of the residents and people having business in the periphery about what restrictions would they face on Monday.Suresh Bhure, a Zirakpur resident, said: “I have to go to Dera Bassi tomorrow. I don’t know whether I need an e-pass or the police will allow me to travel by my two-wheeler.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-in-dera-bassi-79988
04-05-2020||Mohali||Mohali issues advisory for elderly persons||The district administration issues an advisory for special care of the elderly.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the advisory was for those aged 60 or above due to their low immunity and those suffering from chronic respiratory, heart, kidney and liver ailments.What advisory states||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-issues-advisory-for-elderly-persons-79987
04-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||24K stranded in Mohali apply for moving to home states||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 3More than 24,000 people from 26 states, who are stranded in the district, have registered on the portal of Mohali district.Sources said 17,104 have sought help from the district administration to reach their home states and 7,382 have registered for going back to their home states using their own vehicles. Out of the total 24,486, 11,769 are from Uttar Pradesh (UP), 8,405 from Bihar, 1,083 from Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and 969 from Himachal Pradesh (HP).Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan in case of any query, stranded people can contact at 628-426-4563. He said on registering for inter-state movement, people would get an SMS to go to their nearest medical screening centre, the list of which was available on http://sasnagar.nic.in. This would be followed by applying for inter-state movement pass online, while uploading the fitness certificate as supporting document on epasscovid19.pais.net.in/.The IDs in the lists finalised by DCs for movement by train would be informed about the time/departure, route/coach number of train via SMS. Those willing to travel by private bus list of willing private bus operators with their numbers would be sent to them through SMS. After a group of private operators is formed, they would be asked to apply for curfew movement pass through COVA App/Link.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24k-stranded-in-mohali-apply-for-moving-to-home-states-79986
04-05-2020||Kharar||‘Attempt’ to kidnap owner of de-addiction centre||Bikramjit Singh, owner of a drug de-addiction centre (Bani Foundation), Radiala village, alleged that he was kidnapped by six persons. He alleged that the miscreants took him towards Ropar and thrashed him. Assistant Sub-Inspector Ashwani Kumar of the Kharar Police said they have registered a case against six persons.Some inmates who had fled from the de-addiction centre reached at Kharar police station and leveled serious allegations against Bikramjit.Navpreet Singh and Kamal Kishore said there were 25 to 30 inmates and the centre was over crowded. The duo alleged that inmates were beaten regularly. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/attempt-to-kidnap-owner-of-de-addiction-centre-79984
04-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||PU, colleges face tough time in finding meritorious players||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 3 As the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued fresh guidelines to start the academic session in September, Panjab University (PU) and its affiliated colleges are likely to face struggle in admitting meritorious sportspersons from other states. In the past, the admission under the sports quota starts in the second week of July and scouting of players starts in May. The inter-college championships usually begin in August. The delay in the new session will give the PU and colleges a tough time.  Several Tokyo Olympics medals prospects for India, including javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, shooter Anjum Moudgil, are among the PU alumni. “During this time, we usually receive a plenty of queries. But this year, we haven’t received a call yet. Now that the session is delayed, we have to adjust our calendar with the schedule of other championships. There is no scope for players to move out of their states or cities,” said Gurcharan Singh Gill, Associate Professor Physical Education, Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26. “The examinations are put on hold and there is uncertainty about results. Considering the present situation, if the batch starts in September, we cannot start organising inter-college competetions before November. We are surely going to face troubled in finding good players for the fresh batch,” said Dr Amanendra Mann, Associate Professor Physical Education, DAV College, Sector 10.  The lockdown has also affected summer camps organised by the Directorate of Sports (PU). “Yes, we are unable to organise various summer camps and we cannot really do anything about it. Though we have mostly completed our session for the inter-college championships, there’s still a lot to cover. The C-Division tournaments are also yet to be played,” Dr Parminder Singh (Director Sports) PU. The Association of Indian Universities will soon issue new guidelines for organising inter-college championships, as the session is cut short by two months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-colleges-face-tough-time-in-finding-meritorious-players-79981
