04-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||In pictures: Roads turn white as heavy rain, hail lash Chandigarh, Panchkula||Heavy rain accompanied by hailstorm lashed Chandigarh and its neighbouring areas on Thursday afternoon, leading to a drop in temperature and bringing much-needed relief from the heat.The hailstorm lasted over 15 minutes.   The ground turned white as it was covered by hailstones. The traffic movement was also affected in several parts of the city as two-wheeler riders were seen running for cover.  Panchkula and Mohali areas of the tricity also witnessed showers. However, several parts remained dry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-pictures-roads-turn-white-as-heavy-rain-hail-lash-chandigarh-panchkula-94460
04-06-2020||Vijay Mohan||Amid stand-off with China, ITBP rushes to raise new command at Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 4Amidst the continuing stand-off with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) the Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force (ITBP) has rushed to raise the newly sanctioned Command at Chandigarh that will control all ITBP formations in the western theatre.An officer of the rank of Inspector General (IG) at the force headquarters in New Delhi has been transferred to Command Headquarters Chandigarh with immediate effect “in public interest” to head the command, sources said.He will officiate as the Additional Director General (ADG) till the posting of a regular officer, according to orders issued by the ITBP Director General SS Deswal on June 3, sources said. This would be in addition to his present duties at New Delhi.Following a cadre review that was approved by the Cabinet in October 2019, two new commands, one based at Chandigarh and the other at Guwahati for the eastern theatre, are to be raised. These are to be headed by officers of the rank of ADG, equivalent to a lieutenant general in the Army. “An imperative need has been felt to make these headquarters functional immediately,” Deswal’s orders state.All ITBP ‘frontiers’ located in the eastern and western theatres would now report to their respective command headquarters. At present, the force is divided into five frontiers that report directly to Force Headquarters, along with other training, logistic and administrative establishments, through an ADG based in New Delhi. The geographical responsibility of each frontier is generally aligned with the stretch of the border shared by respective states with China.Western Command will control the Dehradun-based Northern Frontier comprising Shimla, Dehradun and Bareilly sectors and the North-West Frontier, recently moved from Chandigarh to Leh that comprises Srinagar and Ladakh sectors. Eastern Command will control the Northern Frontier and the North-eastern Frontier. The Bhopal-based Central frontier along with the ITBP’s specialist battalions and some other establishments would be under the command of the ADG at Force Headquarters.ITBP, mandated for the peacetime management of the border with China, has 56 service battalions and four specialist battalions, out of which 32 are deployed in border guarding duties, 11 in internal security and eight in anti-Naxal operations.The need to create commands in the ITBP was felt to streamline command, control and coordination over field formations in view of the force expansion due to new battalions being raised, increasing commitments and raising border volatility. This necessitated the creation of new posts that included two ADGs, 10 IGs (equivalent to Major General), 10 Deputy Inspector General (equivalent to Brigadier) and 13 posts of Commandant (equivalent to Colonel), in addition to more posts at lower levels.While the Director General of all Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) under the Ministry of Home Affairs is an officer from the Indian Police Service (IPS), other higher level posts are tenable by a mix of IPS and cadre officers. Till now, cadre officers could only reach up to the level of IG, but the cadre review opened doors to the level of ADG and also created more vacancies for them at other ranks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-stand-off-with-china-itbp-rushes-to-raise-new-command-at-chandigarh-94399
04-06-2020||---||80-year-old Bapu Dham woman tests positive for coronavirus, Chandigarh tally touches 302||Chandigarh, June 4An 80-year-old woman, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 in Chandigarh, has tested positive for coronavirus. Admittes to GMSH in Sector 16, the woman is community contact of previous positive cases.With this, the total number of cases in Chandigarh has risen to 302, of which 83 are active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/80-year-old-bapu-dham-woman-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-chandigarh-tally-touches-302-94371
04-06-2020||---||Private schools can’t hike fee for 2020-21 session: Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 3The UT Administration today ordered that private schools will not be allowed to increase the fee for 2020-21 without its approval and will continue to charge the same fee as in 2019-20.While charging the tuition fee, the schools will not include any “hidden or additional charges”, the Administration stated in its order. All private schools have been mandated to display the details of the fee structure (specifically tuition fee) as per the provisions of Section 5(C) of the Fee Regulation Act, 2016, on their websites and also inform the Administration about it by June 15.The Punjab Governor and UT Administrator issued the orders as the Chairperson of the State Disaster Management Authority in exercise of powers conferred under Section 39 (i) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.The order stated: “Private schools were asked to upload income and expenditure accounts and the balance sheet as per the provisions of Section 5 of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, as extended to the UT, but most of the schools have not complied with the provisions. Therefore, the exact financial status of most schools could not be ascertained.”“Most schools have not uploaded the complete fee structure on their websites, as required under the Act,” the order read.As per the conditions of the allotment of land to educational institutions (schools) on a leasehold basis in the Chandigarh Scheme, 1996, amended in 2001 and 2005 (paragraph number 18), all private schools have to follow the directions issued by the UT Administration from time to time in connection with the fee structure.The order also stated that the District Education Officer has reported that “several complaints have been received from parents that schools are collecting extra charges in the name of tuition fee and have also increased the tuition fee substantially (after the May 18 order and enactment of the Fee Regulation Act).”Previously, considering the financial hardships of parents due to the nationwide lockdown, directions regarding deferment of payment of fee were issued on March 30 and revised orders regarding payment of monthly tuition fee were issued on May 18 in compliance with the interim directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Will move court: ISA"The order has put the schools in a quandary. The fee structure was on our websites in February and the fee was collected as per the UT order of May 18. Ninety per cent of the fee has been received. We are totally confused. Hence, we will have to go to court to get the issue redressed." — HS Mamik, president, Independent Schools AssociationWelcome relief: Parent"We welcome the relief that came with the rolling back of the fee hike. However, the term tuition fee continues to be a bone of contention since most schools have merged all other heads in the tuition fee in recent years. The Administration must also regulate the rates of late fee charged by private schools" — A parent||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-schools-cant-hike-fee-for-2020-21-session-chandigarh-94218
04-06-2020||Mohali||Seven new cases in Mohali||After a two-day lull, seven new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district.A 40-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman of Naggal Salempur in Banur have contracted the virus. The woman is pregnant and was found positive during the prenatal check-up.Two Covid cases have been reported from Baltana. A 50-year-old woman and her 21-year-old son have been found infected. The police have barricaded their residence. Health teams have begun the process of contact tracing. In the nearby Dhakoli, a man, who is a class IV employee at a health centre, has tested positive.With the fresh cases, the district Covid tally has touched the 123 mark. At present, there are 17 active cases in the district. As of now, 6,212 samples have been taken in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-new-cases-in-mohali-94219
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Delhi youth found infected in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delhi-youth-found-infected-in-chandigarh-94220
04-06-2020||Panchkula||Back from Delhi, scribe tests +ve in Panchkula||Area now containment zoneThe area from house number 102 to 106 in Sector 12-A has been declared a containment zone. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/back-from-delhi-scribe-tests-ve-in-panchkula-94221
04-06-2020||---||No headway in Sector 9 firing case||Chandigarh, June 3The UT police are yet to make any headway in the firing incident at a liquor store in Sector 9 that left three workers injured.Police officials said they were working on various theories, including the extortion angle, to crack the case.Read also: Now, bullets fly in Sector 9 Chandigarh“Teams, including from the crime branch, the operation cell and the Sector 3 police station, have been constituted to carry out the investigation.The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the adjoining areas was being scrutinised to get the registration number of the car in which the assailants had fled.A source said it could be the handiwork of gangsters, who wanted to extort money. The police are also investigating whether gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, whose name has cropped up in the investigation of firing at a hotelier’s house in Sector 33, has a role in this incident.Two assailants had opened indiscriminate fire at workers of the liquor store. The police said five bullets were fired. The suspects had arrived in a white Honda Amaze car, which was parked on the main road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-headway-in-sector-9-firing-case-94222
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Book community centres from today in Chandigarh||People in the city will be able to book community centres, which were closed in March due to Covid-19, from tomorrow.There are 42 community centres and barring seven, all will be thrown open for booking. The community centres at Sector 23-D, 47-B, 49, Sarangpur, Dhanas and two in Maloya will not be available for booking as these have been reserved as quarantine/isolation facilities.Barring seven, all availableThere are 42 community centres and barring seven, all will be thrown open for booking. The community centres at Sector 23-D, 47-B, 49, Sarangpur, Dhanas and two in Maloya will not be available for booking as these have been reserved as quarantine/isolation facilities.Functions can be organised after June 8. The centres can be booked only for two purposes — marriage and bhog. A maximum of 50 persons can participate in a marriage function, while for bhog, a maximum of 20 persons will be allowed. The participants will have to wear masks and follow social distancing norms.“They will be told to adhere to the guidelines of the Health Ministry. Organisers will be held responsible for violations, if any. Our volunteers will also keep an eye. We will get all centres sanitised before June 7,” said an MC official.A community centre can be booked at a cost ranging between Rs29,000 and Rs50,000 depending on the category and area. The civic body faced a loss of nearly Rs70 lakh due to the closure of the centres all these days. It earns about Rs1 lakh per day on an average.Submit account details for refundThe MC House has already approved to refund Rs65 lakh booking fee of 498 persons. The bookings were made in advance for April and May for community centres. People will have to submit their account details at the Sector 17 MC office to get an online refund.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-community-centres-from-today-in-chandigarh-94223
04-06-2020||---||Zirakpur youth held for attack on hotelier’s house||Chandigarh, June 3The police today arrested a youth for his alleged involvement in an attack on a hotelier’s house in the city on Sunday. A country-made pistol and eight live cartridges have been recovered from him.The police claimed to have arrested Sewak (25), alias Guri, from near the IT Park while he was riding a Hyundai Creta.Sewak, a resident of Shivalik Vihar in Zirakpur, had arranged the Ford Ikon car used in the crime for the assailants, reportedly at the behest of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who had called up Sewak from a jail.However, the police are tightlipped over the involvement of Bishnoi, who is presently lodged at a jail in Rajasthan, in the crime.A senior police official said whether Lawrence was involved in this plot or not was a matter of investigation.Police sources said Sewak didn’t know the other attackers before, but he had accompanied them during the commission of the crime.Sewak is a bouncer and also provides bouncers for various events. The police said they were analysing the mobile tower dump data to further investigate the case and nab the other persons involved in the crime. Various teams are conducting raids in Punjab and Haryana.Meanwhile, the police will produce Sewak in a court tomorrow and his seek his remand. The police said following a statement of the car owner, Gurdeep Singh, aka Babbu, they arrested Sewak.On May 31, four to five assailants had opened indiscriminate fire at businessman and hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33. Rakesh is brother of a liquor contractor, Arvind Singla. At least 17 bullets were fired at Rakesh’s house. However, nobody was injured. The attackers had come looking for Arvind Singla.A total of 17 empty cartridges of .30 bore and .32 bore weapons used in the crime were seized from the spot.Incidents discussed during meeting with BadnoreThe two firing incidents that shook the city recently were discussed at length during a crime review meeting between the UT police and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.Police officials briefed the Administrator about developments in the cases.Inter-state police meeting todayAn inter-state coordination meeting between the police of Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana will be held on Thursday to discuss various issues, including crime and security, and to share intelligence on criminals with a special focus on the recent shooting incidents in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-youth-held-for-attack-on-hoteliers-house-94224
04-06-2020||Naina Mishra||Cubicles come up at PGI’s emergency ward||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 3The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) emergency ward and Advanced Trauma Centre have started witnessing a huge rush of patients.In order to ensure social distancing among visitors in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the authorities at the PGI have installed cubicles (30 each) at the emergency ward and Advanced Trauma Centre. Besides, the area has been segregated into red, orange and green zones for triaging of patients.However, 96 patients are admitted at the Emergency Ward and 70 patients at the Advanced Trauma Centre. The institute is hard pressed to accommodate patients while ensuring social distancing.Before the lockdown, on a usual day at the PGI, the footfall at the emergency ward and advanced trauma centre was 250-300 patients.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, said, “Nowadays, there is a tremendous rush at the Emergency Ward. We have erected cabins to separate two patients from each other and maintain social distancing. If one patient has Covid-19, the infection won’t be transmitted to another patient admitted there. As there is a space crunch due to newly adopted approach, sometimes we accommodate two patients in a cubicle at a safe distance.”Prof Ram said, “So many patients are coming to the Emergency Ward and we cannot say no to them. This is a big challenge. We are taking consent from patients that there is an immense patient load and we will try our best to treat them.”PGI catering to 10% patient loadOn a routine day, the PGI has a patient load of 10,000. However, at present, the load is 10 per cent due to Covid-19 pandemic. On June 3, the institute diagnosed 570 patients (physically) at the New OPD and 797 patients through teleconsultation.The PGI is also mulling to make a holding area at multi- level parking for patients, from where they will be sent to respective departments. Patients will be allowed to come as per telephonic appointment, referral system and teleconsultation, said Prof Ram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cubicles-come-up-at-pgis-emergency-ward-94225
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Restaurants, hoteliers wait for standard operating procedures||Though the MHA has allowed hotels, restaurants and hospitality services to start functioning from June 8, those in the business are waiting for the standard operating procedures (SOPs) by the government before they come back to business.The SOPs are important as without them, the fraternity is facing challenges in finding labour, paying fixed building rents and managing employees’ salaries.The fraternity is also expecting relaxation in the operating timings. “The viability will largely depend upon SOPs which means operational timings and allowed occupancy at the restaurants,” said Manmohan Singh, Chairman, Hotels and Restaurants Association of Chandigarh.“If the SOPs are demanding, the industry may not even meet operational cost. However, we are hopeful,” added Singh.Some stakeholders want the food to be served in hotels be counted as essential commodity so as to allow dining after 9 pm. “It will help us to revive the revenue,” said Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association.Worry of fixed rental costsAnother problem staring the industry in the face is fixed building rents. In Chandigarh, a majority of the restaurants operate from rental premises. “Extensions in timings can help us to manage our rents to some extent,” said an owner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restaurants-hoteliers-wait-for-standard-operating-procedures-94226
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 10-lakh fine on distillery||The Excise and Taxation Department has imposed a penalty of Rs10 lakh on M/s NV Distilleries and Breweries P Ltd, Industrial Area, Phase 1, Chandigarh, for violating norms.On May 25, a team of the department had conducted inspection and found 65 boxes of 180-ml ‘Crazy Romeo’ brand without holograms.A day earlier, a team of the Crime Branch of the police had seized 440 boxes of illegal liquor containing 21,120 quarters of whisky of the brand loaded in a milk tanker.Tanker driver Gaurav Khatri (36), a resident of Phase V, Mohali, had disclosed that the liquor was being supplied to Gujarat.Taking cognizance of the matter, the Excise and Taxation Department had issued a show-cause notice to the owner of the distillery as to why the licence should not be cancelled or suspended for violations of Section 18 of the Punjab Excise Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-10-lakh-fine-on-distillery-94227
04-06-2020||Mohali||Mohali Golf Range opens||The Mohali Golf Range reopened for golfers and its members yesterday.The range will be open on all working days from 7 am to 11 am and 4 pm to 7.30 pm.However, persons above 65 years of age and children below 10 years will not be allowed to practice at the range till the further orders, said Harmeet Kahlon, Director, Coaching. The members are already informed that the range will adhere to the SOPs issued by the Centre throughout the operational time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-golf-range-opens-94228
04-06-2020||Mohali||Cyclist killed on Airport Road in Mohali||A 45-year-old man was killed in a road accident after a car hit his cycle from behind on Airport Road yesterday.The victim has been identified as Bhajan Harijan, a resident of Sector 68. The deceased was working as a labourer in Aerocity, Mohali. The incident took place when the victim was returning home from Aerocity and his son-in-law and wife were following him on another cycle.A car hit the victim’s cycle from the rear side following which Bhajan tossed in the air and fell on the car’s windshield. Bhajan sustained injuries on his head and other parts of the body. The car driver took the victim to a private hospital in Sohana and then fled the spot, leaving his car behind.Bhajan was subsequently referred to the PGI where he died last night.“The car has been recovered by the police from the hospital parking. The accused will be arrested soon,” said ASI Harjinder Singh.A case has been registered under Sections 279 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code at the Sohana police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyclist-killed-on-airport-road-in-mohali-94229
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||300 opt out of Shramik train||As many as 1,300 passengers boarded a Shramik train that departed at 2 pm today for Mau, Uttar Pradesh. This is the fourth consecutive train from the city that chugged off with lesser occupancy as 300 registered migrants opted out of the journey.Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Social Welfare, UT Administration, said: “After opening industrial and commercial units, a considerable number of migrant labours is not interested to move out.”Vacant SeatsMay 23: Shramik train to Gaya (Bihar) and Dhanbad (Jharkhand) went with 421 vacant seatsMay 27: Shramik train to Jounpur (Uttar Pradesh) had 105 vacant seatsMay 28: Shramik train to Nazibabad, Gonda and Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh) left with 98 vacant seatsJune 3: Shramik train to Mau (UP) had 300 vacant seatsYesterday, he added, about 10,000 persons were contacted through telephone calls and SMSs for the train to Mau. “Though capacity of the train was 1,600, only 1,300 passengers turned up,” he said.For the movement of persons stranded in Chandigarh during the lockdown, the UT Administration had set up two centres at Chandigarh College of Engineering Technology (CCET) in Sector 26 for their medical screening.The stranded persons were allowed to register for movement either through helpline or website of the Chandigarh Administration.Train to Gorakhpur on FridayOn Friday, a Shramik train has been scheduled at 2 pm for Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh with stoppage at Nazibabad, Sitapour, Shravasti, Sant Kabir Nagar, Devaria, Maharajganj and Gonda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/300-opt-out-of-shramik-train-94230
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ajanta Dayalan is Administrative Member of CAT||Former Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General of India Ajanta Dayalan assumed the charge as the Administrative Member of Central Administrative Tribunal's (CAT) Bench here on Monday. The Bench exercises jurisdiction over the states of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab and Union Territories of Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ajanta-dayalan-is-administrative-member-of-cat-94231
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Education system needs change: Panjab University VC||The Interdisciplinary Centre for Swami Vivekananda Studies, PU, organised a webinar on ‘blending of conventional and progressive education structures for revitalising present education system for emergence of Bharat as global leader’.University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar highlighted the need for revitalising education system for making the learners self-sufficient and self-reliant. Mukul Kanitkar, National Organising Secretary, Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal, elaborated on the urgency of gaining knowledge to minimise the effects of Covid-19. He said in the ancient times, the Gurukul System of Education focused on imparting learning to the students in natural surroundings.Panellists deliberated on various aspects of the National Education Policy, curriculum framework, content development, digitisation of education and innovative practices. Prof Renu Thakur, Prof Jatinder Grover and Dr Vishal Sharma were the organisers of the webinar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/education-system-needs-change-panjab-university-vc-94232
04-06-2020||---||Panjab University country’s third best traditional institute||Chandigarh, June 3Though Panjab University (PU) slipped to the 149th rank from the last year’s 136th, the university saw an improvement in overall points as per the Times Higher Education Asia University Rankings 2020 today.Rankings of top Indian universitiesIndian Institute of Science 36thIndian Institute of Technology, Ropar 47thIndian Institute of Technology, Indore 55thIndian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur 59thIndian Institute of Technology, Delhi 67thIndian Institute of Technology, Bombay 69thIndian Institute of Technology Roorkee 83rdInstitute of Chemical Technology 92ndIndian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar 114thAmrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham 125thIndian Institute of Technology, Kanpur 125thIndian Institute of Technology, Madras 125thIndian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune 130thSavitribai Phule Pune University 135thIndian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad 149thPanjab University 149thThe PU improved its overall points tally to remain the third best Indian university (among traditional). The university shares the spot with the Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, at 34.2 points. In 2019, the PU’s overall points were 32.1.The PU’s citations score increased from 54.5 points to 56.6 points while research score has observed the highest increase from 13.5 points to 17.6 points, industry income increased from 34.0 points to 34.9 points, international outlook score rose from 16.0 points to 16.5 points and teaching criteria retained its score at 32.1 points. Savitribai Phule Pune University ranked first and Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham, Tamil Nadu, stood second.“The drop in rankings is due to the introduction of more universities in Asia (not in India). Considering the bifurcation points, we have improved,” said Ashish Jain, director, International Quality Assurance Cell, PU.“These international rankings compare technical institutes with traditional universities, which certainly are not a match in terms of comparison. If we talk about performance of traditional universities, we are at No. 3. The two universities ahead of us have less combined students strength than the PU. It’s a very good achievement in these tough times. All the credit goes to higher authorities, faculty and students of PU,” said Jain.”THE rankings judge universities across all their core missions — teaching, research, knowledge transfer and international outlook to provide the most comprehensive and balanced comparisons available.The PU has left behind University of Delhi, Thapar University and Banaras Hindu University.“In the last few years, we have made a substantial progress in our research score, which is reflected in these rankings. Ever since, I have taken over the reins of the PU, it has been my endeavour to imbibe culture of research and industry linkages amongst faculty and students. We have been able to initiate a lot of incubative and start-up projects on the campus. The entire credit goes to students and staff of the university,” said Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University.Varsity statsNo. of students 19,912No. of students per teacher 23.4International students 1%Female-male ratio 49:51||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-countrys-third-best-traditional-institute-94233
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Traffic cops to give driving lessons to violators||The UT traffic police are soon going to start driving refresher training course for those whose driving licence (DL) got suspended for various violations.DGP Sanjay Baniwal today apprised Administrator VP Singh Badnore of the UT police’s initiatives that were in the pipeline.He said the course would be held at Children Traffic Park for those whose DL was suspended or revoked by the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA). The modalities of the programme were being worked out, Baniwal said.The traffic police recommend the suspension of DL for offences such as drunken driving, speeding, red light jumping and talking on mobile phone while driving.During the meeting, the DGP highlighted that eight of the nine murders that took place during the year had been solved and the accused had been arrested. Robberies have decreased by 67 per cent. Snatching, burglary and motor vehicle thefts in the city have decreased by 50 per cent, 36 per cent and 33 per cent, respectively.e-challan project to see the light of dayThe plans to introduce e-challan system will hopefully see the light of day. UT police officials also briefed the Administrator about the plans to finally launch the system, which will enable on-the-spot payment of fine. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-cops-to-give-driving-lessons-to-violators-94234
04-06-2020||---||Will definitely organise State Games this year: COA||Chandigarh, June 3After a gap of almost 14 years, the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) was to organise the Chandigarh State Games in 2020. However, with indefinite postponement of the National Games, dark clouds are hovering over the event.Meanwhile, COA officials maintain that the State Games would be organised for sure. Earlier, they had stated that the games were not organised for such a long period as the National Games were not held. The 36th National Games, earlier scheduled for October-November in Goa, have been postponed for an indefinite time due to the Covid-19 pandemic."We will definitely organise the State Games this year even if the National Games are not held in Goa," said Maha Singh, general secretary, COA. Maha Singh has been nominated to the IOA committee for the development of women in Indian sport recently."We don't know what will happen in the future. If there are no special circumstances or restrictions imposed by the government, I assure we will organise local games," general secretary added.The claim becomes more interesting as during an interview in last November, the general secretary had stated that State Games were not held due to delay in National Games.The announcement regarding the State Games is important as the COA is scheduled to elect its new office-bearers in November this year."The last State Games were held in October 2005 followed by a sponsored event titled "Mini Olympics" in 2012. The term of the current COA officer-bearers ends in November. Committee members are keen to organise some event to showcase their achievement," said an official privy to the matter.In 2015, the COA failed to organise the State Games before the National Games, which were held in Thiruvananthapuram, in the same year. Thereafter, the State Games were scheduled for November 2019. Prior to that these games were slated for July 2018."The COA's claim to organise games in the upcoming months even if National Games are not held is mere eyewash. Why no tournament has been organised since the formation of the new COA? There should be a valid reason. What committee members did at their annual general meetings? Were these meetings organised to give affiliation to people close to them or wait for the National Games?" said another official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-definitely-organise-state-games-this-year-coa-94235
04-06-2020||Mohali||Kharar-Khamano toll plaza begins||The Bhago Majra toll plaza on Kharar-Khamano road NH-95 (New NH-05) became operational here today. People living on the periphery of this toll plaza (20 km) will be issued passes at a monthly rate of Rs275 for a limited 50 single journeys.Manager Maninder Singh said, “An estimated 4,000-5,000 vehicles will pass through this toll plaza every day. The collection through FASTag will directly go to the NHAI.” The total completed length of the road is 28.460 km. The six-lane road has been laid at an estimated cost of Rs1,600 core. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-khamano-toll-plaza-begins-94236
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Congress against incineration plant in Sector 25 Chandigarh||The MC’s plan of opening an animal carcass incineration plant in Sector 25 has again run into rough weather as local Congress leaders continued chain hunger strike against the move.The Congress has decided that every day, four Congress leaders would sit on hunger strike while following the social distancing norms and other rules of the UT Administration.Yadwinder Mehta of the party said it was a peaceful protest as people of Dadu Majra, Sector 25, Dhanas, Sectors 37, 38 were suffering due to the foul smell emanating from the dumping ground. On the other hand, some of the BJP leaders also protested against the move of opening it in Sector 25. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-against-incineration-plant-in-sector-25-chandigarh-94237
04-06-2020||Mohali||Reopen gyms in tricity, demands association||The Tricity Gym Owners’ Association held a protest at Phase XI to highlight collapse of fitness and gym industry in the tricity.The association members said salons and barbershops have been allowed to reopen, but why are they being singled out. Even restaurants and shopping malls are slated to reopen on June 8, but the government is delaying reopening of gyms. Sanjeev Kumar, president of the association, said, “The lockdown has pushed owners of 200 fitness centres and gyms towards financial crisis.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reopen-gyms-in-tricity-demands-association-94238
04-06-2020||Satinder Pal Singh||Inspection team finds deep pits at Kakrali village||Dera Bassi, June 3The Department of Mines and Geology along with officials of the Revenue Department began inspection related to illegal mining at Kakrali village, which falls under the jurisdiction of Dera Bassi police.Officials visited Kakrali village to check whether mining operations were executed in the leased area illegally. The team found 10 to 15-foot-deep pits at several places. Officials sought records from the Revenue Department to ascertain ownership of the land.Narinder Kumar, official of the Drainage Department, who also has a charge of the Mining Inspector, said they received complaints related to illegal mining taking place in Kakrali village. He said during the inspection they found 10 foot to 15-foot-deep pits.Former Squadron Leader Gulzar wrote to the Mohali Deputy Commissioner, alleging that an FIR was registered by the Mining Department at Dera Bassi police station on January 8, 2019, but no action has been taken to date.Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma said, “The mining mafia has dug pits that result in environmental degradation and also cause loss to the state exchequer.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inspection-team-finds-deep-pits-at-kakrali-village-94240
04-06-2020||---||Woman, son run from pillar to post to get compensation for land||Mohali, June 3Surinder Rani (79) and her son Sanjiv Kumar, residents of Mauli Baidwan, are moving from pillar to post to get compensation for the land acquired by the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA).The duo claimed that the GMADA had acquired their 5 kanal and 12 marlas, but on papers, the latter had de-notified 4 kanals and 18 marlas. As a result, revenue records show 14 marlas less.Sanjiv said the GMADA issued notification for award number 563 for more land for public purpose. He said later the GMADA had planned to take less area for the said purpose and decided to withdraw the notification with regard to excess area on March 30, 2015. He said out of the said land measuring 17 kanal and 3 marlas, the government decided to acquire 11 kanal and 11 marlas. He said they were paid around Rs3.28 crore.Sanjiv said despite several representations no compensation has been paid for 14 marlas, which came under construction of road.He claimed that the GMADA officials made a road map in which they splitted Khasra number 39/1/21/1 into two parts and 3 marlas marked on one side of the road and 5 marlas on the other road and similar was the case of Khasra number 45/2.Tanu Kashyap, Chief Administrator, GMADA, said the matter was not in her knowledge as she had joined recently. She said she would get the matter verified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-son-run-from-pillar-to-post-to-get-compensation-for-land-94242
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bar suggests ways to kickstart process for filing, hearing of cases||Members of the District Bar Association (DBA) today met the District and Sessions Judge and suggested some measures for streamlining of filing of cases and physical appearance of lawyers in courts.NK Nanda, president, DBA, said in the times of Covid-19 crisis, certain measures could be taken by the judiciary to kickstart the process of filing and hearing cases of extreme exigency. He suggested that all cases might be permitted to be filed through manual filing process and cases pertaining to anticipatory bails, regular bails, protection matters and the cases in which evidence had been concluded could be heard through personal appearance of lawyers.He said, “Routine cases wherein no immediate urgency is involved or in cases wherein evidence have to be led can be deferred till normal court working starts.”In terms of civil matters, only urgent cases such as injunction can be heard by the presiding officers on priority basis with physical presence of the lawyers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bar-suggests-ways-to-kickstart-process-for-filing-hearing-of-cases-94245
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||MC panel for dispensary near sports complex||The Municipal Corporation’s (MC) village development committee for Khuda Ali Sher village today resolved to open a civil dispensary in the adjoining land of a sports complex here.A meeting of the village development committee was held under the chairmanship of nominated councillor Charanjiv Singh. Deputy Mayor Jagtar Singh Jagga was also present.“It has been a long-pending demand of the villagers,” said Jagga. The members also asked the sanitation wing of the MC to start a special cleanliness drive and maintain proper cleanliness in the surroundings of the village.The members decided that the remaining work of the cremation ground be completed at the earliest. Other issues related to new water connection and street light repair work were also discussed in the meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-panel-for-dispensary-near-sports-complex-94247
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||People want Sector 30-B rid of containment tag||Residents of Sector 30-B held a protest today to lift the containment zone tag from their area. A part of Sector 30-B was sealed on April 22 after Covid-19 positive cases was reported.Irate residents threatened to remove the barricades. In order to pacify the agitators, senior officials rushed to the spot and assured the former that the Administration would soon hold a review meeting on the issue.Residents said they have been confined to their houses for nearly two months. Earlier, the Administration had assured that the containment zone tag would be removed on June 4. Protesters said the authorities should not extend the containment zone tag.On June 1, an 80-year-old woman from the locality had died and later she turned out to be positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/people-want-sector-30-b-rid-of-containment-tag-94250
04-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man held with 52-gm heroin||Close shave for car occupantsKharar: A father-son duo travelling in a car had a narrow escape when cement and gravel mixture fell on the vehicle underneath the under-construction Mohali-Kharar flyover. The car was, however, damaged. Ram Singh, who was driving the car, said he and his son were going towards Badmajra when the mishap occurred. An official of L&T, which is constructing the flyover, said the incident took place due to the negligence of a worker and assured of taking steps to prevent such incidents. OCRain likely for 3 daysChandigarh: The local Meteorological Department has predicted light rain over the next three days. The city recorded a rainfall of 2.3 mm on Wednesday. It recorded a maximum temperature of 35.4°C, four degrees below normal, while the minimum was 21.2°C, also four degrees below normal. The maximum temperature is expected to hover around 34°C-36°C over the next three days, while the minimum is likely to remain between 22°C and 24°C. TNSWaste collector ends his lifePanchkula: A 25-year-old youth committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling of his room at Rajiv Colony in Sector 17 here. The victim, Ajay, was a door-to-door waste collector. The police said he was reportedly under financial stress as he was without work for the past two months. Brij Pal, incharge, Sector 16 police chowki, said, “Some say he was addicted to drugs, others say he was shattered as he was without work. Our investigation is on to find out why he took the extreme step.” “His family members have alleged that five persons instigated him to take the extreme step,” an official said.“We have called these people to the police station,” he said. TNS2-yr-old theft case CRACKEDPatiala: The police have claimed to solve a two-year-old theft incident in Rajpura city. The suspects have been identified as Amit Kumar and Ramesh Chand (a goldsmith). The cops recovered a licensed revolver from Amit. Patiala SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu said Amit was frisked at a special naka and they recovered a revolver from him. “During investigation, Amit revealed that he had stolen the revolver two years ago from SBS Colony, Rajpura, along with 30-gm gold and Rs18,000. Amit said he had sold the gold to Ramesh for Rs12,000,” said Sidhu. tnsPCMS association against fee hikeFatehgarh Sahib: The district unit of the PCMS Association today protested the decision of the state government to increase the fee for MBBS courses. Doctors of the Civil Hospital, Fatehgarh Sahib, wore black badges. Dr Manohar Singh, Secretary of the PCMS Association, said by increasing the fee, the government has taken an ‘anti-people and anti-poor decision. He said the fee for MBBS courses in Punjab was already the highest in India. He said the government was filling its own pockets by increasing the students’ fee at a time when they are working as frontline warriors against Covid-19. TNSWebinar on technologyKharar: Indo Global Colleges organised a webinar on ‘advanced materials & technologies’, in association with JK Cement Ltd. As many as 100 students participated in it. Students were informed about sustainability by drawing a comparison between materials used earlier and material being used now in construction. Besides this, students were also given tips on staying safe and were urged to use their time as an opportunity to explore their passion. Sukhdev Kumar Singla, Chairman of Indo Global Colleges, said the webinar helped students broaden their horizon. TNSDAV youth ParliamentChandigarh: The Department of Political Science of DAV College, Sector 10, organised a two-day DAV Sansad e- Youth Parliament. Dr Ghanshyam Dev, HoD, Political science, chaired the inauguration session. The chief guest of the event was Principal Dr Pawan Kumar Sharma. The programme started with a welcome speech by Dr Sutapa Saryal, coordinator for the programme. Dr Saryal highlighted the relevance of the theme of Citizenship Amendment Bill to the participants. TNSNGO HELPS the needy IN TRICITYChandigarh: EduVelocity and its students decided to join hands with an NGO, ‘I am Still Human’, to help the underprivileged, including daily-wage earners, people living on footpaths, slums and physically challenged people on the streets. The NGO distributed food kits among 1,200 needy families. More than 25,000 masks and 18,000 sanitisers were also given to the needy in Panchkula, Mohali, Dadu Majra, Dhakoli, Bapu Dham and Mauli Jagran. TNSMAN IMPERSONATES AS ARMY OFFICERMohali: The police have arrested a 32-year-old Jalalabad resident, Deepak, for impersonating an Army officer. He is working in an electronics shop here. According to the police, Deepak was stopped by the police at a naka near Franco Hotel, Phase 1, following a tip-off. TNSOne booked for murder attemptKharar: The police booked Jaswant Singh on the charge of attacking and seriously injuring Satish Kumar Sethi (62) on Wednesday. Sethi was taken to the Civil Hospital, Kharar, from where he was referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. A case has been registered under Sections 323 and 307 of the IPC. OCCMO meets RWAs representativesPanchkula: Chief Medical Officer Jasjeet Kaur on Wednesday met representatives of residential welfare associations (RWAs) and asked them to report travellers coming in from outside the district. TNSPromoting Aarogya Setu appPanchkula: The Health Department would display banners in each sector to encourage travellers arriving in the district to use Aarogya Setu app, said SK Nayar, president, Citizens’ Welfare Association, Panchkula. TNSUV-based unit for sanitisationPanchkula: Ess Pee Industries, Chandigarh, on Wednesday donated a steriliser unit based on UV disinfection technology to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula. The unit is based on UV-C germicidal irradiation technology to disinfect packaged groceries and personal accessories. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-52-gm-heroin-94253
