04-11-2020||Chandigarh||94 more coronavirus cases, one death in Chandigarh||One more COVID-related death in Chandigarh on Wednesday took the toll to 229 while 94 new cases pushed the infection count to 14,702, official data showed.A 34-year-old coronavirus positive man, a resident of Manimajra, died at a government hospital here, as per the medical bulletin.There are 671 active cases as of now, it said.A total of 51 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 13,802, according to the bulletin.A total of 1,10,989 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 95,620 tested negative while reports of 101 samples were awaited, the bulletin stated. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/94-more-coronavirus-cases-one-death-in-chandigarh-166017
04-11-2020||Zirakpur||13-yr-old girl ends her life in Baltana||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-yr-old-girl-ends-her-life-in-baltana-165932
04-11-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Tahira Kashyap and daughter Varushka are 'basking the winter sun' in Chandigarh; see pictures from Sukhna lake||Going by her Instagram posts seems like Tahira Kashyap and her daughter, Varushka Khurrana, are enjoying the winter sun in Chandigarh. The writer shared a set of photographs along with her daughter.  Describing the mother-daughter moments in the best way possible, she wrote: "Basking the winter sun, sharing the headphones, listening to each other's music list and then clicking one another." She added several hashtags. "#chandigarhwinter, #lake, #bliss and #daughters". Check out Tahira's post here:Basking the winter sun, sharing the headphones, listening to each other’s music list and then clicking one another! #nofilter #chandigarhwinter #lake #bliss #daughtersA post shared by  tahirakashyapkhurrana (@tahirakashyap) on Nov 3, 2020 at 1:57am PST  In a separate Instagram entry, Tahira Kashyap wrote: "There is magic between us (unkempt hair is the best childhood)." Take a look at the post here:There is magic between us ✨ (unkempt hair is the best childhood)A post shared by  tahirakashyapkhurrana (@tahirakashyap) on Nov 3, 2020 at 2:11am PST  Tahira is married to actor Bollywood actor Ayushmann Khurrana. The couple are parents to a son named Virajveer and daughter named Varushka. The actor was last seen in Shoojit Sircar's Gulabo Sitabo with Amitabh Bachchan which released on OTT platform Amazon Prime Video.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tahira-kashyap-and-daughter-varushka-are-basking-the-winter-sun-in-chandigarh-see-pictures-from-sukhna-lake-165915
04-11-2020||---||Villagers attack Panchkula police team, 16 hurt||Panchkula, November 3A team of the police and the Home Guards was attacked at Rattewali village where it had gone to urge residents to lift their road blockade against mining in the village. As many as 16 cops and jawans sustained injuries in the attack. The police rounded up 14 villagers in this connection.Why the protestResidents of the village were protesting for the past one week after an animal died as it fell into a pit filled with the Rattewali river water. The villagers claimed that the contractor, who was granted a mining licence, had excavated sand up to 30 to 40 feet and later filled the pits with water.Residents of the village were protesting for the past one week after an animal died as it fell into a deep pit filled with the Rattewali river water. The villagers claimed that the contractor, who was granted a mining licence by the district administration, had excavated sand up to 30 to 40 feet and later filled the pits with water.On receiving a complaint, the district administration suspended the contractor’s licence. A few days later, the administration recovered the fine and restored the licence. Later, the contractor’s team went to the river for mining. As soon as villagers came to know about it, they gathered near the river and stopped the mining process. They warned the contractor that they would not allow mining at any cost. The protesting villagers also warned the owners of stone crushers and screening plants not to purchase the gravel mined from the river. They said they would not allow trucks to pass through the village.Today, the administration decided to get the dharna lifted and a team of officials led by the Duty Magistrate, ACP Raj Kumar, Ramgarh chowki incharge Vinod Kumar, Barwala Chowki incharge Rajbir and Mauli Chowki incharge Mandeep Singh accompanied by a contingent of Home Guards jawans and cops reached the village.As the police tried to lift the dharna, some villagers attacked the cops with stones and injured them. The villagers did not spare even women cops. Following the attack, senior police officials directed the police team to return so as to bring the situation under control. The injured cops were taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.DCP Mohit Handa visited the hospital to meet the injured cops.Talking to mediapersons, the DCP said cases were registered against the villagers who attacked the police team today.Home Guards jawans, including Harkesh Kumar, Sukhwinder Singh and Gurdeep, ASI Jagdish, constables Dalbir Singh Ankit, Roshan Lal and Satish Kumar and head constables Pramod and Sonu Kumar were among those injured in the attack.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/villagers-attack-panchkula-police-team-16-hurt-165712
04-11-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh Administration mulls ban on sale of firecrackers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3The city may witness a cracker-free Diwali this year. In view of the fear of a second surge of coronavirus due to increase in pollution, the UT Administration is considering imposing a ban on the sale of firecrackers in the city this festival season.The Administration today put on hold the issuance of temporary licences for selling firecrackers in the city even after holding a draw of lots to issue 96 licences.During a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic yesterday, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had appealed to residents to avoid a second surge of the virus at all cost.“Doctors have opined that toxic air arising out of crackers is likely to affect the lungs and, hence, residents should avoid or minimise bursting of firecrackers during the festival season,” he said, adding that there was a need to keep the city pollution-free so that there was no resurgence of lung diseases or Covid cases.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said they had sought the opinion of health experts on the ill-effects of air pollution on Covid patients. However, the final decision on the issue would be taken by the Administrator tomorrow, he added. The Rajasthan Government has already imposed a ban on the sale of firecrackers in order to protect infected patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-mulls-ban-on-sale-of-firecrackers-165720
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||One death, 86 cases in Chandigarh||The city today recorded 86 new cases of Covid-19 and one death. A 56-year-old man from Mani Majra died at a private hospital in Mohali.The UT tally now stands at 14,608 and toll 228.A total of 43 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking the number of recoveries to 13,751. The number of active cases increased to 629 against 593 on Monday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-86-cases-in-chandigarh-165736
04-11-2020||Mohali||91-year-old beats virus despite comorbidities||A 91-year-old man suffering from severe Covid bilateral pneumonia with lung fibrosis and multiple comorbidities has beaten Covid-19 successfully and was discharged after 20 days at the hospital.Dr Suresh Goyal, senior consultant of pulmonary and sleep medicine at Ivy Hospital, said the elderly patient from Ropar was admitted with complaints of breathlessness, fever, cough and body aches. He had prostate cancer for the past five years, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) for 20 years and high blood pressure.The Covid antigen test was conducted and the report was found positive after which he was kept in an isolation ward. Later, he was shifted to RICU, where he was given high-flow oxygen and antiviral, besides supportive treatments. Dr Goyal said the patient remained critical for 10 days while he was being given steroids and was put on non-invasive ventilator for recovery. On the twelfth day, his condition started improving with a decrease in the oxygen requirement and Bi-Level Positive Airway Pressure (BIPAP) support. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/91-year-old-beats-virus-despite-comorbidities-165748
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Bikers steal bag from car||Two unidentified motorcycle-borne suspects stole a bag containing a laptop and cash from a businessman’s car near the Sector 29/30 light point.The complainant, Rajinder Pal Bansal of Sector 21, reported that while he was heading towards the light point, two suspects, riding a motorcycle, told him that his car had a flat tyre. He stopped the car and found the tyre flat. Bansal then asked his driver to come to the spot to change the tyre.“As his driver reached there, Bansal unlocked the car due to which the boot also got opened. Taking advantage of this, one of the suspects walked up to the car and stole the bag,” said a police official. The suspect ran towards the bike on which his accomplice was waiting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bikers-steal-bag-from-car-165749
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Road cones for safe passage  to cyclists||In a bid to ensure a safe passage for cyclists where there are no cycle tracks, the UT traffic police have decided to place cones on roads. Cones have been placed on the Sukhna Lake road on a pilot basis.Last year, 10 cyclists died in mishapsIn 2019, 10 cyclists died in road accidents, which accounted for 9.61 per cent of the total road accident deaths.DSP, Traffic (Central), Palak Goel, said three roads had been identified in the central division where there were no cycle tracks.“The cones have been placed from the barricade chowk towards the lake road on a pilot basis, which will replicated on other roads,” the DSP said. At present, cones are placed on the road during morning and evening hours. However, these will be affixed soon so that these cannot be removed. The DSP said the cones would also be affixed on the other two roads — the road separating Sector 16 and 17 and the road separating Sector 15 and 16. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-cones-for-safe-passage-to-cyclists-165751
04-11-2020||Mohali||55 get infection in Mohali district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/55-get-infection-in-mohali-district-165752
04-11-2020||Panchkula||44 test positive  in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/44-test-positive-in-panchkula-165753
04-11-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||9 shows, none turns up at multiplex||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, November 3The first day of the reopening of multiplexes in Mohali district witnessed nine shows at a Zirakpur-based multiplex but not a single viewer.The Inox multiplex, near Zirakpur, remained empty throughout the day as no one stepped in to watch a movie on the first day of its reopening after the lockdown.Officials said they had made all arrangements according to the guidelines and SOPs issued by the Information and Broadcasting Ministry. Nine shows were arranged for the public with 50 per cent seating capacity in each theatre.A multiplex representative, Ravish, said: “Mostly, there were Punjabi movies, including the Carry on Jatta sequel, a crowd favourite, but people seem to be in wait-and-not watch mode. We are open from now onwards and hope that visitors will start turning up soon.”Officials said the multiplex had a ticketless entry system in which one can book a ticket on the mobile phone and get the QR code scanned while entering the theatre. Masks have been made mandatory for every visitor and hand sanitiser is being provided by the management.A representative of VR Punjab Mall, Rishab Malhotra, said it would take about a week for their multiplex to become functional.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan has allowed more activities in areas outside the containment zones from November 1 to November 30. Even though the Centre had allowed cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes to reopen across the country from October 15, the Punjab Government decided to wait for some more time.The four multiplexes, PVR Centra, PVR City Centre, Fun Cinemas and Piccadily Square, in Chandigarh had also got a tepid response initially when these reopened on October 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-shows-none-turns-up-at-multiplex-165756
04-11-2020||---||Number of Covid tests nosedives in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 3As the number of Covid cases continue to decline, the Health Department has seemingly reduced the average daily testing in the district. Officials, however, claimed that people were not coming forward for the test.The testing has reduced by over 50 per cent over the past few weeks. The average daily testing in October was around 2,200, which fell to just 1,200 in November.As per the daily health bulletin, the department collected 2,300 samples on October 1. However, only 660 samples were collected on November 1.The district has recorded a significant fall in the number of new cases. However, it might be attributed to a decrease in the number of tests conducted, opined experts.So far, 12,860 persons have tested positive for the virus and 12, 202 have recovered from it in the district. The virus claimed the lives of 381 Patiala residents.Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said there was an overall decline in the patient footfall in hospitals due to the ongoing festive season, which led to a reduction in the number of tests conducted in the district. Besides, rural folk was busy in paddy harvesting. He said, “Our teams are doing their best efforts. Despite everything, the average testing in the district is satisfactory.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/number-of-covid-tests-nosedives-in-patiala-district-165757
04-11-2020||---||Can Info Commissioner say disciplinary action against employee is personal? HC to examine||Chandigarh, November 3Can the State Information Commissioner take the stand that disciplinary proceedings against any employee were personal in nature to him and could not be disclosed? The vital question of law has come under the judicial scanner with the filing of a petition before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The issue was raised before the Bench of Justice Amol Rattan Singh after Manish Tonk filed a petition against the Punjab State Information Commissioner and other respondents. He was seeking the quashing of order dated April 17, 2018, passed by the Commissioner rejecting an appeal filed by him under the Right to Information Act, 2005.He was further seeking issuance of directions to the respondents to provide necessary information to him in accordance with his application dated August 14, 2017, under the Right to Information Act.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, his counsel submitted that any embezzlement of municipality funds, as alleged in a letter dated June 29, 2007, would be a matter of public interest. As such, the stand taken by the Commissioner that disciplinary proceedings against any employee were personal in nature to him and could not be disclosed in terms of Supreme Court judgment in “Garish Ramchandra Despande versus Central Information Commissioner and others” was wholly misconceived.Taking up the matter, Justice Amol Rattan Singh issued notice of motion to the Commissioner and other respondents. It was accepted by the State counsel at the asking of the court on behalf of the Director, Local Bodies.Fixing January 22, next year, as next date of hearing, Justice Amol Rattan Singh directed the Director to file a reply to the petition “as regards the outcome of any enquiry pertaining to the alleged embezzlement of municipal funds in terms of the letters”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/can-info-commissioner-say-disciplinary-action-against-employee-is-personal-hc-to-examine-165758
04-11-2020||---||Couple attacked, woman ‘abducted’ by her father||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, November 3The police have registered a case against five persons for allegedly beating up and abducting a woman from outside the Mona Greens housing society on VIP Road in Zirakpur.On a complaint of the woman’s husband, Harwinder Singh, the police have registered a case against the victim Rupneet Kaur’s father Harwinder Singh, uncle Baldev Singh, grandfather Sadha Singh of Kandoli village in Kurukshetra.The complainant stated in his complaint that his wife’s parents were against their inter-caste marriage, solemnised on October 28, and were pressuring her to come back home. The couple had been hiding since then and filed a petition in the High Court regarding this. In the afternoon today, they, along with cousin Sandeep, went to see a lawyer. When they were at the gate of the housing society, unidentified persons, wearing masks, came in a car and assaulted him, and abducted his wife.Police officials said they were investigating the matter and search for the suspects was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/couple-attacked-woman-abducted-by-her-father-165759
04-11-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Will Syndicate be dissolved in absence of Senate?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3After a big question mark on Panjab University’s Senate, the next in line is Syndicate, whose term will end on December 31.The Senate has six ex officio members, 49 elected from constituencies and 36 nominated by the Vice-Chancellor (VC). Fifteen members of the Senate comprise Syndicate.Now, with the non-existence of Senate and speculation of formation of the Board of Governors (BoG), Syndicate is likely to be dissolved with immediate effect.“If Chancellor announces BoG in the coming days, there’s no logic of existence of Syndicate. One institution cannot have two governing bodies,” said a source in Panjab University (PU).As per PU’s calendar, the term of Senate ends on October 31 and that of Syndicate on December 31. Dean’s terms ends on January 31.Deans of faculties are elected every year in December.As Senate’s term has expired, the process of Deans’ election will be have to be looked into afresh. If faculties are allowed to meet for the first time in the PU’s history, Deans would likely be from teachers and probably be elected by teachers alone.“This staggered management was possibly introduced to give sometime to the newly elected or appointed body/individual to understand PU’s functioning. Multiple changes at one time will not to go well for any institution. Likewise, with sudden formation of the BoG, it needs some time to settle down,” said a professor.Faculty’s concernMeanwhile, a few faculty members have written an open letter raising various concerns on dissolving of the House and its affect. In the letter, Mohammed Khalid and MC Sidhu, who lost the PUTA elections, stated, “This is for the first time that the PU is without its governing body.”“For the first time in PU all the powers will be exercised without Senate. This is not in accordance to the PU Act, regulations and rules of the calendar,” stated Khalid.“Each Senate member has the privilege to opt four faculties (two major and two minor). This special power empowers a Senate member to be a voter to elect Syndicate members from two major faculties and from the combined faculty. After the expiry of the term of the Senate, this privilege will not remain with anybody. All the Senate members are now ex-fellows of the PU,” added Khalid.“Nor the nominated members can act as Senate because it is notified as a body comprising ex-officio members, elected members and nominated members. In the absence of elected members, how can the Senate be notified? In the coming days there will be no added members in faculties as their term expires in January 2021,” said Sidhu.“Constitution of Board of Finance will change as its two members are elected by the Senate (term already expired) and two from the Syndicate (term to expire on December 31, 2020). University officials will work independently as per the rules and regulations. The university bureaucracy will become stronger. It has its own pros and cons,” added Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-syndicate-be-dissolved-in-absence-of-senate-165761
04-11-2020||---||PUTA stages dharna near VC’s camp office||Chandigarh, November 3The Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) protested outside the Vice–Chancellor’s camp office demanding handing over of the schedule of CAS interviews. “The executive body of PUTA met today and decided to stage a protest. Subsequently, the Vice-Chancellor held a meeting with the PUTA executive.It was conveyed in unambiguous terms that a complete schedule of selection committees for all pending cases must be handed over to PUTA. Conceding the demand, the VC assured the association that a complete schedule had already been prepared for all pending cases, according to which all interviews would be completed by mid-December,” said Mritunjay Kumar, president of PUTA.He claimed that the authorities agreed to advance the interviews to expedite the process. “It was also requested to speed up the clearance of cases of promotion of teachers stuck due to the ambiguity in Clause 6.3 of the UGC regulation of 2018,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-stages-dharna-near-vcs-camp-office-165762
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Car rider makes off with 5 kg  of apples||A car-borne man escaped after taking 5 kg apples from a physically challenged roadside vendor on the road separating Sector 27 and 30. The police had earlier received a call that Rs1,980 was robbed at gunpoint. However, on verifying, they found that 5 kg of apples were taken by the suspect without paying the money.The vendor, Sant Ram, had called up the police and claimed that his money had been robbed at gunpoint.A DDR (daily diary report) has been lodged at the Sector 26 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-rider-makes-off-with-5-kg-of-apples-165763
04-11-2020||Zirakpur||Cop held for ‘negligence’||The police have registered a case against a Punjab Police constable, Rajinder Singh, on the charge of forging the passport of a criminal on the basis of fake documents. The accused was produced before a Dera Bassi court and was remanded in police custody for two days. The case was registered on a complaint of ASI Khushpreet Singh.Zirakpur SHO Rajpal Singh Gill said Rajinder’s negligence in police verification helped a criminal, Sarabjit Singh, to prepare a forged certificate and he managed to flee the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-held-for-negligence-165764
04-11-2020||---||6 of Bishnoi gang held with arms||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 3The Mohali police arrested six persons, including a juvenile, from Kharar yesterday. They were planning to free the prime accused in the Sonu Shah murder case from the police custody.In three-day police custodyThe suspects have been identified as Harwinder Singh, alias Joy, a resident of Patiala, Subham, alias Billu, a resident of Dadu Majra, Sector 38 (West), Chandigarh, Hitesh, alias Bholu, a resident of Jagdishpura village near Jindal University in Sonepat, Anmol and Abhinav Sonipat, both residents of Sonepat, and a juvenile boy. They were sent to three-day police custody by a court on Tuesday.The police also recovered two .32 bore pistols, seven live cartridges, a country-made .315 bore pistol, a live cartridge, a dagger and an iron sword from their possession. The arrested persons are said to be members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.The suspects have been identified as Harwinder Singh, alias Joy, a resident of Patiala, Subham, alias Billu, a resident of Dadu Majra, Sector 38 (West), Chandigarh, Hitesh, alias Bholu, a resident of Jagdishpura village near Jindal University in Sonepat, Anmol and Abhinav Sonipat, both residents of Sonepat, and a juvenile boy. They were sent to three-day police custody by a court today.During a press conference, Mohali SP (Investigation) Harmandeep Hans said police parties of the CIA staff, Mohali, were checking vehicles at a naka near Sunny Enclave yesterday. The suspects were nabbed at the naka when they were coming from Sonepat in a white SUV.“Based on their interrogation, it came to fore that they were planning to execute a bank robbery to gather funds with help of armed weapons. It was also discovered that the suspects were planning to help escape Manjit Singh, who is lodged in the Burail Jail, Chandigarh, in the Sonu Shah murder case, from the police custody during a hearing. The suspects are also members of the Bishnoi gang as they were working for Manjit Singh, who is an active member of the Bishnoi group,” said the SP.The police also came to know through their interrogation that Billu, along with his accomplice Vijay, had carried out the shooting incident in Sector 25, Chandigarh, on October 19. Joy and Billu had also carried out a shooting incident on the day of a state-level function in Patiala on October 25. It was revealed that Bholu is the relative of Manjit Singh, a suspect in the Sonu Shah murder case.Harmandeep Hans said the suspects had a criminal background as three cases were registered against Joy and two against Billu, a Class X dropout, in different police stations.A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 399, 402 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act at the Sadar Kharar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-of-bishnoi-gang-held-with-arms-165765
04-11-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Gross GST collection picks up in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection has gradually picked up over the past months in the UT.In September, the gross GST collection was 10 per cent lower than what was collected during the corresponding period last year. However, the gap reduced to 3 per cent in October, said RK Chaudhary, Assistant Commissioner, Excise and Taxation, Department, UT.He said the department had received over Rs10 crore more in October in comparison to previous month of September. The gross GST collection in October increased to Rs151.98 crore.The gross GST collection in September stood at Rs141.48 crore, including collection of Rs26 crore under the Central GST, Rs34 crore under UT GST, and Rs81 crore under the Integrated GST. However, the revenue for September was nearly 10 per cent lower than the GST collected in the same month last year, which was Rs156.51 crore.The UT got nearly 8 per cent more revenue in the gross GST collected in September in comparison to the tax received in August.The gross GST collection in August this year was Rs138.52 crore, which was nearly 13 per cent less of the GST collected, Rs160.08 crore, in August 2019.Chaudhary said the GST collection in July was Rs 137.33 crore. Due to the imposition of lockdown, the UT had collected meagre revenue of Rs40.34 crore in April, which increased to Rs103.44 crore in May. However, with selective opening of various business establishments in Unlock 1.0, the revenue collection witnessed a sharp increase and the UT recorded a collection of record Rs158.69 crore in June.Chaudhary said the growth in the GST revenue collection clearly showed the trajectory motion in the recovery of tax collection. He said they hoped to bring the gross GST collection in November on a par with the collection in the corresponding period last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gross-gst-collection-picks-up-in-chandigarh-165766
04-11-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Professional golf set to resume today sans scorers, spectators||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3With the PGTI conducting its first event – Tata Steel Players Championship 2020 – in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in Panchkula and at Chandigarh Golf Club from November 4, the organisers are trying to make it a no-contact event. Event to feature top professionalsThe event will feature top Indian professionals such as Rashid Khan, Udayan Mane, Ajeetesh Sandhu, Khalin Joshi, Chikkarangappa and Aadil Bedi, to name a few. With the resumption of events on the PGTI, the race for berths at the Tokyo 2020 Olympics also resumes as PGTI events offer valuable Official World Golf Ranking (OWGR) points. The top two Indians in the list will qualify for the Tokyo Olympics on the revised cut-off date of June 21, 2021. Khan is currently the highest-ranked Indian in the world at 252 followed by Mane at 290 while Shubhankar Sharma is third at 348. Bedi won the last PGTI event held in March this year after a record six-hole playoff victory against Mane.The tournament will have a full turnout as all participants have cleared their Covid-19 test, a must before participating in any Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) championship.After this event, the PGTI is hosting another Players Championship from November 9 to 12 at same venues, followed by Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2020, from December 3 to 6, at Chandigarh Golf Club.“All participants, including their caddies, have submitted their Covid-19 test reports. Luckily, we will have full turnout in the event. Restarting professional golf in this pandemic is not an easy task. Golfers were asked to submit Covid report 72 hours prior to their practice round,” said Uttan Mundy, CEO, PGTI.“Only three players (competitors) will be allowed at the course at one time. They will use their own equipment. The caddies with them will have to wear mask all the time. The coverage area of 280 acres will help us to maintain social distancing,” said Mundy.“There will be no scoreboards. The scoring detail will be provided after every round. Also, there will be no spectators in these championships,” added Mundy.“Gatherings will be strictly prohibited and players will be asked to leave the tournament venue as soon as their round has been completed. No practice will be allowed after the round,” said Mundy.“No player other than those as mentioned in the tournament entry list/draw and also only those making the cut (Rounds 3 and 4) will be allowed entry. Only a scorecard and hole’s location rules sheet will be distributed on the tee. There will be no exchange of paper between participants,” added Mundy.For the first two events, one half of the field will play their first round in Panchkula while the other half will play their first round in Chandigarh. In the second event, the third and fourth rounds will be played in Chandigarh.The prize purse for first two events is Rs 30 lakh each while for Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational its Rs 1.5 crore.“In these tough times, the PGTI has decided to conduct a non-contact event. It’s a good sign for professional golf. Moreover, now golfers have to act responsibly to follow these rules. If adopted well, it will be game changer in the PGTI’s history and open the doors for conducting other championships,” said Arjuna Awardee golfer Harmeet Kahlon, who is also participating in the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/professional-golf-set-to-resume-today-sans-scorers-spectators-165767
04-11-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh private schools to remain shut till Diwali||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3Private schools in the city have decided not to open until Diwali and take another survey seeking parents’ views on reopening of schools.In a fresh survey conducted by private schools, only 15 per cent of parents have agreed to send their wards to schools. President of the Independent School Association HS Mamik said, “We will open schools only when 50 per cent of the parents agree to send their children to schools. We will again carry a survey after 10 days and seek parents’ opinion. So far, the consensus is that many private schools in the city will not open till Diwali.”Atul Khanna, Director of Strawberry Fields High School, said, “So far, parents are not interested in sending children to school. We are planning to encourage board classes to start after the Diwali break.”A handful of private schools have reopened for regular teaching, but the attendance is the bare minimum. Reema Dewan, Principal of Delhi Public School, said, “Only six students turned up at our school, but the consent was received from many. We have an arrangement for both online and offline classes. Online classes are the preferred mode of education. We will see how students turn up during the coming week.”The UT Education Department had allowed private schools to adopt instructions given by the department or amend these as per their requirement. However, the schools have to adhere to the SOPs issued by the Ministry of Education.Meanwhile, the attendance remained only 2 per cent of the total strength in government schools on the second day as well. On Tuesday, the attendance increased by 500 as a total of 3,759 students turned up in government schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-private-schools-to-remain-shut-till-diwali-165768
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Pay ‘more’ for parking from next month||Be ready to pay more for parking in the city from the next month. The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has directed parking contractors to install smart features in the parking lots by November 30.An official said the revised rates would only be implemented if the contractors equip all parking lots with smart features.The MC House in September last year had approved the time slab-based parking rates, but the contractors were asked to collect the revised rates only after putting up parking lots with smart facilities.Duration-based chargesAfter the revised rates, the parking fee for the first four hours will Rs5 for two-wheelers and Rs10 for four-wheelers.Thereafter, the charges will be doubled for 4 to 12 hours. The charges will further be doubled if vehicles are kept parked beyond 12 hours. There will be free entry for pick and drop in the first 10 minutes.There are 89 parking lots in the city. All parking lots will allow day passes for multiple entries and monthly passes too.Digital signage showing capacity and occupancy and vacant slots have to be installed in the parking lots. E-ticketing, CCTVs and signboards displaying rate list are also to be installed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pay-more-for-parking-from-next-month-165769
04-11-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration withholds issuance of licences for firecrackers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3Concerned over rising pollution, the UT Administration today withheld the issuance of temporary licences for selling firecrackers in the city during Diwali.An officer said the draw of lots was held today to issue 96 licences for selling firecrackers, but the result had been withheld. UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore would take a final call on the issue, said the officer. The Administrator was likely to consider the possibility of a second wave of Covid-19 during the festival season due to increase in pollution before taking the final decision.On grant of licence, the shopkeepers will be allowed to sell firecrackers only on November 12, 13 and 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-withholds-issuance-of-licences-for-firecrackers-165770
04-11-2020||---||Lecture series, awards to mark PEC foundation day on Nov 9||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3Punjab Engineering College (PEC) will launch a ‘lecture series’ to mark its 99th foundation day from November 9. This series will be conducted throughout the session as the institution will enter the 100th year of its existence.“These won’t be normal lecture series but will be headed by very eminent personalities of various fields. To start with, the institution will host the first lecture on November 11 by famous computer scientist Dabbala Rajagopal ‘Raj’ Reddy, winner of the Turing Award and Padma Bhushan,” said Prof Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, PEC.Dr Reddy is one of the early pioneers of artificial intelligence and has served on the faculty of Stanford and Carnegie Mellon for over 50 years. “These lectures will go on for the entire session. We will try to conduct one every week on different topics. These lectures will give students a platform to listen to those who have served society with great zeal,” added Sanghi.On celebrating the foundation day amid the Covid-19 restrictions, Sanghi said a virtual ceremony would be conducted wherein, like the previous years, distinguished awards will be presented.“Like every year, we will be awarding our alumni with distinguished awards. However, this time it will be online. The Punjab Governor and UT Administrator has agreed to attend the function. Students will be also joining the celebrations,” added Sanghi.Special screeningof picturesThe institution has asked its alumni to send old pictures and interesting stories relating to PEC. “It’s a part of the celebrations. So far, we have received some old and rare photographs. PEC has its alumni around the world and we are expecting to receive more interesting stories and pictures to share with the media fraternity and students,” said Sanghi. PEC, which is a deemed-to-be university, started in Lahore as Mugalpura Engineering College in 1921 and later moved here in 1953 as PEC affiliated to Panjab University. The institute became a deemed university in 2003 through a notification of the MHRD and was rechristened as PEC University of Technology in 2009. It offers eight different undergraduate BTech programmes and 14 postgraduate MTech programmes in various disciplines of engineering and technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lecture-series-awards-to-mark-pec-foundation-day-on-nov-9-165771
04-11-2020||---||Sector 48 residents show the swachh way||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 3Residents of Sector 48 here seem to be beating the Covid blues with a positive spirit for the past three months. It was in the mid of the lockdown in June that three running enthusiasts decided to go ahead with their routine of running for 100 days in order to boost their immunity and spend more time indoors while adhering to social distancing norms. Their families joined in soon and within less than a month the number of these “runners” increased to 45.“We used to meet at 5:30 am daily and perform daily workouts of running, walking and stretching,” said Jaspreet Duggal, one of the three enthusiasts.Even as the fitness campaign caught on in the sector, residents realised that the main park of Sector 48-B where they were carrying out their exercise routine was poorly maintained. Presence of weeds, stagnant water and litter were not only an eyesore but also posing a health hazard to people frequenting the park.Taking the matter in their hands, the residents collectively decided to clean and beautify it.“It was time to show the sense of belongingness towards our surroundings and treat it as same as we do it for own houses,” said Astha Soni (38), a homemaker.While one of the residents volunteered to provide paints and brushes, others stepped forward to give a fresh and colourful coat of paint to the berm and a wall in the park. Parents had collectively cleaned the space and children painted the pavements and walls with enthusiasm.“We felt happy to see people visit the park and click photographs and selfies with smiles. Most of them have started daily walk and run here,” shared Jaspreet.Thus, the initiative of a few residents has become a motivation for several others.Calling it the true spirit of the City Beautiful, Dinesh Arora (43), a city-based advocate and resident of Sector 48, said: “A city in itself never becomes beautiful but it’s the people’s effort that makes it beautiful.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-48-residents-show-the-swachh-way-165772
04-11-2020||---||MC poll: Work to update voters’ list in Mohali from Nov 16||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 3In view of the MC elections, work to update voters’ list in the district will start from November 16 and continue till December 15.Mohali Assistant Commissioner Yashpal stated this after holding a meeting with election registration officers and booth-level officers (BLOs) to begin the work for updating the voters’ list in the district.He said BLOs had been directed to ensure their presence in the booths on Saturdays and Sundays from November 16 to make students aware through camps on the college campus to enrol them in the voters’ lists.“Members of Electoral Literacy Clubs should be asked to conduct campaigns to register maximum number of eligible voters,” he said.Yashpal said officials should make all-out efforts to enrol Person with Disabilities in the voters’ list. Officials should also ensure that migrant labourers, who work in industries and brick-kilns, were enrolled in the voters’ list.He also directed nodal sweep officers/kanungo to organise special camps to enrol PwDs and transgenders in their respective constituencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-poll-work-to-update-voters-list-in-mohali-from-nov-16-165773
04-11-2020||Chandigarh||Tree plantation at Panjab University||Webinar on new education policyChandigarh: The SAIF/CIL, Panjab University, organised a webinar on New National Education Policy-2020 with special reference to the necessary elements of transformational change in the policy. The Director SAIF/CIL, Prof Ganga Ram Chaudhary, apprised the participants regarding the SAIF/CIL facilities. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, emphasised on conducting such webinars on burning topics of national interest. TNSResults declaredChandigarh: Panjab University has announced results of MSc Forensic Science & Criminology, BSc (HS)-Geology 6th semester, Certificate Course in German, and BVoc Medical Laboratory Technology 6th semester. TNSMan held with 90-gm charasPanchkula: The police have arrested a Solan resident for possessing 90 grams of charas from the light point near BEL factory here on Sunday evening. The suspect has been identified as Jitender Kumar, a native of Dhab Dharva village of Solan district in Himachal Pradesh. He is presently staying near Peer Muchalla in Dhakoli. The police said a team of the crime branch, which was on patrolling duty, saw the suspect coming from the Sector 16 side in suspicious condition. On seeing the police, the suspect turned back. However, the police managed to nab him. During the checking, the police recovered a plastic packet containing brown powder. A case has been registered against the suspect. TNSCops’ Karva gesture for couplesChandigarh: With an aim to strengthen the bond and spread harmony among couples who had sour relations and had filed police complaints, the UT Police Women and Child Support Unit on Tuesday invited 11 such couples at the women cell on the eve of Karva Chauth. DSP Charanjit Singh said couples who had earlier filed complaints of harassment and violence, but after counselling at the women cell started living together, were invited to strengthen their bond. The cops gifted hampers and red stole to the women present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tree-plantation-at-panjab-university-165774
04-11-2020||---||Denmark firm acquires Mohali-based Mohan Fibre for Rs 125 cr||Chandigarh, November 3Denmark-based packaging firm Brodrene Hartmann A/S has acquired Mohali-based Mohan Fibre Products Ltd., manufacturer of moulded fibre packaging for eggs and fruits, for around Rs 125 crore. The company intends to expand its Indian footprint further by pumping in another Rs 100 crore to ramp up production capacity.“The entry of Hartmann will revolutionise the packaging industry. The buyout establishes a solid platform for the company in the Indian market which is characterised by favourable demographic development and increasing egg and fruit production. The buyout marks a strategic decision to enter the Indian market in which we see a significant growth potential,” said Munishwar Kumar, MD & CEO of Hartmann’s India operations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/denmark-firm-acquires-mohali-based-mohan-fibre-for-rs-125-cr-165755
