04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Three vehicles burnt by miscreants in different parts of Chandigarh||Three vehicles were set on fire by unidentified miscreants in different parts of the city on Saturday night. Mani, a resident of Mauli Jagran, said that unknown persons set his brother’s Chevrolet Beat car on fire. “We came to know about the incident from a neighbour at around 6 am. Someone had called the fire department, by the time I came to know the fire tender had already left after dousing the fire,” he said. Meanwhile, a Mahindra pick-up owned by another resident named Rajesh Sharma parked near Chevrolet Beat, also caught the fire and suffered damage.The rear part of the vehicle was burnt. Similar incident was reported from Ram Darbar where a newly purchased Nissan Kicks car parked on the roadside was set on fire.  Kishore Kumar said that the incident was reported at around 2.30 am. Kumar further added that he had purchased the vehicle in July this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-vehicles-burnt-by-miscreants-in-different-parts-of-chandigarh-151026
04-10-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||85 new cases, 2 deaths due to COVID-19 in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Sunday reported 85 new cases of COVID-19 taking the total number of cases to 12,445 while two people lost their lives to the virus.The death toll in the UT has risen to 174.An 87-year-old female resident of Sector 19, a case of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Hypertension, and a 67-year-old male resident of Manimajra, a case of Coronary Artery disease and SARI, died at GMCH-32.There are 1,673 active cases in the city while 10,598 have been cured till date.Of the 85 new cases, 61 are male and 24 are female.A total of 202 patients have been discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Health Ministry guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/85-new-cases-2-deaths-due-to-covid-19-in-chandigarh-151007
04-10-2020||---||One more dies of Covid in Mohali district; 67 fresh cases||Mohali, October 4One more fatality was witnessed in the Mohali district during the past 24 hours taking the toll to 200. On Sunday, 67 fresh positive cases were reported.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the patient who died of the coronavirus was 66-year-old man from Sialba village Majri, who died at Gracian Hospital Mohali.Dr Singh added that out of the 67 fresh coronavirus cases, 45 were from Mohali (urban), seven from Kharar, two from Dera Bassi, and 13 from Dhakoli. He said 216 persons were cured and discharged from various hospitals.As of now there are 10,900 positive cases and out of these 9,163 had been cured and discharged from hospital. There are 1,537 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-more-dies-of-covid-in-mohali-district-67-fresh-cases-151002
04-10-2020||Naina Mishra||5 volunteers excluded after +ve antibody test||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3As many as five volunteers, who had enrolled for the Covishield (Covid-19 vaccine) trials, were found unfit for the study after they were found positive in the antibody test.Prof Mini P Singh, Department of Virology, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), said, “Among the 66 participants, who were healthy and never experienced any symptom of Covid, five were found positive for IgG antibody test, clearly indicating that they had caught the infection, but were asymptomatic.”The PGIMER has already screened 66 volunteers ever since it started enrolling candidates for clinical trials of the vaccine. Of these, 42 candidates have been administered the first dose of Covishield (SII-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19) so far.One of the exclusion criteria for enrolling volunteers for the trial is the immunoglobulin G (IgG) seropositivity to SARS-CoV-2. Prof Mini said, “Among the healthy volunteers, the seropositivity was found to be only 7.6 per cent, implying that most of the tricity population is still not exposed to the virus. In this scenario, it also becomes important to carry out a serosurvey in large scale to see whether people have contracted an infection or not, or is the spread just the tip of an iceberg.”‘20% of recovered patients had no antibodies’“The data is at a very preliminary stage as the sample size is small. However, it matches with the findings of serosurvey studies carried out by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This is also suggestive of the fact that people are not coming forward to get themselves tested for Covid due to stigma attached with the infection. We found out some individuals did not get themselves tested for the contagion despite being apprehensive of the symptoms. It has been noticed that such individuals also have a good amount of antibody titer (a type of blood test that determines the presence and level (titer) of antibodies in the blood,” said Prof Mini and added that 20 per cent of the recovered patients had no antibodies.Doctors at the PGIMER have also found that around 20 per cent of the people, who had been cured of the disease, had weak or no antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. About 66 of the total 80 cured patients showed the presence of antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 and remaining did not show antibodies.Prof Mini said, “This is an ongoing study and the results may vary when the numbers will increase. The recovered patients, who did not develop antibodies, despite recovery are around 20 per cent. Usually, antibodies are formed within three weeks of recovery. One of the reasons is that sometimes asymptomatic patients do not form antibodies. There is always a chance of false positive in the Covid-19 testing.”42 candidates administered first doseThe PGI has already screened 66 volunteers ever since it started enrolling candidates for the clinical trials of the vaccine. Of these, 42 candidates have been administered the first dose of Covishield (SII-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19) so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-volunteers-excluded-after-ve-antibody-test-150729
04-10-2020||---||NSUI, IYC protest farm laws, lock Punjab BJP office in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 3Members of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) and the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) today locked the Punjab BJP office in Sector 37 in protest against the new farm laws.“It is evident that farmers across the country are vexed with the new laws. Farmers consider it an “English law”, which used to be imposed on Indian poor farmers in the British era. The country knows that only Punjab and Haryana farmers who sell their farm products on or over MSP are far better off than other farmers in the country. Not introducing MSP means bringing all farmers into the same fate, which will be very unfortunate for the progress of country,” said Sunny Mehta, AICC member. The police later detained more than 15 members of both parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nsui-iyc-protest-farm-laws-lock-punjab-bjp-office-in-chandigarh-150730
04-10-2020||Mohali||96.54% of paddy procured from Mohali mandis: DC||Around 96.54 per cent paddy out of the 17,951 metric tonnes (MT) has been procured till Friday by various agencies at grain markets in Mohali district.The Mohali Deputy Commissioner (DC), Girish Dayalan, said, “17,331 MT of paddy has been procured due to proper arrangements.”On Friday, 5,144 MT of paddy arrived in mandis out of which 5,139 MT was purchased, the DC added. The total procurement on Friday was 99.90 per cent, the DC said. Pungrain purchased 4,218 MT of paddy, Markfed 7,601 MT, Punsup 1,675 MT, Punjab State Warehousing Corporation 3,749 and millers 88 MT, the DC added.“The procurement agencies have started lifting procured crop. To avoid shortage of space in future the agencies will speed up lifting. As per the Covid-19 guidelines, market committees, arhtiyas and procurement agencies have been directed to arrange adequate soap, sanitisers and masks for farmers, labour and staff,” the DC said.The DC urged farmers to bring ripe and dry crop to grain markets for smooth and hassle-free procurement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/96-54-of-paddy-procured-from-mohali-mandis-dc-150732
04-10-2020||---||147 evacuees from Dubai reach Chandigarh||Mohali, October 3An Indigo flight, under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 147 passengers from Dubai, landed at the Chandigarh international airport here today.The Indigo-operated air bubble flight arrived at the airport at 10.30 am.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their destinations under the supervision of respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the Covid guidelines.Arrival of passengers went on smoothly at the airport with joint efforts of all authorities/agencies of the governments of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, CISF, immigration, customs, police and airport.A Health Department spokesman said during screening, officials took utmost precautions and passengers also observed social distancing.He said no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, and cold.Passengers were also impressed upon by teams of the Health Department deployed at the airport to take all precautions such as covering their face with a mask, using hand sanitiser, washing hands and maintaining social distance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/147-evacuees-from-dubai-reach-chandigarh-150733
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Health Services Director makes surprise visit to help desk||UT Health Services Director Dr Amandeep Kang today made a surprise visit to the help desk, which has been set up to monitor Covid patients, who have opted for home isolation, and to address the queries of the general public.She, along with the MS and DMS of the GMSH, Sector 16, interacted with the patients and also enquired about their well-being. She sought their feedback regarding the visit of the health workers to their homes and the interaction with them. She stressed upon the doctors to be compassionate and vigilant, especially with the elderly and patients with co-morbid conditions. She stressed upon the staff to be prompt in shifting patients to hospitals from home whenever there was a need so that they were attended in time.The 24X7 help desk has been set up at the CHB office where staff and doctors call all patients in home isolation and advice them regarding the safety measures and medicines to be taken. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-services-director-makes-surprise-visit-to-help-desk-150734
04-10-2020||---||Absconding accused can’t get anticipatory bail: Court||Chandigarh, October 3If anyone is declared an absconder/proclaimed offender (PO) in terms of Section 82, CrPC, he is not entitled to the relief of anticipatory bail. By stating this, the Court of Rajesh Sharma, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, dismissed the anticipatory bail application of an accused, who was declared a PO in a theft case 13 years ago.Gurnam Singh, a resident of Ludhiana district, filed an anticipatory bail through his counsel by claiming that he came to know that he was declared a PO in the case only after returning to his village from abroad recently.The accused said he was informed by villagers that the case was not closed and he was declared a PO by the court in 2007.He claimed that the absence before the trial court was not intentional, but due to misguidance and mistake of his previous counsel.He had previously appeared on every date of hearing before the trial court, the accused added. He lastly appeared before the court on April 3, 2006, but thereafter, his earlier counsel did not inform him about any date of hearing, the accused said.His counsel told him that there was no need to appear in the said case as it was closed and believing him, he did not appear before the trial court, the accused added.On the other hand, the public prosecutor opposed the bail by saying that non- bailable warrants of the accused were issued by the then JMIC, Chandigarh, on November 11, 2006, and ultimately, he was declared a PO on July 17, 2007.Had the accused been vigilant, he would have surrendered at the earliest in the court concerned, but he chose not to do so, the public prosecutor added.While referring to the Supreme Court judgment, the court said when a person against whom a warrant had been issued was absconding or concealing himself in order to avoid execution of warrant and declared a PO in terms of Section 82 of the code, he was not entitled to the relief of anticipatory bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/absconding-accused-cant-get-anticipatory-bail-court-150735
04-10-2020||Mohali||Relief: No death, daily case count under 100 in Mohali||The district witnessed 88 fresh Covid-19 cases today, taking the tally to 10,833.Health officials heaved a sigh of relief as the number of fresh infections went below the 100 mark after 48 days.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said it was also a huge relief for the health authorities as the district did not witness any death due to the virus today after about one month.Dayalan said of the 88 fresh cases, 59 were from Mohali (urban), two from Kharar, 14 from Dera Bassi, three from Lalru, one each from Kurali and Gharuan and eight from Dhakoli.He said 166 patients had recovered from the infection and were discharged from various hospitals in the district today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/relief-no-death-daily-case-count-under-100-in-mohali-150736
04-10-2020||---||148 more contract infection in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 3The city today witnessed three deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 172. The UT saw 148 more persons testing positive for coronavirus today, taking the tally to 12,360.A 43-year-old man from Hallo Majra died at the GMCH-32. He was suffering from coronary artery disease and dilated cardiomyopathy.A 32-year-old man from Dhanas died at the PGI. He had chronic liver disease, acute kidney injury and necrotising fasciitis.A 70-year-old woman from Sector 61 died at the GMCH-32. She was a case of type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension and coronary artery bypass grafting. A total of 234 patients recovered from the virus today. With this, the number of recovered patients in the city rose to 10,396. There are 1,792 active cases in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/148-more-contract-infection-in-chandigarh-150737
04-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Experience the new normal in theatres amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3PPE kit availability for guests, extended intervals to avoid gathering, QR ticket scanner, no pat down search, social distancing seating and hands-free water dispenser. These are some precautionary measures against Covid-19 to be followed at single-screen theatres and multiplexes reopening from October 15.Though the multi-screen and single-screen cinemas in the city will adopt various standard operating procedures (SOPs) in view of the Covid outbreak, the above list is likely to be implemented across the halls in order to provide a safe environment to the viewers.Some cinema halls are also mulling over the seating plan. “The seating plan for normal auditoriums will be a gap of one seat after each booking. In such a case, a family, couples or groups can sit together. In premium auditoriums, no seat will be left vacant as these recliner seats are wider than normal,” said a source from a famous chain of theatres located in the Industrial Area.The source added, “Extended intermission, staggered exit, anti-microbial film on handles and regular sanitisation are among features that will be mandatory. PPE kits will be also available on a payment basis while for offering food there will be normal pre-packed snacks. Food can also be ordered over phone. There will be contactless payment.”Movie buffs will have to sign a self-declaration form on Aarogya Setu app.The Multiplex Association of India (MAI) has issued standard protocols, including staggered show timings, a minimum gap of 15 minutes between two shows, entry to lounge/waiting area half an hour before the show and others.*Effect on pricingWhile different theatres will have different SOPs, one thing is clear that all these facilities will come at a cost. “We are not sure about the pricing right now. We are coming back to business and it’s not usual to have a show with 50 per cent capacity and so much of protocol to follow. The staff needs to be paid; then there will be maintenance cost, covering up of losses and many more things. The ticket price may be raised,” said the manager of a multiplex in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experience-the-new-normal-in-theatres-amid-pandemic-150739
04-10-2020||---||2 private hospitals allowed to treat Covid patients||Chandigarh, October 3The UT Administration today permitted two private hospitals for the treatment of Covid patients and fixed the cost of facilities to be availed by them.According to an official order of the UT Principal Secretary of Health, Kare Partners Group India Private Limited, Sector 18, and another hospital in Sector 19 have been allowed for the treatment as per the Punjab Government approved rates.According to the order, in NABH accredited hospitals, the cost for the treatment of a Covid patient with moderate sickness requiring isolation beds, including supportive care, has been fixed at Rs9,000 per day. The cost for the treatment of a patient with severe sickness requiring ICU without ventilator will cost Rs14,000 per day and those requiring ventilator will be charged Rs16,500 per day.In non-NABH accredited hospital, the charges will be Rs8,000, Rs13,000 and Rs15,000 for three categories, respectively. All these charges will include the cost of PPE.In case of mild sickness, Rs5,500 will be charged per day in NABH accredited hospital and Rs4,500 in non-NABH accredited hospital.These are the maximum rates that a hospital can charge from a Covid patient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-private-hospitals-allowed-to-treat-covid-patients-150740
04-10-2020||---||Ex-DHS of Punjab offers service to UT at Re 1 salary||Chandigarh, October 3Dr Rakesh Gupta, former Director of Health Services (DHS), Punjab, has offered to serve on an honorary basis on the post of Administrative Director, NHM, UT.In a letter to the UT Administrator, Dr Gupta stated that he had superannuated as the DHS, Punjab, recently, and would like to contribute towards making health services better in the city, where he has been living for the past 54 years.Dr Gupta said he offered his services as the Administrative Director, NHM, UT, on an honorary basis at a salary of Rs1 per month. “The money thus saved may be used to provide better salaries to the contractual NHM staff,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-dhs-of-punjab-offers-service-to-ut-at-re-1-salary-150741
04-10-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Year on, Chandigarh Municipal Corporation set to put leash on canine terror||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 3The rising number of dog-bite cases in the city has finally spurred the Municipal Corporation to launch a dog sterilisation drive on October 5.City residents have been complaining about the increase in the stray dog population for almost a year now.On Saturday, a resident of Sector 9, who works as a domestic help, was bitten by a stray dog when she was going for work in the morning. The victim had to be taken to a private hospital for the treatment.“The dog sterilisation drive had not been held for a long time, but it will begin on Monday. About 10 to 12 dogs will be picked up on a daily basis and sterilised,” said Dr Amrit Pal Warring, Medical Officer of Health, MC.It is no secret that the number of dog-bite cases is directly proportional to the count of stray dogs.Dog sterilisation in the city has been held up since June 2019 when the contract of the agency engaged for the purpose had come to an end. Since then, the civic body has floated tenders thrice, but has been unable to find a suitable bidder.Due to the lockdown since March 24, the instances of dog bite may have come down but the number of stray dogs has not. With the restrictions easing gradually, more and more residents are coming outdoors, increasing the incidence of dog bite.According to the UT Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Department census in 2019, the number of stray dogs in the city was 12,900. In the 2012 census, the figure stood at 7,847.MC officials said the proposed dog sterlisation centre in Raipur Kalan too had not made any headway since last year.The stray dog menace in the city has been on the rise for the past several years and little progress has been made to check it.Ward number 1 councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said, “The problem is not area specific. Cases of dog bite are being reported from every part of the city every day. The sterlisation drive has to be all-year round and needs to be done aggressively.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/year-on-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-set-to-put-leash-on-canine-terror-150742
04-10-2020||Single entrance for screening registration||Testing times for suspected cases at Panchkula hospital||BQ: Will address the issue: CMOYes, it is matter we need to work on. I will talk to the principal medical officer to address the issue as quickly as possible. — Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Chief Medical OfficerAmit BathlaTribune News ServicePanchkula, October 3The Covid block at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here doesn’t have a separate entrance for positive patients coming to the hospital to seek admission and outpatients visiting the infirmary to get themselves screened for the virus.The mingling of outpatients with positive cases at the government hospital poses a risk of transmission of infection.The Health Department has installed a kiosk for collection of samples from the suspected cases near the entrance of the Covid-19 specialty wing. After registration at the reception, outpatients wait for their turn while sitting on chairs placed nearby to give their swab samples.Ankur Taliyan (23), who underwent the Covid test at the hospital testing facility, said, “While I was standing at the registration counter, a Covid patient went past me. It’s really scary. Those who come for the Covid test are at a high risk of contracting the virus. Officials should come up with a plan to address the issue.”Hospital officials said they had placed chairs for those coming for the Covid test. The seating arrangements were made in such a way that there was adequate physical distancing, they said, adding that the area was sanitised many times a day.The Chief Medical Officer, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “Yes, it is matter we need to work on. I will talk to the principal medical officer to address the issue as quickly as possible.”The Covid-19 testing facility, earlier located in Block A of the hospital, was shifted to Block C in August to ease crowding there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/testing-times-for-suspected-cases-at-panchkula-hospital-150744
04-10-2020||---||Liquor sold at Panchkula vend on Gandhi Jayanti||Panchkula, October 3The police have registered a case after a video showing an illegal sale of liquor at a vend in Rajiv Colony here on Gandhi Jayanti went viral.On a complaint of Sector 16 police post in-charge Brij Pal, a case was registered under Section 120-B of the IPC and Section 61 of the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, against unidentified persons at the Sector 14 police station.The video showed a large gathering outside a liquor shop in Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, towards the Mauli Jagran side, on October 2, which was declared a dry day by the Haryana Government.The salesman, in connivance with liquor contractors, was selling liquor to customers illegally through a small window, stated the FIR.The veracity of the video was being investigated for further action in the case, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-sold-at-panchkula-vend-on-gandhi-jayanti-150748
04-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man held with stolen car||18-year-old girl jumps to deathChandigarh: An 18-year-old girl reportedly committed suicide by jumping off the roof of her house in Ram Darbar here on Friday night. The victim has been identified as Kajal. Sources said the girl was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, where she succumbed to the injuries. Meanwhile, no suicide note was recovered from the spot. The police said the reason behind her taking the extreme step would be investigated. The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter at the Sector 31 police station. TNSWebinar on Mahatma GandhiChandigarh: Three language departments of Panjab University on Saturday came together to host a webinar on ‘New Education Policy and Indian Languages’. The Department of Hindi, Punjabi and Urdu jointly organised the webinar on Mahatma Gandhi. PU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar laid stress on the fact that Indian languages had a rich heritage that needed to be focused on. Gurmeet Singh, Chairperson, Department of Hindi, said the New Education Policy showed the way to reinvent their current education system. TNS2,813 selected at job fairChandigarh: As many as 2,813 students from Desh Bhagat University were selected by various companies for employment and training in the sixth state-level job fair under the Punjab Ghar Ghar Karobar and Rozgar Mission for UG/PG/gradation/ITIs/diploma courses to meet their manpower requirements. The event was organised by Desh Bhagat University in collaboration with the District Bureau of Employment Generation and Training office. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-stolen-car-150755
04-10-2020||Panchkula||Four succumb, 70 more test +ve in Panchkula||The district today reported four Covid-related deaths, pushing the toll to 91.A 23-year-old woman from Raipur Rani, who was suffering from a cardiac disease, a 45-year-old woman from Buddanpur with no co-morbidity, a 67-year-old man from Sector 25, who was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and a chronic kidney disease, and a 63-year-old man from Kalka with no co-morbidities succumbed to the virus.The district also witnessed 70 new cases today. The tally now stands at 6,189.The fresh cases include eight from Sector 15, five each from Kalka and Pinjore, four each from the Industrial Area and Sector 7, three each from Sector 11, Sector 20, Sector 4 and Sector 9, two each from Kharag Mangoli, Police Lines, Sector 12, Sector 14, Sector 21, Sector 25 and Sector 26 and one each from Buddanpur, Khangesra, Kheri, MDC Sector 5, Naggal, Old Panchkula, Pyarewala, Raipur Rani, Rampur Thadyon, Sector 10, Sector 12-A, Sector 16, Sector 17, Sector 27, Sector 6, Shahpur, Sultanpur and Surajpur. While 790 cases in the district are active, 5,308 have defeated the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-succumb-70-more-test-ve-in-panchkula-150756
04-10-2020||---||Five booked for attacking two with sharp weapon||Chandigarh, October 3The UT police have booked five persons for attacking two persons, including a woman, with a sword at Mauli Jagran. The incident was reported on July 26. However, a case in the matter was registered on October 2.The suspects have been identified as Rahul, Ravi, Deepak, Chandera and Manu Ram.In her complaint to the police, Radha a resident of Mauli Jagran, stated that her brother-in-law Madan had gone to a relative’s house in the neighborhood on July 26, where the suspects allegedly entered into an argument with him over the parking of a motorcycle outside the house of the relative, who was a tenant there.It was alleged that the suspects,attacked Madan with a sword. In the meantime, Radha also reached there. The suspects assaulted her as well as she tried to intervene. The victims sustained injuries and were admitted to the PGI.A case has been registered against the suspects at the Mauli Jagran police station and initiated an investigation into it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-booked-for-attacking-two-with-sharp-weapon-150757
04-10-2020||---||Vagabond found dead in an auto at Mani Majra||Chandigarh, October 3   A vagabond, aged around 45, was found dead in an auto at Mani Majra here today. The police had received information about a man lying unconscious in an auto following which cops reached the spot. The victim was taken to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead. An investigation by the police revealed that the victim was known as Ram and used to sleep in parks and bus queue shelters at Mani Majra. The body has been shifted to the mortuary and an inquest proceeding has been initiated at the Mani Majra police station. The police have ruled out any foul play into the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vagabond-found-dead-in-an-auto-at-mani-majra-150758
04-10-2020||---||Hardeep Singh Puri unveils boarding bridges at Chandigarh airport||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 3Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri inaugurated two passenger boarding bridges during a visit to the Chandigarh International Airport, near here, today.Airport CEO Ajay Kumar said the minister was apprised about the ongoing works, including construction of the southern taxiway, apron and cargo hold, at the airport. He said the bridges had been installed at a cost of Rs 10.5 crore and the tunnel for these were manufactured at the BEML, Bengaluru.With this, the number of bridges had now gone up to five and would protect passengers from elements such as cold, heat and rain, he added.Kumar said almost 90 per cent of the total passenger traffic would now use the bridges to board and disembark from flights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hardeep-singh-puri-unveils-boarding-bridges-at-chandigarh-airport-150772
