05-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Half of Chandigarh’s coronavirus patients in 20-30 yr age group||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5Of the 18 Covid patients in Chandigarh, nine belonged to the age group between 21 years and 30 years, implying the "prevalence" of virus mostly in young adults in the city.Over 50 per cent of Covid patients from city belonged to age group of 20 and 30 years, 27 per cent fell in 31-40 year bracket.Dr Lakshmi of PGI explains, “It is the youngsters who often meet more with their peers and hence the chances of transmission increases within their age group.”Two Covid cases reported in the city illustrate the same. A 23-year-old woman from Sector 21 had come in contact with her brother, who had further contacted a Sector 38 male (21 years) and another person, a Sector 19 male (23 years).Another example is that of Sector 30 resident who had returned from Dubai on March 11. He had come in contact of his two friends, who also tested positive. Both his friends are 23 years of age.Patients above age of 30 years were found infected with virus after coming in contact with family members. A 48-year-old mother was infected from her daughter and 30-year-old male cook had also come in contact with the first Covid case.A 40-year-old woman from Sector 30 had tested positive after coming in contact with her son.The youngest patient in the city is 9-month-old infant of the NRI couple and the oldest patient is grandmother of the baby. Both are currently admitted to PGIMER.Case study0-11 year: 1 case11-20 year: Nil21 – 30 year: 9 cases31 – 40 year: 5 cases41 – 50 year: 2 cases51 – 60 year: 1 case61 and above: Nil||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/half-of-chandigarhs-coronavirus-patients-in-20-30-yr-age-group-66034
05-04-2020||Vijay Mohan||COVID-19: DRDO’s missile lab develops face shields, safety enclosures for doctors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 5From evaluating the technical parameters of missiles and explosives, Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) here has switched its expertise and in-house innovation to develop personal protective gear for the medical fraternity in the nationwide fight against COVID-19.As many as 10,000 full face protective shields and 15 acrylic enclosures for examining infected persons are being produced by TBRL for the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Research and Education (PGIMER) here.“The face shields are single use as well as multiple use type while the lntubation protective enclosure can be used multiple times,” Dr Manjit Singh, Director TBRL said. “We are making about a 100 face shields and 3-4 enclosures each day,” he added.An important Defence Research and Development Organisaltion (DRDO) establishment based in Chandigarh, TBRL is involved in development, production, processing and characterisation of different high explosive compositions, fragmentation studies of warheads, captive flight testing of bombs, missiles and airborne systems and ballistics evaluation of protective system like body armour, vehicle armour and helmets.The face shields are light weight and can be worn full day with comfort. Commonly available A-4 size transparency sheets used in overhead projectors are being used as visors while the holding frame is manufactured through Fused Deposition Modeling (FDM), commonly known as 3-D printing. Polylactic Acid filament, a biodegradable thermoplastic derived from renewable resources such as corn starch or sugarcane, was used for 3-D printing.The enclosures were requested by PGIMER’s Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care to act as first level of protection for doctors and medical staff during the intubation of COVID-19 patients. This is a process in which a tube is inserted into the patient’s mouth to keep the airway open so that the patient can be placed on a ventilator.Made of perspex sheets the transparent enclosure is a cuboid that covers the patient’s face and upper chest, with two holes on one side through which a doctor has insert his arms to work. Medical professionals are at elevated levels of risk of infection as virus particles can become aerosolised during intubation.Mass production of the products is planned using injection moulding technique to expedite the process. Industrial partners are also being developed to meet the possible demands from neighbouring states. Being a research laboratory, in-house production in TBRL is limited.Dr Manjit said that TBRL is also making hand sanitizers for the Chandigarh Police using base compositions developed by the DRDO. The requirement is for 6,000 bottles of 500 ml and 1,200 bottles have already been supplied. TBRL was to get the sanitizers bottled from a commercial plant in Baddi in Himachal Pradesh, but the area has been sealed-off due to the death of an infected person. Alternate measures are being explored.In addition, TBRL is also acting as a facilitator for the procurement of bio-suits developed by another DRDO lab for use by health care service providers. A walk-through disinfection tunnel, which is placed at the entrance to a building or complex, is also being evaluated at TBRL. Developed by Research Center Imarat, Hyderabad, the tunnel is equipped with sensors to assess body parameters, air showers and disinfectant sprays. It has the potential of being deployed at any public place or office complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-drdos-missile-lab-develops-face-shields-safety-enclosures-for-doctors-66002
05-04-2020||Ambala||Man arrested for disturbing peace||According to the police, the suspect was disturbing public peace in a drunken state. He would be produced before a local court on Sunday, officials added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-disturbing-peace-65807
05-04-2020||Mohali||Two held for posting objectionable video||The Balongi police have arrested two persons for allegedly posting objectionable comments on the Muslim community through a video on the social media account.The suspects have been identified as Surinder Singh (42), a resident of Green Enclave, near Ballomajra village, and Krishan, a resident of Ekta Colony, Balongi.According to the police, Surinder and Krishan had uploaded a video on the social media yesterday in which they allegedly passed objectionable comments on the Muslim community, which they said was responsible for the spread of Covid-19 pandemic in the country. However, the video was later deleted by the suspects from social media.According to sources, Surinder was active in politics. “Surinder was arrested yesterday. On questioning, he disclosed that Krishan was also involved in uploading video on social media. We arrested Krishan today,” said Inspector Amardeep Singh, SHO, Balongi police station.After registering case, the suspects were produced in a local court today, which sent them to one-day police custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-posting-objectionable-video-65791
05-04-2020||---||LG to support fight against Covid-19||New Delhi, april 4  LG Electronics, a consumer durable brand, has pledged support towards India’s fight against Covid-19 by announcing several initiatives to help the community. LG has partnered with Akshaya Patra Foundation to serve meals to migrant labourers and daily-wage workers, who are struggling each day and yearning for essentials to survive, during the lockdown across India.  Besides, with an aim to provide basic amenities to doctors and patients, LG is also donating products to hospitals shortlisted for quarantine/isolation wards. The brand will cover 50 state and district hospitals for providing water purifiers, air conditioners, refrigerators and TVs. Young Lak Kim, MD, LG Electronics India, said, “We will monitor the situation and accordingly align our CSR endeavours.” Sundeep Talwar, chief marketing officer, Akshaya Patra, said, “Hunger has emerged as a big challenge due to Covid-19. A large number of people need support. We are thankful to LG for the provision of over million meals for the needy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lg-to-support-fight-against-covid-19-65790
05-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||14 of family in Kharar village put under home quarantine||Kharar, April 4 Fourteen members of a family of nearby Tewar village were home quarantined by the administration on Saturday after they came into contact with a person of Chatamli village, near Morinda, who tested positive for Covid-19. According to information, one of the members of the family was sick. He was also sent to the same hospital where Chatamli village resident was admitted. He was allotted bed adjacent to that of Chatamli village resident.  According to information, ASI Gurnam Singh of Kharar Sadar police and the staff of the Health Department visited Tewar villager and asked the family to remain in isolation for 14 days. As no family member had any symptom of cough, their samples were not taken. They were advised not to venture out of their house. A sticker was also been pasted outside their house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-of-family-in-kharar-village-put-under-home-quarantine-65789
05-04-2020||A Correspondent||Meat shop owner arrested for violating curfew norms||Mohali, April 4The local police today arrested a meat shop owner for violating the curfew norms.The suspect has been identified as Raju Bhandari (26), a resident of Nepal, is currently putting up at Madanpura village, Phase 2, Mohali.According to the police, when Raju opened his shop in the morning, several customers gathered in front of his shop. On getting the information, the police reached the spot and arrested the suspect and ordered him to shut down his shop.A case has been registered against the suspect under Sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase 1 police station. The suspect was later released on bail.More than 46 booked in PatialaPatiala: More than 46 persons were booked for violating curfew norms in the district.Patiala Senior Superintendent of Police Mandeep Singh Sidhu warned of strict action against those not taking the curfew order seriously. The police have registered 43 cases against 46 persons under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/meat-shop-owner-arrested-for-violating-curfew-norms-65786
05-04-2020||---||7,811 LPG cylinders delivered||Chandigarh, April 4 For the smooth supply of LPG cylinders to residents/households in the city, the Administration has taken steps to streamline the process in the present situation. A total of 7,811 LPG cylinders were delivered by gas agencies, wherein 5,100 were supplied by IOCL, 1,750 by HPCL and 961 by BPCL. The Administration assured all residents that the supply of LPG cylinders in the city would be maintained and there was no need to panic.  However, it was clarified that no individual was allowed to visit any gas agency for buying/refilling LPG cylinder. The residents can only place order telephonically for delivery of LPG cylinder on their doorstep. In case, anyone was found violating the provision, strict legal action would be taken against both individual and shop owner as per the law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-811-lpg-cylinders-delivered-65785
05-04-2020||---||UT cyber cell books two||Chandigarh, April 4The Cyber Crime Cell of the UT police registered two FIRs against a Facbebook user and an admin of a group on Facebook under Section 153 of the Indian Penal Code.The police said one of the suspects, who reportedly hailed from Gorakhpur and was currently residing in Chandigarh, had been booked for objectionable communal post on Facebook.The complainant had approached the UT police through Twitter. He posted the screenshots of the suspect’s Facebook account and the post shared by him on Twitter. He also tagged the UT DGP and the Uttar Pradesh police.The post, however, was later deleted by the suspect.Acting on the information, the matter was forwarded to the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell of the UT police, which registered a case and initiated an investigation.Another case was registered against an admin of a Facebook group in which the complainant reported that he was a member of a Facebook group and for the past few days, some group members were posting matter related to religion and community and spreading rumours regarding COVID-19. The police said upon checking, it was found that some posts were there in the group against a particular religion/community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-cyber-cell-books-two-65783
05-04-2020||---||DAV donates Rs 5 cr to relief fund||Chandigarh, April 4The DAV College Managing Committee donated Rs 5 crore to the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES Fund).“This includes one-day salary of our staff. A photocopy of the confirmation received from the bank is enclosed,” said Punam Suri, president of the committee.She said, “Our institutions in some states have provided their premises for making arrangements for self-quarantine of people who have migrated from cities to their native places.”DAV was extending all possible help to the local administrations by providing food, water etc, she added.Credai-Punjab donates Rs1 croreThe Punjab chapter of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) has contributed more than Rs 1 crore to supply food packets/groceries to help those hit by lockdowns due to the Covid-19 pandemic. CREDAI, Punjab, is holding regular video-conferencing with its executive and members to monitor and support the needy. It is also helping in the sanitisation drive, said president of the state chapter, Jagjit Singh Majha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dav-donates-rs-5-cr-to-relief-fund-65778
05-04-2020||Chandigarh||Community kitchen at Sec 18 school||The Independent School Association (ISA), led by Chairman HS Mamik, has taken over the mantle of ensuring supply of food packets to over 1,000 needy people twice daily by opening a community kitchen at member school for the purpose.We will touch the target of around 1,500 people daily by the next week, disclosed HS Mamik adding the community kitchen facility at New Public School in Sector 18 has been made operational, in collaboration with the UT Food & Supply Department. He said our endeavor at the ISA remains to provide immediate relief to the burdened sections of society. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/community-kitchen-at-sec-18-school-65776
05-04-2020||---||4 held for beating up policemen||Panchkula, April 4 The Panchkula police have arrested a shopkeeper and his three accomplices for assaulting policemen on duty on the Ram Bagh Road in Kalka today.  One of the victims had urged the shopkeeper to roll down the shutters of his shop. Instead of complying with the directions, the shopkeeper and his accomplices hurled abuses at him and had his uniform torn. Thereafter, when more policemen reached the spot, they were also beaten up. This happened when the police were making announcement on a loudspeaker, requesting all citizens and shopkeepers to remain indoors.  The accused have been identified as Sunil Kumar, Nitin Kumar, Deepak Kumar and Ratan Singh, all residents of Kalka. They have been booked for violating the lockdown orders, beating up a policeman and  obstructing a public servant from discharging public functions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-held-for-beating-up-policemen-65770
05-04-2020||Manpriya Singh||Being reintroduced to humanity, humility: Actor Dolly Ahluwalia||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 4When Dolly Ahluwalia was invited by the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences to be in its list comprising Class of 2018, the three-time National Award winner was grateful for all things that often find a mention in acceptance speeches.I pray we all exhibit patienceI hope that post-opening of the lockdown, we don’t repeat the same mistakes, repeat the same existence. And I pray that we all exhibit patience, which is always fruitful and much needed in today’s time.Successfully through with more than a week of the lockdown, grateful she is even now, but with a completely different perspective of gratitude. “We are all being reintroduced to the concepts of humanity, humility and meaning of life. I am grateful for the life itself. Humans are such fragile beings, which this virus has amply demonstrated,” shares the actor, who has admittedly followed the lockdown “1000 per cent. I haven’t stepped out of my home.” She is grateful also to people one might otherwise have never spared a thought to, happy to be doing the chores that she’d otherwise might have never undertaken.“Those who come to collect garbage daily on our doorstep, isn’t Covid a scare for them? The vegetable vendors, all those involved in the supply chain of essentials. Of course, the doctors, the pharmacists.”The process of realisation extends to each day that she is now grateful for in altogether different ways. If yesterday was spent cleaning the cupboards and clearing the clutter, the next day it might be redoing the drawing room.“Today, I am going to be cleaning all brass items in the house,” she said. These days are not just spent indoors, but also reflecting on the inside.Despite the fact, “That I enjoy going out, meeting people, searching for things,” there has always been a balance in life since she is a home body as well.Currently, without any human resource to help with the domestic chores, she is in a way thankful for that too, getting to do things like, “kneading the dough. It’s therapeutic and much like playing with clay as in pottery classes.”For somebody who likes to cook even otherwise, the past few days have been fun, exploring both recipes and techniques of cooking. “These days I am using my air fryer a lot. I am trying oat cutlets, dal kebabs and poha cutlets.” She adds laughingly, “Even though my husband can’t really make out the difference between colours of dals.”The world needed to shift focus from the outside to the inside, metaphorically too, and the virus has been just a sign, although an unfortunate one. “I hope it turns out to be a great learning process for the younger generation… I hope that post-opening of the lockdown, we don’t repeat the same mistakes, repeat the same existence. And I pray that we all exhibit patience, which is always fruitful and much needed in today’s time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/being-reintroduced-to-humanity-humility-actor-dolly-ahluwalia-65809
05-04-2020||---||MC forms team to feed stray dogs, cattle||Chandigarh, April 3Stray dogs and cattle will get some relief during the ongoing curfew as the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has formed a team of officials and volunteers. Team members are visiting various places to feed the strays and help those who are in distress.“Several commercial areas, which are closed now and no people are there due to restrictions on movement, are being covered. In residential areas, people are still able to feed the strays and there is not that much problem,” said MC officials.“Sector 34 commercial area, Sector 42 Lake, Sector 17, Punjab and Haryana High Court, Sukhna Lake, IT Park, Sector 20 electronics market and motor markets are completely deserted. Our teams are feeding stray dogs there. Even stray cattle are being taken care of. We are taking those in distress to hospitals. Eight cattle were shifted to hospitals in two days,” said Dr MS Kamboj, nodal officer.“We have also involved NGOs, which are already in dog care. We have formed a team of 30-40 persons. Our drive will continue till there are restrictions,” said Dr Kamboj.Animal lovers were concerned about stray animals ever since the curfew was ordered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-forms-team-to-feed-stray-dogs-cattle-65803
05-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Truckload of soap given by ITC||Kharar, April 4In a noble gesture, ITC Ltd handed over a truckload of soap to Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain for distribution among the poor to combat Covid-19. Sources said the market value of the soap is Rs 9 lakh. Jain said they had started the distribution of soap among the poor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/truckload-of-soap-given-by-itc-65779
05-04-2020||---||NGO distributes 2,000 bags of ration||Chandigarh, April 4 For catering to the distressed migrant labourers amid the lockdown due to Covid-19, the Bharat Vikas Parishad (BVP), an NGO, has prepared ration bags and already distributed 2,000 of them. Through its Medical Diagnosis Centre in Sector 24, ration bags are daily being delivered to those settled in various EWS colonies. “Till now, we have given away 2,000 bags to the needy and 1,000 are ready to be distributed,” said Parishad’s General Secretary and MC’s nominted councillor Ajay Dutta. “We have collaborated with the Chandigarh Police. Whenever they get any information regarding the needy, they deliver the bags to them. Our idea is to help those migrant labourers who are forced to think of migration from the city with no work and food,” said Dutta. Each packet contains 10-kg atta, 2-kg daal, 2-kg rice, 1-kg salt, 1-litre oil and spices. Dutta said the Parishad would continue to serve the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ngo-distributes-2-000-bags-of-ration-65773
05-04-2020||---||Robotic device to ease workload||Chandigarh, April 4Doctors at Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, have created a robotic device to ease the workload of healthcare workers.The device is the brainchild of Dr Nishit Sawal, Dr Hargunbir Singh and Dr Tanish Modi.At any given day, three hospital attendants are working in the Covid-19 ward and their job is mainly to supply food and fruits to patients.Dr Hargunbir Singh of the GMCH explains: “The non-technical work can be completely replaced by the robotic delivery system. Similar robots have been successfully used at China’s isolation wards.”The robot has two servo motors and four sensors. It is designed to follow a black line on the floor. The line can be created using electrical tape or black paint. The robot is programmed to follow the line using light sensors mounted at the bottom of the chassis. The robot has a tray on the top which houses an ultrasonic sensor. The ultrasonic sensor can detect when payload is placed on the tray by the healthcare provider and when it is taken off by the patient. The robot can carry a payload up to 4 kgs. Additionally, the robot has two rotational sensors connected to its motors which provide feedback from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/robotic-device-to-ease-workload-65772
05-04-2020||---||2 city residents, 1 from Mohali discharged||Chandigarh, April 4Two Covid patients from the city and one from Mohali were discharged from two city hospitals. While the two patients from the city were treated at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, the Mohali case was being attended to at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16.A 22-year-old youth from Sector 30-B has recovered in just eight days. He had returned from Dubai on March 11 and developed symptoms after 10 days. He was admitted to the GMCH on March 25. The Sector 30 resident’s mother, who was also tested positive, is still in the hospital.The second patient to be discharged today is the mother of the city’s first Covid patient, who had returned from the UK on March 15. However, the first Covid patient tested positive even after completing 14 days in isolation. She has been sampled again for Covid. Her brother, who was also positive, was also re-sampled at the GMCH. On Wednesday, the PGI had discharged a Sector 19 resident, a doctor in the UK, after the samples tested negative. The 26-year-old had also tested negative on the 14th day.So far, three Covid patients in the city have recovered while 15 cases are still active in the UT hospitals.District Epidemiologist Dr Harmandeep Kaur said a 42-year-old resident of Sector 69 was discharged from the GMSH, Sector 16, Chandigarh, today. He was admitted to the hospital on March 19 when his samples were found positive for Covid. He is the first Covid patient from the district to have recovered. “Amandeep was discharged after his two reports tested negative. The condition of all patients undergoing treatment is stable,” said Dr Harmandeep.Badnore Tweets3 patients discharged in #CHD after recovering from #Corona.Heartfelt gratitude to the docs paramedical&hptls staff for treating #COVID19 patients with utmost care setting an example for the exceptional work to fight Pandemic #StayHomeStaySafe.Cops detain 240 in cityThe UT police on Saturday rounded up a total of 240 persons for violating the curfew. Meanwhile, 84 vehicles were detained and 144 impounded in different parts of the city. A case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered at the Sector 3 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-city-residents-1-from-mohali-discharged-65811
05-04-2020||Tribune Reporters||3 more test positive in Mohali district||Mohali/Dera Bassi, April 4Three more Covid-19 cases were reported from the district today. Two of them are women, both residents of Sector 91. The third is from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi.The women patients have been identified as Mahinder Kaur (80) and Manjit Kaur (55). The Mohali Civil Surgeon said both women were in contact with their 69-year-old relative of Ludhiana, who tested positive on March 31. Both patients were admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Results of samples of their three contacts are awaited. Reports of 55 samples arrived today and all of them were found to be negative.Besides, Malkit Singh (43), a resident of Jawaharpur in Dera Bassi, also tested positive for Covid-19. He is admitted to the GMCH-32, Chandigarh. This is the first Covid positive case from Dera Bassi. The patient has no travel history. Areas of Sector 91 and Jawaharpur village have been sealed as a precautionary measure. District Epidemiologist Dr Harmandeep Kaur said the contacts of Malkit Singh were yet to be discovered.Door-to-door surveysMeanwhile, District Health Department teams carried out door-to-door surveys at Mauli Baidwan village and Sector 68 here today, from where two positive cases were reported yesterday.Teams of multipurpose health workers visited 723 houses in Mauli Baidwan and screened 3,615 people.District Nodal Officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur and Senior Medical Officer Dr Kuljeet Kaur said a total of 25 samples were taken from Mauli Baidwan, whereas six samples were collected from Sector 68 as a precautionary measure. As many as 31 more samples were sent from different areas of the district. A total of 62 samples have been sent for testing to the PGI, Chandigarh.House survey work was completed in Nayagaon by the Health Department today. A total of 13 teams visited the remaining 1,352 houses in which a total of 6,026 people were examined.Health inspector Dinesh Chaudhari, who led the teams, said no villager was found with any symptoms of the disease.Temporary accommodationThe Mohali DC said Purab Apartments in Sector 88 had been made a temporary accommodation for those at maximum risk of exposure to Covid-19 such as health, police and civil administration officials, who don't want to go home because of elderly parents and young children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-test-positive-in-mohali-district-65810
05-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Entering into wedlock amid lockdown||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 4With the curfew in the state in view of Covid-19, a family of this town solemnised the weddings of their two children in a simple, quiet manner at Gurdwara Kalgidhar Singh Sabha in Phase IV today.Dharamveer Singh, a resident of Mohali, had earlier booked a marriage hall to conduct the marriage of his son Vikramjit Singh and daughter Bhupinder Kaur. Due to the Covid outbreak and consequent restrictions being clamped, the family had decided to conduct the ceremonies in a simple way. Only family members of the brides and bridegrooms participated in the celebrations.Dharamveer Singh said after banquet halls were closed in view of the lockdown, they had to cancel the bookings. They visited various gurdwaras in the town before zeroing in on the one in Phase IV, which they found well-maintained and hygienic.He said the shrine complex was sanitised twice a day. He said as food was being cooked for a large number of migrant labourers in the community kitchen of the shrine, they also served simple food to their guests. He said the wedding of his daughter was solemnised in the morning as the family of the bridegroom had come from Gurdaspur after taking family passes from the district administration there. He said his daughter-in-law belonged to Chandigarh and works in the police department. Dharamveer Singh said the brides and the grooms had covered their faces with masks and every one wore gloves after sanitising their hands.Expressing happiness over a simple wedding, the brides and the bridegrooms said they could have postponed their weddings but they wanted to give a message to the society to hold such functions in a simple way. They said earlier, they had distributed cards to hundreds of their guests and booked banquet halls, but after the lockdown they had to cancel the bookings. They urged their relatives and friends not to come for the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/entering-into-wedlock-amid-lockdown-65808
05-04-2020||---||Red Cross vans to shift bodies for cremation||Chandigarh, April 4Now, the transportation of all deceased Covid patients will be managed by the Red Cross Society, UT. MC Commissioner KK Yadav said a tie-up had been reached with the PGIMER for the cremation of bodies in a scientific manner and as per protocol approved by the Government of India. “Red Cross vans are being utilised for transporting bodies from hospitals to the cremation ground,” he added.A few days ago, a group of residents of Verka village in Punjab had refused to allow the cremation of Padma Shri Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa (62), fearing spread of the virus. Khalsa, a former Hazoori Ragi at Golden Temple, had died on April 2, a day after he tested positive for the virus.During a meeting held to review arrangements to fight coronavirus in the war room of the Secretariat here today, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore congratulated the doctors and all health workers for their contribution in recovery of four Covid patients. He further appealed to the residents not to relax the vigil and maintain social distancing at home and outside.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said curfew was being strictly implemented. “The issue of electronic curfew passes has been streamlined. Necessary arrangements have been made in Faida village. Special focus is being given to senior citizens, orphans and old-age homes,” he said.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said adequate number of PPEs, masks and medicines were available in all hospitals.Finance Secretary AK Sinha said all arrangements for payment of salary and release of wages had been made.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said he, along with SSP Nilambari Jagadale, visited Faidan village today. Necessary arrangements for distribution of dry ration were made there. Meanwhile, a total of 52,044 cooked food packets were distributed at various places in the city. Brar said the Covid fund had received contributions of Rs 1,04,66,574 so far. Badnore appealed to city residents to abide by the PM’s appeal to light candles, torches and oil lamps at 9 pm on Sunday. Electrical appliances, including TVs/refrigerators and ACs, should be switched on so that load variation could be smoothly handled, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/red-cross-vans-to-shift-bodies-for-cremation-65797
05-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Feels like coming home after ages, says survivor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 4Just a few hours after she was discharged from the GMCH-32, the second Covid survivor of the city started doing household chores. The 48-year-old cleaned her room and bathroom, washed her clothes and changed the bedsheets. She even prepared a meal in the evening.“It felt as if I have come home after ages. Although it is a little bit dusty, I love it. I am still thinking about what all I can do to set things in order,” she said.“Finally, there is someone that my husband can see at home. He was all alone, missing the family so much. My husband made tea for me as soon as I came home. He is constantly asking me what I would eat,” she smiled.Her 23-year-old daughter and 25-year-old son are still in the GMCH, fighting Covid. “I hope my children are discharged from the hospital soon. I wanted to be the last of three of us to be discharged from the hospital. I wanted to enter my home with my children,” she said.She added, “My children are very brave. My son cheered me when I was leaving the hospital.” During the illness, she suffered bodyaches, tiredness and headache. I didn’t have a cold or cough, but had fever for some time. She said she used to keep all her close contacts at hospital in high spirits.The survivor added, “I am thankful to the UT Administration and my country for taking a good decision in these tough times. ” The first Covid patient’s brother, a male cook, two male friends are still in hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/feels-like-coming-home-after-ages-says-survivor-65792
05-04-2020||ibune News Service---||City Mayor distributes 4,000 sanitary pads among needy||Chandigarh, April 4 Mayor Raj Bala Malik today distributed 4,000 sanitary napkins among people belonging to Economically Weaker Section (EWS) in Mauli Jagran from her personal capacity. “Being a woman I understand the problems that needy women must be facing. While there is sufficient food available for all, this is what is much needed at this moment as people brave the virus during this lockdown period,” thr Mayor said. “MC employees and fellow councillors have also been involving residents in whatever capacity they can. Officials are doing duties in these tough times. We will continue to serve people whether it is Covid-19 or not,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-mayor-distributes-4-000-sanitary-pads-among-needy-65787
05-04-2020||---||Community kitchen to serve the needy||Chandigarh, April 4 At a time when the country is fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, Joshi Foundation and Heart Foundation have set up a community kitchen titled, Jan Jan Bhojan, to cater to underprivileged people living in and around Chandigarh.  The kitchen started at the Sector 15 Community Centre, which prepared food for 2,000 persons yesterday and today. The aim is to cater to 10,000 needy people daily in the next few days.  On Friday and Saturday, cooked food was delivered to people living in slums, rehabilitation colonies and villages via the UT Administration.  “Our main motive is to provide food to people who are deprived of facilities in the ongoing tough times. We aim to cater to more people in the coming days. Needy people can also contact us anytime so that we can reach out to them anytime,” said Vineet Joshi, chairman, Joshi Foundation.  Meanwhile, Dr HK Bali, chairman, Heart Foundation, said both foundations aimed to cater to 10,000 people on a daily basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/community-kitchen-to-serve-the-needy-65781
05-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Veggie, fruit prices should not exceed fixed rate: Mohali DC||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 4Vendors in the city are not adhering to the orders of the district administration by selling fruits and vegetables more than the prescribed rates.According to information, some of the vendors are selling fruits and vegetables at to 20 per cent higher than the rates fixed by Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan. Onions are being sold at Rs 45-50 per kg against the fixed rate of Rs 35 per kg. Similarly, tomatoes are being sold for Rs 40 per kg against the fixed price of Rs 25 per kg. Similarly, apples are being sold for Rs 150 per kg against the fixed price of Rs 120 and Papaya for Rs 50 per kg.Suresh Kumar, a vendor in Phase 7, said they were getting vegetables at higher rates due to which they could not sell these to public at cheaper rates. He said they were unaware of the rates fixed by the authorities.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said they had warned fruit and vegetable sellers against overpricing. He said prices should not exceed the fixed rate and strict action would be taken against those violating the order, he said.Dayalan said a total of 43.8 tonnes of vegetables and fruits were provided to people on their doorstep. He said the Market Committee, Kharar, saw arrival of 295 quintals of vegetables and fruits, Market Committee, Kurali, saw 8 quintals, Market Committee, Banur, saw 74.50 quintals, Market Committee, Dera Bassi, saw 18 quintals, Market Committee, Lalru, saw 42 quintals. He further reiterated that the district administration would ensure that the supply chain of essentials to people on their doorstep was intact.The Deputy Commissioner further said that they had given a go-ahead regarding the sale of eggs, poultry meat, meat and fish as essential commodities within the territorial limits of the district during the lockdown period.He said as per the recent notification of the Central Government, chicken and eggs were cheap source of protein and boosted the immunity of human body. So people of the district could place orders at rural and urban outlets for delivery of the mentioned products on their doorstep. Covid-19 did not spread through poultry and poultry products, he clarified.Vegetable Fixed rate (Rs/kg)Cabbage 20Beans 30Capsicum 30Tomatoes 25Onion 35Peas 40FruitApple 120Papaya 30Banana 50 per dozenOrange 60Grapes 100||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veggie-fruit-prices-should-not-exceed-fixed-rate-mohali-dc-65780
05-04-2020||---||MHRD advisory reaches Punjab University departments||Chandigarh, April 4The Ministry for Human Resource Development (MHRD) has requested educational institutes across the country to observe all precautionary measures. The ministry’s ‘stay safe’ advisory regarding Covid-19 has been circulated to all departments at Panjab University (PU).Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, said the advisory includes measures to enhance body’s natural defence mechanism which should be followed by all in the prevailing conditions. The circular also echoed PM Modi’s appeal to students, faculty and non-teaching staff of universities, urging them to switch off all lights and light up candles, diyas or their mobile torch light on Sunday at 9 pm for 9 minutes.AICTE helplineThe circular from MHRD regarding the AICTE Covid-19 Student Helpline Portal has been circulated to all departments of the PU and its affiliated colleges by the Computer Centre of the university.The portal is essentially to connect those who are willing to help with those who need help. The nature of support includes accommodation, food, online classes, attendance, examinations, scholarships, healthcare and transport. As many as 6,500 colleges have already come forward for supporting the needy.Counselling by varsityThe Department of Psychology at Panjab University, with the help of trained scholars and alumni, will be providing telephonic guidance to those in need. Brainchild of Prof Seema Vinayak, Chairperson of the department, the initiative is an attempt to promote positive mental health during the lockdown. Reach out to:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mhrd-advisory-reaches-punjab-university-departments-65771
05-04-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Heroes without capes — Punjab university guards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 4Guarding the PU against the invisible enemy, most security guards at the university are armed with flimsy cloth-masks and are only a couple of days away from exhausting the last reserve of sanitisers given to them.The fear of being fired by the PU authorities scares these daily wagers more than Covid-19. So, they get their own masks and gloves and hope for the storm to pass. None of them agrees to come on record, but in hushed voices, they narrate their worries: “I come from a village near Ropar. As you know Punjab villages have sealed their borders, I have literally been shunned by my village folks. They won’t allow me to enter because I come from Chandigarh. They suspect I might be a carrier,” says a guard, riding his scooter.Laying on the footrest, a fairly oversized jute bag invites a stare. “I’ve got all my ration in here. I can’t cook, but I have no other choice. I’ll be living here in PU till the curfew ends in Punjab,” the guard says.With a cloth covering half his face and a helmet over his head, the 50-something old guard shares: “We clock an eight-hour shift, sometimes a four-hour overtime. There’s no place for us to sleep.”A younger guard, passing by and appalled to spot a visitor, stops to engage in the conversation: “There is not a single shop opened at the PU. That leaves us with no food, water or tea. How do you imagine us to work in such deplorable conditions? We are getting our food and water packed form home, but the duty calls,” he lashes out angrily. He says, “Also, there’s a university pass issued to us so that we can move about freely, but at every checkpoint, cops tell us that the pass will be considered valid only if it has been allowed by the DC.”At Gate No 2, the sole entry and exit route of the PU, a security guard received a new bottle of sanitiser on Thursday. The white, surgical gloves he wears have been brought from his own pocket. “We need gloves badly. Considering the university’s physical proximity to the PGI, I am not sure how safe we are. Of course, the restricted visitor-entry is a respite, but what about our guards who go to the PGI and other such corner shops to eat or smoke,” he asks.Sweepers across the road paint a similar picture. “Can you help us? There’s a 500ml bottle of sanitiser for us 30 people. We’ve heard it’s a mahamari (pandemic) and we have a choice between dying of hunger or the pandemic,” says a sweeper with a handkerchief tied to his face.We’ll address the issue: Union“I was told about the concerns of the security guards and have already addressed matter to the Chief of University Security. As such, only 30-35 security guards are regular employees, the rest 280 are daily wagers. I’ll take it up with the authorities, especially the issue concerning their stay and food,” said Prem Singh Khetwal, leader of PU’s Ex-Serviceman Union,‘We have given them masks, sanitisers’“We have some 40-50 daily wagers working with the Horticulture Department. All of them have been given sanitisers, masks and gloves,” said Er Anil Thakur, Divisional Engineer (H), PU‘We’ll provide transit accommodation’“I have had a word with the Vice-Chancellor and we will provide the security guards with a transit accommodation, on request, assuring a comfortable stay till the curfew is lifted. Also, sanitisers, masks and gloves can be availed from the security office at the Admin Block,” said PU’s Chief of University Security Ashwani Kaul||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heroes-without-capes-%E2%80%94-punjab-university-guards-65769
