05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Rebel BJP councillor's nomination for mayor's post cancelled: Officials||A day after BJP councillor Chanderwati Shukla filed a nomination for the mayor's post as an independent against the party's official candidate, Ravi Kant Sharma, her candidature was cancelled due to "technical reasons".Officials said Congress councillor Satish Kainth was the proposer in the nomination forms of both Congress nominee, Devinder Singh Babla, and Shukla.Thus, the latter's candidature was declared invalid during scrutiny on Tuesday, said an official.Babla alleged it was against rules and was rejected only because of the ruling "BJP's pressure".The BJP claimed the cancelation was as per rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rebel-bjp-councillors-nomination-for-mayors-post-cancelled-officials-194045
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Minimum temperatures stay above normal in Punjab, Haryana||The cold weather condition continued in Punjab and Haryana on Tuesday even as minimum temperatures stayed above normal levels in most parts of the states.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its minimum temperature at 14 degrees Celsius, nine degrees above normal, an official of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said here.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded minimum temperatures at 13 degrees, 12.2 degrees and 15.1 degrees Celsius, respectively.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 13.7 degrees, 12 degrees, 13.1 degrees, 13 degrees, 12.7 degrees and 10.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.In neighbouring Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their respective minimum temperatures at 14.3 degrees, 12.8 degrees and 15.1 degrees Celsius, up to eight degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa were 12.5 degrees, 14 degrees, 8.8 degrees and 14.5 degrees Celsius, respectively.The places in Punjab and Haryana which witnessed rains in the past 24 hours included Amritsar (7.8 mm), Pathankot (10 mm), Bathinda (3 mm), Gurdaspur (1 mm), Ambala (0.2 mm), Hisar (7.9 mm), Karnal (5.8 mm), Narnaul (43 mm), Rohtak (21mm), Bhiwani (7.8 mm) and Sirsa (7 mm), the IMD added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minimum-temperatures-stay-above-normal-in-punjab-haryana-194035
05-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||Revolt as BJP names mayoral nominees||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4History repeated itself today as the ruling BJP saw rebellion in the party after the announcement of the mayoral candidates.Senior Deputy Mayor and councillor Ravi Kant Sharma was declared the BJP candidate for the post of Mayor and councillors Maheshinder Singh Sidhu and Farmila as the candidates for the posts of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor, respectively.Saffron party no alien to rebellionRed alert for BJPDuring the 2019 mayoral elections, BJP rebel Satish Kainth fought as an independent candidate for the post of Mayor and managed to get as many as 11 votes. BJP nominee Rajesh Kalia had got only five votes more than the rebel in the 27-member House.Congress candidates file nominationsChandigarh: Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla filed his nomination for the post of Mayor on Monday. Party councillors Ravinder Kaur Gujral and Satish Kainth filed papers for the posts of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor, respectively. Since it is the last mayoral poll of the current MC, the Congress tried to put up a united face. Its former Mayors, including Subhash Chawla, ex-councillors and the city unit president were present at the time of filing of nominations. TNSSoon after the trio filed their nomination papers, disgruntled party councillor Chandrawati Shukla filed her nomination for the post of Mayor. Congress councillors Devinder Singh Babla and Satish Kainth became her proposers in the nomination form, though the BJP termed it invalid.The saffron party got the second blow when councillor Bharat Kumar resigned from the party in protest against Famila’s candidature. To make most of the opportunity, city Congress president Pardeep Chhabra announced that they will support Shukla and party candidate Babla may withdraw his nomination. Earlier in the day, the BJP was to file the nominations at 4 pm. But in view of a tussle over the selection of candidates, it could be filed after 4:30 pm.City BJP incharge Dushyant Gautam and organisation secretary Dinesh Kumar arrived at the Mayor’s office in Sector 17 where all party councillors were already present. Till this time, Maheshinder’s name for the post of the Mayor was doing the rounds.After the announcement, Bharat Kumar openly conveyed his displeasure to the party. He sought one of the top three positions in the MC House. However, he was denied the nomination. “I resigned as those involved in anti-party (read Farmila) activities were entertained,” he told reporters.Shukla walked out of the meeting. Meanwhile, all three party nominees filed nominations. Later, Chandrawati, led by her husband Pappu Shukla, came with Babla and Kainth. Gaurav Goyal, BJP spokesperson, tried to stop Pappu but he shouted at him and asked him to stay away.Councillor Asha Jaswal, who had revolted against the party in 2018, told Chandrawati, “Learn from my mistake. It is not good to go against the party.” But the latter did not relent. “Are we only in the party to get Uttar Pradesh and Bihar crowd,” said Pappu.Chhabra alleged, “The BJP has always treated the people of Uttarakhand and Purvanchal only as a vote bank. The party’s nominee for the post of Mayor has been accused of corruption in the past four years. This shows the arrogance and ideological bankruptcy of the BJP.”In reply, city BJP president Arun Sood said, “The nominations of both Babla and Shukla are invalid as the former, who himself filed a nomination for the post of Mayor, cannot become a proposer for the same post as per rules. Besides, we have a number of councillors and office-bearers from Purvanchal and Uttarakhand. The Congress should also give a proof of allegations against our candidate for the post of Mayor. We will file a defamation case against them.”“Chandrawati Shukla and Bharat Kumar’s decisions were spontaneous. I have visited their houses and convinced them. We have all our 20 councillors’ votes intact,” he claimed. From BJP, Sidhu, Sood and Shakti Prakash were also the front runners for the top post.Number game may not be easy for BJPThough there are 27 votes to be polled for the mayoral elections, MP Kirron Kher, the ex officio member, and councillor Heera Negi are not expected to vote as they are hospitalised. The lone councillor of the party’s ex-ally SAD has already declared to boycott the poll. Two councillors of the BJP have already revolted against the party decision. There could be cross-voting too. Thus, getting a simple majority could be tough for the party. Even if the BJP loses a few votes, it will boost the confidence of the Congress, which has only five councillors against 20 of the BJP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/revolt-as-bjp-names-mayoral-nominees-193970
05-01-2021||Mohali||Two fall prey to virus in Mohali||Two persons succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours in the district, taking the toll to 347. It also reported 71 fresh cases, while 94 more persons recovered from the disease. Among the fresh cases, 37 were reported from Mohali (urban), two each from Dera Bassi, Kharar and Lalru, 10 from Dhakoli and 18 from Gharuan. The district has so far seen 18,375 positive cases, while 17,074 patients have recovered. There are now 954 active cases. — TNSOnly 9 cases, no death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Monday reported nine fresh coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 10,055. The Covid toll remained at 144. While 9,756 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 155 cases are still active. The recovery rate of the district stands at 97 TNSChandigarh sees 43 fresh cases, one deathChandigarh: The city on Monday reported 43 fresh cases of Covid and one death, taking the UT case tally to 19,936 and the toll to 321. A total of 68 more patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-fall-prey-to-virus-in-mohali-193971
05-01-2021||---||High Court readies itself to resume physical hearings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court, it seems, is working out the modalities and creating infrastructure for part resumption of physical hearings in courtrooms. It is believed that four or five courtrooms are being modified for the purpose. The modifications include setting up of a partition between Bar members and the Bench and provision of microphones.Physical hearings were to be permitted on an experimental basis in a few courtrooms upon reopening of the High Court after the winter break, but were postponed in view of the new strain.Protesting against the non-resumption of physical hearings, nearly 250 Bar Association members observed a hunger strike as the HC reopened after the break.The members gathered in the main hall with placards seeking resumption of physical hearings. The association was of the view that the pandemic had subsided to a great extent and every sector of the economy had been opened. However, physical hearings of the court were under suspension since March 21, causing great hardship to the citizens, lawyers, stenographers and clerks. It was also resulting in denial of justice.More than 100 members of the High Court Clerks Bar Association and all staff members of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association, too, observed a hunger strike to support the demand.The High Court went into restricted functioning mode in March-end following the Covid outbreak. The cases are currently being heard in the High Court through videoconferencing.'To take call by mid-January||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-readies-itself-to-resume-physical-hearings-193972
05-01-2021||Panchkula||Biker dies, three in auto hurt as bus rams vehicles in Kalka||A 46-year-old biker was killed and three others injured in an accident involving a Haryana Roadways bus of Kalka depot, which was allegedly being driven in a rash and negligent manner, in Kalka this morning. The deceased was identified as Vijay, who hailed from Ghatiwala.The accident took place around 7 am when the bus (HR68 B 0460) hit the victim’s bike, an auto-rickshaw and a private bus, one after another. The bus driver fled the spot, leaving the vehicle behind.As per the FIR, the other three vehicles were going towards Gandhi Chowk and the bus was coming from the opposite direction when the collisions took place. There was no road divider.In a complaint to the police, Sanjeev Kumar, the driver of the private bus, stated that all four injured persons – the biker, the auto driver and his two passengers — fell unconscious due to the mishap and were rushed to the Community Health Centre, Kalka, in an auto rickshaw with the help of passers-by.The doctors at the infirmary declared Vijay brought dead. His body was shifted to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here for autopsy. Two others were referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, and the fourth injured person to the Civil Hospital for further treatment.A case has been registered against the bus driver, identified as Sanjeev Kumar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-dies-three-in-auto-hurt-as-bus-rams-vehicles-in-kalka-193973
05-01-2021||---||Youth killed in scooter mishap||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4An 18-year-old youth was killed after the scooter he was driving rammed into the door of an ATM booth at Hallo Majra.According to the police, complainant Vinod, a security guard at the ATM, reported that a Honda Cliq scooter, being driven by Satyam, a resident of Hallo Majra village, rammed into the door of the ATM booth on January 3.The glass of the door reportedly pierced the stomach of the victim.The police were informed and the injured was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where he succumbed to his injures. The police has registered a case at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-killed-in-scooter-mishap-193974
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||DSP’s pet stolen, returns home||A pet dog of a UT DSP was stolen from outside his government house in Sector 17 by two suspects on Monday. However, a few hours later, the dog returned home.DSP Dilsher Singh Chandel checked the footage of CCTV cameras and found that two suspects riding an Activa scooter stole his dog. Besides informing the police, he took to the social media and posted and appeal with his dog’s picture requesting people to share the information.While the police were looking for the two suspects, the dog returned home. The DSP then again posted a message on his Facebook to inform that his dog had safely reached home. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dsps-pet-stolen-returns-home-193975
05-01-2021||Amit Bathla||Jalandhar lab to collect fresh bird samples today||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 4Two days after over 1 lakh birds were found dead under mysterious circumstances at poultry farms in Barwala, another team of Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, will arrive tomorrow to collect fresh samples of birds to confirm the presence of avian influenza or bird flu.“These samples will be examined at the Jalandhar-based laboratory. Some samples will also be sent to High-Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal for confirmation if need be,” sources said. Confirming the development, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the report of the samples collected from 80 birds, which were dispatched to Jalandhar, was still awaited.Meanwhile, the Haryana Animal Husbandry Department will also convene a review meeting tomorrow to assess the situation.Health Dept in actionThe Panchkula Health Department has also sprung into action to tackle the possibility of bird flu or avian influenza behind “unusual high mortality” of chickens at Barwala poultry farms.Local health officials have been put on alert to ensure surveillance of the affected pockets and test anyone showing symptoms of bird flu.Bird flu or avian flu causes symptoms such as fever, cough and sore throat.Meanwhile, at least 30 random samples of poultry workers have been collected and sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, to see if they are infected with any strain of bird flu.“No flu-like symptoms have been found so far in workers engaged at poultry farms. It’s a positive sign. However, local health officials have been told to remain vigilant. If anyone develops influenza-like symptoms, he/she will be isolated. The movement of human beings to affected/suspected poultry farms has also been restricted,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur.Over 10,000 poultry workers are employed in over 110 farms in Barwala, Asia’s second-largest poultry belt with the daily production capacity of 1 crore eggs.Poultry owners to ensure proper disposal of birdsFurther, poultry farm owners have been asked to bury dead birds in deep pits with multiple layers of lime and soil – the standard practice followed during outbreaks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jalandhar-lab-to-collect-fresh-bird-samples-today-193976
05-01-2021||---||Couple hit by truck in Zirakpur, woman dies||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, January 4A woman died on the spot while her husband was seriously injured in a road accident near K Area light point on the Panchkula road last evening.The deceased, Surinder Kaur, was driving a scooter while her husband, Suba Singh, was riding pillion. According to the police, a speeding truck hit the couple’s vehicle from the rear end when they were returning to their home in New Defence Colony from Gurdwara Nada Sahib.Suba Singh fell on the other side of the road due to the collision while his wife died on the spot. The driver fled the spot, leaving the truck behind.The Dhakoli police have seized the truck and registered a case against the unknown driver under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC. The police have handed over the body of the deceased to the family after conducting a post-mortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/couple-hit-by-truck-in-zirakpur-woman-dies-193977
05-01-2021||---||Sewa Kendras to assist in  Transport Dept services||Mohali, January 4To provide stress-free 32 services relating to the public, it has been decided that there will be no physical submission of file for the document management system (DMS) module-enabled transport services (driving licence and registration certificate) by applicants at the offices of the Licensing and Registering Authorities of the state.Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Aashika Jain has said the citizen services related to the Department of Transport have been made available through Sewa Kendras from January 2021. The Sewa Kendras will act as facilitators for these services for those applicants who are not tech savvy, are uneducated or do not have Internet access, and the public in general. At these Sewa Kendras, an operator will only apply and submit the scanned copy of the required documents for a service on behalf of an applicant along with a self-declaration to the Licensing and Registering Authority concerned in the VAHAN 4.0 DMS module online.According to Aashika, the Sewa Kendras shall scan only original documents of the applicant and thereafter, the Licensing and Registering Authority will verify and approve the record online. The Sewa Kendras shall charge Rs 50 per application, directly from the applicants visiting to Sewa Kendra for this facility. The printed driving license (DL)/registration certificate (RC) documents after the approval of the authority concerned will be directly delivered to the applicant via Speed Post.The 32 services of the Transport Department being extended/facilitated via the Sewa Kendras include issue of duplicate, renewal, change of address and replacement of driving licence (DL); endorsement to drive hazardous material, issue of a PSV badge to a driver, issue of a duplicate PSV badge, issue of an NOC, the DL extract, change of name in the DL; cancellation of the NOC, surrender of COVS in the DL, renewal of the PSV badge for a DL, withdrawal of application, check application status, check e-payment status, book appointment, mobile update, renewal of conductor’s licence and the extension of learner’s licence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sewa-kendras-to-assist-in-transport-dept-services-193978
05-01-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Congress puts up posters to remove confusion on wards||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 4Even though the Election Commission of Punjab is yet to announce the dates for the MC elections, the Congress has put up posters to remove confusion among the voters in the Mohali city.One such poster, depicting the photograph of Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh and Cabinet Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, has been put up at Sector 70 that falls in ward no. 9, in which the Congress has urged the people to vote, support and elect Balraj Kaur Dhaliwal.There is confusion among voters after the delimitation of wards as to who to vote for. Some wards have parts of two sectors. Parts of Sector 70 and Phase 7 constitute ward no. 9.The Congress poster clarifies that “kothi” no. 2539 to 2592, 2613 to 2798 and 2825 to 2846 of Phase 7 fall in ward no. 9 and similarly “kothi” no. 1 to 237, HIG flat no. 1501 to 1685 and “kothi” no. 1051-1113 of Sector 70 fall in ward No. 9.Sidhu has been on an inauguration spree as the MC elections are approaching. He has so far inaugurated development works worth Rs 20 crore in the district. He has sounded the election bugle in Mohali by stating that the MC elections will be contested on the basis of development works carried out by the Congress. “Under the able leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh, we have delivered the best in Mohali,” says the MLA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-puts-up-posters-to-remove-confusion-on-wards-193979
05-01-2021||---||Dhakoli CHC upgraded to 100-bed hospital||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 4A long-pending demand of residents of Zirakpur and the nearby areas has finally been met with the 30-bed Community Health Centre, Dhakoli, being upgraded to 100-bed sub-divisional hospital. Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu formally made an announcement in this regard here today.A gynaecologist and a surgeon will be added to the existing staff and the laboratory infrastructure upgraded before March 2021.“People were forced to go to the Civil Hospital, Panchkula, GMCH-32 in Chandigarh and other private hospitals for their treatment but now their time and money will be saved,’’ said Deepinder Dhillon, in charge of Dera Bassi Congress.Dr GB Singh, Director, Health Services, Punjab; Dr Adarshpal Kaur, Civil Surgeon of Mohali; Dr Daljeet Singh, District Medical Commissioner of Mohali; Dr Pommy Chatrath, SMO of Dhakoli; and Dr Sangeeta Jain, SMO of Derabassi, were also present on the occasion.In the past some months, the CHC has received a large number of persons wishing to undergo a Covid test. Till recently, 130 Covid test were being conducted on a daily basis at the centre, but the number has come down to 20-30 now.Meanwhile, a group of local residents, who had purportedly come to congratulate and thank the Health Minister for the upgrade of the CHC, were stopped by the police at the entrance to the venue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhakoli-chc-upgraded-to-100-bed-hospital-193980
05-01-2021||---||Teachers do a Veeru, climb atop water tank in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 4To protest against the state government, two unemployed ETT TET teachers climbed atop a water tank at Government Mohindra College here today.They said they won’t get down until their long-pending demands were met. They are demanding that the Education Department should repeal the provision of BEd entry into ETT courses and advertise 10,000 posts for them immediately.Sources said both teachers climbed atop the tank in the wee hours on Sunday. They threatened the district administration of being responsible for any eventuality.Manoj Ferozepur, one of the protesting teachers, said they had started an indefinite protest at the overhead tank. He said: “Until our demands are met, we will not come down come what may. The government’s continuous apathy has led to the protest.”The protest kept the administration and the police on its toes throughout the day. The sources said several attempts were made by the administration to persuade the protesting teachers to come down, but to no avail.Deep Banarsi, press secretary, unemployed ETT TET teachers’ union, said: “The administration does not let us protest peacefully. They use force against us and booked us for holding a peaceful protest. We will continue our protest until our demands are met.”Notably, the police had detained and booked them on Sunday after they staged a dharna outside the house of Vijay Inder Singla, Education Minister of Punjab. However, they were released after an FIR was regsitered.Meanwhile, Sahib Singh Virk, Station House Officer, Divisional Number 2, said: “Several efforts were made to bring them down the water tank. Even Tehsildar requested the teachers to come down, but they refused. We have deployed forces near the water tank.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-do-a-veeru-climb-atop-water-tank-in-patiala-193981
05-01-2021||---||Kusum claims wrestling gold||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4Kusum defeated Gunjan in the 50-kg final bout during the ongoing Chandigarh State Senior Wrestling Championship at Mani Majra Sports Complex today.In the 53-kg category, Himanshi won the top spot by defeating Manisha, whereas in the 55-kg category, Minakshi defeated Pritam. Nitu won the 57-kg category gold by defeating Shruti and Anju bagged the 59-kg category title by overpowering Priyanka.In 62-kg category title clash, Saloni registered a win over Kavita. Sheetal defeated Gagan in the final match of 65-kg category. In other weight categories, Mandeep Kaur emerged the winner of 68-kg final by defeating Mandeep, Harmeet won the 72-kg category gold by ousting Poonam and Jyoti defeated Neha to win 76-kg category final.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kusum-claims-wrestling-gold-193982
05-01-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Two DJs fined Rs2,000 each for playing loud music sans nod||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4A Chandigarh court has imposed a fine of Rs2,000 each on two DJs at clubs in Sector 26 here for playing loud music without permission. TPS Randhawa, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Chandigarh, pronounced the orders.As per the prosecution, DJ Pankaj was found playing loud music without any permission at Molecule Club, Sector 7, Chandigarh, around 11:30 pm on March 7 during a surprise checking by the police.In another case, the police found DJ Parmeet Singh playing loud music without any permission at Playground Club, Sector 26, here, on December 12.The police arrested both DJs after registering cases against them under Section 61 of the PP Act, 2007. After the completion of investigation, challans were presented in the court.Since the duo pleaded guilty with free consent and voluntarily, they have been held guilty under Section 61 of the PP Act, 2007, by the court.The court, in separate orders, said considering the nature of offence, a lenient view is taken and the convicts are ordered to pay a fine of Rs 2,000 each under Section 61 of the PP Act, 2007. The duo paid the fine to avoid jail.The court said in default of payment of fine, the convicts shall undergo imprisonment for 10 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-djs-fined-rs2-000-each-for-playing-loud-music-sans-nod-193983
05-01-2021||---||Aditi in tennis quarterfinals||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 4Aditi Singh stormed into girls’ U-18 quarterfinals by defeating Sia Mahajan 8-4 on the opening day of the Roots-AITA Challenge Series (III) U-18 National Ranking Championship at Zirakpur here today.Second seed Radhika Vasudeva defeated Krittika Katoch 8-2, whereas Riya Kaushik blanked Saanvi 8-1. Third seed Vanya Arora overpowered Snigdha without conceding a single game 8-0 and Sidhak Kaur defeated Akshita Vashisht 8-2. Mehakpreet Kaur overpowered Ananya Dogra 8-5 and Khushleen Kaur ousted Soumya Hooda 8-3 for quarterfinals.In the boys’ U-18 pre-quarterfinals, top seed Sarthak Gandhi ousted Yash Solanky 8-1. Third seed Karan Shandilya defeated Parmarth Kaushik 8-2, while fourth seed Aryan Thakur defeated Sankalp Nair 8-1. Aryan Arora also marched by defeating Rishi Dahiya 8-1 and Agnivesh Bharadwaj also registered an identical 8-1 win over Dhairya Chadha. In last three matches, Upnishad Bharadwaj defeated Rakshit Dhankar 8-5 whereas Aditya Chauhan ousted Aarush Sharma and Lakshya Gupta outplayed Mohit by identical scores of 8-2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aditi-in-tennis-quarterfinals-193984
05-01-2021||---||8,830 registered for vaccination||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4A total of 8,830 healthcare workers, including those working with private service providers, have been registered in the UT for the first phase of vaccination. This was stated by Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, during a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic chaired by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore here today.She said the dry run of vaccination had successfully been conducted at three sites — GMSH-16, Civil Hospital, Mani Majra and Sector 22 hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-830-registered-for-vaccination-193985
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Man’s body found on rly tracks||The body of an unidentified man was found on the railway tracks of SAS Nagar railway station on Sunday evening. The man, aged between 25 and 30, was allegedly hit by Paschim Express (02925).SI Raj Singh, GRP, Chandigarh, investigating officer, who made the inquest report under Section 174 of the CrPC, said he was still looking for the wallet and the mobile phone of the deceased.“We reached the Mohali Civil Hospital on Sunday evening. The hospital authorities informed us that the man was brought dead. His head, which was severely injured, was bandaged and I spotted earphones when his bandage was removed,” he said.“An official at the Mohali railway station called the ambulance when he saw the body around 5:30 pm,” he said. Singh said a team of three people had been looking for his cell phone near the railway tracks.“We went looking for his mobile phone in the evening and today morning as well, but to no avail. He doesn’t have any identity proof or document. There is a butterfly tattoo on his arm,” he said.The police suspect that he was probably putting on his earphones to listen to music when he may have accidently fallen on the railway tracks.“We will send the body for post-mortem examination after 72 hours. He was wearing a red full sleeve T-shirt and a sweatshirt over white denims. His body has been kept at the Mohali Civil Hospital,” said Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mans-body-found-on-rly-tracks-193986
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||VC launches online portal for transcript verification||An online portal - transcript.puchd.ac.in - for verification of academic qualifications/transcripts was launched by Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar.He lauded the efforts put in by the examination branch under Nishi Goyal, System Manager, Computer Unit, PU. Prof Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examinations, highlighted the salient features of this online portal, developed totally in-house by the PU.Jagat Bhushan highlighted the advantages of this portal. Candidates can file online application form and upload documents to verify through this portal easily from anywhere in the world. They can pay fee online through debit or credit card, online banking and UPI. It allows full interaction between the candidate and the certificate section with proper record. Candidates will get an SMS and email about the status of their application instantly when updated by the certificate section so they need not to contact the PU again and again for knowing the status of the application. It will smoothen and speed up the work of the certificate section. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vc-launches-online-portal-for-transcript-verification-193987
05-01-2021||Chandigarh||Charanjiv files papers for post of CBM chief||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/charanjiv-files-papers-for-post-of-cbm-chief-193988
05-01-2021||Mohali||7 milk samples found adulterated||Three booked for vandalising carsChandigarh: Three persons have been booked on a charge of vandalising vehicles and setting a scooter on fire. According to the police, the complainant, a resident of the Sector 25 colony, reported that the suspects, Subham, alias Koda, Abhishek, Gaurav and others, threw stones at their house on January 3. They also set the complainant’s scooter on fire and vandalised two cars parked near the house. The police said they had some old enmity with the complainant. A case has been registered under Sections 147, 148, 149, 336, 435, 427 and 506 of the IPC at the Sector 11 police station. TNSe-charging station in P’kulaPanchkula: The first e-charging station of the state was inaugurated here on Monday. It was launched by Tarun Kapoor, Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, at the renewable energy building. Free-charging facility will be provided to electric vehicles. TC Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary, New and Renewable Energy Department, said during 2021, the departments in Haryana would hire only e-vehicles. He said it had been decided by the department to install e-charging stations at 500 places in the state. tnsUT on high alert over bird deathsChandigarh: The Forests and Wildlife Department, UT, has put the city on a high alert after the deaths of thousands of migratory birds and chickens were reported in neighbouring states. Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said the Veterinary Department had been asked to keep a vigil on the issue. “So far, no unnatural behaviour has been noticed in the birds at Sukhna Lake and other water bodies in the city,” he added. Over 1,000 migratory birds were found dead in the Pong wetlands in Himachal Pradesh. Similarly, over 1 lakh chickens have died at poultry farms in Barwala. TNSManual digging for heritage streetPatiala: The district administration has sped up the work on the heritage street in the city. Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit said on Monday that they aimed at completing the work of the first phase of the project by January-end. Poonamdeep Kaur, Commissioner, MC, said they had decided to carry out the work of digging the ground manually instead of with the help of machines. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-milk-samples-found-adulterated-193989
