05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adds 234 new coronavirus cases to tally; reports one death||Chandigarh reported 234 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, an administration-issued medical bulletin said in the evening---making this the fifth straight 200-plus single-day rise in infection numbers in the union territory.The UT also recorded one new death---a 27-year-old man from Sector 14 who had Type-II diabetes. He died at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32.The UT’s COVID-19 tally now stands at 5,502 with 69 deaths. Nearly 39 per cent of Chandigarh’s cases are still active.Chandigarh has seen a significant rise in cases since the beginning of the month---the UT has reported over 1,156 new cases and 13 since September 1 as compared to 219 new coronavirus cases and five deaths in the first five days of August.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adds-234-new-coronavirus-cases-to-tally-reports-one-death-136848
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||8-month-old baby, 4 others die of Covid in Mohali; district tally 4,667||Mohali reports five deaths and 172 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the district's death total to 99. The district's coronavirus tally stands at 4,667. About 79 patients have recovered from the deadly disease. COVID-19 deaths: 1. A 60-year-old man from Kurali died at GMCH in Patiala.2. A 52-year-old woman from Dera Bassi died at PGIMER. 3. A 60-year-old man from Mohali died at Patiala GMCH.  4. An eight-month-old girl from Mohali village died at PGIMER. 5. A 65-year-old man from Kansal died at GMCH-32, Chandigarh.COVID-19 cases:Mohali has 2,146 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-month-old-baby-4-others-die-of-covid-in-mohali-district-tally-4-667-136840
05-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports three deaths and 142 COVID-19 infections||Panchkula reports three deaths and 142 COVID-19 cases, taking the district's death total to 28.The coronavirus tally stands at 2,941.COVID-19 deaths:An 80-year-old man from Pinjore, a 55-year-old man from Majri Chowk, Old Panchkula, a 55-year-old man from Pinjore succumbed to the deadly virus.All three had co-morbidities.COVID-19 cases:The fresh cases include 14 from Haripur, 13 each from Kalka and Sector 15, 9 each from Raipur Rani and Sector 20, 7 from Sector 19, 6 each from MDC Sector 4 and Sector 14, 5 each from Sector 10, Sector 25 and Sector 26, 4 each from Pinjore and Sector 12, 3 each from Amrawati, Barwala, Sector 16, Sector 21, Sector 27 and Sector 9, 2 each from Chandikotla, Indira Colony, Sector 12A, Sector 2 and Sector 7, one each from Kot, Madanpur, MDC Sector 5, Old Panchkula, Raipur Rani, Sector 11, Sector 6 and Surajpur.Meanwhile, at least 1,171 cases remain active, while 1,742 patients have been cured of the deadly disease.To date, Panchkula has conducted 42682 COVID-19 tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-three-deaths-and-142-covid-19-infections-136827
05-09-2020||---||Traders defy weekend lockdown in Mohali||Mohali, September 5The Mohali Beopar Mandal on Saturday defied the weekend lockdown imposed in Punjab.All shops of Phase 7 were open today and the traders demanded the administration to wave off the lockdown rules as was done by the Chandigarh and Panchkula administrations.They asked the Mohali administration to either close all shops or allow them to open theirs on the weekends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-defy-weekend-lockdown-in-mohali-136732
05-09-2020||---||2 days after testing positive for Covid, Chandigarh District Education Officer passes away||Chandigarh, September 5District Education Officer of Chandigarh, Harbir Singh Anand passed away on Saturday at 4 am due to Covid-19 illness. He was 58.Anand had tested positive for the virus on Thursday and had opted for home isolation. On Friday night, his condition worsened after his oxygen saturation level dipped.Three more employees of the District Education Office have also tested positive. However, the office is yet to be sealed by the health authorities, it is alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-days-after-testing-positive-for-covid-%C2%A0chandigarh-district-education-officer-passes-away-136709
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||5 deaths, 203 infections in Chandigarh||Five deaths and 203 new cases of Covid were reported from the city. With this, the UT toll rose to 68 and tally to 5,268.Three of the five fatalities reported today were of patients above the age of 70. The test report of an 80-year-old man from Sector 19, who had heart problems, a chronic kidney injury, diabetes and hypertension, came out positive today. The patient had breathed his last at the PGI on Wednesday. A 72-year-old man from Sector 52 with heart problems, diabetes and hypertension died at the PGI today. Another 72-year-old man from Raipur Khurd with hypertension and Bell’s palsy died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. Yet another Covid fatality was of a 51-year-old woman from Sector 32, who had diabetes and hypothyroidism.She died at the GMCH-32. A 36-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony, who died of refractory shock sepsis and viral pneumonia at the GMCH-32, also tested positive for Covid. Chandigarh has been reporting a spike in coronavirus cases since the beginning of September, consistently reporting over 200 new cases each day. The UT has reported 922 new cases this month. Almost 40 per cent of the UT’s cases are active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-deaths-203-infections-in-chandigarh-136644
05-09-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||3 Covid deaths in Fatehgarh Sahib||The district reported three more deaths due to Covid-19 on Friday, taking the toll to 40. Meanwhile, 12 fresh cases were reported from the district on Friday, taking the infection tally to 1,177.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Surinder Singh, said 27,404 samples had been tested so far. Of this, 26,038 persons were found to be negative. There are 197 active cases in the district, while 940 persons had been cured and discharged. The result of 189 samples was still awaited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-covid-deaths-in-fatehgarh-sahib-136708
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mobile phone snatched||Six booked on assault chargeChandigarh: Six persons have been booked by the local police in an attempt-to-murder case for allegedly attacking a Ram Darbar resident. Complainant Nand Lal, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase II, alleged that the suspects — Cheema, Bahman, Anil, Gaurav, Deepa, Vishal and others — assaulted him with a sharp weapon near his house on September 2. He was seriously injured and admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. The police have registered a case in this connection at the Sector 31 police station and arrested one of the suspects, Anil Kumar. TNSMan arrested for molesting womanPanchkula: The police have arrested a man for molesting a woman and threatening her in Kalka here. The suspect has been identified as Harpreet, alias Happy, who lives in Kalka. The victim had submitted a complaint at the Kalka police station that on August 28, when she was out for a walk, the suspect molested, abused and even threatened her, the police said. A case was registered at the Kalka police station. The suspect was arrested and produced in a court, which sent him to judicial custody. — TNSSurvey to find ILI, SARI patientsPanchkula: “The fourth round of house to house survey by ASHA and anganwadi workers to identify persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI) is underway in Panchkula district,” said Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja. “The survey teams will also check people’s oxygen level through oxymeters,” the DC added. “Those suspected of suffering from ILI or SARI will be tested with rapid antigen kits,” the DC said. — TNSPanchkula panel on road safetyPanchkula: Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has constituted a district-level committee on road safety. The committee will draw up plans on “crash investigation, black spot rectification, road inspection, intersection rectification, awareness campaign and pedestrian facilities”. Besides, the committee will apprise the administration of the current state of signboards, street lights and CCTV cameras at various locations in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mobile-phone-snatched-136707
05-09-2020||Amit Bathla||6.5% residents in Panchkula infected, finds sero survey||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 4At least 6.5 per cent people living in Panchkula are estimated to have had contracted coronavirus and recovered from it, a sero survey conducted in the district has found. It is below the state average of 8 per cent.The positivity rated in rural areas is 8.5 per cent, while it is 3.7 per cent in urban areas of the district, found the survey. This is in contrast to the state average where the case count is higher in urban areas.As per the 2011 Census, Panchkula’s population is 5.61 lakh. As per the survey, Panchkula stood at 12th position in the state in terms of seroprevalence. Jhajjar, Ambala, Rewari, Sirsa, Hisar, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Mahendragarh, Kaithal and Rohtak districts have less seroprevalence than Panchkula.As many as 836 persons were part of the survey. The maximum 172 samples were collected from Sector 20, followed by 93 from Sector 16, 89 from Pinjore, 87 from Sector 26, 44 each from Kakrali, Kot, Ratpur Colony and Toda, 43 from Shyamto and 42 each from Chiakn, Kharkua and Rattewali.Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said, “Since the survey was conducted before a surge in Covid cases, we had low seroprevalence. In the second round of the survey, we expect sero positivity to go up.”On the rural-urban aspect, she said the infection firstly swept through villages, particularly located in the border areas. The pandemic eventually made its presence felt in urban areas. Socio-economic factors could have played a role, the CMO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-5-residents-in-panchkula-infected-finds-sero-survey-136647
05-09-2020||---||Panjab University offers 5% fee waiver||Chandigarh, September 4Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar, in an anticipation of approval of the Syndicate, has okayed 5 per cent fee exemption across all courses to all students of the university and its regional centres for the current semester.To facilitate the payment, all students are allowed to deposit the course fee in four equal instalments, instead of two. An adjustment in the next instalment will be made in case of the students, who have paid the entire fee. Also, 100 per cent fee concession has been granted to physically challenged students. As a special measure, EWS concession will be extended to the students of traditional courses.The concessions offered are over and above different kinds of concession/ scholarships/ schemes involving an amount of Rs5 crore already being offered by the university. Meanwhile, the Department of Economics initiated the admission process for BA (Hons) in economics programme under the choice-based credit system for the session 2020-21. In the first list, the cut-off for admission in the open category was a record high of 99.14 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-offers-5-fee-waiver-136648
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||No challan for driving alone without mask||After the Union Health Ministry clarified that it is not mandatory for a person driving and travelling alone in a car to wear a mask, the UT directed the traffic police not to issue a challan if a person is driving alone without wearing a mask.At present, the traffic police were issuing a challan for not wearing a mask in the car even if someone was alone.SSP (Traffic) Manoj Kumar Meena said the traffic police would not stop people riding or travelling alone in a car for not wearing a mask.The Chandigarh Congress also tweeted to UT Adviser Manor Parida today, requesting that the decision should be implemented in Chandigarh also. The Adviser replied back on Twitter that the police had been given instructions in this regard.The UT police had initiated a challaning drive against people who were found not wearing masks at public places and while riding vehicles. Since June 23, a total of 9,145 challans have been issued for not wearing a mask at public places and inside cars. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-challan-for-driving-alone-without-mask-136652
05-09-2020||Mohali||4 deaths, 272 cases, 82 recoveries in Mohali||Four Covid deaths and 272 new cases — the highest single-day spike — were reported from Mohali district today. The previous high was on August 30 when 240 cases were reported from the district. As many as 82 patients have recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours.A 38-year-old man from Phase 3B2 died at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. A 63-year-old woman from Sector 114 died at Mayo Hospital, Mohali. A 52-year-old woman from Shahimajra died at the PGI. All three were diabetic. Another 58-year-old man from Baltana died at the PGI.Most of the cases reported were from Mohali urban (93), Dhakoli (56), Gharuan (59), Kharar (34), Dera Bassi (18), Boothgarh (six), Lalru (four) and Banur (two). The district has so far recorded 4,495 cases, of which 2,058 are active. As many as 2,343 patients have been cured while 94 have lost their lives till now. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-deaths-272-cases-82-recoveries-in-mohali-136654
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Come September 16, travel interstate on CTU buses||The UT Administration has decided to resume the interstate bus service from September 16. The Administration had suspended the interstate bus operations on March 23 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) had briefly resumed the interstate bus service to the neighboring states of Haryana and Punjab from June 10, but had suspended these after a few days due to a sudden increase in coronavirus cases.As per the new guidelines issued by the Central Government, the UT has decided to resume the interstate bus service of CTU and other state transport undertakings (STUs) with effect from September 16.The Administration has also allowed HVAC/AC buses to operate with Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government from time to time.The buses have to maintain the standard operating procedures (SOPs) as a preventative measure to curb the spread of the pandemic.The CTU has a fleet of 514 buses. While 361 buses run on local or suburban routes, 153 buses run on interstate routes covering Punjab, Haryana, Himachal, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir.Mandi to be shifted back to Sec 26 before Sept 15The UT has decided to shift back the fruit and vegetable market from the ISBT, Sector 17, to Sector 26.Due to the pandemic, the mandi was shifted to the ISBT, Sector 17. Now, the interstate operation of buses will start on September 16 due to which the mandi has to be shifted before September 15. — TNSSOPs for buses of other states||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/come-september-16-travel-interstate-on-ctu-buses-136657
05-09-2020||Panchkula||90-yr-old woman dies, 127 infected in Panchkula||The district today reported another death due to Covid, pushing the death toll to 25, while 127 fresh cases took the tally to 2,799. A 90-year-old woman from Sector 21 succumbed to the virus. She had diabetes mellitus.The fresh cases include 30 from Pinjore, 13 each from Kalka, Raipur Rani and Sector 15, four from Sector 27, three each from Chandikotla, the MDC, Sector 4, Sector 12-A, Sector 20, Sector 21, Sector 5 and Sector 6, two each from Sector 18, Sector 25, Sector 28, Sector 4 and Surajpur, and one each from Abheypur, Billa, Burj Kotian, Chandimandir, Garhi Kotaha, Hangola, Indira Colony, Industrial Area, Khera Sita Ram, Manak Tabra, Manakpur, the MDC, Sector 6, Nanakpur, Police Lines, Ramgarh, Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 14, Sector 16, Sector 19, Sector 2, Sector 23 and Sector 7. While 1,054 cases are active, 1,720 patients have been cured and discharged. Panchkula has conducted 41,347 Covid tests so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/90-yr-old-woman-dies-127-infected-in-panchkula-136658
05-09-2020||---||PUTA poll on Sept 25, 26||Chandigarh, September 4  At an executive meeting of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) held today, it was announced that the elections of the body for 2020-21 will be held on September 25 and 26. Proposals of the returning officer regarding the PUTA elections were also unanimously endorsed by the executive at the meeting.  The returning officer has proposed that the annual subscription fee will not be taken from existing members of PUTA for the elections. However, tecahers, who have retired, would cease to be members of PUTA. Teachers, who could not enrol as members of PUTA last year, will be given a chance to become members by paying their subscription amount to the teachers’body through NEFT and other means by a certain date to be fixed by the returning officer.  Nomination papers will be sent by candidates online directly to the returning officer on an email ID specifically created for the purpose by the date and time fixed by him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-poll-on-sept-25-26-136615
05-09-2020||---||Phytochemicals in plant extracts can fight Covid, says expert||Chandigarh, September 4  Assistant professor Ashok Kumar, chairperson, Centre for Systems Biology and Bioinformatics (UIEAST), Panjab University, has studied the binding potential of approximately 50 phytochemicals present in multiple natural plant extracts that are capable of inhibiting virus replication.  “Phytochemicals are compounds that are produced by plants. They are found in fruits, vegetables, grains, beans, and other parts of plants. Some of these phytochemicals are believed to protect us from pathogenic attacks,” the chairperson stated.  “Herbal extracts are full of phytochemicals,” he added.  His research gas been published in journal Phytomedicine under the title “Identification of phytochemicals as potential therapeutic agents that binds to Nsp15 protein target of coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) that is capable of inhibiting virus replication”. This international journal has an impact factor of 4.26. Ashok Kumar did his research in collaboration with Dr Suresh Kumar from Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/phytochemicals-in-plant-extracts-can-fight-covid-says-expert-136616
05-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Scholarship scam: AAP activists seek removal of Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, protest at DC office in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, September 4Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers and leaders today protested against Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for his alleged involvement in the multi-crore SC scholarship scam. They also burnt his effigy in front of the Deputy Commissioner (DC) office.Protesters raised slogans against Captain Amarinder Singh led state government and demanded immediate dismissal of Dharamsot from the Cabinet and a CBI enquiry against him as he had allegedly played havoc with the future of SC students.Addressing AAP workers Pardeep Malhotra, Gurwinder Singh Dhillon, Lakhvir Singh Rai, Narinder Tiwana and Rashpinder Singh said Dharamsot had embezzled around Rs 64 crore, which were meant for the SC community students. They demanded that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh should immediately dismiss him from the Cabinet.Later, they submitted a memorandum to Assistant Commissioner to be forwarded to the Governor of Punjab in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scholarship-scam-aap-activists-seek-removal-of-sadhu-singh-dharamsot-protest-at-dc-office-in-fatehgarh-sahib-136617
05-09-2020||---||Railways to run 18 special trains for NDA examinees||Chandigarh, September 4The Ambala Division of the Northern Railway will run exam special trains from tomorrow in view of the UPSC National Defence Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy (NA) Exams.In all, 26 passenger trains will run in the division, including 18 through Chandigarh, to facilitate examinees along with their companions travelling for the NDA and Naval Academy Exams after following the guidelines of Covid-19 pandemic.Today, trains to Chandigarh will arrive from Pathankot at 4:45 am, Delhi at 4:15 am, Gurdaspur at 5:15 am, Faridkot at 5 am, Fazilka at 6 pm, Bhiwani at 6:15 am, Sirsa at 6:40 am, Saharanpur at 6:55 am and Una at 7 am.On September 6, trains from Saharanpur and Una will arrive in Chandigarh at 6:55 am and 7 am, respectively. From Chandigarh, train to Pathankot will leave at 11pm, Gurdaspur at 10 pm, Delhi at 11:30 pm, Una at 9 pm, Faridkot at 10:30 pm, Fazilka at 9:30 pm, Saharanpur at 9:05 pm, Bhiwani at 9:55 pm and Sirsa at 11:45 pm.The NDA& NA Examination (I) 2020, which was scheduled to be held on April 19, was deferred against the backdrop of Covid-19 outbreak. Now, a common examination will be held for both NDA and NA Examination (I) and NDA and NA Examination (II) 2020 on September 6.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railways-to-run-18-special-trains-for-nda-examinees-136618
05-09-2020||---||Short film contest for students||Mohali, September 4“The office of Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, is organising a short film contest for students,” informed Aashika Jain , ADC-cum-Additional District Electoral Officer, SAS Nagar. She said the competition was open for students of media, mass communication, journalism and engineering. The topic of the contest is “Cleaning up the electoral system - Towards informed and ethical elections”.The contest will be held in two categories namely short-video film and animation/motion graphics. Duration of the film should not exceed five minutes. Film can be in English, Hindi or Punjabi.A jury comprising eminent filmmakers will adjudge entries and first three winners in each category will get cash prize of Rs5,000, Rs3,000 and Rs2,000 respectively.Participants are required to upload their short movies to Google drive and share the link on October 2, 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/short-film-contest-for-students-136619
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University (PU) student parties give thumbs up to online examinations||With the final semester exams of Panjab University (PU) all set for September-end, student parties on the campus have a varied opinion, but most of them seem to have given a thumbs up to the online examination. However, Internet connectivity in far-flung areas remains a top concern for students residing there.ABVP representative Harish Gujjar said, “It is a good decision that exams are being conducted. It is important for students as they can think of their future. The university should ensure that online exams are conducted smoothly. Students, who live in far flung places, where there is a problem of Internet connectivity, should be called to hostels to take exams.”NSUI representative Nikhil said, “Although dates have not been finalised yet, I think online examination is a good move, but Internet connectivity is an issue, which must be addressed by the university authorities.”Students for Society (SFS) representative Kanupriya said, “Everybody knows the situation. Even students with all resources may find it difficult to take exams. But, nobody is thinking about students, who are in a disadvantageous position.”“Instead of finding new methods for teaching and learning, the whole focus of the authorities is on conducting exams. Exams have become a money-making exercise in our country. In the last five months, there has been minimial communication of teachers with students. Still we are being asked to appear for exams,” she added.Colleges to conduct practicals, viva voceThe Panjab University authorities have allowed colleges to conduct viva voce/practical examinations of undergraduate, postgraduate and vocational courses within September 10 to 15 through online mode. The Controller of Examinations has written to principals of affiliated colleges to send list of examiners, who will conduct exams, to Assistant Registrar. “You are further requested to complete the process by September 17 positively,” reads the communication. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-pu-student-parties-give-thumbs-up-to-online-examinations-136621
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Education Dept to confer state awards||The UT Education Department will confer state awards and commendation certificates to principals, heads and teachers of various schools.This year, a total of nine state awards and five commendation certificates will be conferred. The awardees include principal, head, lecturers, and master/mistress, teachers on guest faculty/contract /SSA and deputation.The state awardees, include Ranjana Srivastava (Principal, GMSSS-8), Shakuntala (Headmistress, GMHS-36), Manjeet Kaur Gill (English Lecturer, GMSSS-35), Neeru Sofat (Chemistry Lecturer, GMSSS -16), Bharat Bhushan (TGT SSc, GHS, Dadu Majra), Gurpreet Singh (DPE, GMSSS- 35), Ravi Jaswal (TGT Science, GHS, Maloya), Raman Prashar (Physical Education Lecturer, GMSSS-26) and Ritu Kalra (JBT, GMPS, 49-D).The commendation certificate is being conferred on Pushpanjali (Psychology Lecturer, GGMSSS-18), Parveen Kumari (TGT SSc, GGMSSS, 20-B), Manpreet Kaur (Lecturer, GMSSS-15), Sunita Sheoran (TGT, GGMSSS, 20-B) and Neetu (JBT, GHS, 38-B).The state awardees would be facilitated with a medal, a certificate and Rs21,000 while the commendation certificate awardees would be given Rs5,100 each along with a certificate. The medals and citations would be conferred upon the awardees at a function, which would be held subsequently upon opening of schools.No national award for UT teacherOn the occasion of Teacher’s Day, President of India Ram Nath Kovind will confer the National Award to teachers on Saturday at 11 am. On August 21, the ministry released the list of 47 teachers selected for the national award.Out of the list of national awardees, no teacher from Chandigarh has figured in the list of Ministry of Education. The UT cadre education employees had also written to the PMO to show resentment towards non selection of any teacher from Chandigarh for the national award. Awardees were selected by an independent jury at the national level after reviewing a list of 153 teachers as shortlisted by all the states and Union Territories. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/education-dept-to-confer-state-awards-136623
05-09-2020||Naina Mishra||55% deceased in Chandigarh above 60||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 4Around 55 per cent of the patients who died of Covid-19 in the city are above the age of 60 and the single-most common comorbid condition found among these patients is either diabetes or hypertension or both.Some of these patients also have accompanying comorbid conditions such as chronic kidney injury, along with Type 2 diabetes and hypertension, making their survival difficult.UT DEO found infected Dr KK Talwar, former director of the PGI said: “Patients with comorbidities such as diabetes, cardiac and kidney ailments are more prone to developing serious complications. It has been seen that patients with more than one risk factor tend to multiply the manifestations of Covid-19. However, patients with controlled underlying conditions have been able to fight the virus. As far as younger patients are concerned, the mortality rate has been quite low among them.” Till September 3, the city’s death toll due to coronavirus touched 63. Of this, 35 patients were above the age of 60. The number of fatalities between the age group of 45 and 60 is 16.Of the total fatalities, 67 per cent (42) were witnessed in the month of August alone.Recovery rate among children below 13 goodAround eight per cent Covid patients in the city are below the age of 13.The recovery rate among children below 13 has been fairly good. Of the 395 young Covid patients in the city, only three succumbed to the virus. The trio, a three-day-old child, who died of pneumonia, an 18-month-old child, who was a case of severe acute malnutrition, severe anaemia and kidney injury, and a nine-year-old child, who had liver disease, was unfit and prone to infection.Dr Naresh Mittal from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46, here, said: “We have treated several young patients. We have seen that they recover within seven days. A majority of them are mild or asymptomatic and hardly needed any extra care.”While older adults (56 years and older) died of pneumonia, respiratory failure, septic and other Covid-related complications, sudden and unexpected death was also witnessed in some persons in their 20s. Recently, two youths, both aged 20, died mysteriously and tested positive for Covid-19 posthumously. One of among them died of sudden cardiac arrest, while another one was brought dead at a hospital.There are 1,074 Covid patients in the age group of above 50. A total of 45 persons have succumbed to the virus in this age group. This implies that the death rate in this age group is four per cent, while 96 per cent patients have either recovered or are still in isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/55-deceased-in-chandigarh-above-60-136624
05-09-2020||---||Banking facilities sought for elderly on doorstep||Chandigarh, September 4Members of the Second Innings Association, a group of experienced persons, have sought banking facilities on the doorstep for senior citizens confined to their homes during the Covid-19 pandemic.In a letter to the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, RK Garg, president of the Second Innings Association (SIA), said: “Senior citizens have been facing difficult time and there seems to be no let-up for them. As such, their prime need is the availability of banking facilities on their doorstep to cater to their daily needs”.Assn chief writes to Union MinistryIn a letter to the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, RK Garg, president of the Second Innings Association, said: “Senior citizens have been facing difficult time and there seems to be no let-up for them. As such, their prime need is the availability of banking facilities on their doorstep to cater to their daily needs”.They are confined to their homes and find it difficult to meet their daily requirements such as groceries, vegetables, fruits and medicines. They also need currency to pay their bills etc.As such, it was requested that all bank branches throughout the country may be sensitised to the need of senior citizens and they may be directed to launch helpline numbers where senior citizens can call for their need for cash on their doorstep against cheques issued in favour of banks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/banking-facilities-sought-for-elderly-on-doorstep-136625
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Customs Commissioner directed to check export of Chandigarh heritage furniture||The Director (Antiquity), Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), has directed the Commissioner of Customs, All Customs Exit Channel (Air and Seaports), to prohibit the export of heritage furniture of Chandigarh. Ajay Jagga, member of the Heritage Protection Cell, said: “Since the ASI has refused to act in the matter on the pretext that these items are not antiques (100 years old), our furniture was being smuggled regularly to other countries and smugglers and auction houses are earning millions.” Jagga said he had been writing and interacting with all agencies meant for the protection of heritage such as the Ministry of Culture, Director of Revenue Intelligence, CBI (Interpol division), Intelligence Bureau, UNESCO, Ministry of External Affairs, Home Ministry, PMO, etc, with a special request to implement the orders of the MHA prohibiting the export of heritage furniture of Chandigarh. “As such, the communication of the Director (Antiquity), ASI, has restored our hopes for complete protection of our heritage. Finally, efforts to prohibit the smuggling of our furniture have yielded results,” he said. In a letter, the Director, (Antiquity), ASI, directed the Commissioner of Customs to take necessary action to restrict the export of such furniture since the ASI was not an enforcing agency. As per the MHA order dated February 22, 2011, the expert committee under the chairmanship of the UT Administrator, UT, was ordered to enquire as to how heritage articles were removed in the first place and sent abroad ending up in the foreign auction; immediate working out the inventory of all original Corbusier-Jeanneret pieces held in various buildings, duly authenticated by experts and issue of prohibitory orders to stop disposals of heritage furniture. The city’s heritage furniture had been finding way in auction houses of various countries in the past several years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/customs-commissioner-directed-to-check-export-of-chandigarh-heritage-furniture-136626
05-09-2020||---||Chandigarh seeks Centre’s help in containing virus||Chandigarh, September 4 In view of the continuous rise in the number of Covid cases, the UT Administration has sought the help of the Central Government in containing the virus. During a meeting held through video-conferencing to review the Covid-19 pandemic, the Administration requested the Union Home Secretary to send a team of experts to assess the situation in the city. The UT has witnessed a continuous increase in the coronavirus cases since its outbreak in the city in March. Sources said Central officers also enquired about the requirements of manpower and other equipment to prevent the spread of the virus and asked the UT to create more beds for the patients. The Administration requested the Centre to send 40 more ventilators, 20 each for the PGI and the GMCH-32. Sukhna Lake closed for people this weekend In view of the widespread infection in the city, Sukhna Lake will remain closed for residents this weekend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-seeks-centres-help-in-containing-virus-136627
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||10 Housing Board allottees win Rs 1K prize for online payments||To encourage online payments, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) today held a computerised draw to give a reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions irrespective of the amount paid. The computerised draw for the month of August was held today under the supervision of Gainda Ram, Superintendent, UT Administration. Among the winners, the lowest deposited online payment was Rs800 and the highest was Rs8,891. Of the total winners, eight are from Dhanas, one from Maloya and one from Sector 63. Yashpal Garg, CEO, CHB, said the Board had introduced the online payment facility of all kind of dues. Now, allottees are not required to visit the office. They can pay their dues online by visiting the CHB website, www.chbonline.in. In August, a total of Rs54.64 lakh was deposited through 962 transactions. This is the highest online payment in a month since the introduction of the online payment system, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-housing-board-allottees-win-rs-1k-prize-for-online-payments-136628
05-09-2020||Chandigarh||Ex-IGP appointed chairman of police reforms commission||On the directions, of the Supreme Court, a single-member police reforms commission has been constituted. Former IGP KP Singh has been appointed as the chairman of the commission. A notification issued by the Home Department, UT, stated that Administrator VP Singh Badnore was pleased to constitute a single-member police reforms commission for recommending measures towards reforming the overall police structure and its functions in the UT. The commission will recommend measures to improve police infrastructure, upgrade police functioning such as investigation, prosecution, forensic, intelligence and training. The panel will also identify shortage of manpower, if any, and recommend necessary manpower required in terms of police-population ration and give suggestions in recruitment system, training and skill enhancement techniques. The commission will recommend upgrade of weaponry of police personnel and police mobility and upgrade of police telecommunication network. The notification stated that the panel will recommend improvement of intelligence gathering techniques, provision of police housing facilities and other welfare measures and any other relevant recommendations, if any. The commission will submit its report within a period of three months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-igp-appointed-chairman-of-police-reforms-commission-136629
05-09-2020||---||AAP for door-to-door delivery of dry ration||Chandigarh, September 4Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have demanded door-to-door delivery of dry ration to poor people in the city.In a memorandum submitted to the Director, Food and Supplies and Consumers Affairs, party leaders stated that officials of the department had failed to maintain social distancing while distributing ration. Violation of the social distancing norms could lead to further spread of the virus, they said, adding that the volunteers of the party could help the department in door-to-door delivery of ration in the city.Memorandum submittedIn a memorandum submitted to the Director, Food and Supplies and Consumers Affairs, party leaders stated that officials of the department had failed to maintain social distancing while distributing ration. Violation of the social distancing norms could lead to further spread of the virus, they said, adding that the volunteers of the party could help the department in the door-to-door delivery of ration in the city.The department has started the distribution of foodgrain free of cost to the registered DBT food beneficiaries.Under the scheme, five-kg wheat is provided to each member of a family per month and one-kg chana per family per month for five months (July to November) under the extended Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY).For distribution of foodgrain, the Administration has fixed 11 centres to cover all areas of Chandigarh. In the first phase, 5 centres have been started where the registered beneficiaries can get their entitled food grains free of cost.These centres are Government High School, Hallo Majra, community centre, Mauli Jagran, community centres in Burail and Sector 25 and community centre, Mani Majra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-for-door-to-door-delivery-of-dry-ration-136630
05-09-2020||---||Consumer panel puts Chandigarh Club on notice||Chandigarh, September 4The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has issued a notice to the Chandigarh Club for charging subscription fee from its members for the months during which the club was closed due to the pandemic.The commission sought a reply from the club management after a member of the club, advocate Divanshu Jain, filed a complaint before the commission terming the act of the management illegal and unfair trade practice.In his complaint, Jain asked the commission to issue an order to waive/refund the amount charged as subscription fee along with interest at the rate of 18 per cent per annum from the date of deduction of the fee. He also demanded Rs50,000 as compensation for harassment and mental agony, and Rs21,000 as cost of litigation.Jain said he and a large number of other members had been served bills for the fee to be collected for the period when the club was not operational. This, he said, amounted to malpractice and was illegal and unethical.Due to the pandemic, the club remained closed from mid-March and members were not able to avail of its services. Despite this, the club sent him an e-bill on April 30 wherein subscription charges had been levied for April and May along with GST and the money had been deducted from the advance amount already paid by the complainant towards the club. Jain said he had sent a legal notice to the club management on the issue, but it failed to act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consumer-panel-puts-chandigarh-club-on-notice-136631
05-09-2020||---||Court rejects bail plea of accused in NDPS case||Chandigarh, September 4 A local court has dismissed the bail application of Samdarsh. He was arrested by the police under various sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Samdarsh is also one of the witnesses in a bribery case against some police personnel. The counsel for the accused claimed that Samdarsh was arrested in a false case registered against him by the police, while the public prosecutor opposed the bail plea. After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed Samdarsh’s bail application. Samdarsh had earlier also filed an application before the Punjab and Haryana High Court demanding a CBI inquiry into the NDPS case registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-rejects-bail-plea-of-accused-in-ndps-case-136632
05-09-2020||Panchkula||Woman accuses Panchkula cops of insensitive behaviour||A 34-year-old woman, who alleged that around 30 men from the HSVP demolition team barged into her house in Sector 2 here on August 26 and molested her, is not only seeking action against the offenders, but also alleging insensitive behaviour from the police. The police are yet to initiate action against the offenders almost a week after the incident. The victim, on a telephonic conversation with Chandigarh Tribune, said: “Rather than swiftly springing into action, police officials kept on delaying my requests.” “We reached the Women police station in Sector 5 here a few hours after the incident. A woman official present there didn’t listen to my complaint. She rather asked me to visit the Sector 5 police station. I wasn’t comfortable there narrating my tale of woe to two men officials. They somehow registered my complaint, but did not take any action yet,” she said. Inspector Lalit, SHO of the Sector 5 police station, couldn’t be contacted on the issue. “Despite identification of one of the HSVP officials involved in the incident, the police are yet to register any FIR,” the victim said. The victim also alleged that she didn’t get any notice before the HSVP men came to her house. An HSVP official, who had been involved in several demolition drives, said: “Before taking any sort of action, we inform the person concerned through a formal notice. We only proceed further if there is no reply from the person concerned.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-accuses-panchkula-cops-of-insensitive-behaviour-136633
05-09-2020||---||Mobile vans start Covid testing in Mohali district||Mohali, September 4For the first time, mobile testing vans took Covid samples. Two vans collected 100 samples each from Gharuan block near Kharar today.“The site to be visited is decided on the same day,” said a health official. The district now has the facility of seven testing centres and five mobile teams. In addition, nine private laboratories are also testing Covid samples.Roughly, 1,000 samples for Covid testing are being collected in the district on a daily basis.Samples are also being taken free of cost in the government hospitals and various flu centres. To encourage people to come forward and get themselves tested for Covid, a free walk-in facility has been launched where even healthy people desirous of Covid-negative confirmation can visit the government hospitals.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said, “The walk-in facility is available in all district hospitals. In routine, a person can give his sample from 9 am to 1 pm. In emergencies, samples are taken round the clock.”A team led by Senior Medical Officer Dilbagh Singh sanitised the house and surroundings of a Covid patient at Shahpur village under the Primary Health Centre, Boothgarh. A 61-year-old woman from the village had contracted the virus and had recently died. The SMO said due to an increase in the number of tests, the case count was also increasing. “In case of any serious problem, one should contact ‘104’, the helpline number of the Health Department, instead of going to the hospital,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mobile-vans-start-covid-testing-in-mohali-district-136634
05-09-2020|| ---||6 months on, man booked for murder||Chandigarh, September 4 The police have booked a resident of Dadu Majra for a murder which took place around six months ago. The suspect has been identified as Makhan Singh, alias Maakha. The body of a 30-year-old man, Sher Singh, was found under mysterious circumstances in the forest area near Dadu Majra village on March 18, six days after he had gone missing. The victim had injury marks on his face and near one of the eyes. He worked as a painter as well as a loader. The victim’s mother, Kesarwati, in her complaint to the police, stated that on March 12, her son, along with Makhan Singh, was loading household goods of a family on a truck when they entered into an argument. Kesarwati alleged that her son went missing after that incident.  She had submitted a complaint at the Maloya police station. The complaint was investigated and a case under Section 302 has been registered against Makhan Singh. The suspect is yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-months-on-man-booked-for-murder-136635
05-09-2020|| ---||Contractor booked for raping 15-year-old||Zirakpur, September 4 A Singhpura-based contractor has been booked for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl.  The suspect has been identified as Sant Raj Yadav. The victim, a student of Class V, is a resident of Bajigar Basti, Singhpura, and daughter of a daily wager who works for the suspect. The minor lives with her mother, sister and brother-in-law.  During the lockdown, the victim’s mother became jobless as construction work was stopped. In the meantime, she started working at a burger shop to support her family.  On August 29, the victim got a call from the contractor to collect her mother’s wages. At the site, the contractor called the victim to the third floor and gave her a mask to wear. After putting on the mask, the girl fell unconscious. As she regained consciousness, she found herself naked and in pain.  The contractor had fled from the scene, the police said. The girl did not tell her parents about the incident immediately. However, she opened up when the pain increased. The victim was taken to a hospital in Dhakoli where doctors informed the police. A case has been registered against the contractor, who is on the run. 13-yr-old boy electrocuted A 13-year-old boy was electrocuted at a vegetable shop in Dhakoli.  On a complaint of the victim’s mother, the police have registered a case against a vegetable seller, Dinesh Kumar, and arrested him.  ASI Jashanpreet Singh said the victim, Rajneesh, son of a slum dweller near Pine Homes, died due to an electric shock after touching the bare wires in the vegetable shop. The complainant alleged that Dinesh often called her son to his shop for work. On September 3, despite her repeated refusals, he called her son to his shop. The complainant alleged that the accident happened due to the negligence of Dinesh Kumar. The body was handed over to the victim’s family after postmortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contractor-booked-for-raping-15-year-old-136636
05-09-2020||---||Dedicate two dialysis machines to outdoor patients, PGI told||Chandigarh, September 4 To help people suffering from kidney failure, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today directed the PGIMER to have two dedicated dialysis machines for Covid patients, who are not admitted to the institute but need dialysis regularly. During a war room meeting today, the Administrator stated that the GMCH, Sector 32, had already dedicated two machines for Covid patients, who needed regular maintenance dialysis. Earlier, the UT Administration had directed Dharam Hospital, Sector 15-C, and Rahi Care Dialysis, Sector 22-C, to reserve two dialysis machines each for infected patients. Both private centres were allowed to charge Rs800 from Covid patients over and above the normal charges in lieu of extra cost to be incurred on observing precautions for their dialysis. During the meeting, Dr G Dewan, Director Health Services, stated that 5,000 new antigen testing kits had been ordered. He also mentioned that 60,646 national digital health cards had been issued. KK Yadav, Deputy Commissioner (officiating), informed that 14,919 challans had been issued for various violations, such as not wearing a mask and violating social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dedicate-two-dialysis-machines-to-outdoor-patients-pgi-told-136637
05-09-2020||---||UHBVN team attacked in Ambala||Ambala, September 4A team of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) was attacked at Raiwali village where it had gone to check power theft today.As per information, a UHBVN team comprising junior engineers Baljinder Singh, Suresh Chander and Subhash Chander, Jasmair Singh, Sunil Kumar and Varun Kumar reached the village around 6.30 am. On finding the team near his house, Trilochan Singh ran towards the electricity meter and started collecting electricity wire. The UHBVN officials chased him and videographed the incident.The team also found Satbir Singh, another resident, drawing power illegally. The power officials collected the wire used in the theft.Meanwhile, Trilochan Singh and Satbir Singh and other villagers attacked officials Baljinder and Varun. On hearing noise, other members of the UHBVN team reached there.The suspects had allegedly snatched an official book from Baljinder, torn his clothes and also snatched the electricity wire seized during the checking.The suspects were allegedly carrying sticks and threatened the officials of dire consequences.In the meantime, the UHBVN officials called the Police Control Room.A case has been registered against Trilochan Singh, Satbir Singh, Ninder Kaur and some unidentified persons under Sections 186, 332, 353, 440, 506 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 135 of the Electricity Act at the Panjokhra police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uhbvn-team-attacked-in-ambala-136638
