05-07-2020||Mohali||177 evacuee passengers from Kuwait arrive at Chandigarh International Airport||Fourteenth evacuation flight from Kuwait, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 177 passengers landed at the Chandigarh International Airport here on Wednesday.  The GoAir flight no G8 7298 flight arrived at the local airport at 6.30 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per government guidelines.Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport with joint efforts of all the authorities/agencies which were involved in the processing of passengers which were governments of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, CISF, Immigration, Customs and Punjab Police etc., along with Chandigarh International Airport.A health department spokesman said that during the screening the health officials took utmost precaution and the passengers also maintained social distancing.He informed that no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold etc and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus.He further elaborated that all the passengers were also impressed upon by the health department teams deployed at the airport to take all health related precautions such as cover their face with masks, using hand sanitizers, washing hands as much as possible and observe social distancing guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/177-evacuee-passengers-from-kuwait-arrive-at-chandigarh-international-airport-109002
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||7 more tests positive for COVID-19 in Chandigarh, tally reaches 466||Seven more people, including five members of a family, tested positive for COVID-19 in Chandigarh on Sunday, taking the COVID-19 tally to 466 in the Union Territory.Five members of a family, including a 1.5-year-old boy, tested positive for COVID-19. They were residents of Dhanas area here, the medical bulletin by the UT administration said.A 26-year-old woman of Sector 20 and a 58-year-old man of Sector 21 also got infected with COVID-19, it said.A total of 8,419 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 7,922 tested negative while reports in 29 cases are awaited.There are 65 active cases in the city and six people have so far died due to the virus, the bulletin said.A total of 395 people has been cured of COVID-19 as of now, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-more-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh-tally-reaches-466-108984
05-07-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Himanshi Khurana reveals someone slashed her car's tyres near Chandigarh, says 'this won't stop me from working’||'Bigg Boss' 13 contestant Himanshi Khurana has shared an incident on her Instagram stories of how someone wrecked her car near Chandigarh. The actress believes this was a way "to stop her from working". The 28-year-old actress revealed that her car's tyres were slashed. “Last night someone stabbed d tyres of my car on the shoot at a village near Chandigarh... ki socheya c tussi.. Mainu khajjal karunge.. tussi eh chotiyaan chijjan kar k mainu kam karn to ni rok sakde na mainu dra skde o.. better luck for d next tym.(What did you think? You’ll attack me? Doing these petty things will not stop me from working),” she wrote.Recently, Himanshi on the micro-blogging website said that she doesn't want to be addressed as 'Asim Riaz's girlfriend'. “Why it’s always girlfriend of Asim Riaz.. not boyfriend of himanshi Khurana.. I know dere is nthng wrong in dis & M proud of dis bt at d same time females r also working in dis industry & they hv there individual personality.. their share of struggle.. why it’s always about man,” she wrote on Twitter. She also let the fans know that everything is fine between the two. “Now don’t predict that something wrong has happened between us.. everything is fine just our society needs to get rid of this patriarchy,” she wrote.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/himanshi-khurana-reveals-someone-slashed-her-cars-tyres-near-chandigarh-says-this-wont-stop-me-from-working-108953
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||In pictures: Rain, winds hit Chandigarh, parts of Haryana and Punjab||Rain accompanied by strong winds hit Chandigarh and parts of Haryana and Punjab on Sunday leading to a drop in temperatures by a few notches and bringing a much-needed relief from heat and humidity.           Chandigarh's adjoining towns of Mohali in Punjab and Panchkula in Haryana also received showers.           Gurgaon, Faridabad, Jind, Ambala were among other places in Haryana that were lashed by rain.Sultry weather conditions had prevailed in Haryana and Punjab including their common capital Chandigarh for the last one week.The Meteorological Department here has forecast more rain in the region over the next two days. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-pictures-rain-winds-hit-chandigarh-parts-of-haryana-and-punjab-108942
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports 14 fresh COVID-19 cases; district's tally climbs to 302||Mohali reported 14 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the district's tally to 302.   Mohali's death toll stands at five. Of the 14 cases, a 57-year-old woman from Lalru—who showed Influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms—a 26-year-old male from Derabassi, a 32-year-old female, 40-year-old male, 28-year-old female, 51-year-old male, 24-year-old male, 45-year-old female, 17-year-old female, 14-year-old female, 18-year-old female, 27-year-old male, and a 17-year-old male from Behda, and a 36-year-old female from Phase 4, Mohali, tested COVID-19 positive.On Saturday, a 68-year-old woman from Zirakpur died of Covid-19 at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur here.The woman had returned to her house from Yamunanagar in Haryana on June 2. She was admitted to the COVID care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital on June 13 after she tested positive for coronavirus. The woman was also suffering from arthritis.Meanwhile, with 13 fresh COVID-19 cases from Behda, the village has over 30 infections now. Over 218 have been cured of the deadly disease. The district's active cases stand at 79.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-14-fresh-covid-19-cases-districts-tally-climbs-to-302-108922
05-07-2020||Mohali||68-yr-old woman Mohali’s 5th fatality||A 68-year-old woman from Zirakpur died of Covid-19 at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur here today, taking the district toll to five.The woman had returned to her house from Yamunanagar in Haryana on June 2. She was admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital on June 13 after she tested positive for coronavirus. The woman was also suffering from arthritis.Was also suffering from arthritisThe woman had returned to her house from Yamunanagar in Haryana on June 2. She was admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur on June 13 after she tested positive for coronavirus. The woman was also suffering from arthritis.Six patients dischargedCivil Surgeon Manjit Singh said five women from Dera Bassi and a woman from Zirakpur had defeated the virus and were discharged from the Banur hospital on Saturday.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the woman’s condition was deteriorating since she was admitted to the hospital. She was on a ventilator for the past few days.Meanwhile, four more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district, taking the tally to 288. The infected persons are a 40-year-old woman from Phase XI, a 44-year-old man from Baheda village, a 48-year-old man from Zirakpur and a 32-year-old man from Dera Bassi. The 40-year-old woman patient works as a superintendent with the UT Education Department. Her household contacts will be traced. UT health teams will also trace her workplace contacts in Chandigarh.Dr Manjit Singh said the 44-year-old man was a contact of a Covid patient, while others were cases of influenza-like illness (ILI). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/68-yr-old-woman-mohalis-5th-fatality-108655
05-07-2020||---||5 new cases in Chandigarh, 2 recover||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 4Five more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the city today, taking the tally to 459.A 45-year-old man from Sector 42 has contracted the virus. He is a workplace contact of a Covid patient from Sector 25. His two family members were sampled for Covid-19 today.No new case in PanchkulaPanchkula: No new case of Covid-19 was reported from the district on Saturday. As of now, the district Covid tally stands at 120, with 25 active cases.A 57-year-old man from Sector 30 was also found infected today. Samples of his four family members have been collected for testing. He has 11 family contacts at Indira Colony, Mani Majra. Of them, two high-risk contacts have been sampled.Another coronavirus case was reported from Mani Majra. A 27-year-old woman, who contracted the virus, is the family contact of an already positive case from the area.A 50-year-old cancer patient from Dhanas was also found infected with the virus. He was undergoing treatment at a private hospital before being tested positive for the contagion. His seven family members are being sampled.An elderly woman from Daria was also found positive for the novel coronavirus. The 64-year-old patient has seven family contacts, who were sampled for Covid-19.Meanwhile, two patients were discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College & Hospital, Sector 46, on Saturday. They have been shifted to a post-discharge quarantine facility at Sood Dharmshala.Two UT Education Dept employees test positiveAround 23 workplace contacts of a woman employee, a Mohali resident, posted in the Department of School Education, Deluxe Building, Sector 9, 2nd floor, were quarantined after she was found positive for Covid-19.Sources confirm that another employee of the UT Education Department had also tested positive for the virus. The patient, a 26-year-old woman from Sector 20, Chandigarh, is admitted to the GMSH-16. The UT is yet to add the case to its tally.After two staff members tested positive for Covid-19, officials stated that the second floor of the building would be sanitised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-new-cases-in-chandigarh-2-recover-108656
05-07-2020||---||Youth injured in firing at Lohgarh||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, July 4A youth sustained injuries as multiple gunshots were fired in Lohgarh here this evening.According to eyewitnesses, five shots were fired around 8:30 pm. The police did not confirm the number of gunshots fired.The victim has been identified as Harpreet Singh, a resident of Lohgarh. He received injuries on his left leg and has been admitted to the Civil Hospital at Dera Bassi.The police have detained three girls and one youth from the spot and are investigating the matter.Harpreet reportedly told the police that he was going on his bike when three girls and a boy were coming out of a park. One of the girls just escaped being hit by the bike and abused him. When he enquired about the reason, she started arguing with him and soon called up her acquaintances to the spot. Her acquaintances came in a car and one of them fired two shots from inside the vehicle before coming out of it and firing thrice. Harpreet was hit in the left leg.DSP Gurbakhshish Singh said, “The attackers sped away in the car while the three girls and the youth have been detained.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-injured-in-firing-at-lohgarh-108657
05-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||MC plans fixed timings  for collection of waste||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 4The door-to-door waste collection in the city will soon have fixed timings and the segregated garbage collection vehicles of the Municipal Corporation will be monitored live.Chandigarh Smart City Limited is going to implement a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) plan. It has floated a tender for the same and three firms have shown interest in it.“Under the plan, there will be no delay in the lifting of waste. There will be a particular time of lifting. The vehicles will be monitored live. If a garbage collection vehicle stops at some place for no reason, it will be pointed out to the worker concerned through the online mechanism,” said NP Sharma, General Manager, Chandigarh Smart City Limited.He said they would float a tender next week to buy 400 segregated waste collection vehicles for Rs30 crore. While Smart City Ltd will be contributing Rs20 crore, Rs10 crore would be drawn from Swachh Bharat Mission funds.The MC has no funds left so it asked Smart City Limited to buy the vehicles, which are meant to replace the cycle carts being used to collect garbage in the city.These vehicles will then take the collected garbage to the three waste recovery centres, which are being constructed to replace existing Sehaj Safai Kendras. Dry recyclable material will be sold at the centres while the remaining garbage will be taken to the waste processing plant in Sector 25. The residue of the processed waste will be dumped at the sanitary landfill in Dadu Majra.The MC had purchased over 100 segregated waste collection vehicles last year. But since waste segregation did not start in the city, their utility was questioned. MC officials claimed that they were using the vehicles for awareness and collecting segregated garbage in UT villages.It may be mentioned that the waste collectors have not agreed to use the MC’s waste collection vehicles and insist on collecting segregated waste on cycle carts and privately.“If the MC is so serious, they should appoint us on a regular basis, not through outsourcing. How will we run our houses with just about Rs12,000 a month to be paid by the outsourcing firm? The salary will also come late,” said Shamsher Lotiya, president of a door-to-door garbage collectors’ union in the city.Non-segregation of waste has affected city’s national cleanliness ranking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-plans-fixed-timings-for-collection-of-waste-108659
05-07-2020||---||Two flights bring home 350 evacuees||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 4Two evacuation flights, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate Indians stranded abroad, carrying 350 passengers landed at the Chandigarh international airport here on Saturday.An IndiGo flight carrying 177 passengers from Dubai arrived at 6.50 am. A SpiceJet flight carrying 173 passengers from the United Arab Emirates landed at the airport at 6.53 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines.A Health Department spokesperson said health officials took utmost precaution during the screening and passengers also maintained social distancing. No passenger was found suffering from fever, cough, cold, etc, and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus.He said all passengers were asked to take precautions such as covering their face with a mask, using hand sanitisers, washing hands and observing social distancing norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-flights-bring-home-350-evacuees-108660
05-07-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Musical truck helping residents relieve Covid stress||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, July 4‘Rakh Honsla’, a novel initiative by a group of individuals from Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru, is bringing cheer to people with live performances on a musical truck.Armed with a battery of local comedians and a truck equipped with an LED screen, a DJ system and disco lights, the initiative gives the residents a chance to release their pent-up energy and spend stress-free evenings.It has only been four-five days since this programme began, but the troupe is getting a huge adulation from children who come out to shake a leg on their favourite numbers or showcase their talent. The funny one-liners in chaste Punjabi break the shyness barrier and persuade even the elderly to join in.“The truck looks so cool and the music is awesome. I wish it could come every day to my society,” said 11-year-old Abhishek Garg, who lives behind the Gazipur market.The musical endeavour was taken to mitigate the increasing stress levels in the society and in view of the increasing incidents of suicide. The area has witnessed a dozen cases of suicide in the past one month.Sonu Sethi, a social activist who took the initiative, said, “The entire expenditure is of around Rs12,000 per day and Roti Bank is pitching in too. We maintain social distancing and caution people that if they do not follow the guidelines, the programme will stop.”After three months of being caged in homes due to the Covid-19 outbreak, kids get an opportunity to dance, sing songs collectively and celebrate birthdays by coming out in the balconies of their houses.People can invite the troupe to their housing society or residence for a free-of-cost performance. “We plan to continue it for the next two months,” said the organiser.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/musical-truck-helping-residents-relieve-covid-stress-108661
05-07-2020||Mohali||Only 2 international flights allowed to land in a day||To ensure a staggered arrival of flights, the Department of Civil Aviation, Punjab, has decided to allow only two flights carrying passengers stranded in various countries to land at the Chandigarh international airport in a day.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said requests were being received from various airlines to allow landing of flights at the Mohali and Amritsar airports carrying Indians stranded abroad. He said keeping in view the capacity of handling incoming passengers and ensuring proper institutional quarantine, the arrival of flights might be staggered, allowing only two flights a day, at either airport. Under exceptional circumstances, more flights could be considered, he added.Dayalan said the state governments should designate their nodal officers from whom NOC/permission had to be sought.The DC said if all passengers in a flight were from Punjab, the airlines could apply for permission to the office of the Director, Civil Aviation. If the flight had a passenger(s) from other state(s) too, the airlines should seek permission/NOC from the nodal officer of the state(s) concerned before applying for permission to the office of the Director, Civil Aviation, he added.The DC said the airlines should also furnish an undertaking from the nodal officer of the state concerned that the arrangements for the transport of passengers from the airport to the respective state and further institutional quarantine (in the respective state) shall be made by its government.Dayalan said a soft copy of the break-up of the passengers of Punjab (clearly mentioning destination district) and those of other states should be provided while applying for the permission. The permission should be sought at least two days before the intended date of arrival.As per the guidelines of the MHA and the Government of Punjab, all international passengers reaching the state must undergo institutional quarantine for seven days followed by home quarantine for another seven days. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-2-international-flights-allowed-to-land-in-a-day-108663
05-07-2020||Mohali||Kharar flyover work to be completed soon, says Capt||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today announced that the work on the Mohali-Kharar flyover would be completed soon.Capt Amarinder Singh stated this while responding to a query related to the flyover posed by Amit Saharan of Chandigarh in his 9th round of weekly interactions, #Ask Captain Live Facebook session, held today. He said the work on the project was halted owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The work had resumed and would be completed soon, the CM added.It is worth mentioning here that the construction of the flyover, which was to be completed by September 2020 after missing several deadlines, has been delayed by two months and the new deadline for the project is November 2020.The CM had recently started live interactions with the people of the state to ascertain their views on various subjects. In the interaction today, the CM answered queries related to admission and tuition fees being sought by private schools, committees for recruitment drive of doctors, etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-flyover-work-to-be-completed-soon-says-capt-108664
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Help desk for out-of-job migrant workers||The UT Administration has started a help desk for providing employment to migrant workers. The desk was set up on the premises of the Chandigarh Housing Board for workers who lost their jobs during the lockdown period and stayed back in the city.An official said till date, they had received 497 calls for job requirement. The details of the employment were being sent to the Assistant Labour Commissioner on a daily basis for further action, he said.Migrant workers can call the helpline numbers 7657977811-14 between 10 am and 4 pm. During the lockdown, most migrant workers had lost their jobs and expressed their willingness to go back to their native places in the absence of job opportunities in the city. Nearly 50,000 migrant workers were sent to their native places by trains and buses since May. With the opening of markets and industrial units, workers have started returning to the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/help-desk-for-out-of-job-migrant-workers-108667
05-07-2020||---||PU hostellers with genuine reason can stay back: DSW||Chandigarh, July 4The Panjab University (PU) authorities today clarified that no hostellers from neighbouring states will be allowed to stay on the campus, while arrangements will be made for those belonging to faraway places and have genuine reasons.The hostellers were demanding to stay back on the varsity campus.The authorities suggested that the wardens should prepare data of the students and scholars who were living here without any reason,who had a genuine reason to stay and those who needed help to reach to their native places to take the further call.A meeting in this regard was held today under the guidance of both DSWs and wardens.“We have suggested that the wardens should prepare data and we will act accordingly. The students from neighbouring states, who are staying here without any valid reason, have to return to their native places. If they want to stay back, they have to give a valid reason,” said SK Tomar, DWS (Men).He said, “We will try to make arrangements for those hailing from faraway places and have a valid reason to stay. We have not or will not force any student with genuine reason to leave hostel. International students, who wish to go back home as no classes are being held, can approach us with their expression ofinterest so that we can arrange for their return with the help of whatever resources we have.”Meanwhile, hostellers staged a protest at the Student Centre on the second consecutive day.Though no major student political parties were involved in the protest, the students demanded that they should be allowed to stay back.“The university authorities have said that they will not force the students belonging to faraway places to return.I hail from a remote area in Uttar Pradesh and it’s not feasible for me to travel to my hometown. If the authorities force me to go back, I will surely join the protest, said Dheeru, said a visually impaired research scholar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-hostellers-with-genuine-reason-can-stay-back-dsw-108668
05-07-2020||---||The Judge who took the road less travelled retires||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 4Justice Rajiv Narain Raina, who went beyond the traditionally accepted four corners of law for delivering justice, today retired after spending about nine years as a Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge.Landmark judgmentsLandmark judgments of Justice Rajiv Narain Raina include grant of Rs62 lakh compensation and medical expenses in a minor’s amputation case. It was a landmark judgment in the exercise of writ jurisdiction.Justice Raina is known for his beyond-the-law-book thinking. Whether it was examining English speaking skills of a candidate for a PRO’s post in the courtroom, or asking a state counsel to come out with a “draft order” to save court time, Justice Raina could think of things no Judge had thought before.Justice Raina decided to put a jail superintendent to the test after assigning him homework. He was asked to go “through a judgment” on parole and tell “what he thinks” of the verdict and his role.Justice Raina was always more candid than candied in his endeavour to upgrade the justice delivery mechanism. He found fault with the High Court’s own staff selection procedure and the extracts of its judgments used for giving dictation.In one of his people-oriented judgments, Justice Raina held that maintenance tribunal was not an eviction tribunal, opening debate as to whether an eviction order could be passed by an eviction tribunal under the Senior Citizens Act.A decree of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage of a Hindu couple settled in a foreign country was held to be not valid in India. Writing for a Full Bench, Justice Raina held as illegal and unjustified the condition of granting an additional mark for each year of unemployment. Talking about impossibility of bringing about reformation, Justice Raina wrote: “Let us no longer talk of honesty and character and parade it like models walking the ramp.... We are as bad as each other and let us not wear character and honesty like a badge of honour since it goes without saying if we are not”.Belonging to an illustrious family of Kashmiri Pandits settled in Jalandhar since mid-19th century, Justice Raina was born on July 5, 1958. A St John’s High School alumnus, Justice Raina excelled in gymnastics and theatre before doing his BA from Government College for Men and law degree from the Department of Laws, Panjab University, Chandigarh. He was elevated as an Additional Judge on September 30, 2011, and as Permanent Judge on January 24, 2014.His other landmark judgments include grant of Rs62 lakh compensation and medical expenses in a minor’s amputation case. It was a landmark judgment in the exercise of writ jurisdiction.Justice Raina was involved in detailed examination of the history of civil services in the region. In another case, it was held that an Assistant Commandant could not exercise the power of Chief Judicial Magistrate and a constable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/the-judge-who-took-the-road-less-travelled-retires-108670
05-07-2020||Karam Prakash||Micro-containment zone just a tag here!||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 4Though Dhiru Ki Majri in Patiala has been declared a mirco-containment zone, the threat of Covid-19 spread still looms large. Reason: no police personnel and health officials were seen at the entry and exit points when this correspondent visited the area today.People were seen roaming freely. Residents said initially, the policemen were present. However, after two or three days, things were back to square one.A resident said: “Those who have been quarantined at home come out and roam freely in the evening. They even buy grocery items from shops in the area.”So far, 11 persons have been tested positive for Covid from the area.Meantime, Monu (name changed), who has been quarantined at home, said: “There is no arrangement to provide us with essential items. Therefore, we have to go out for essentials such as cooking gas.”As per the micro-containment zone policy, there should be no unchecked movement of people in the zone.Patiala Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Charanjit Singh said: “Police personnel have been posted at the area. They must have gone somewhere. I will ask the DSP concerned to look into the matter.”Meanwhile, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra said the department was actively performing their role. “We have been continuously screening and testing people in the micro-containment zone,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/micro-containment-zone-just-a-tag-here-108671
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Book on military pensions released||A book, ‘Military Pensions: Commentary, Case Law & Provisions’, authored by a Chandigarh-based lawyer, Major Navdeep Singh, was released globally through online platforms today.The volume is a hardcover reference book divided into 33 chapters containing commentary on various types of pension and policies. It also contains important decisions of the Supreme Court, High Courts and Armed Forces Tribunal on facets dealing with pension.The book contains a variety of unique and rare provisions dealing with pensions in the defence services with relevant rules from 1940 to the Seventh Pay Commission, including some rules promulgated in 2020. The book contains detailed chapters on disability and operational benefits with various provisions. Other types of pension such as service pension, invalid pension, special pension, reservist pension and concepts such as recovery from pension and ‘One Rank One Pension’ (OROP) are also covered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-on-military-pensions-released-108672
05-07-2020||---||Addl agenda issued  for Syndicate meeting||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 4A supplementary agenda for the next Syndicate meeting was issued today.The meeting is likely to be held before July 14. However, no exact date has been announced.A resolution proposed by Dr Dalip Kumar regarding an amendment to regulation-3 of the Panjab University Calendar is part of the agenda. It has been proposed that fellows assigned to each faculty may add to their number according to the procedure laid down for those residing within the territorial jurisdiction of the university and the tricity.Other items on the agenda are assignment of facilities to Prof Ravinder Singla, Dean University Instruction, execution of an MoU between Panjab University and the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research, examining a proposal for granting an additional unit in BA LLB (Hons) from academic session 2020-21, LLM one-year course in morning shift and discontinuation of certain courses at Guru Nanak Educational Trust, Ludhiana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/addl-agenda-issued-for-syndicate-meeting-108673
05-07-2020||---||Crack in water pipeline floods Sector 20 parking||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 4The Sector 20-C market area was waterlogged following a crack in a fresh water pipeline, causing inconvenience to commuters.MC officials said a private company was laying a broadband line during which the water pipeline got damaged. MC workers then fixed the problem.Commuters had to face a tough time as the parking lot got flooded and an inner road in front of the petrol pump got submerged in water. “We took up the matter with the company as they need to ensure that it does not happen again,” said an MC official. OP Verma, president of the Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 20,said “We have been getting muddy water supply for the past several days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crack-in-water-pipeline-floods-sector-20-parking-108674
05-07-2020||---||Firm owner booked for duping woman of Rs 3.5 lakh||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 4The Mohali police have booked the owner of an immigration firm in Phase 3B2 here for allegedly duping a Kashmiri woman of Rs3.5 lakh on the pretext of sending her abroad.The complainant, Sajia Latif Pal, a resident of Srinagar, wrote an e-mail to the police that she was lured by the firm, Countrywide Service. She alleged the firm owner had assured her to arrange Canadian visa in lieu of Rs3.5 lakh.The woman made the payment through a cheque. After receiving the amount, the firm owner stopped picking up her calls and did not meet her.A case has been registered against the owner of Countrywide Service under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC and relevant sections of the Immigration Act at the Mataur police station.“A raid was conducted at the immigration firm office in Phase 3B2, but the office was found locked. The accused is yet to be arrested,” said Onkar Singh, the investigation officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firm-owner-booked-for-duping-woman-of-rs-3-5-lakh-108676
05-07-2020||Mohali||Won’t deposit fee, say parents||Hundreds of parents today gathered near St Soldier International Convent School in Phase 7 and protested against various school managements in the district for demanding fee.Raising slogans against the school managements, the protesters alleged that since the decision of the court has come in favour of the schools, they were being pressured to deposit the fee, including all other expenses, due to which they were harried. Parents said they were not satisfied with the court’s decision and added that they would not deposit the fee at any cost. They said they were even prepared to withdraw their children from the schools and get them admitted to government schools.Social activist Satnam Singh Daun was leading the protest. Rajiv Kumar, incharge of the Mataur police station, was also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wont-deposit-fee-say-parents-108677
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Committee reviews steps to tackle Covid||The Standing Committee of Administrator’s Advisory Council for Health today reviewed the strategies adopted to tackle Covid in the UT.The panel, which met under the chairmanship of former MP Harmohan Dhawan, found that the steps taken by the Administration in the management of Covid-19 were exemplary in keeping the city safe.The Director Health and Family Welfare said it was a collective achievement wherein the PGIMER, the GMCH-32 and the GMSH-16 worked in coordination to give adequate health services required by way of screening, sampling, testing, isolation and maintenance of specialist services. The committee was informed about the distribution of homoeopathic medicine, Arsenicum Album 30, among residents of Bapu Dham Colony. It was suggested that the Health Department should further explore any other such AYUSH remedy that could be beneficial to the public. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/committee-reviews-steps-to-tackle-covid-108678
05-07-2020||Chandigarh||Expect showers for three days||Suspect flees custody, nabbedPanchkula: A day after a resident of Sector 20 was arrested in a POCSO case, the suspect ran away from the women police station in Sector 5 here. However, the police managed to nab the suspect, Sahil, within four hours and produced him in a court. TNSTwo damage PCR vehicle, heldPanchkula: The police arrested two residents of Indira Colony, Sector 17, for pelting stones at a PCR vehicle and damaging it on Saturday. The suspects have been identified as Rohit Kherwal and Akash Chauhan. A case has been registered against them at the Sector 14 police station. TNS2 arrested for creating ruckusPanchkula: The police have arrested two residents of Sector 17 for creating ruckus and indulging in anti-social activities near Burj Kotian road here. The suspects have been identified as Raju and Sonu, both residents of Sector 17. A case under Section 160 has been registered against the suspects at the Pinjore police station. TNSAvoid Kanwar Yatra: CopsPanchkula: The police have appealed to the residents to not carry out Kanwar Yatra this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. All ACPs, SHOs and police post incharge have been directed to convey the message to the devotees. The police have also asked transporters in the district to not to provide vehicles for the yatra. Any violation will be dealt with as per the law. TNSTwo held for illegal miningMohali: The police have arrested two persons for carrying out illegal mining in the Mullanpur Garibdass area. The suspects have been identified as Daljit Singh, a resident of Manapur village, and Varinder Singh, a resident of Sangatpura village. Harmanpreet Singh, SHO of the Mullanpur police station, said: “We caught two sand-laden tippers on the Mullanpur barrier during patrolling. The suspects failed to show any permit for the sand they were carrying. A mining officer was also called for the verification following which we registered a case.” TNSCorrigendumA brief news item, ‘PU exams likely to be held in July’, was carried inadvertently in these columns on July 4. The error is regretted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-showers-for-three-days-108680
