05-05-2020|| Chandigarh||Extend last date for payment of power, water bills: Badnore||UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed that discount/concession available to consumers for timely payment of property tax, water bills, etc., should not be denied and last date of payment be extended accordingly.Keeping in view the heavy rush of customers in front of book shops, it was decided to allow exemption to book shops from odd-even stipulations.  Thus, they will be able to sell books and stationery on all days.  This will help reduce the crowd and congestion in such shops.Adviser for Chandigarh Administration clarified on Tuesday that there were no restrictions on movement within Chandigarh except for containment zones.UT Adviser Manoj Parida wrote a series of tweets to clarify the administration’s position on the recently eased restrictions on movement. Parida said in his tweet: “No restriction on travel to any place within Chandigarh except declared containment zones like Bapu dham etc. But our appeal is to go only if you feel it’s absolutely necessary. Wear mask, maintain social distance. Gathering of more than 5 in group not allowed. Time 7am to 7pm only.”He cleared up some confusion that prevailed over movement pass.“Here is a thumb rule. For movement pass you must apply to local district authority where you stay or where you are right now stranded. It is origin point office which will issue it not destination point authorities. Clear? Apply online, pass will be received on mobile,” he said.He said those people who need special permission to open shop or need clarifications should write to Finance Secretary Ajay Sinha at the UT Secretariat.He also said Sukhna Lake will remain open.On May 4, Chandigarh Administration eased the curfew restrictions that were imposed over the city in March to slow the spread of coronavirus. The easing of restrictions came with riders---among them that it will not apply to the city’s containment pockets such as Sector 30 and Bapu Dham.Lockdown still remains in place in Chandigarh from 7 pm to 7 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/extend-last-date-for-payment-of-power-water-bills-badnore-80730
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Major Anuj Sood killed in Handwara encounter cremated in Chandigarh||The mortal remains of Major Anuj Sood, who was killed in an anti-terror operation in north Kashmir, were consigned to flames with full military honours here on Tuesday.He was among the five security forces personnel who died in an encounter while fighting the militants in Handwara area of frontier district Kupwara in Jammu and Kashmir Saturday night.Major Sood’s mortal remains had arrived here from Srinagar Monday afternoon.Slogans like “Vande Mataram”, “Bharat Mata Ki Jai”, “Major Anuj Amar Rahe” were raised as the Army officer’s body, wrapped in tricolour, was taken to the cremation ground at Mani Majra here from his residence in Panchkula in a bedecked Army vehicle.Before the cremation, floral wreaths were laid on the mortal remains by many serving and retired Army officers.Several senior Army officers and Major Sood’s family members including his wife, father, sister Harshita, who is also an Army officer, were present during the cremation.A gun salute was given to the departed soul.The Army officer’s funeral pyre was lit by his father.Major Sood’s father, Brigadier Chandrakant Sood (retd), had earlier told the media that the news of the death left him shocked, but at the same time, he was proud of the supreme sacrifice the officer had made for his motherland.“He was a true son of the nation,” he had said at his Panchkula home. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/major-anuj-sood-killed-in-handwara-encounter-cremated%C2%A0in-chandigarh-80694
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||SAD lauds move to lift curfew in UT||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-lauds-move-to-lift-curfew-in-ut-80684
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||13 more infected with Covid-19 in Chandigarh; cases rise to 115||As many as 13 people, including a four-year-old girl, tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday in Chandigarh, taking the total count to 115 in the Union Territory, according to a medical bulletin.Ten people, who have been tested positive, are residents of Bapu Dham colony, which is the worst affected area of the city.Two residents of Dhanas and one of Sector-30 also contracted the infection, as per the bulletin.A total of 21 COVID-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals, the medical bulletin said, adding that a total of 1,713 samples have been tested so far. Of them, reports of 1,576 samples have come negative while reports of 21 samples are awaited, as per the bulletin.So far, Chandigarh has reported one death due to COVID-19, and a total of 93 cases are active in the city. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-more-infected-with-covid-19-in-chandigarh-cases-rise-to-115-80670
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Traffic back on Chandigarh roads, rush at entry points||With the lockdown restrictions relaxed by the UT Administration, the city roads witnessed a huge rush of vehicles. Minor traffic snarls were also witnessed at the entry points from neighboring areas, including Panchkula, Zirakpur and Mohali.Motorists jump red lightSince the UT traffic police were not stationed at the light points to check offenders, red-light violations was witnessed in many parts of the city.As anticipated, the relaxation to move across the city without any pass or permission saw people moving freely in their vehicles. The parking lots of the sector markets were also found occupied like pre-curfew days.Challans for pillion ridingSince the UT Administration had directed that only a single person is allowed on a two-wheeler, many people were caught riding with a pillion rider. As many as 109 two-wheelers were challaned for the offence. Similarly, the traffic police issued 12 challans for more than three persons, including the driver, in four-wheelers. The 121 vehicles were impounded.Heavy rush of vehicles was witnessed at the Sector 22 Aroma lights as all other entry/exit points of the sector were sealed. Although the UT Administration lifted curfew in the city, it failed to take any decision on sealing of sectors done earlier in various parts of the city. The inner roads were blocked by the RWAs.The entry from Panchkula through Mauli Jagran witnessed long queues of vehicles at the police naka. Similarly, rush was also witnessed at Zirakpur-Chandigarh barrier. Although the police, equipped with infrared thermometers, were checking the temperature of people entering the city, not every commuter was checked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-back-on-chandigarh-roads-rush-at-entry-points-80372
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Booze lovers make the most of relaxation||The lifting of ban on the sale of liquor during the lockdown witnessed the much anticipated response from booze lovers, who thronged liquor stores across the city.Huge rush was witnessed at various liquor vends, including those in Sector 15, 20, 21, 30, 37, 45, 46 and Burail.Serpentine queuesvisiting a liquor vend again for some timeAt some places, long queues were witnessed even before the shutters went up. In colony areas, the queues stretched up to 100 metres.While people were seen purchasing several bottles at a time, many people purchased boxes of liquor to avoid visiting a liquor vend again for some time.Witnessing a large footfall at liquor stores as compared to other shops selling essential goods, the police also focused on maintaining social distancing among booze lovers. Several cops were deployed in sector markets, who were busy ensuring that people stood in queues and maintained distance.Liquor vends opened after 1 pm and the rush outside these vends continued till the time these were closed.The vends started operating today after 42 days.Nearly 30 liquor shops openedNearly 30 liquor shops opened on the first day of lifting of curbs in the city. The shops with even number opened on Monday. Almost similar number of shops with odd number will open on Tuesday.Get pass for movement in TricityChandigarh residents working in Panchkula or Mohali will have to apply in the UT for issuance of a travelling pass. Similarly, all those residing in Panchkula or Mohali and working in Chandigarh will have to apply for issuance of pass in their respective districts for travelling to the UT. The government staff staying in Panchkula and Mohali but working in the city can enter the UT by showing their ID cards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/booze-lovers-make-the-most-of-relaxation-80379
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Major Sood’s mortal remains arrive in Chandigarh||The mortal remains of Major Anuj Sood, who was killed during an encounter in Handwara in Kashmir on Saturday, were airlifted to the city today. These will be consigned to the flames with full military honours tomorrow.Major Sood’s father, Brig CK Sood (retd), is a resident of Amravati Enclave in Panchkula, where he moved a few months ago.Floral tributes were paid to the martyr’s body at the Chandigarh Air Force Station. Wreaths were laid on behalf of the Air Officer Commanding, 12 Wing, and other dignitaries.Born in December 1989, Major Sood is an alumnus of Punjab Public School, Nabha, where his father had also studied, before joining the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, in 2008. He belonged to 19 Guards and was presently serving with 31 Rashtriya Rifles in the Kupwara region of Kashmir.Besides his parents -- Brigadier Sood, who served with the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers and mother, Suman, who is the principal of a government school in Yamunanagar -- Major Sood is survived by his wife Aakriti, whom he married over two years ago, and two sisters, one of whom is a Captain in the Army and national-level shooter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/major-soods-mortal-remains-arrive-in-chandigarh-80387
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||5 new cases in Chandigarh, Covid count 102||On the first day of easing of curbs, the Covid cases crossed the 100 mark in the city today. The first case was reported 47 days ago on March 18.Five new cases were reported from Bapu Dham Colony today. They were a 17-year-old boy, a 43-year-old man, a 15-year-old boy, a 23-year-old youth and a 13-year-old girl.The number of Covid cases in the city now stands at 102. Of these, 21 have been discharged and one died. The total cases recorded in Bapu Dham is 48, while Sector 30-B reported 18 cases. A quantum jump in the cases was observed in the eighth week of the lockdown. From 56 on April 28 (seventh week), the cases rose to 102 on May 2 (eighth week). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-new-cases-in-chandigarh-covid-count-102-80399
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh offices open 10.30 am-4.30 pm||To avoid traffic congestion due to simultaneous travel by employees of the Haryana, Punjab and Central governments, the UT Administration has changed the timings of its offices. The new timings are from 10.30 am to 4.30 pm.During the daily review meeting today, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore stated that after 41 days of lockdown, it was necessary to ease restrictions for bringing the economy on track and also to give relief to daily earners.As per guidelines of the Home Ministry, the Administration provided certain exemptions in the lockdown. He appealed to the residents to strictly observe social distancing. He appealed to the residents to cooperate with the Administration in restraining the spread of infection.Badnore directed senior officials of the UT to focus on Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 30-B and other containment zones. He also instructed the Director, Health Services, to start a special drive for screening and testing suspect cases in the areas. The Administrator decided to expand the containment zone in Bapu Dham Colony, so that more people should be brought under intensive screening and their movement outside could be regulated.“The entire Bapu Dham Colony is now containment zone. Entry and exit from the colony is banned, with exemption to government employees on essential services,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said the Sector 26 market was thoroughly sanitised and cleaned. Efforts were being made to temporarily shift a part of it to the ISBT, Sector 17, so that the crowd in the market could be reduced. “This will be a purely temporary arrangement,” he clarified.Parida said all efforts were being made to ensure that the relaxations given were not being misused.Now, entire Bapu Dham a containment zoneThe UT Administration has decided to expand the containment zone in Bapu Dham Colony so that more people were brought under intensive screening and their movement outside could be regulated. “The entire Bapu Dham Colony is now containment zone. Entry and exit from the colony is banned, with exemption to government employees on essential services,” said Parida.Part of Sec 26 market may be shifted to ISBT-17The UT Administration is planning to shift a part of the Sector 26 market to the ISBT, Sector 17, temporarily so that the crowd in the market could be reduced. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-offices-open-10-30-am-4-30-pm-80400
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Super-spreaders’ slow down Chandigarh’s recovery rate||The “super-spreaders” of Covid-19 have undone what Chandigarh claimed and boasted of a while ago -- 50 per cent recovery rate.At present, the recovery rate of Covid patients in the city is 20.5 per cent, which is lower than the national average (27.5 per cent).Knowing the super-spreaderA super-spreader is an unusually contagious organism infected with a disease. In context of a human-borne illness, a super-spreader is an individual, who is more likely to infect others, compared with a typical infected person. Such super-spreaders are of particular concern in epidemiology.Of the 102 positive cases recorded till today, only 21 have recovered. On April 24, the UT Administration had stated, “While the national recovery rate is 20 per cent, the recovery rate of Chandigarh is 56 per cent. It was also informed that Chandigarh was ranked third among the highest recovery states.”TimelineMarch 18: UK-returned 23-year-old woman from Sector 21 tests positive, has spread the virus to five contactsMarch 27: Dubai-returned 22-year-old youth from Sector 30-B tests positive, is responsible for infecting 16 people in his neighbourhoodApril 24: Thirty-year -old ward attendant who attended a “rajma chawal” party in Bapu Dham Colony tests postive, has spread the infection to 54 city residents, including three health workersThe city witnessed the first wave of Covid cases from foreign-returned. The first case, which was reported on March 18, was that of a 23-year-old woman from Sector 21, who had returned from the UK. Five more cases were connected to the first case.Another positive patient in the city with a foreign travel history was that of a 26-year-old woman, who had also returned from the UK. She was treating Covid patients there. However, no one in the city was infected from her as she directly went to the PGI.The second wave was observed when a 22-year-old youth from Sector 30-B tested positive for the virus. He had returned from Dubai on March 11 and had developed cold and cough on Mach 20. He had visited the hospital on March 25 and was tested positive on March 27. What worried the contact tracing team was that he had not quarantined himself for 14 days as per the Government of India advisory.After 21 days on April 17, a 52-year-old woman in his neighbourhood had tested positive. This case sparked the number of cases in Sector 30-B. Now, 16 positive contacts in the sector are within the neighbourhood of each other. The third wave shook Chandigarh on April 24 when a ward attendant at the GMCH-32, who hails from Bapu Dham Colony, tested positive for Covid. He is said to have infected 54 residents in the city, including three health workers of the GMCH.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/super-spreaders-slow-down-chandigarhs-recovery-rate-80401
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||First step towards revival of economy, say Chandigarh traders||Only 10-15 per cent of industries could reopen in the city on the Day 1 of relaxation in lockdown restrictions, aimed at bringing economy back on track.Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, said hardly 10 to 15 per cent of the industries reopened today due to the odd-even confusion.UT Adviser Manoj Parida clarified that the Industrial Area was exempted from the odd-even rule. Individual issues such as product demand were also a major reason for not opening of the establishments in full-fledged manner, Manglani said. He added: “Attendance of workers is still okay. As of now, not much of industrial labour has gone back.”Another issue faced by the industrialists was the restriction on movement of workers in the tricity, he said. “The movement back to Panchkula and Mohali from Chandigarh is another big issue.A common plan on movement is a must for the tricity. A large number of people working in Chandigarh are from Panchkula and Mohali,” he said. “As advised by the UT Administration and the Ministry of Home Affairs, we commenced operations today,” said Pankaj Khanna, president, Industries Association of Chandigarh.Partial opening of shops and industrial units amid lockdown was a first step towards revival of the economy from slowdown, he said, adding that they were looking forward to more initiatives from the UT Administration and the Centre in future.“We look forward to hand-holding from both the Centre and the UT Administration to bring economy back on track,” he added.Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, and general secretary, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said, “We support the decision of the UT Administration to allow opening of shops within sectors.”“On the one hand, the Administration is not allowing the Sector 17 market to open while on the other, there is a plan to shift a part of the Sector 26 mandi to the ISBT–17,” he said.“Sector 17, being an open spacious market, should be allowed to open. It should not be compared with malls, which are indoor,” he added.Ram Avtar, a labourer, said with opening of factories, now he could think of staying back in the UT. He was earlier planning to go back to his native village in Gorakhpur district, Uttar Pradesh.Finance Secretary AK Sinha said he was coordinating with the industry and trade associations regarding the relaxation. “The entry to the Industrial Area has been regulated. All persons entering the Industrial Area will be sanitised and thermally checked before entry,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-step-towards-revival-of-economy-say-chandigarh-traders-80404
05-05-2020||Panchkula||Miss my family, but people’s safety comes first, says cop||Head Constable Rajesh Kumar, posted at the Police Lines, makes sure he wears gloves and a mask to protect himself against Covid-19 before he steps out to begin his duty around 8 am.Rajesh (40), who is currently deployed on the Panchkula-Chandigarh border near Housing Board Chowk, keeps a check on vehicles crossing the border. He, along with his fellow policemen, also assists medical professionals from the Civil Hospital in screening commuters entering Panchkula during his 12-hour law enforcement duty. “I know we can easily contract the virus, but in these trying times, it’s our duty to keep people safe. We have to play a pro-active role to contain the spread of the disease,” he says.Rajesh has been avoiding going home in Karnal and stays at a makeshift accommodation as he does not want to put his family at risk.“As per instructions from our senior officials, we check lockdown passes to ensure no non-essential vehicle enters Panchkula,” he says. Rajesh, a father of three, whose family lives in a Karnal village, says, “I miss my family and keep talking about them with my colleagues. At the same time, we can’t shy away from our duties.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/miss-my-family-but-peoples-safety-comes-first-says-cop-80436
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Not only liquor vends, long queues at bookstores too||Monday blues returned for many parents as they thronged local bookstores just nine hours after the UT Administration lifted the curfew restrictions. Most stores were open at 9am. As the day progressed, things worsened for parents.Unmanaged long queues caught everyone’s attention outside various bookshops. Parents maintained that they were asked to purchase books from particular stores referred by their schools in which their kids studied. It not only resulted in chaos. Various norms, including maintaining social distance, were thrown to the wind by shopkeepers and buyers.“My kid’s school is taking online classes. There has been no clarification on chapters and assignments given to students. We have to buy books for reference. This morning, the school sent an assignment through WhatsApp, but did not tell from where to take references as no books are available,” said a parent, who was standing outside a Sector 22 store.Another parent, whose daughter is Class V student of Sector 46-based private school said, “The set of books will not be available at any other shop in the city. I have to buy it from here. Schools have started online classes, but what was is the need for it when the local authorities have already preponed summer vacations.”Appeal by ParidaIn an appeal to city residents through his twitter account UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated: “An appeal. Do not crowd bookshops, enough sticks available. Before giving to kids, please sanitise books and stationery.”However, parents said the authorities were not aware about ground reality. “Instead, the authorities should appeal to private schools not to refer particular bookstores. There have been many complaints, but to no avail,” said another parent.Is referring books legal?Parents also alleged that they were encouraged to buy books of private publishers for junior classes. “A set of Class V books costs between Rs 4,600 to Rs 5,000. Last year, it was available at around Rs 3,000. The NCERT books are available online for Rs 2,300. There is no explanation on this cost variation by the authorities,” said a parent.Parents’ mistakeMeanwhile District Education Officer (DEO) Alka Mehta said, “Its parents’ mistake. Why did they go to shops? She stressed that no school had forced parents to buy books today only. “No school has forced them to buy books today itself. The department has nothing to do with it,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-only-liquor-vends-long-queues-at-bookstores-too-80437
05-05-2020||Ambala||Both factories lacked fire NOC||Ethanol was stored in drums in the unit that caught fire last night. The unit also lacked NOC from the Fire Department. Two major fire incidents were reported in Ambala - one at Mint Science Chemical Refinery near Jatwar village of the Shahzadpur block and another at Partap Fabrics Private Limited near Kesri village in Saha block here - late last night.Amar Singh, fire officer, Ambala City, said: “We got information around 9:30 pm regarding the fire incident near Jatwar village. Ethanol was stored in drums in the open. Foam compound was used to control the fire as it was not possible to control fire with water due to ethanol. The operation was stopped around 2 am. We have been told that hand sanitiser was prepared in the factory and it didn’t have any fire NOC from the department. Lightning is suspected to be the reason behind the fire.”Mahender Singh, fire officer, Sadar Zone, said: “We got information about the fire around 9:45 pm at Partap fabrics. As many as 11 fire tenders were pressed into service. The fire-fighting operation was stopped around 7:30 am. The exact cause of the fire and the total loss were yet to be ascertained. The factory didn’t have fire NOC. A notice will be sent to its owner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/both-factories-lacked-fire-noc-80438
05-05-2020||Mohali||Red zone restrictions to be enforced in Mohali district||Though Mohali district falls in the orange zone, keeping in view the high incidence of cases and continuous and unavoidable movement to and from Chandigarh, which has been declared red zone, the administration here today decided that restrictions applicable to red zone will be enforced in the district too.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “As the district borders Chandigarh along with Panchkula forming the tricity area it has become necessary to synchronise relaxations with suburbs to enable genuine movement of people.”Movement allowed between 8 am to 6 pmMovement of persons will be allowed only from 8 am to 6 pm to and from the workplace on production of identity card issued by the employer and from 9 am to 1 pm to shops, commercial establishments and banks.Public dealing in banks from 9 am to 1 pmPublic dealing in banks will be between 9 am to 1 pm. Banks can close operations or reconcile till the end of normal working hours not beyond 5 pm in any case.No passes for movement in Mohali districtNo passes are required for movement within the district. However, for crossing borders of UT, Mohali and Panchkula one requires either ID card (for government officials on duty) or curfew passes (for private individuals).Chandigarh, Panchkula residents can apply for passesPeople residing in Chandigarh or Panchkula, but working in Mohali may apply for passes to commute within the tricity. Those working in Chandigarh or Panchkula, but residing in Mohali may apply for passes at the website https://epasscovid19.pais.net.in/.Four-wheelers will be allowed with a maximum of two passengers, besides driver. Two-wheelers will be allowed without pillion rider.Shops to open from 9 am to 1 pmShops will open from 9 am to 1 pm on a staggered rotational (odd and even) basis in Mohali. Shops/establishments like saloon and barber will remain closed.Restaurants will remain closed except for home delivery with specific prior permission. Only one member of a family will be allowed to step out for procuring supplies from neighbourhood shops and that too without using vehicle. Persons over 65 years, small children and individuals with co-morbid conditions must stay home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/red-zone-restrictions-to-be-enforced-in-mohali-district-80439
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||NGO launches corona relief campaign||The Narayan Seva Sansthan (NSS), an NGO, has launched corona relief campaign for focusing on serving humanity and people, donating money to assist daily wage earners, labourers, and migrants.This campaign includes the distribution of food packets, masks to help the needy, and underprivileged affected by Covid-19.Besides, the NSS also organised webinars for the differently-abled.Prashant Agarwal, president, Narayan Seva Sansthan (NSS) said, “Narayan Seva Sansthan has distributed 38,000 protective masks,74,000 food packets, and 1,650 rashan kits through our team among daily wage earners, labourers, poor and the underprivileged.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ngo-launches-corona-relief-campaign-80440
05-05-2020||Satinder Pal SinghDera Bassi||Residents throng shops at Dera Bassi on first day of  relaxation||People gathered in large numbers at shops in Dera Bassi, which opened after 40 days on Monday. The third phase of the coronavirus-forced lockdown has begun with the easing of certain restrictions.On Thursday, the local administration released an advisory for registered owners allowing them to open their shops in a staggered way on rotation basis for four hours every morning with the condition of ensuring physical distancing and following timings.Shopkeepers have clear instructions to maintain social distancing.When banks opened on Monday, safety norms like social distancing were thrown to the wind. There were long queues of people outside banks. Mostly poor were seen waiting for their turn in queues. People said they had come to withdraw money as they were not using debit cards. Long queues were witnessed outside ATMs too.Chote Lal, a daily wager, who had come to a bank said, “The present situation has reminded us of the demonetisation days. We had to wait for hours in queues to replace old currency notes. Now, again, we are standing in queues just because of the curfew. The Centre and the state governments should have made proper arrangements before enforcing the curfew.”Besides, bank employees too were under stress and feared about their health. “We are short in number today and there is a huge rush of customers, who are not even following the safety guidelines issued by the government. Who will be responsible if any Covid-positive person comes here? He/she will infect many others with virus,” said bank employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-throng-shops-at-dera-bassi-on-first-day-of-relaxation-80441
05-05-2020||Panchkula||No entry in Panchkula without pass||Several people returning to their homes in Panchkula from Chandigarh and Mohali were turned back amid chaos and confusion on Monday. SDM (City) Dheeraj Chahal made it clear that anyone seeking entry into Panchkula district would need a movement pass from the office of the Deputy Commissioner (DC).“Only people associated with essential and medical services will be allowed to enter Panchkula,” he added. “Other exemptions include ambulances, ATM cash vans, government officials of Punjab, Haryana and the UT Administration and LPG, oil containers/tankers,” he said.“Tough measures are required at the state’s border points with Chandigarh and Mohali,” he added.An elderly resident from Sector 23 here, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “I visited Chandigarh for an unavoidable work after curfew restrictions were lifted there, but I was denied entry to Panchkula during my return trip.” Some people expressed their dissatisfaction with application process for a movement pass.Provide accommodation to employees, says orderOn May 1, the DC had ordered that employers should make necessary arrangements for people working in Panchkula, but not residing here to avoid cross border transit daily.“On the similar lines, accommodation arrangements should be made for people working outside Panchkula by their office managements in respective cities,” the order stated.Movement restricted between 7 pm and 7 amAs per lockdown guidelines, movement for non-essential purposes is restricted between 7 pm and 7 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-entry-in-panchkula-without-pass-80442
05-05-2020||Zirakpur||Easing lockdown brings little respite for Zirakpur residents||The first day of eased restrictions in Chandigarh brought little respite to residents here, who had a tough time in the morning at the Chandigarh and Panchkula border.Chandigarh resident Atul Garg said, “‘At 12 noon, I tried to enter Mohali through Zirakpur entry barrier, but the police sent me back as they were asking for an e-pass issued by the DC, Chandigarh.”’Zirakpur resident Tanmay Srivastav, a salesman, working in Chandigarh, said, “Shop will close at 6 pm and I will get free by 7 pm. I don’t know whether they will allow me to come back.”’Aradhna, a banker, who commutes from Zirakpur to Chandigarh, said, ‘ “People, who cannot drive, will find it difficult to commute. Not everyone has a four-wheeler.” Most residents did not know whether an Aadhar Card/voters card or an e-pass from the place of his/her residence was required to commute in the tricity. Things, however, improved in the evening as the flow of traffic was streamlined.Sub-inspector Ajit Singh, at the Chandigarh-Zirakpur border, said, “‘Thermal scanning is being done thoroughly. Only outstation vehicles are being stopped. Address and phone numbers of commuters are being noted to keep track of people, who are coming in and going out of the city.”’In Zirakpur and periphery, a noticeable change was witnessed as residents seemed to have lowered their guard with the easing of restrictions. A number of people, without their masks were seen along the roadside taking evening walk, walking their pets and buying vegetables from vendors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/easing-lockdown-brings-little-respite-for-zirakpur-residents-80443
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali man loses Rs 1,800 to fraudster||A fraudster, who was dressed up like a medical staff member, duped a Mohali resident of Rs 1,800 at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.Complainant Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Chutt village in Mohali district, whose wife is admitted to a hospital, complained that a man approached him posing as a hospital staff on May 2 and took Rs 1,800 in cash from him on the pretext of file charges.Singh later realised that he was being duped. Following which, he informed the security staff who checked the CCTV cameras and identified the person and informed the police.The suspect was identified as Sandeep. A case of cheating has been registered against him at the Sector 17 police station and an investigation has been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-man-loses-rs-1-800-to-fraudster-80444
05-05-2020||Mohali||Seven more discharged, Mohali recovery count 43||Seven more Covid patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur today, taking the total number of recoveries in the district to 43.Fact fileFive of the patients discharged today belong to Jawaharpur village while two are from Nayagaon. About 50 cases are now active in the district. As many as 95 persons have tested positive in the district so far.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said those discharged today were Damanjit Singh (16), Manjit Singh (64), Amarinder Singh (24), Harinder Kaur (32), Hardev Kaur (55), Raj Rani (60) and Riteish (19). He said the first five patients hail from Jawaharpur while the other two belong to Nayagaon.The Jawaharpur residents will not be sent home and will stay at a quarantine facility set up at Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi for another 14 days as a precautionary measure. The Nayagaon residents will be sent home. They have been asked to home-quarantine themselves for 14 days. The health teams will keep track of their health regularly.The Civil Surgeon said after 14 days’ treatment, reports of two consecutive tests conducted on the seven patients came negative, following which they were discharged. A total of 27 patients from Jawaharpur alone had recovered so far, he said, adding that the remaining patients were undergoing treatment and their condition was stable.He asked people to visit hospitals only in case of any serious problem. Instead, they should contact the health department helpline 104 for the expert advice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-more-discharged-mohali-recovery-count-43-80446
05-05-2020||Mohali||464 leave for J&K on 18 buses||As many as 464 persons, belonging to Jammu and Kashmir, who were stranded at various places in Mohali, started their journey back home in 18 buses today.Sukhwinder Kumar, Regional Transport Authority (RTA), said as per the directions of the Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan arrangements for medical screening of stranded people were made at Nayagaon before they boarded the buses.Kumar said the drive to send back the stranded people from other states began from Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi to Lakhanpur in Jammu and Kashmir.He said from Mohali, under the supervision of the sub-divisional magistrate Jagdeep Saigal, a total of 179 persons were sent back in eight buses, while from Dera Bassi, under the supervision of SDM Kuldeep Bawa, a total of 93 persons were sent back via three buses and from Kharar, 192 persons boarded seven buses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/464-leave-for-jk-on-18-buses-80475
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Stranded Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand residents sent back to their native places||A total of 2,666 persons from Uttarakhand and 1,239 from Himachal Pradesh, who were stranded in Chandigarh due to the Covid-19 outbreak, were sent back to their homes today.The UT police coordinated the entire operation by ensuring that people departing from Chandigarh maintain social distancing and travel back home safely without getting infected to Covid-19.UT SSP Nilambari Jagdale said: “A large number of persons had registered themselves to return to their native places. Keeping in view the huge number, ensuring their safe departure was our responsibility”.“Police teams on ground were instructed to enforce social distancing among people at 11 pick-up points,” the SSP said.The police said a total of 1,239 HP residents were sent in 49 buses, which included 662 to Mandi, 365 to Bilaspur, 191 to Kullu and 61 to Lahaul and Spiti.Meanwhile, 2,666 Uttarakhand residents were sent back to their native places in 85 buses. The pick-up points included Rally Ground, Sector 25, Plaza, Sector 17, Sector 28 ground, Community Centre, Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, Shivalik Garden, Mani Majra, near Infosys Building, Sector 34 fair ground, ISBT, Sector 43, and Sector 40.The UT police also liased with the Chandigarh Administration, Himachal Bhawan authorities and the Uttarakhand Police.The police said 550 Uttarakhand residents were in process of leaving for home districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stranded-himachal-pradesh-uttarakhand-residents-sent-back-to-their-native-places-80477
05-05-2020||Panchkula||Containment zone area in Panchkula Sec 15 reduced||Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja today reduced the containment zone area in Sector 15 after screening by Health Department officials.Sector 15 was declared as a “containment zone” on April 14, after a 44-year-old woman, her husband and seven other family members were tested positive. All these Covid patients have already been cured and discharged.As per the DC’s order, only houses from number 1686 to 2333, 500 to 527 and 1080 to 1090 will remain in the containment zone. All remaining houses will be in the buffer zone. The DC issued an order for proper sanitisation and solid waste management in areas falling in Sector 15 containment and buffer zone.Few shops open on Day 1Not many shops were operational on the first day of lockdown 3.0 as many shopkeepers were unaware of the orders issued by the district administration yesterday. Provisional shops, chemists and milk booths in neighbourhoods or residential colonies and sector markets remained open as usual.Liquor shops closedAll liquor shops remained closed in Panchkula on Monday. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said they were yet to receive the state government’s nod for liquor shops to open. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/containment-zone-area-in-panchkula-sec-15-reduced-80478
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sec 42, Chandigarh resident duped of Rs 63,000 by swindler||A Sector 42 resident was duped of Rs 63,000 by some swindler on the pretext of selling him a motorcycle, which was advertised on OLX.Complainant Tofeek Ahmad reported that he was looking for a second-hand bike when he came across a seller who had posed himself as a CISF Constable named Tilak Mora. The suspect was ready to sell a Hero Honda Splendor motorcycle for Rs 17,000. After negotiation, the deal was struck at Rs 15,000.The victim said he initially transferred Rs 3,000. However, the suspect asked him to transfer Rs 3,000 more on April 18. After a total of Rs 6,000 was transferred, the suspect claimed that there was some problem and the money didn’t get transferred following which the victim was made to transfer a total of Rs 63,000.The victim said he later checked and found that the money was transferred through his account and he had been duped.“He had sent a fake ID card and a picture of the RC through WhatsApp to win my trust following which I didn’t realise that I was being cheated,” he said.The victim has submitted a complaint with the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell of the UT police following which an investigation has been initiated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sec-42-chandigarh-resident-duped-of-rs-63-000-by-swindler-80480
05-05-2020|| Mohali||Mohali police bring four gangsters on production warrant||Four members of a gang, arrested after a brief encounter at Billa village in Panchkula on April 26, were brought on production warrant by the Mohali police today.They were produced before a local court, which sent them to police custody for five days. The arrested gangsters, include Harsimran, alias Simu, Dhruvmohan Garg, Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, and Gurcharan Singh. The suspects were in the custody of Haryana police since their arrest.Inspector Rajnish Choudhary, SHO, Phase 8 police station, said, “We have been seeking their warrants since last week. The court gave us five-day custody. We have started our investigation.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-bring-four-gangsters-on-production-warrant-80481
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||NGOs distribute over 1L food packets in 32 days||The Joshi Foundation and Heart Foundation today announced closing of their community kitchen set up to cater to the needy persons in the Covid-19 crisis at the Sector 15 community kitchen today.On the last day, SSP Nilambari Jagadale handed over the last consignment of free food packets to the UT Administration. The service, which started on April 3, ended on its 32nd day today.As many as 1,07,300 food packets were distributed among the needy, poor and downtrodden. Under the ‘Jan Jan Bhojan’, free food packets were distributed in Sectors 14, 15, 16, 24, PGI, Panjab University and also at periphery areas, including, Kachi Colony, Dhanas, EWS Colony, Dhanas, Small Flats, Maloya, and Nayagaon.Vineet Joshi, chairman of Joshi Foundation, said the service was started with an aim of helping the needy. “Till date, we have distributed over 1.7 lakh food packets. On a daily basis, we provided 2,000 food packets to the UT Administration and another 2,000 food packets were distributed to the needy directly in various sectors and periphery areas of the city,” said Vineet Joshi.Youth Congress leader gives food to the needyChandigarh: To help the needy persons in this crisis, Navdeep Singh, a leader of the Chandigarh Youth Congress, and his father Balraj Singh, former Deputy Mayor, have been continuously distributing food for the past 35 days in different parts of the city’s slum areas.They have also been handing over food daily to the Food and Supplies Department, UT. They also distributed 1,000 soaps and 1,000 masks among the needy persons yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ngos-distribute-over-1l-food-packets-in-32-days-80482
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh fails to shift people from densely populated areas to quarantine centres||Ignoring the suggestions of a coordination committee of experts from the PGI, the GMCH-32 and the GMSH-16, the UT Administration has failed to shift people from densely populated Covid-19 affected colonies to quarantine centres.Experts’ advice ignoredA committee of medical experts, which was formed under the directions of UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, had written to the Administration twice to make Covid care centre and quarantine centres operational. However, despite a large number of positive cases being reported from the city, the Administration continues to look the other way.The committee, which was formed under the directions of UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, has written to the Administration twice to make Covid care centre and quarantine centres operational. However, despite a large number of positive cases being reported from the city, the Administration continues to look the other way.One of the experts felt if it was not done, the cases would continue to rise at an alarming rate. “Due to the usual reluctance of the Administration, things have deteriorated in the well-planned UT.”“Suppose one of the eight family members is tested positive and is in hospital. And the remaining are living in a single or two rooms in a small house. Obviously, they will get infected. They must be shifted to quarantine centres,” he added.The UT’s contingency plan itself reads, “Although most of the persons coming in contact with the confirmed cases are supposed to be quarantined at their homes, in densely populated colonies, quarantining of such persons may not be feasible. Hence, all such persons may need to be taken out of their colonies and accommodated in quarantine centres. There are community centres and government schools in almost all sectors of the city. Also, there are covered stadiums in some sectors. Such schools, community centres and stadiums are proposed to be used as quarantine centres.”However, a top official requesting anonymity said, “The UT is working against its own notified guidelines. Also, suggestions from medical experts are not being implemented.”UT’s Health Secretary Arun Gupta said, “We want that wherever people are quarantined, they stay there. By shifting them to another place, we don’t want to create another such zone as it will require more manpower and PPE kits. It will also increase the risk of infection to our medical teams. If cases increase in future, we will move towards this as per our contingency plan.”Of the total 102 cases reported in the city, 48 are from densely populated Bapu Dham colony, Sector 26, where quarantining is impossible.Over 600 persons have already been home-quarantined in four blocks of Bapu Dham only. A block comprises 40 small houses each. In some houses, about 10-15 labourers reside in a single room on rent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-fails-to-shift-people-from-densely-populated-areas-to-quarantine-centres-80484
05-05-2020||Chandigarh||Banker commits suicide at Sec 20, Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/banker-commits-suicide-at-sec-20-chandigarh-80485
