05-12-2020||---||Two more Covid-19 deaths in Mohali, toll up to 290||Mohali, December 5The Covid-19 death toll in Mohali climbed to 290 with two more fatalities in the last 24 hours, even as 100 new cases pushed the infection tally in the district to 16,168.Out of the 100 new cases, 66 were reported from Mohali urban, one each from Boothgarh and Kurali, 14 from Kharar, 11 from Gharuan and seven from Dera Bassi.The Health official said 122 patients had been cured and discharged from the hospitals in the last 24 hours.The district has so far registered 16,168 positive cases, out of which 13,622 patients have been cured of the infection and discharged. There are 2,256 active cases, said the officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-covid-19-deaths-in-mohali-toll-up-to-290-180433
05-12-2020||Sonipat||Doctor brothers from Haryana set up free medical camp at Singhu border||Two brothers who are doctors and belong to a farming family of Haryana's Sirsa district are providing free medical care to the agitating farmers who are up in arms against the Centre's three farm laws.A medical camp has been set up at the Singhu border by Sukhwinder Singh Brar and Ramanjit Singh Brar with the help of their doctor friends.Both the brothers are private practitioners at Chandigarh."Everyday, we are giving medical care to almost 1,500 people coming up with different complaints," Sukhwinder said over the phone.At the camp, they have kept a range of medicines in the boot space of two cars."We have medicines which can take care of several health-related issues," he said."Most of people are coming with complaints of hypertension, joint pain among elderly ones, diarrhoea, constipation etc," said Sukhwinder."Some elderly people who have run out of their medicines are also approaching us," he further said.A team of 10-15 people including paramedic staff are working at this camp to provide medical care, he said.Sukhwinder said they themselves belong to a farming family and this has motivated them to serve people here.He further said more doctors from Barnala in Punjab will soon join them to extend their support.Some religious and social organisations and local people are also providing them medicines, he further said, adding he and his brother are staying at nearby places, so they come here early to start their free medical camp.A protester from Punjab who came to the medical camp for treatment of a hand injury was all praise for the team.Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana and other areas have stayed put at various Delhi border points, protesting against the new farm laws, which they fear will dismantle the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporates. Most of the protesters have been staying in tractor-trolleys which have been turned into temporary shelters. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctor-brothers-from-haryana-set-up-free-medical-camp-at-singhu-border-180398
05-12-2020||Mumbai||COVID-19: Varun Dhawan gets quarantined in Chandigarh; Ranbir Kapoor arranges Neetu's travel to Mumbai||Veteran star Neetu Kapoor and actor Varun Dhawan on Friday tested positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh.The two Bollywood actors, along with Anil Kapoor and Kiara Advani, were shooting for their upcoming movie "Jug Jugg Jeeyo" in the city.According to a source close to the family, Neetu, 62, is now flying back to Mumbai after her actor-son Ranbir Kapoor made necessary arrangements."She tested positive for COVID-19 today. So, Ranbir organised the air ambulance for her, to get her back. If she's here, she will get proper hospitalisation and isolation otherwise she was alone in Chandigarh," the source said. Dhawan and the film's director Raj Mehta, who has also contracted the novel virus, have decided to quarantine in Chandigarh. "Varun and even the director have tested positive, though both of them have decided to stay there," the source added. Earlier in the day, Anil Kapoor took to Twitter and denied the rumours that he has also tested positive for coronavirus."In the interest of putting any rumours to rest, I have tested negative for COVID-19. Thank you all for your concern and good wishes," Anil Kapoor tweeted.A source close to the film told PTI that Advani also has tested negative for COVID-19.The cast and crew had undergone a test before starting the film last month.In November, Neetu Kapoor had posted on Instagram that the cast is "COVID tested and safe" ahead of the filming start."Jug Jugg Jeeyo", backed by filmmaker Karan Johar, marks the return of Neetu Kapoor on the big screen.The veteran actor had last featured in 2013's "Besharam", which also starred Ranbir Kapoor and late husband Rishi Kapoor. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-varun-dhawan-gets-quarantined-in-chandigarh-ranbir-kapoor-arranges-neetus-travel-to-mumbai-180363
05-12-2020||Mohali||Sand-laden tipper kills girl, mother||A 43-year-old woman and her 14-year-old daughter were crushed to death under a tipper truck on Airport Road here today. The victims have been identified as Rajwinder Kaur and her daughter Darweshinder Kaur, who were natives of Bathinda and staying at a rented accommodation in Sector 67.According to the police, the incident took place around 4 pm when the victims were going towards Kharar from Sohana on their scooty. At a sharp curve near Mata Gujri Gurdwara, a major black spot on the road, a sand-laden tipper hit their two-wheeler. They fell on the road and were crushed under a wheel of the tipper. Rajwinder died on the spot. The police took the girl to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.Daljit Singh, SHO, Sohana police station, said, “The accident took place when the tipper was taking a turn on a blind curve and hit the scooter. Rajwinder had moved from Bathinda to Mohali to educate her child.”The truck driver has been identified as Mahitab Singh, a resident of Sangrur. He was arrested on the spot, the SHO added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sand-laden-tipper-kills-girl-mother-180101
05-12-2020||Panchkula||10-yr-old boy dies in hit-&-run||A 10-year-old boy lost his life after a Bullet motorcycle hit him on the Pinjore road near the Nalagarh turn on Thursday.The incident took place around 2.30 pm when Chandra Shekhar, the victim, who used to live in a slum near Ratpur village on the Nalagarh road in Pinjore, was walking back to his home along with his father Ravindra Kumar after collecting wood from a nearby area.Woman died on the spotRavindra Kumar told the police that as they crossed the road, a man riding a black Bullet bike, who was coming from the Baddi side towards Pinjore, ran over his son. He sped away after the accident.A case under Section 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Pinjore police station. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-yr-old-boy-dies-in-hit-run-180102
05-12-2020||Promising to continue the good work done in the past to further improve the public delivery system||Chandigarh to step up measures to battle the pandemic, says Badnore||This index measures the quality of governance. Due to consistent efforts, we could attain the first rank among UTs. The good work done in the past will be continued to further improve public delivery. The record and services in the Estate Office is also being digitised to ensure hassel-free, transparent and time-bound services to residents.From day one after the Prime Minister announced the lockdown, the UT Administration geared itself and held meetings with officers of the tricity, heads of medical institutions and the deputy commissioners of Mohali and Panchkula. The UT implemented the following strategies to prevent a surge of the infection as chances of an increase in Covid transmission were anticipated after the festive season.These efforts will be further strengthened if the situation so warrants.As of now, there is no such plan. However, we are in touch with doctors, including those from the PGI. On their recommendations, we will go for a sero survey as and when it is required.In addition to the regular tricity meeting on Covid-19, a tricity coordination committee has also been formed for other matters relating to law and order, and connectivity. Regular meetings are being held in this regard. Chandigarh has offices of both Punjab and Haryana governments as well. The norms for Covid appropriate behaviour at workplaces, markets and public places have to be followed by all visitors from the neighbouring states. Enforcement of traffic laws and Covid appropriate behaviour is relatively much better in Chandigarh. In meetings, we involve the Mohali and Panchkula administration and also the control rooms set up to combat the pandemic.The elevated road project from the PGI to Sarangpur village is in the planning stage and has not been held up for want of funds. We have been getting adequate funds from the Centre for development works and we shall keep seeking funds for important projects and development in the city.The Administration has taken up the matter regarding acceptance of recommendations of the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission pertaining to Chandigarh with the Centre and it is still under consideration. However, the allocation in the form of grant-in-aid has been consistently increased in the past three-four years for the MC and despite the financial constraints, this year it shall be ensured that no cut is imposed on the approved allocation for the MC. Only recently, two new petrol pumps, fully automated, have been inaugurated in the Industrial Area, Phase II, and Sector 51, Chandigarh. The MC is also looking for new avenues to generate funds in addition to the revenue generated from these petrol pumps.There is no shortage of officers at the senior level in the Administration. Eight IAS officers, eight IPS officers and 17 PCS/HCS officers have been posed in the Administration as against nine sanctioned posts of IAS officer, six of IPS officer and 17 of PCS/HCS officer. Additionally, two IAS officers have been posted against ex-cadre IAS posts in Chandigarh. Further, the panels for the post of Finance Secretary, Chandigarh, and the Joint Secretary, Finance, have already been forwarded to the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-step-up-measures-to-battle-the-pandemic-says-badnore-180103
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH Director dies of cancer||Dr BS Chavan, Director, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, passed away after a prolonged illness today. He was 59.Chavan was suffering from colon cancer and had been on ventilator support for the past one week. “His condition deteriorated last Saturday. His oxygen levels dipped at 2 am today. Despite our best efforts, we couldn’t save him,” said Anil Moudgil, a spokesperson for the hospital.A psychiatrist before joining the GMCH, Chavan worked at AIIMS, New Delhi. Chavan did his MD in psychiatry from the PGI, Chandigarh, in 1987 and later received a WHO fellowship in community psychiatry from Australia in 1998 and a Diploma in Hospital Administration in 2003 from the NIHFW, New Delhi. He was a fellow of the National Academy of Medical Sciences and the International Medical Science Academy.Chavan made an outstanding contribution to the field of mental health and rehabilitation of persons with disability. He was instrumental in starting a community outreach programme for mental illness and substance abuse. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-director-dies-of-cancer-180104
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mulls escalators at bus stand underpass||The UT Administration is planning to install escalators at the city’s first underpass between Sector 17 and 22 to provide relief to the elderly.The underpass was constructed in 1996 for the convenience of the people to reach the bus stand and vice versa.Elderly residents’ convenience on mindIn the absence of a ramp, elderly people were facing inconvenience in reaching the bus stand or the market opposite the bus stand.Keeping in view the problems faced by elders, many resident welfare associations had written to the UT in this regard.An official said the Engineering Department had conducted a survey for the installation of escalators and had asked the Architecture Department to prepare a design. After the finalisation of the design, the department would prepare cost estimates and then float tenders for installation of the escalators, said the official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mulls-escalators-at-bus-stand-underpass-180105
05-12-2020||Panchkula||4,649 frontline health workers to get vaccine first: Panchkula DC||Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has instructed officials to prepare an action plan for the seamless rollout of a Covid-19 vaccine in the district — its transport, storage and effective distribution.Workers’ data uploadedAt the first meeting of the District Task Force at the Mini-Secretariat in Sector 1 here, Ahuja said the vaccine, once available, would be administered to those battling the coronavirus on the frontline — healthcare workers (both government and private), anganwadi workers, ASHA workers, ANMs and others working in the District Women and Child Welfare Department in the first phase.176 have tested +veAt least 176 healthcare workers have been found positive for the coronavirus in the district so far.“As per the vaccine rollout plan, to begin with, the vaccine will be first administered to 4,649 frontline healthcare workers, followed by senior citizens,” Ahuja said.A database of frontline workers in the district has already been uploaded on the Covid portal. A list of qualified health professionals, who would distribute the vaccine, had also been prepared, officials said.The Deputy Civil Surgeon, Dr Neeru Kapoor, the District Immunisation Officer, Dr Meenu Sasan, and the SMO (WHO), Dr Shivani, were among those who participated in the meeting.On November 24, the Prime Minister, at a meeting with chief ministers of various states, advised them to work on a plan for the vaccination following which the state government had instructed deputy commissioners to form a task force to oversee the process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-649-frontline-health-workers-to-get-vaccine-first-panchkula-dc-180106
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 3 deaths, 111 cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-3-deaths-111-cases-180107
05-12-2020||Panchkula||Man dies, 63 +ve in Panchkula||The district on Friday reported 63 new coronavirus cases, taking the overall tally to 8,967. The district also witnessed one Covid death. The toll stands at 131.A 64-year-old man from Sector 16, who had no comorbid conditions, succumbed to the infectious disease.While 8,353 patients have defeated the virus so far, 483 cases are still active.The recovery rate of the district is 93.15 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-dies-63-ve-in-panchkula-180112
05-12-2020||Mohali||One fatality, 149 cases in Mohali||One person died of Covid-19 and 149 new cases were reported from the district here on Friday. As many as 15 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the fresh cases, 107 were reported from Mohali (urban), 13 from Dera Bassi, 12 from Kharar, five each from Dhakoli and Lalru, four from Gharuan, and three from Kurali.The district has seen 16,068 cases, while 13,500 patients have been cured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-fatality-149-cases-in-mohali-180121
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC scrapes roads in Sector 9, forgets to recarpet these||Causing much inconvenience to commuters, the Municipal Corporation (MC) seems to have forgotten to recarpet roads after scraping a layer of asphalt.Sector 9 residents said bitumen was removed from one of the roads nearly a month ago and from another a week back. However, the recarpeting work was yet to be carried out on these roads. The gravel on the roads was hassling motorists and pedestrians, they complained.“This road is damaging our vehicles. Besides, we have to drive slowly. It must be repaired as soon as possible,” said Ramanjit Singh, a resident of Sector 9. Officials said there must be some issue with the contractor and they would work it out with him.Earlier, the recarpeting work in the city was hit as the MC had floated tenders in June but failed to get any bidders. The civic body floated tenders again in July following which the recarpeting work was started.Shailender Singh, Chief Engineer, MC, said he would look into the matter and get the recarpeting work done at the earliest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-scrapes-roads-in-sector-9-forgets-to-recarpet-these-180127
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration notifies appellate authorities for 18 services||The UT Administration has notified appellate authorities in 18 new services provided by the DC office, Agriculture, Sports and Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Departments the under the Right to Services Act.The Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) has been designated as the first appellate authority, and the Deputy Commissioner (DC) as the second appellate authority in the case of permissions granted for road show, shobha yatra, nagar kirtan, trade fair and exhibition. The permission has to be granted within 25 days by the Miscellaneous Assistant (MA) branch.In the Sports Department, the junior assistant concerned has been made the designated officer, the District Sports Officer is the first appellate authority and the Director Sports is the second appellate authority. The department has to respond to an application of booking a stadium within 10 days, on membership in various games in seven days, scholarship in various games in 180 days and issue of gradation certificates in 90 days.The veterinary officer is the designated officer for complaints against the Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Department for non-delivery of services within the stipulated period. The Joint Director is the first appellate and the Director is the second appellate. The department has to give post-mortem reports of animals in two days and issue health certificates of birds in one day and that of animals in three days.In the Agriculture Department, the Director Agriculture is the first appellate authority and the Secretary, Agriculture, is the second appellate. Licensing officer is the designated officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-notifies-appellate-authorities-for-18-services-180128
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||260-km ultra-marathon flagged off||To commemorate the 260th anniversary of the Army Service Corps (ASC), a 260-km ultra-marathon was flagged off by the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen RP Singh, from Chandimandir today.On this occasion, a wreath was also laid at the Veer Smriti War Memorial by Maj Gen Harsh Chhibber, head of the ASC branch at the Headquarters Western Command on behalf of the ASC team to pay homage to martyrs.The marathon team comprising of one officer and nine soldiers is led by Lt Col Inderjit Singh, a renowned ultra-marathon runner and founder of the ASC Ultra Marathon Team.The run will culminate at the National War Memorial, New Delhi, on December 8, after paying homage en route at three war memorials in Ambala Cantonment, Sainik School, Kunjpura, and Motilal Nehru Sports School, Rai.The event aims to inspire Fit India Movement, foster adventure spirit, camaraderie and brotherhood among the participants and motivate the youth, especially at Sainik School, Kunjpura, and Motilal Nehru Sports School Rai, to join the Armed Forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/260-km-ultra-marathon-flagged-off-180129
05-12-2020||Aligarh (UP)||Chandigarh man arrested for forcibly detaining woman in Aligarh||A man, who had come here from Chandigarh with a local woman to tie an interfaith nuptial knot in the court, was arrested on a charge of forcibly detaining her, the police said today.The man was arrested by the Aligarh’s Civil Lines police from the premises of the District Courts yesterday, while the woman was also whisked away by the sleuths.Video clip surfaces on social mediaThe arrest came to the fore after a video clip, purportedly showing policemen virtually dragging the man away from the court premises in the presence of bystanders, surfaced on the social media.The arrest came to the fore after a video clip, purportedly showing policemen virtually dragging the man away from the court premises in the presence of bystanders, surfaced on the social media. The youth is seen in the video complaining against the police action while identifying himself as Sonu Malik and also the woman with whom he intended to marry.Civil Lines Circle Officer (CO) Anil Samania said a case had been registered against the youth in Chandigarh for allegedly forcibly keeping the woman in detention.The CO said the man worked as a tailor in Chandigarh where he had befriended the woman and planned to marry her.He said the UT police had arrived here to take custody of the arrested person. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-man-arrested-for-forcibly-detaining-woman-in-aligarh-180130
05-12-2020||Panchkula||Villagers booked for creating ruckus at inauguration event in Panchkula||The police have registered an FIR against unidentified Mankya villagers for creating a ruckus during a project launch event where Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta was supposed to inaugurate a newly constructed bridge under the jurisdiction of the Panchkula MC on Wednesday.Complainant Kunal Jain, a resident of Sector 15, Panchkula, told the police that arrangements, including flower decoration and refreshment, were made there for the event.“Around 2 pm, villagers gathered at the spot and ruined all arrangements. They also kicked tables, which resulted in the wastage of food. They took away carpets before leaving the spot,” Jain said, requesting the police to take action against the culprits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/villagers-booked-for-creating-ruckus-at-inauguration-event-in-panchkula-180131
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Info plates installed on trees, shrubs at museum||To commemorate Pierre Jeanneret’s death anniversary, the Department of Tourism, in collaboration with the Chandigarh Tree Lovers (CTL) group, organised the installation of information plates on trees and shrubs growing at Jeanneret Museum, Sector 5.UT Adviser Manoj Parida, who was the chief guest, praised the efforts of the group to raise awareness about the green heritage of the city. The event was attended by Director Tourism Nitika Panwar, Chief Architect, Punjab, Sapna Prabhakar, ML Sarin and other dignitaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/info-plates-installed-on-trees-shrubs-at-museum-180132
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to introduce ‘Vatika’ class in govt schools||In line with the New Education Policy (NEP), the UT Education Department has started preparations to introduce an additional class before Class I. It will be called the ‘Vatika’ class.The department is waiting for the official notification from the Centre to introduce the class. However, from the 2021-22 session, all government schools will have a pre-nursery class and an anganwadi centre.At present, children in the age group of three to six are not covered in the X+II structure and they get admission to Class I at age of six. In the new 5+3+3+4 structure, a strong base of early childhood care and education (ECCE) from the age of three is also included. It aims at promoting better overall learning, development and well-being of children.Alka Mehta, Deputy Director of Education, Chandigarh, said, “As per the NEP, children, who are three years old, will get admission to the pre-nursery class in government schools. The nursery class will be for children who are four years old. Earlier, five-year-old children were admitted to Class I. Now, six-year-old children will get admission to Class I and five-year-olds to the Vatika class.”“We are conceptualising this development as per the NEP so that whenever the ministry issues a notification, we can implement it,” Alka added.At present, all government schools in Chandigarh have pre-nursery and nursery, the only two classes before Class I.“The intention behind introducing the ‘Vatika’ class is to prepare the child coming from anganwadi centre or pre-nursery for Class I with the help of concept building. We will ensure that all children going to Class I have studied the same syllabus,” said Alka. “From this session, we are introducing pre-nursery in all government schools and also mapping anganwadi centres with government schools,” Alka added.The NEP envisages that prior to the age of five, every child moves to the preparatory class or ‘Balvatika’ (before Class I), which has an ECCE-qualified teacher. Learning in preparatory class will primarily be based on the playway method and focus on developing cognitive, affective and psychomotor abilities and early literacy and numeracy.In many private schools, the age for the entry-level class is two and a half years. Such schools may have to change their system according to the NEP as children, who are three-year-old, will get admission to entry-level class.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-introduce-vatika-class-in-govt-schools-180133
05-12-2020||Chandigarh||High Court warns of stay if UT’s explanation unsatisfactory||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today made it clear that future admissions in the EWS category for the next academic session would be stayed in case a satisfactory explanation for the “figure of Rs29 lakh was not forthcoming”. The amount pertains to reimbursement of previous dues for expenses incurred on students belonging to the EWS category.The direction came after Justice Sudhir Mittal’s Bench observed that counsel for the UT Administration and other respondents had no answer to submissions by counsel for petitioner Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan on the issue of reimbursement.The Bench was told by the UT and other respondents that petitioner Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan was entitled to reimbursement of Rs29 lakh against the claim of Rs2.5 crore approximately.The respondents claimed this was because the school was not entitled to reimbursement of expenses incurred on students belonging to the EWS category admitted pursuant to the terms of their land allotment letter. As such, the petitioner was entitled to 15 per cent reimbursement against 25 per cent claim.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, senior counsel Manisha Gandhi and Viraj Gandhi on the school’s behalf contended that Rs29 lakh took care of expenses incurred while admitting students at the entry level. Every year, the same number of students were admitted and promoted to the next class. As such, the strength went on increasing and the UT Administration had not taken care of expenses incurred on account of increasing strength.“The counsel for the respondents has no answer to the aforementioned submission,” Justice Mittal observed. The matter was brought to the Bench’s notice after the school filed an application for restraining respondents from compelling it to admit students under the EWS category till previous dues are reimbursed.Manisha Gandhi argued that almost Rs2.5 crore was due on account of reimbursement for admissions since 2011-12 in the EWS category. Despite specific order dated October 26, steps were not taken to pay the amount due. As such, it would be unfair to the petitioner to expect it to continue making admissions under the EWS category unless and until the past dues were reimbursed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-warns-of-stay-if-uts-explanation-unsatisfactory-180134
05-12-2020||Ropar||318 awarded degrees at IIT-Ropar convocation||“As engineers and scientists, we have to mitigate climate change effects. It is a major challenge and we need to undertake it,” said the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India, Prof K Vijay Raghvan, who was the chief guest at the ninth annual convocation of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar.In all, 318 students got degrees, including PhD (32), MS-Research (4), MTech (71), MSc (69) and BTech (135), at the convocation held virtually.The Best PhD Thesis Award was given to Mohit Raj Saxena (Mechanical Engineering), Shahariar Sarkar (Physics), and Subhajyoti Samanta (Chemistry).First prize for Sunny Oberoi Best MTech Thesis was awarded to Peeyush Mahajan (Mechanical Engineering), second to G Nithin Reddy (Electrical Engineering) and third to Ankita Dey (Biomedical Engineering).The President Gold Medal for obtaining highest CGPA amongst graduating students was awarded to Harnit Singh Sudan BTech (Electrical Engineering). Director Gold Medal for the best all round performance amongst graduating students was awarded to Komal BTech (Computer Science and Engineering Department). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/318-awarded-degrees-at-iit-ropar-convocation-180135
05-12-2020||Mohali||Youth held for looting jeweller||Club’s assistant manager bookedChandigarh: The police have booked an assistant manager, Deepak, of Pipe and Barrel Club, Sector 9, for serving hookah to customers on December 2 and violating the orders of the District Magistrate, UT. A case under Section 188 of the IPC has been registered. TNSProclaimed offender bookedChandigarh: The police have booked a Kharar resident, Subhash, who was declared a proclaimed offender, and did not appear before the court in pursuance of issuance of the proclamation. A case under Section 174-A of the IPC has been registered against him at the Sector 36 police station. TNSPanel discussion marks Disability DayMohali: The University School of Pharmaceutical Sciences and the University School of Agricultural Sciences of Rayat Bahra University here on Friday organised a panel discussion on “Rehabilitation Challenges of Mentally-Ill Indian and American Population” to mark International Day of Persons with Disabilities. Dr Dwarka Prasad, retired Professor of Clinical Neuropsychology of the PGI, and Dr Harmesh Kumar, Licensed Clinical Neuropsychologist and president of the SABH Foundation, USA, were the panellists. Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor, Rayat-Bahra University, said there was an urgent need to create an atmosphere for overall uplift of the disabled and special schemes were needed for their rehabilitation. TNSPunjab CM opens sub-stationZirakpur: Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Friday inaugurated the 66kV grid sub-station at Ramgarh Bhudda via video-conferencing. The sub-station will be beneficial for residents of Zirakpur and nearby areas. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-for-looting-jeweller-180136
