06-05-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh: Sirens go off at 7 pm to remind people curfew is over; create panic||Residents of Chandigarh went into a tizzy as sirens went off in the city at 7 pm to remind the people that curfew relaxation is over and it was time to go back home.Unaware of reason behind the sirens, people were seen enquiring about what the sirens were for.Adviser Manoj Parida tweeted at 6.24 pm that sirens will go off at 7.To help our memory to be indoors by 7pm ,a siren will sound in city ,don't fight with police if you are caught outdoors after siren😊  “To help our memory to be indoors by 7pm ,a siren will sound in city ,don’t fight with police if you are caught outdoors after siren,” he tweeted.It's simple.Initial lockdown was announced by PM for 40 days ,so spread is contained.Later he reduced it to 7pm to 7am so economic activity can go https://t.co/gV2THOiF6W future he may allow more exemptions if cases decline or cure is invented.Its sooo simple.😊Elementary my dear  In another tweet, responding to a user if coronavirus spread only between 7 pm to 7 am, Parida said, “It’s simple.Initial lockdown was announced by PM for 40 days ,so spread is contained.Later he reduced it to 7pm to 7am so economic activity can go http://on.In future he may allow more exemptions if cases decline or cure is invented.Its sooo simple.Smiling face with smiling eyesElementary my dear.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sirens-go-off-at-7-pm-to-remind-people-curfew-is-over-create-panic-81217
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration decides to hike VAT on petrol, diesel by 5%||The Chandigarh Administration has decided to enhance Value Added Tax by 5 per cent on petrol and diesel, officials said.The new prices of petrol will now be Rs.68.62 per litre and diesel at Rs.62.02 per litre. For comparison, Wednesday's prices were Rs 65.82 for petrol and  Rs 59.30 for diesel.Petrol and diesel will continue to be cheaper in the UT than in the neighbouring states.The development, aimed at mobilising more revenue at a time when the country’s in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic, comes a day after the central government decided to increase excise duty on petrol by a record Rs 10 per litre and Rs 13 per litre for diesel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-decides-to-hike-vat-on-petrol-diesel-by-5-81211
06-05-2020||Mohali||Coronavirus: Mohali reports new case, district tally rises to 96||Zirakpur reported its first coronavirus case on Wednesday, taking up Mohali’s infection tally to 96.A 57-year-old resident of Golden Sand Apartments tested positive in what is Zirakpur’s first case.Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the patient had recently undergone an operation at a private hospital in Sector 26, Panchkula. Swabs sent by the hospital for testing came back positive, prompting the hospital to alert Mohali district health authorities.The patient is currently at a Covid Care Centre at Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital.Meanwhile, health teams have been despatched collect swabs of the patient’s family.Of Mohali’s 96 cases, 51 are still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-mohali-reports-new-case-district-tally-rises-to-96-81180
06-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||4 test positive for Covid in Bapu Dham, cases rise to 124 in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 5With four more people testing positive for Covid-19 in Bapu Dham on Wednesday evening, the total number of cases in the colony have increased to 66.The affected people belonged to two different families.They were sampled in GMCH-32.Earlier in the day, four women were among five people tested positive for COVID-19 , taking the total count to 124 in Chandigarh.The four women were from a family in Bapu Dham colony.  The fifth case is from Sector 56. The man was an auto driver, who left for UP, but was traced later. On Tuesday, 10 people were tested positive from the colony, the worst affected area of the city.A total of 21 COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday.  A total of 1,713 samples have been tested so far. Of them, reports of 1,576 samples have come negative while reports of 21 samples are awaited.Chandigarh has reported one death due to COVID-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-test-positive-for-covid-in-bapu-dham-cases-rise-to-124-in-chandigarh-81123
06-05-2020||MC workers make preparations for shifting the grain market from Sector 26||New grain market?||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-grain-market-81107
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||UT cops impound fifteen vehicles for violating social distancing norm||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-cops-impound-fifteen-vehicles-for-violating-social-distancing-norm-81106
06-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Liquor vends in Chandigarh want licence fee waived for 10 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 5Liquor vendors in the UT are demanding a 10-day waiver of the licence fee to compensate the losses they had incurred due to the lockdown.The local vends were closed from March 22 to March 31 and were re-opened yesterday. The contracts of liquor vends were allotted from April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020.Vendors claimed that they suffered a minimum approximate loss of Rs 1.5 lakh per day. Last year, a liquor vend in Dhanas was sold for a whopping Rs 10.78 crore. The allottee submitted 25 per cent of the amount at the spot, while the remaining amount is paid on instalments of 10 per cent per month. The monthly instalment is paid from profit through sales and since the vendors did not operate, they claimed to have faced huge losses. “There was no sale for 10 days, how can we submit monthly licence fee? The government should waive or adjust the licence fee for these 10 days. A majority of the vendors have two or three outlets from where they pay the money,” said a vendor.When asked about yesterday’s sale, a vendor said: “Wine shops opened after a long period. Our main customers are labourers, who make daily purchases, and people coming from neighbourhood states as they prefer to buy liquor from here due to difference in prices. Labourers have returned to their native places and entry to the city is banned. Chandigarh is a small city and we cannot make profit from it. The coming days are very risky.”On odd-even formula, he said, “Most of the popular shops that are located on main roads and on sector dividing roads are not allowed to open.”Another vendor said, “Small vendors sold liquor yesterday, but what about those who purchase liquor from prime locations? All liquor shops should be allowed to open.”Contract renewal bluesThe process of licence renewal (from April 1, 2020 onwards) was postponed by the UT Excise Department due to the Covid-19 scare. “We are waiting for a decision. The department should charge fee from the date of opening of the shop instead of April 1. We have not done any business from April 1 till May 3,” he said.Higher priceHooch lovers alleged that vendors made huge profit by selling liquor at higher price. In one such complaint, Jatin Sharma, a resident, claimed, “He purchased a beer carton for Rs 2,400, which normally costs somewhere around Rs 1,800.” Similar complaints were witnessed in many areas as wine lovers maintained that vendors took advantage of the current situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-vends-in-chandigarh-want-licence-fee-waived-for-10-days-80874
06-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||No odd-even for bookstores in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 5A day after a news report regarding the problem of huge rush at local book stores was published in these columns, the UT Administration today announced to exempt such stores from even-odd rule today.VP Singh Badnore, Governor of Punjab and UT Administrator, approved the same. “Keeping in view the heavy rush of customers at book shops, it has been decided to exempt book shops from the odd-even rule. They will be able to sell books and stationery on all days. This will help in reducing the congestion in the shops,” informed a spokesperson.Meanwhile, the worrisome parents continued to run from pillar-to-post for purchasing books even on Tuesday. On Monday, it was reported in the same columns about parents rushing to some specific book stores, referred by their wards’ school, which resulted in huge rush at these shops.Book sellers operate from closed shopsIt was observed that some shopkeepers, who were not allowed to open shops as per the even-odd scheme, were running business from closed shops. They were taking orders on the phone and a time slot was given to pick the books from the shop. “It’s better as we don’t have to stand in long queues. Majority of the private schools refer purchasing books from specific locations, where there is only handful of shops. This is the reason that why these shops are overcrowded,” said a parent.Another parent added, “The UT Administration should take this into consideration. If there are numerous numbers of shops, why books of certain classes are available in selective book stores only? A book store owner in Sector 19 is taking order online despite his shops was closed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-odd-even-for-bookstores-in-chandigarh-80875
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration mulls cess on certain items||The UT Administration is mulling levying cess on certain items in view of the dwindling revenue due to the lockdown. Sources said these could include liquor, petrol and diesel.Finance Secretary AK Sinha said keeping in view the reduced sources of revenue, some additional cess on a few items could be considered.During the review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed that discount/concession available to consumers for timely payment of property tax and water bills should not be denied and the last date of payment be extended accordingly.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), said the Indian Council of Medical Research had agreed on providing additional testing kits to the PGIMER. All testing centres are being directed to enhance the number of tests in the city. The Administrator directed that more testing needs to be conducted in containment zones.Adviser Manoj Parida said the change in office timings of UT Administration helped reduce the congestion on roads. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-mulls-cess-on-certain-items-80876
06-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||People throng bazaars||After various shops were allowed to open in the district from 9 am to 1 pm, heavy rush was witnessed at bazaars in Sirhind, Mandi Gobindgarh and Amloh. Residents thronged markets without maintaining social distancing and there was a huge rush at vegetable, fruits, chemists and grocery shops. Book shops also witnessed heavy rush. The process of admission was also initiated by some private schools and parents were seen rushing to banks to deposit the fee. There were queues ooutside banks and ATM kiosks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/people-throng-bazaars-80879
06-05-2020||---||411 leave for J&K, Uttarakhand on 14 buses||Mohali, May 5The drive to send back stranded people to their home states continued today too. About 411 persons from Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) were sent back to their homes in 14 buses from Mohali.Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, Mohali, said all passengers were thoroughly screened before they could leave for their home states. The social distancing norms were also strictly observed at the time of carrying out the screening process and boarding of the buses, he added.He said a total of 116 J&K residents were sent back to their native places in four buses from Mohali, while from Kharar, a total of 72 persons were sent back via three buses to the said destination. A total of 223 persons boarded seven buses for Uttarakhand.NSUI arranges students’ returnChandigarh: Students from Jammu & Kashmir studying in Aryans College, Chitkara University, SVIET, besides Adesh Group of Colleges, CGC Mohali, Sachdeva Group of Pharmacy and SUS Group Colleges, were sent back to the native state from Mohali by NSUI state president Akshay Sharma. Earlier, a total of 130 students were sent from Rajpura.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/411-leave-for-jk-uttarakhand-on-14-buses-80882
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||103 students from UBS get jobs||Out of the eligible 129 students, 103 have been placed with various companies, said Prof Deepak Kapur, Chairperson, University Business School. A final placement report of batch 2018-2020 for different MBA programmes was released today.  Kapur said amid the pandemic, when the national and world economy have taken a major hit, the department has been able to achieve placements for the batch graduating 2020. “The average CTC was Rs 9,44,000 (per annum), while the median CTC was Rs 8,50,000 (per annum). The highest domestic CTC has been offered by American Express — Rs 18,81,000 (per annum). The highest international CTC is Rs 55,00,000 (per annum) by Tolaram Group,” said Kapur.  Companies conducted interviews in January and February. Data compilation was delayed due to the lockdown. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/103-students-from-ubs-get-jobs-80883
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||PGI starts work on plasma therapy trial||The PGI has been been chosen as one of the centers by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct trial of convalescent plasma therapy in patients with serious Covid infection. The approval was received last Friday. With this, critical patients aat the Nehru Hospital Extension Block will be eligible for the treatment.  In this trial, antibodies from the blood of patients who have recovered are used to treat severely infected patients. However, the exact role of this therapy in the treatment of Covid positive patients is still debatable.  Dr Ratti Ram Sharma, Head Department of Transfusion Medicine, PGI, said: “We have started contacting donors for starting the plasma therapy. We have tried to contact three to four of them and obtaining their consent. Around 7 covid survivors have completed 28 days after being discharged.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-starts-work-on-plasma-therapy-trial-80884
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||500 PPE kits donated to GMSH by Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation||Sanitisers distributedThe Angrej Charitable Foundation, an NGO, has distributed more than 10,000 sanitisers, 25,000 cotton mask and 50,000 water bottles among the daily-wage earners. As many as 25,000 packs of sanitary pads have also been distributed among the under-privilegedwomen. The charitable organisation also distributed wheat and rice among the needy. Angrej Foundation chairman Arun Jindal said: “We will keep serving the needy.”Bhavan’s society donates 200 PPE kitsBhavan’s Old Student Society, the alumni arm of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, has handed over 200 PPE kits for doctors and nurses to the District Commissioner, Chandigarh. Earlier, the alumni association handed over 100 PPE kits to support the police personnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/500-ppe-kits-donated-to-gmsh-by-balramji-dass-tandon-charitable-foundation-80886
06-05-2020||---||Chandigarh Sec 17 traders seek opening of market||Chandigarh, May 5 Appreciating the decision of the UT Administration to open sector markets after the lockdown of 41 days, the Business Promotion Council, an apex body of traders of Sector 17, has demanded the opening of the Sector 17 market too. In a letter to the UT Finance Secretary, Neeraj Bajaj, president, Business Promotion Council, said: “The UT Administration has opted to close down the Sector 17 market under the category of shopping complex. The market has in fact small 1 Bay, 2 Bay and 3 Bay shops and small booth markets with different entity, completely open area, no congestion, no rush, being variety of shops spread over Sector 17-A to Sector 17-E.” “We feel that to categorise Sector 17 and other like markets as shopping complex is not justified,” he said. The Sector 17 market was having considerable business with fixed liabilities of salaries and other unavoidable expenses and the extended lockdown could shatter this potential market, he said. “We request you to allow our market to open and operate, in the interest of the exchequer as well, with immediate effect,” he stated. An official of the UT Administration, on condition of anonymity, said the Sector 17 market was considered as a shopping complex as per the guidelines of the MHA. So, it was not opened when the curbs were lifted in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sec-17-traders-seek-opening-of-market-80887
06-05-2020||---||Entry into Mohali from notified points only, says Girish Dayalan||Mohali, May 5Mohali District Magistrate Girish Dayalan, along with nodal officers, today notified the entry points on highways and link roads into the district.For people visiting the district from Himachal Pradesh, an inter-state highway checkpoint had been set up at Siswan-Baddi road in Siswan village.Border checkpointsInter-state border checkpoints have been set up at various link roads in Peer Muchhalla, T-point Antala, Barwala road, Ramgarh-Mubarakpur road, Daffarpur and Harmilap Nagar, Baltana.He said for those entering the district from Haryana, inter-state border checkpoints on highways had been set up near Sekhon Banquet Hall, Zirakpur, on the Panchkula highway.Other inter-state checkpoints for those entering the district from Haryana have been set up at Ambala to Naraingarh highway and Ambala to Chandigarh highway Jharmari, Lalru.Similarly, inter-state border checkpoints had been set up at various link roads in Peer Muchhalla, T-point Antala, Barwala road, Ramgarh-Mubarakpur road, Daffarpur and Harmilap Nagar, Baltana, he said.Dayalan said the nodal officer would ensure registration of data of inbound passengers at covid.punjab.gov.in/policereg as per the standard operating procedure.He said the Mohali Civil Surgeon would depute multipurpose health workers for round-the-clock duty at these entry points for screening each person entering the state. He said anybody found symptomatic would be taken to nearest sub-divisional hospital. If found positive, the person would be shifted to the notified isolation facility, he added.The District Magistrate said the nodal officer would send the data collected about persons coming from other states, but wishing to go to other district of Punjab, to the DCs concerned to ensure supervision of all such persons for at least 14 days.There would be no embargo on goods carriers, but their screening was a must, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/entry-into-mohali-from-notified-points-only-says-girish-dayalan-80888
06-05-2020||---||Chandigarh residents fall prey to fake messages on social media||Chandigarh, May 5Around five persons fell prey to fake messages circulating on the social media regarding home delivery of liquor in Chandigarh during the curfew and lost money paid as advance to purchase liquor.The police said they received around 10 complaints. Of this, a majority of the people didn’t pay the money. In one of the incidents, Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of Sector 39, lost Rs 28,965 to the fraud.The police said Kumar saw a Facebook post regarding home delivery of liquor from a store in Sector 22. The post had pics of a liquor vend with wine bottles and a mobile number.The victim, unaware of the fact that it was a trap laid by some swindler, called on the mobile number and placed the order on April 25. The police said the victim was asked to make the payment in advance, which he did. Later, the victim realised that he had been duped.The police said some others city residents were also duped in a similar manner. However, the money lost by them was relatively low.“Others lost amount ranging between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,500,” sources said.A police official said since the liquor stores were not allowed to open during the curfew, people got lured on knowing about home delivery of liquor and fell into the trap.The Cyber Crime investigation cell has recieved around 12 complaints. However, everyone did not lose the money.“They were asked to pay advance, which they didn’t. Hence, they saved themselves from getting duped. However, they reported the matter to us,” said a police official.Mobile numbers and bank account numbers in which the money was transferred were found to be of Odisha and West Bengal.The police have registered a case of cheating and the IT Act against an unknown person on the complaint of Sanjeev and initiated an investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-fall-prey-to-fake-messages-on-social-media-80889
06-05-2020||Panchkula||Salons, spas to remain shut in Panchkula, says admn||The district administration today clarified that only those shops, which are outside the containment zones, are allowed to open two days every week.In an order issued here, District Magistrate Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the rules had been amended to motivate people to follow social distancing and prevent excessive congestion in markets.As per the order issued by the Deputy Commissioner, salons, barbar shops and spas will not be opened. He said under the Essential Services Act, flour mill, ration shops, chemists, milk, dairy, fruit, vegetable, poultry, provision, homeopathic, Ayurvedic, books and stationery, fertilisers, animal feed, farming implements and confectionery bakery shops will be allowed to open on all days from 7 am to 6.30 pm.The order further says that plumber, electrician, fan, cooler, AC repair, electrical, sanitary hardware, building material, cart repair workshop, painting, cycle store, hardware and paint, etc, will be allowed to open on Wednesdays and Saturdays from 8 am to 6 pm.The shops, which will remain open on Sundays and Thursdays, include gift and toy shops, sports bag, suitcase, dry cleaner, jewellery, optical, garments and clothes and shoes shops.Similarly, shops dealing in plywood, timber glass, inverter, battery, generator, electronics, computer, laptop, mobile, watch repair, photostat, mobile recharge, water purifier, refrigerator, LED, microwave, oven, gas repair, glass house, furniture and scraps will open on Fridays and Tuesdays.Ahuja said shop owners and their workers were required to wear masks and would have to maintain social distancing. He said thermal scanners, touch free mechanism and sanitisers would have to be used at the entry and exit points of shops. Besides, hotels, restaurants, malls, cinema halls, banquet halls, gym, sports complex and swimming pools and religious places would remain closed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/salons-spas-to-remain-shut-in-panchkula-says-admn-80890
06-05-2020||---||Cleansing pits at 2  Chandigarh police stations to sanitise shoes||Chandigarh, May 5 To safeguard themselves from Covid-19 infection, the UT police have come up with a cleansing pit at the entry of at least two police stations in the city. This helps them in getting their shoe soles sanitised. A foot-operated hand washing system has also been installed there. A small pit, which contains a chemical to sanitise the soles of shoes, has been built at the entrance of the Sector 31 police station. “The pit, which is filled with sodium potassium permanganate and water, sanitises the sole,” said a police official. A foot-operated hand washing system similar to those installed in various parts of the city has also been installed at the entrance of the police station. Inpsector Rajdeep Singh, Station House Officer at the Sector 31 police station, said all police personnel and visitors were asked to wash hands before entering the police station. A similar cleansing pit has been created at the Maloya police station. A police official said the initiative would be replicated in other police stations as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cleansing-pits-at-2-chandigarh-police-stations-to-sanitise-shoes-80891
06-05-2020||Panchkula||2,049 test negative in Panchkula||The health authorities in Panchkula have collected 2,210 samples of which 2,049 have been found negative. Besides, the report of 84 samples is awaited and results of 15 samples have been sent for testing again. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said of the total 18 persons, who were found positive, 17 persons had recovered and discharged from hospitals. He said now, only one patient was admitted at the Civil Hospital, while 385 persons had been quarantined, of which 374 persons had been under home-quarantine. Ahuja said 12 mobile units of the Health Department had screened 35,694 persons and had undertaken a survey by visiting the homes of 95,438 persons in the district. He said Asha workers had screened 66,180 persons in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-049-test-negative-in-panchkula-80892
06-05-2020||---||Industries in Chandigarh limping back to normalcy||Chandigarh, May 5Local industries in the city are limping back to normalcy after some lockdown restrictions were eased by the UT Administration.Welcoming the decision of the UT Administration to restart economic activities in the city, Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, said, “After initial hitches such as odd-even issue etc. yesterday, when only 10 to 15 per cent industries reopened, today almost 30 per cent of the industries were working.”Nearly 50 per cent of the industries would start working in coming days, he hoped. Presence of workers was also satisfactory as the attendance was nearly 70 per cent because employees were assured of their employment and wages, he added.“Industries individual issues regarding demand of products also led to a slow start,” he added.He said they could face another problem regarding transportation of goods. “If the Transport Area in Sector 26, which has been shut down due to proximity to Bapu Dham Colony, does not open, it will bring movement of goods to a halt. And as such, transporters of other areas have raised the freight costs.” In a statement, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore mentioned that the exemptions given in Chandigarh were primarily aimed at easing out the lockdown for kick-starting the economy. Daily wagers, who were without any job or income for the last 41 days, had to be provided their source of livelihood while maintaining necessary social distancing.Rotorian RK Saboo said, “Chandigarh has been in red zone. The UT Administration under the leadership of the Administrator took the bold and forward looking decision and opened the major parts of the city. Even the economic aspect has been duly considered by allowing the factories to open.”Now, it is for the citizens to show that they are worthy of that. “Majority of the city residents are educated and everyone should shoulder the responsibility of following lockdown norms in letter and spirit. We will set an example and we will not have Bapu Dham episode again,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/industries-in-chandigarh-limping-back-to-normalcy-80893
06-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Sec 55 colony remains cut off from rest of city||Residents of the Housing Board Colony, Sector 55, here, today remained cut off from the rest of Chandigarh. The residents said both entry points of Sector 55 were blocked by the police, due to which their sector was cut off from the rest of the city. They stated that there were two entry and exit points - one from Phase II (Punjab side) and the other from Palsora (Chandigarh side). Both points had been blocked, leaving them in the lurch. They urged UT Adviser Manoj Parida to intervene in the matter. The residents stated that the sector had not been declared as a containment zone and several government employees were living in the area. If the police did not remove the blockage, these employees would not be able to attend to their duties tomorrow. In a statement, the UT Adviser stated that he was coordinating with the neighbouring cities to sort out the problem of entry/exit in inter-state borders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sec-55-colony-remains-cut-off-from-rest-of-city-80894
06-05-2020||---||Another spike, Chandigarh count 115||Chandigarh, May 5The city today reported 13 fresh cases of Covid. At 115, the city has the highest cases in the tricity.Ten cases were reported from Bapu Dham Colony today. Among them are six persons of one family. They are community contacts of two positive cases in the same area.Half of total samples tested in 10 daysA 42-year-old man from the colony is among those found infected with the virus today. His 10 family contacts and 15 community contacts have been traced. Besides, a four-year-old girl, a 16-year-old girl and a 20-year-old youth from the colony tested positive for Covid. Their contact tracing is being done.A 60-year-old woman of Rehabilitation Colony, Dhanas, also tested positive for Covid. Her seven family contacts and six community contacts have been sampled.A 49-year-old man and a 12-year-old girl, both residents of Sector 30 and belonging to one family, also tested positive for Covid. They are family contacts of a positive case from the sector. Bapu Dham has so far reported 58 Covid cases while 20 cases have been reported from Sector 30-B.As many as 979 samples (over half of the total 1,713) have been tested between April 26 and May 5. Of these samples, a total of 85 were found positive for Covid.The sampling was increased after the first case in Bapu Dham was recorded on April 24. However, the UT still lags behind Mohali and Panchkula in terms of testing.Only 426 samples were tested between April 15 and April 25. The Administrator today directed that more testing needs to be conducted in containment zones to arrest the infection.UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said, “There has been active search of cases in the affected areas through health screening. Random testing is not deemed feasible as we have to go by the protocol. There are at least 5,000 persons in the Bapu Dham containment zone. Aggressive screening is on in the colony, which is the reason for more number of positive cases being reported from there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-spike-chandigarh-count-115-80897
06-05-2020||---||Adieu Major, you’ll be remembered||Chandigarh, May 5The mortal remains of Major Anuj Sood, who was killed in an encounter with terrorists in Kashmir on May 2, were consigned to the flames with full military honours here today.Wreaths were laid on behalf of the Chief of the Army Staff, the GOC-in-C, Western Command, and the Colonel of the Brigade of The Guards.A ceremonial guard from the Sikh Light Infantry reversed arms while buglers sounded the last post. A three-shot volley was also fired as a mark of respect to the fallen officer.The funeral pyre was lit by his father Brig CK Sood (retd), a resident of Amravati Enclave in Panchkula. He had earlier told the media that the news of his son’s death left him shocked but at the same time he was proud of the supreme sacrifice made by him in the line of duty.Major Sood belonged to 19 Guards and was posted with 31 Rashtriya Rifles in Kashmir when the encounter took place.A large number of people, including family members and well-wishers, were present to bid adieu to the martyr.Among those who paid tributes were Lt Gen Gurpal Singh Sangha, Chief of Staff, Western Command, Major Gen Balwinder Singh, Chief of Staff, 11 Corps, Brig Tejvir Singh Mundi, Station Commander, Chandimandir, Brig DS Kushwaha, Brigadier-in charge-Administration, Western Command, and Brig Upkar Singh, Commander, 37 Infantry Brigade. A number of officers from Chandimandir were also present.Haryana Assembly Speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and Commissioner of Police Saurabh Singh also paid their respects.Major Sood was among four Army personnel, including the commanding officer of his battalion, and a local policeman who died in the encounter in Handwara in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday night. His body was flown to Chandigarh from Srinagar on Monday afternoon.Born in December 1989, Major Sood is an alumnus of Punjab Public School, Nabha, where his father had also studied, before joining the National Defence Academy, Khadakwasla, in 2008.Besides his parents — Brigadier Sood, who served with the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers, and mother Suman, who is the principal of a government school in Yamunanagar — Major Sood is survived by his wife Akriti and two sisters, one of whom is a Captain in the Army and national-level shooter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adieu-major-youll-be-remembered-80872
06-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||Covid patient flees Chandigarh on bike, reaches UP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 5In a shocking case, a Sector 56 man, who had tested positive for Covid-19, allegedly fled the city to reach his hometown in Uttar Pradesh. He left on a motorcycle along with a relative from Sector 52.The 34-year-old man, an auto driver, went to the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, Mohali, after he felt unwell on Monday. His samples were taken for Covid-19. However, rather than isolating him at the hospital, he was asked to go home and isolate himself. He was also asked to take some strict precautions.Instead of following the isolation or precaution, the man left for UP on Monday.The report of his samples was received today in which he tested positive for Covid.“We do not know why he did so. Either he got scared by doctors’ advisory and got an inkling that something was not fine or he already knew the contents of the report. We are finding out,” said a police official investigating the matter.DSP (South) Neha Yadav told Chandigarh Tribune, “He had to go to Bijnor, but he went to Pratapgarh. We have informed the SP there as he has reached Pratapgarh. We are investigating the matter.”Officials are wondering how he managed to reach Pratapgarh by travelling nearly 800 km and crossing interstate borders during the lockdown.Mohali Civil Surgeon Manjeet Singh said, “He had mild symptoms. Thus, he was asked to isolate himself after his samples were taken. If there is a patient with severe symptoms, we isolate him in the hospital till the reports are out. Unlike Chandigarh, we take as many as 70-80 samples in a day. So, we have limited space for isolation or quarantine. It is negligence on the patient’s part.”“The patient proceeded to his village in UP without waiting for his test results. He went there on a bike along with a relative. The facts came to light when field teams of the Health Department, Chandigarh, went to his Sector 56 residence for investigations on receiving his Covid positive report from the State Surveillance Unit of Punjab at 4.26 pm today. The patient has been tracked. He has reached his native village,” said a UT Health Departmemt report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-patient-flees-chandigarh-on-bike-reaches-up-80873
