06-06-2020||Mohali||Punjab Police’s surprise birthday celebrations for Mohali nonagenarian||The last thing Manmohan Singh expected on Saturday was a visit from the cops.Singh, a retired principal of Sports College, Jalandhar, who lives with his family in Mohali’s Phase 10, turned 91 on Saturday, and he expected it to be not unlike his other birthdays.  So when a group of policemen arrived at his gate on Saturday morning, armed with a cake, a potted plant for a gift and plenty of smiles, Singh was pleasantly surprised.Singh cut his birthday cake at the gate owing to lockdown restrictions still in place in Punjab.The event, organised as a gesture of goodwill towards senior citizens during the ongoing lockdown to stop the spread of coronavirus pandemic, was jointly organised by the Punjab Police, Mohali Senior Citizens Association and HelpAge India.Mohali Senior Citizens Association President Principal Swarn Chaudhary and Secretary General SS Bedi said it was Panchkula Police that first inspired them to start the initiative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-polices-surprise-birthday-celebrations-for-mohali-nonagenarian-95491
06-06-2020||Naina Mishra||Performing surgery in PPE is like walking in spaceship suit, say PGI doctors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6The doctors at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) are confronted with a new challenge of performing surgeries on COVID-19 suspected and positive patients while donning Personal Protective Equipment (PPE).From PPE to protocols, the working of hospitals might never be the same keeping in view the current situation of the COVID-19 pandemic. Even after cases may slow down or cease to exist, medical practice as we know might change, feel medical experts of the PGIMER.The first of its kind surgery was neurosurgery of a COVID-19 patient with a head injury at NHE (COVID hospital), performed on May 29 in an operation theatre specially created for such patients.“Once you open the brain, you are completely concentrating on it, regardless of how your outer environment is,” says Dr Anurodh Kumar, who was among the team of doctors conducting neurosurgery of a positive COVID-19 patient.“But we don’t want to rush the surgeries and break the chain of protocols,” adds Dr Parth Jani of the PGIMER.  Dr Jani said: “We have to be more cautious about my surroundings so that there is no contamination such as blood spill-over even while carrying out surgeries. The newly designed OT is hotter than the usual as there we wear a triple layer PPE.”He added: “We have faced difficulties while concentrating as our judgment of how we look at the open brain at the time of performing neurosurgery gets affected. We are mostly sweating in PPEs and get exhausted easily. In normal OTs, we can easily work for six hours. However, there are many barriers and we have to see through those barriers in the triple-layer suit.”In the PGIMER’s orthopaedic department, the numbers of surgeries have been restricted and the emphasis is on the non-operative treatment.Dr Karthik from the Department of Orthopaedic said: “There is literature as per which surgeries can increase the mortality rate of patients with coronavirus disease. We are operating only those patients who require it urgently.”Professor SK Gupta, Head, Department of Neurosurgery, PGIMER, said: “Performing surgery while putting a PPE on is just like wearing a spaceship suit and doing your daily chores. We have to use the same equipment with a variation as the movements get little restricted in PPEs. Nobody has ever experienced this before and thus three to four mock drills were also being conducted to prepare ourselves for surgeries.”He said: “Timing is critical in surgeries like neurosurgeries irrespective to whether the patient has been tested for COVID-19 or not. Our team of doctors did not wait when the first surgery was to be performed on COVID-19 suspect.”Gupta added: “COVID-19 is going to continue for an indefinite period. The only way is to test rampantly in order to be sure whether the patient we are treating is COVID positive or not. For that, we are taking the help of a genexpert machine that delivers test in one hour. This will ease us from the mental and physical pressure of operating a COVID-19 patient.”“Pandemic or no pandemic, we will have to get used to it and all our residents have been trained in donning and doffing,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/performing-surgery-in-ppe-is-like-walking-in-spaceship-suit-say-pgi-doctors-95488
06-06-2020||---||Chandigarh COVID-19 tally climbs to 313 after four fresh cases reported||Chandigarh, June 6Four new cases of COVID-19 from Bapu Dham Colony were reported in the Union Territory of Chandigarh on Saturday.The new cases include a 40-year-old man, his 32-year-old wife, five-year-old child and another 40-year-old male. The family was already under home-quarantine.With the four news cases reported, the UT tally has climbed to 313 with 35 active cases.As many as 273 patients have recovered. The UT has reported five deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-313-after-four-fresh-cases-reported-95455
06-06-2020||Patiala||Gender test centre busted, doctor arrested||The state Health Department busted an illegal sex determination centre in Patran block and arrested a BAMS doctor this evening. He has been identified as Dr Ashok Kumar.A team of doctors from Chandigarh raided the centre – Patiala Hospital – after receiving a tip-off from Speed Network, a private firm. Speed Network has been hired by the state government to check the misuse of ultrasound machines.To catch the doctor red-handed, a deal was struck with an assistant-cum-dealer of the doctor for Rs25,000.The Health Department sent a pregnant woman from Amritsar as a decoy patient to the centre with Rs25,000 to determine the sex of her unborn child. After the doctor declared the sex of the unborn child, health officials nabbed the dealer and the doctor, who is also the owner of the centre.The department said Dr Devinder Kumari, who was working at the centre, had already fled with the cash and the ultrasound machine. She is the wife of Dr Ashok Kumar.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said they had recovered 1,170 tramadol tablets and medical equipment required for abortion. “The doctor and his agent have been handed over to the police. We are lodging an FIR against both doctors under the PNDT Act,” he said.Patran block is infamous for illegal sex determination tests. Several such illegal centres have been busted in Patiala district in the past.Under the PNDT Act, first-time offenders are punishable with up to three-year imprisonment and a fine of Rs10,000, while second-time offenders are punishable with up to five-year imprisonment and a fine of Rs50,000. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gender-test-centre-busted-doctor-arrested-95279
06-06-2020||---||Minor girl hangs herself to death||Chandigarh, June 5 A 17-year-old girl, who was reportedly depressed following her relationship with a boy, committed suicide at her house in Hallo Majra here today. The girl used to stay with her mother, who works at a factory in the Industrial Area. The victim’s mother had gone to work when the girl hanged herself. The incident came to light when she returned home and found her daughter hanging. After getting information, a PCR vehicle reached the spot. The victim was shifted to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where doctors declared her brought dead. Sources said the victim was in a relationship with a boy residing in Rajiv Colony, Mauli Jagran. The victim was in depression due to fights between them following which she took the extreme step. The police have initiated inquest proceedings at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-girl-hangs-herself-to-death-95250
06-06-2020||---||2.55 lakh saplings to be planted in City Beautiful||Chandigarh, June 5UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore released the ‘Greening Chandigarh Action Plan 2020-21’, prepared by the Forest Department, UT, on the occasion of World Environment Day today.Under the plan, 2.55 lakh saplings will be planted in 2020-21. The Forest Department will plant 70,000 saplings, Horticulture Wing of the Engineering Department 30,000 saplings and the Municipal Corporation will plant 50,000 saplings, while the remaining saplings will be planted by other stakeholders such as NGOs, schools and RWAs.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said: “Chandigarh takes pride in having preserved about 46 per cent of the total area under the forest and green cover. To increase the green cover in the UT, ‘Greening Chandigarh Action Plan 2019-20’ was prepared for implementation by all greening agencies”.“Due to Covid-19 and the prevailing lockdown conditions, we have realised how the nature has started healing and made us realise how we can contribute in maintaining a balance in nature,” said Dalai.After the event, a ceremonial plantation was conducted by the Forest Department at Nagar Van (City Forest) where saplings were planted by Debendra Dalai, TC Nautiyal, Conservator of Forests, and Dr Abdul Qayum, Deputy Conservator of Forests, along with staff of the Department.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, World Environment Day was celebrated by inviting school students and public online for participation in the poster-making, repurposed art and poetry competitions. As many as 970 students participated in various activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-55-lakh-saplings-to-be-planted-in-city-beautiful-95251
06-06-2020||---||Cops get leads from Kala’s interrogation||Chandigarh, June 5The interrogation of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s accomplice Kulwinder Singh, alias Kala, who was nabbed with 80 cartridges, has given some further leads to the police regarding the assailants involved in the firing at a hotelier’s house in Sector 33.Kala was instrumental in providing assistance to the assailants at the behest of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. He provided shelter to them at a house in Bhago Majra, Mohali.Police sources said some persons had been rounded up. They were being questioned regarding the involvement of the assailants in the incident. Meanwhile, a separate police team is scrutinising dump data to get clues that could lead to the assailants.Around five assailants had opened indiscriminate fire at businessman and brother hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33. At least 17 bullets were fired at the house. The assailants had come looking for Rakesh’s brother Arvind Singla, who is an established liquor contractor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-get-leads-from-kalas-interrogation-95252
06-06-2020||Satinder Pal Singh||Husband held for woman’s murder||Dera Bassi, June 5The Dera Bassi police claimed to have solved the murder case of a 28-year-old woman whose body with bricks tied around her limbs was found floating in a pond at Saidpura village on May 15.The suspect, Jagmohan, who is the husband of the deceased, was arrested from Dera Bassi on Thursday while he was trying to leave the area after collecting his stuff. He was working at a factory in Dera Bassi.Satinder Singh, SHO, Dera Bassi police station, who supervised the investigation, said the couple and their two daughters were living in a rented accommodation at Saidpura village here since long.Preliminary investigations revealed that Jagmohan suspected his wife of having illicit relations with someone else due to which he committed the crime and fled.The SHO said the couple was not on good terms and they used to fight with each other. Jagmohan had killed his wife by hitting her with a cylinder on the head. The suspect then threw her body into the village pond on May 15 and fled with his two daughters to Yamunanagar. The suspect came back to Dera Bassi to collect his belongings leaving his daughters at Pehowa in Haryana.The police nabbed the suspect while he was leaving Dera Bassi. The suspect had confessed to murdering his wife by hitting her with a cylinder on the head and then throwing her body into the pond.The SHO said the suspect would be produced before a court to seek his police remand to interrogate him further.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/husband-held-for-womans-murder-95253
06-06-2020||---||Man booked for abetment to suicide||Patiala, June 5 The police have registered a case of abetment to suicide against a Ghanaur resident after his sister-in-law allegedly jumped into the Bhakra canal. The suspect has been identified as Jagwinder Singh.  The police said as per the complainant, Sukhwinder Singh, who happens to be the brother of the suspect, both their families were involved in a family dispute over land. Sukhwinder told the police that his wife Harjinder Kaur committed suicide as she used to remain tense over the family dispute. Disturbed because of Jagwinder his wife jumped into the Bhakra canal near Sarla Kalan on June 4 and committed suicide, the complainant added.  Later, the woman’s body was recovered from the Sarla head of Bhakra canal. The police have registered a case against Jagwinder Singh under Section 306 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-95255
06-06-2020||Zirakpur||Nagla-Singhpura stretch lying neglected for years||With monsoon round the corner, residents of Zirakpur are hopeful that the rains will bring relief from sweltering heat. However, commuting is likely to become difficult as roads in various parts of the city are eroded. The Nagla-Singhpura stretch is one of the busiest stretches in the city and yet, it has been in a poor condition for the past four years. The stretch has been a source of inconvenience for several residents here and commuters. However, the authorities hardly pay any heed to it. The biggest worry for the residents here is that if the road repair work is not restored before monsoon, they might have to put up with monsoon nightmare, wading through knee-deep water, disruption in daily routines or pothole-ridden roads, this year too. Sunil Jain, a resident, said though they had not been evading taxes, MC officials did not bother to visit the area and check if the basic amenities were being provided to them. Sandeep Tiwari, Executive Officer, Zirakpur MC, said they would look into the matter at the earliest. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nagla-singhpura-stretch-lying-neglected-for-years-95256
06-06-2020||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi varsity VC gets 3-year extension||Tribune News ServicePatiala, June 5While the Chancellor’s office has granted Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor (VC), Dr BS Ghuman, an extension of three years, the senior education administrator’s second term will face major challenges. The university among other matters is facing a financial slump like never before along with pending inquiries into alleged scams committed years ago.The university, facing an acute shortage of funds, is unable to pay salaries on time resulting in every-day protests by employees and pensioners.Short of Rs 150 crore in 2017-18 when Dr Ghuman had taken charge of the VC, its fund shortage doubled to Rs 303 crore in 2019-20 within two years.The university has now resorted to reduction in its expenditure after which its total expected fund shortage currently stands at Rs 291 crore. Its income of Rs 398 crore in 2017-18 has remained nearly stagnant at Rs 382 as per the current year’s budget. The VC has now constituted a committee to look into the financial distress.Inquiry reportsIn what may be termed as a major lapse, the university has failed to bring probe reports related to various alleged scams committed during the tenure of former Vice-Chancellor to a conclusion during the last three years.As many as 16 matters of misappropriation of funds in paper, purchase of fire extinguishers and recruitment on basis of alleged fake SC, BC certificates among other issues are pending since 2017.The university has conducted two internal and external probes ordered in 2017 and 2018 but matters are gathering dust since over a year-and-half after submission of reports.Dr Ghuman said the university would discuss all matters at the upcoming meeting of the Syndicate.AchievementsDespite in doldrums, the university boasts of having signed memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with foreign universities and education hubs during the VC’s first term. It has set up eight disciplinary centres and introduced 25 new courses in the last couple of years.“New patents have been filed and we have become part of major knowledge clusters. Our placement percentage has gone up, which we aim to increase in the coming years,” the VC said.“The university will now focus on courses related to jobs in the market and hands on experience for students. Our main attention will be on learning from the field rather than within the four walls of the university campus,” the VC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-varsity-vc-gets-3-year-extension-95257
06-06-2020||---||Bus facility for students taking Class XII exams||Chandigarh, June 5In order to ensure that students taking the Class XII board exams, which are scheduled to be held between July 1 and July 15, do not face any inconvenience in transportation, the UT Education Department has sought information from all CBSE-affiliated schools so as to provide them with the facility.Transport Director Uma Shanker said, “We haven’t yet received any official intimation as to how many students will be ferried to exam centres on Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) buses. We will see how to ensure social distancing in the seating arrangement.”The CBSE exams will be conducted in respective schools of the candidates instead of examination centres due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The board will allow change in examination centre only if the candidate has shifted or is residing in some other district away from the school.The board said, “It’ll be the school’s responsibility to contact students to know whether they have shifted to some other district and would like to avail of the facility of change in examination centre.”Locate exam centre via appCandidates can check the location of their examination centre with the help of a mobile app, ‘Examination Centre locator of CBSE’, from June 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bus-facility-for-students-taking-class-xii-exams-95258
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Touching idols, physical offerings not allowed in religious places||Chandigarh is all set to open religious places from June 8 following the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Centre. As per the SOPs, touching idols and holy books will not to be allowed. Persons outside the containment zone will only be allowed to visit any religious place or gathering. In view of the potential threat of spread of infection, recorded devotional music may be played and choir or singing groups should not be allowed. Common prayer mats should be avoided and devotees should bring their own prayer mat or piece of cloth. Physical offerings such as ‘prasad’ or sprinkling of holy water are also not allowed inside the religious places. It has been advised that persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 should stay at home. Entrance should have mandatory hand hygiene (sanitiser dispenser) and thermal screening provisions. No persons will be allowed entry without face cover or masks. Specific markings should be made with sufficient distant to manage the queue. There should be a separate entry and exit for the visitors. They should maintain physical distancing of a minimum of 6 feet at all times when queuing up for entry.  Community kitchens or langars at religious places have been advised to follow physical distancing norms while preparing and distributing food. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/touching-idols-physical-offerings-not-allowed-in-religious-places-95259
06-06-2020||---||Non-payment of CHB rent to attract penalty||Chandigarh, June 5 Now, non-payment of monthly rent to the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will attract a penalty of 12 per cent per annum. Under the Chandigarh Small Flat (Amendment) Scheme 2020 notified by the Housing Department if an allottee does not pay monthly rent to the CHB then he/she will be liable to pay a penalty at the rate of 12 per cent per annum on the delayed rent in respect of small flat/dwelling unit allotted under the scheme. With this notification, the department plans to recover nearly Rs 15 crore in rental arrears. Over non-payment of rent, the department had even cancelled allotment to some allottees. Under the Small Flat Scheme, the CHB charges monthly rent of Rs 800, which increases by 20 per cent after every five years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/non-payment-of-chb-rent-to-attract-penalty-95260
06-06-2020||---||Finally, Sector 30-B out of containment zone||Chandigarh, June 5The UT Administration today removed the containment zone tag from Sector 30-B EWS Colony, bringing relief to residents of the area.Read alsoUT Administrator VP Singh Badnore decided to remove the restrictions on the recommendations of the affected area committee. However, he directed the Health Department to continue regular screening and surveillance in the area.Tandon asks Badnore to open Bapu Dham tooChandigarh: BJP national council member Sanjay Tandon on Friday thanked UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore for ridding Sector 30 of the containment zone tag and requested him to remove restrictions from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 too.An elderly woman from the locality had tested positive for Covid-19 after her death on Monday.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said as a matter of caution, families in close proximity to the house of the deceased (all floors in three houses with nearly 31 persons) should be shifted to institutional quarantine centres at the earliest and their houses should be sanitised and kept out of human contact till the time the shifted families were allowed to come back.Meanwhile, residents of Sector 30-B EWS Colony thanked the Administrator for ridding the sector of the containment zone.Area councillor Devinder Singh Babla said the residents got the much-awaited relief as the sector was unsealed after nearly 50 days.He said the residents of the sector went through difficult times. Their condition became miserable with a number of them having been rendered unemployed. Elderly people became sick and most residents were frustrated, he said.Babla requested the Administration to compensate people of Sector 30. Nearly 595 houses were affected after the colony was declared a containment zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-sector-30-b-out-of-containment-zone-95261
06-06-2020||Amit Bathla||Parents fault Haryana move to reopen schools in July, say not safe yet||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 5Though the district Education Department has already taken inputs from stakeholders on reopening of schools in July, several parents and guardians are reluctant to send their children to school due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Bharat, a father of two, said, “In the prevailing situation, it is neither desirable nor feasible to send children to school as they are immature and hardly understand the importance of social distancing and other precautions.”“We won’t send our kids to school even if these reopen in July. It’s a foolish decision to open schools before colleges and universities,” he said.RWAs oppose decisionSeveral residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) held a meeting through video-conferencing on Thursday in which they opposed the decision of reopening of schools.KK Jindal, president of the Sector 20 RWA, said, “We are disgusted at the constitution of a committee by the Haryana Government for considering this complex issue with meagre representation from parents’ associations and ignoring any participation from the Medical Council.”Sanitise schools used as shelter homes“Several government schools are being used as temporary shelter homes to accommodate Covid patients. The authorities should focus on sanitising campuses first,” a guardian said.A senior official of the Education Department said, “Some parents’ associations have raised concerns over the safety of students. They are worried about their transportation as it is yet to be streamlined. They are of the view that only students of Class X to XII should be allowed to attend schools.”Schools seek financial helpAn official said, “Private schools have not received fee from parents and are now asking for financial help for protection against Covid-19.” DEOs had met stakeholders regarding reopening of schools on Thursday. They have been asked to submit a report by June 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-fault-haryana-move-to-reopen-schools-in-july-say-not-safe-yet-95262
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four kids among 7 test positive in Chandigarh||The city reported seven Covid cases on Friday, taking the UT infection tally to 309.A 57-year-old gynaecologist from the Civil Hospital, Sector 22, and resident of Sector 21, is among the fresh cases. The other six cases were reported from Bapu Dham Colony, a Covid hotspot and containment area.A 35-year-old woman and a 40-year-old man, besides four children, aged 3, 10, 10 and 14, tested positive for Covid. They are contacts of already diagnosed Covid cases.Meanwhile, 51 patients admitted to Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, were discharged today. As many as 273 Covid patients in the city have recovered so far. The recovery rate has shot up to 88 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-kids-among-7-test-positive-in-chandigarh-95263
06-06-2020||Panchkula||19-year-old contracts virus in Panchkula||The 19-year-old son of a 52-year-old man from Sector 12-A, who was found positive on June 3, was found infected with the virus today. The number of Covid cases in the district has now reached 28.“The sample test reports of the son and wife (48) of the patient from Sector 12-A have been received. While the boy has tested positive for the virus, the report of the patient’s wife is negative,” said Dr Rajiv Narwal, Covid nodal officer for the district.The teenager has been shifted to an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6. At present, there are two active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-year-old-contracts-virus-in-panchkula-95264
06-06-2020||Mohali||Four more from Mohali infected||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-from-mohali-infected-95265
06-06-2020||Chandigarh||CTU to resume long-route bus service on June 8||To facilitate interstate travel, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) has planned to resume its long-route bus operations from the ISBT-43 on Monday. Preventive measuresOfficial spokesperson said the buses would be operated from point to point (from origin source to destination station only) with only 50 per cent passenger load. No boarding or deboarding of passengers en route would be allowed.Passengers can book their tickets only through online bus reservation management system. “No night bus service is planned as of now,” added the spokesperson.Inspection of vehicles at Sector 42The UT Administration has stated that the inspection/passing of vehicles at the Sports Complex, Sector 42, will be conducted without appointment from Monday. The timings for the same will be 10 am to 4 pm with lunch break from 1 pm to 1.30 pm, till further orders.Driving test for transport vehiclesThe UT Administration has stated that the regular driving test for transport category at the Circus Ground, Mani Majra, will be held every Saturday (except gazetted holiday) without appointment from 9 am to 11 am, till further orders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-to-resume-long-route-bus-service-on-june-8-95266
06-06-2020||---||25% waiver in fixed electricity charges||Chandigarh, June 5The UT Administration today provided the much-needed relief to residential and commercial power consumers in the city.During a meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore decided that 25 per cent of the fixed electricity charges for two and a half months (up to June 15) will be waived for all categories of consumer.In the wake of the losses suffered during the lockdown, industrialists had been demanding a waiver of the fixed charges, which are being charged separately over and above the consumption charges. The fixed charges are Rs200 per kW for power connection above 20 kW and Rs30 per kW for power connection below 20 kW.“The waiver of 25 per cent of the fixed charges for two and a half months is against our demand of 100 per cent waiver for three months,” said Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries.“Though it is little, we welcome the relief,” he added.Manglani said the decision would provide a relief of about Rs3,000 a month for the lockdown period to a small industrial unit having a power connection of 60 kW. Similarly, the relief would be of about Rs6,000 for a 120 kW connection, he added.The fixed charges are nominal for domestic consumers. For a normal household with about 15 kW connection, the relief would be of about Rs100 per month for the lockdown period, said Manglani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-waiver-in-fixed-electricity-charges-95267
06-06-2020||---||Violate Covid norms, be ready to pay fine in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 5Be ready to pay fine for a violation of guidelines issued for prevention and control of the Covid-19 pandemic in the UT.For strict implementation of the guidelines, the UT Administration has decided to impose a penalty of Rs2,000 for violating the home quarantine instructions, Rs500 for spitting at a public place and Rs500 for violating the social distancing norm by the owners of shops or commercial places.For violating the social distancing norm, a fine of Rs3,000 will be imposed on bus owners, Rs2,000 on car owners and Rs500 on the owners of auto-rickshaws and two-wheelers.The non-payment of fine by the violator will attract proceedings under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/violate-covid-norms-be-ready-to-pay-fine-in-chandigarh-95269
