06-07-2020||Mohali||Interim bail of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini extended till July 8||Interim bail of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini was extended till July 8 by a Mohali court on Monday under anticipation of adding murder charges in the previous FIR against him in alleged disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani.Hearing was held in the court of Additional District and Session Judge (ADJ) Sanjay Agnihotri as the court of main Judge Rajnish Garg was not functioning today.On the consent of counsel of defence as well as the prosecution, the case hearing was deferred for two days and the interim bail of former DGP Saini would continue till July 8.It may be mentioned here that upholding the arguments given by special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula, District and Session Judge Rajinder Singh Rai on July 4 had allowed the application seeking transfer of the case from Additional District and Session Judge (ADJ) Monika Goyal’s court and assigned to the court of ADJ Rajnish Garg.The decision on quashing the anticipatory bail under Section 302 of the IPC got by former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini will also come up for hearing in the court of ADJ Rajnish Garg.Sartej Singh Narula, special public persecutor, had argued in the previous hearing that the ADJ’s court has ignored the facts and gravity of the offense while discussing the merits of the case and the interim bail has been granted in a blanket manner. He said the prosecution had been pressing that in the enthusiasm to grant the anticipatory bail to former DGP Saini, the court of ADJ unduly diluted the considerations that were required to imminently be considered. Narula said they will present the statement of eyewitness Gursharan Kaur Mann which she recorded under Section 161 of the CrPC corroborating illegal detention and inhuman torture of Balwant Singh Multani at the hands of Saini while seeking cancelation of interim bail granted in anticipation of involving 320 of the IPC.A four members SIT headed by Superintendent of Police Harmandep Singh Hans (SP-Invst) had been constituted by the Mohali police.Deputy Superintendent of Police Bikramjit Singh Brar (DSP-Invst) and Mataur police station SHO Inspector Rajiv Kumar were the other members of the SIT who were probing the case.An FIR was registered afresh against former DGP Saini at Mataur police station accusing him of abduction of Balwant Singh Multani following the complaint of his brother Palwinder Singh Multani under Sections 364, 201, 330, 344, 219 and 120-B of IPC on May 6, at police station Mataur after which DGP moved court seeking anticipatory bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/interim-bail-of-former-punjab-dgp-sumedh-singh-saini-extended-till-july-8-109375
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports new spike; 21 new coronavirus cases||Chandigarh reported a new surge in coronavirus cases on Monday, with the union territory reporting 21 new cases, the UT Administration’s medical bulletin showed.The development takes the city’s tally to 487, the bulletin showed.Five minors were among the six new cases.  Sixteen of Monday’s 21 cases were contacts of previously diagnosed cases.Three cases were from Daria, all of them family of an already diagnosed case. This includes 15-year-old and 11-year-old girls.One was a 30-year-old healthcare worker who was posted on duty at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research’s COVID ward.A 5-year-old boy and a 61-year-old woman tested positive in Sector 21, also family of an already diagnosed case.Two staffers of Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 tested positive. They were both contacts of a male nurse already been diagnosed with the infection.Four workplace contacts of a previously diagnosed case from Mohali tested positive. A 34-year-old woman from Dadu Majra, a 37-year-old man from Behlana, a 25-year-old man from Sector 20 and a 44-year-old woman from Sector 40 all tested positive.Four family members of an already diagnosed patient from Sector 30 also tested positive. This includes a 55-year-old woman.A 9-year-old boy from Sector 31 tested positive. He was a contact of an already diagnosed case.This apart, the city also reported some new cases---a 67-year-old woman from Sector 37, a 39-year-old woman from Sector 15, a 42-year-old man from Sector 32, and a 64 –year-old man from Khuda Lohra all tested  positive.Chandigarh has so far had six deaths from COVID-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-new-spike-21-new-coronavirus-cases-109366
06-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali Police arrest bookie who hosted fake T20 league matches||Mohali Police on Monday arrested bookie Ravinder Dandiwal on Monday for allegedly hosting fake T20 league games at a village in the district recently to induce people into placing bets.Dandiwal, who is an alleged kingpin of an international tennis match-fixing racket, has been accused of having hosted a cricket match called the UVA T20 League Games at Swara village on June 29.The racket, Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Singh Chahal, allegedly involved Dandiwal using small-time players mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to play at a cricket academy in Swara, a village located about 15 km from Chandigarh.The academy was allegedly booked from June 29 to July 5, 2020 for Rs 33,000. Dandiwal and his associates Rajesh Garg and Pankaj Arora---both of whom were arrested before Dandiwal---had made four teams for the so-called event, which was aired on Youtube, as well as various social media apps such as fancode APP, Diamond, Sky, Lotus, Tenbet, Spin, Punjab Exchange.The so-called league gameswas shown as being held at Sri Lanka, Chahal said.  The aim, he said, was to take bets on the games and earn money.Dandiwal has been sent to police custody for five days. Police remands of Garg and Arora meanwhile, who have been extended by two days.  Chahal said they were still investigating Chahal’s role in the event.Board of Control for Cricket in India, the country’s apex cricketing body, is expected to send its anti-corruption unit to the city to question Dandiwal.Pankaj Arora and some other people have been booked for cheating and criminal conspiracy, among other charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-arrest-bookie-who-hosted-fake-t20-league-matches-109359
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh Police headquarters sealed for two days to carry out sanitisation||The UT police headquarters in Sector 9 was sealed for two days on Monday to carry out sanitation after employees of the UT Education department tested positive for coronavirus.SP Headquarters Manoj Kumar Meena said that since the employees of the police department and education department share the same canteen, which is located in the police headquarters, there was a need to sanitise the building as a precautionary measure.“The building is closed for two days Monday and Tuesday,” he added.The staff has been asked to work from home, however, the police control room will work normally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-police-headquarters-sealed-for-two-days-to-carry-out-sanitisation-109330
06-07-2020||---||Mohali reports upsurge of 15 COVID-19 cases on second consecutive day; tally 318||Mohali, July 6Mohali is witnessing seeing another upsurge in COVID-19 cases as it reported 11 fresh cases on Monday after an upsurge of 15 cases on Sunday.Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjeet Singh said the fresh cases included a 52-year-old woman, 27-year-old man and 26-year-old woman, all from Sector 66 and have travel history to Kanpur; 32-year-old man from Kharar, who is a contact of an already positive patient; 65-year-old man from New Chandigarh and 70-year-old man from Phase 11, both are ILI cases.Other cases include that of 46-year-old man from Sunny Enclave, Kharar; 29-year-old woman from Sector 80, who is a contact of an already positive case; 37-year-old man from Sector 127 (Kharar), who is also a contact of an already positive patient; 35-year-old man from Nayagaon; and 23-year-old woman from Ballomajra.The rest four cases are of 33-year-old man, 20-year-old man, 45-year-old man and 70-year-old man, all are cases from Majat and are contacts of already positive cases.With the addition of 15 new cases, the total caseload in the district has gone up to 318.Meanwhile, five patients were discharged today, said Dr Manjeet Singh.The discharged patients are a 48-year-old woman from Baltana, 20-year-old man from Baltana, 57-year-old woman from Sector 71, 28-year-old man from Mauli Baidwan and 11-year-old girl from Kharar.Of the total cases, 229 have been cured, leaving the district with 84 active cases. The death toll in the district stands at five.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-upsurge-of-15-covid-19-cases-on-second-consecutive-day-tally-318-109328
06-07-2020||Open House||Fill potholes to save commuters from a bumpy ride||Repair bad roads firstThe MC should first repair roads in worst condition as there are still few days for the monsoon to arrive. This work should be done quickly. After the monsoon ends, the MC should repair left out roads that are not in bad condition.Vasundhara Chaudhary, MohaliUndertake repairs of selective stretchesIt is understandable that due to the Covid-19 pandemic and shortage of labourers recarpeting of roads could not be completed. Now is the time not to act strategically, but tactically. Road recarpeting should not be undertaken during the monsoon as the money spent will go waste. However, on selective basis where road condition is bad, recarpeting may be carried out.Hony Fg Offr BS Dhillon (retd), MohaliWork only on sunny daysThe repair of roads has been delayed. It has put commuters to risk especially during night and rainy days. Damaged roads lead to jams, air pollution and adversely affect the life of vehicles. As such, the MCC should do repair work on sunny days. A senior officer must check the quality and volume of work done every day.KC Rana, ChandigarhForm panel to check repair workHeavy rains in the first week of June last year did not teach any lessons to the MC. The MC has no pumps to clear waterlogged roads. The callous approach of the engineering staff multiplies the plight of residents. Contract works awarded for upkeep of facilities during monsoons are given to companies not competent to do the job. The UT Administrator and should form a high-level committee to keep a check on waterlogging and road repairs/recarpeting.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurRainwater will damage surfaceThere is no denying the fact that many roads are crying for repairs. Any effort to carry out road carpeting in a hurry will waste money and efforts as the monsoon will arrive any moment. All roads in the UT are constructed with bitumen. Rainwater is the worst enemy of bitumen as it will rip open repaired surfaces. Wisdom, therefore, lies in carrying out carpeting work after the monsoon is over. Till then, we have to bear with the present roads.SC Luthra, ChandigarhIf not repaired, roads will erode furtherRoads are lifelines and these must be maintained. It will be wise for the Municipal Corporation Chandigarh (MCC) to carry out road repair work even during the monsoon. Already damaged roads would further erode and pose a problem to commuters. Big potholes on roads when filled with rainwater can cause serious road accidents. Badly damaged roads should be repaired first.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar (Retd), MohaliCarry out task with proper planningRepairing/re-carpeting of roads in Chandigarh should be started at the earliest. Otherwise, deplorable conditions of roads will lead to accidents. Now, tasks are to be carried out by planning properly keeping in mind the effects of Covid-19 especially when Unlock phases are being implemented. Monsoon season generally gets prolonged till the September end. Till then the condition of roads will worsen. So, it is a wise move of the Municipal Corporation Chandigarh to start the road repair work. It will save precious lives in the City Beautiful.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhNight hours perfect for repair workKabir’s aphorism ‘Kal kre so aaj kr aaj kre so ab’ will be apt for this situation. Everything has to be done at present. Before the condition of roads in the UT worsens, repairs have to be carried out immediately. Potholes on roads get filled with rainwater during monsoon. It will spread diseases like malaria and dengue. Repair roads in the night as less people commute due to the pandemic during these hours.Ankita Sharma, ChandigarhFollow Met Dept forecastsThere is logic in the practice of undertaking road repair/recarpeting work only before or after the rainy season. On the face of it, there seems no problem in accomplishing this work during a long, dry spell even during this season. But, defining this long is a moot point. Standard engineering practices envisage a dry surface underneath for proper bonding of tar-coarse material-mix itself as well as with existing surface. Liability for erosion causing pits leaves much to be desired as compromises during work are inevitable. Moreover, the exercise after monsoon will take care of damage due to rains and inundation. Unless the meteorological forecasts can ensure a week-long dry spell, the Municipal Corporation should defer major exercise till the monsoon gets over.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaA stitch in time saves nineChandigarh roads full of potholes require immediate attention as any further delay in repair will increase accidents. Bumpy roads can cause spinal injuries too. During the rainy season, commuters are unable to gauge potholes on roads filled with rainwater, which leads to accidents. Waterlogged roads trouble pedestrians too. Road should be repaired/recarpeted on time for the safety of masses.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliUT can’t wait for monsoon to get overAs we all know that the rainy season lasts longer in Chandigarh than any other northern city. So, the road repair work must go on in the UT. Our technology is getting better day by day. The UT Administration could note when the rain is going to stop for a longer period and carry out repair/recarpeting of roads in that duration.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhThe sooner the betterWith the monsoon fast approaching the Municipal Corporation (MC) should complete the repair/recarpeting of roads in the City Beautiful. Continue work and nothing must be left pending till the rainy season ends. The road repair work should be completed during dry spells. A little pothole on road can cause fatal accident. Human life is precious. The MC can work 24X7 during dry spells to finish road repair.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhUse ‘A’ grade material in recarpetingThe road repair work has to be done even during the monsoon season. The main point is that the material used by contractors must be ‘A’ grade. This can be achieved only if civic body officials act tough and don’t compromise with material quality and quantity used in road repair/recarpeting. Senior officials must pay surprise visits at sites to check whether proper road carpeting is done as per the contract. Preferably, the Chandigarh MC should get cemented roads laid. Such roads can be used for longer duration without spending money every year on their maintenance.MR Bhateja, NayagaonCan wait for two more monthsThe Municipal Corporation Chandigarh remains in limelight throughout the year. It has never been able to finish any assigned work on time. Chandigarh roads are in bad condition. The government charges road tax from residents, who own vehicles. What do we get in return? Every time when the question of repair/recarpeting of roads crops up the answer is the MC is short of funds. Now Covid-19 has aggravated the situation. The MC has to make plans to recarpet roads.Gurpreet S Malhotra, ChandigarhGround below base should be dryThough water is the life line of living things, it is the bane of civil constructions. Water seepage and moisture is the root cause of damage to civil engineering works, like houses, roads etc. Recarpeting of roads with already soaked base due to premonsoon showers will be detrimental and carpeting done over it may not hold. Therefore, it would be better to undertake recarpeting work after the monsoon is over and ground below the base has completely dried up. However, dangerous potholes should be filled for the safety of the commuters.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliFind areas prone to waterloggingAt this juncture when monsoon is anticipated shortly, it would not be advisable to carry out work related to recarpeting of roads in the dry spell due to uncertainty about change of weather. Therefore, from the previous experience the MC staff should determine and spot the areas prone to quick waterlogging and clear sewer channels to maintain the proper flow of water. There is no harm in undertaking repair work wherever required during dry days of the season.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliFill potholes to save commutersCity roads are in bad condition. The ongoing monsoon has further increased problems of commuters. Potholes covered with rainwater are causing roads accidents. Commuters are unable to spot potholes, which leads to accidents. Recarpeting of roads should have done before monsoon. But the MC failed. Now, all potholes must be filled to save commuters and pedestrians.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaDriving on city roads is difficultThere’s no doubt that almost all streets and main roads in every sector of Chandigarh are teeming with potholes. People find it difficult to drive vehicles on city roads, which need urgent repairs. The Municipal Corporation should go ahead with recarpeting of roads if there are long dry spells in monsoons.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhAppropriate time for workTime is appropriate to repair roads to streamline traffic and make commuters ride risk free. Roads in the UT are full of potholes. The civic authorities of Chandigarh hardly have interest in getting roads repaired. At night it is risky to drive vehicles on broken roads. The Municipal Corporation Chandigarh should take steps to save lives of the people.Anita Tandon, KhararOnly patchwork during monsoonIt is essential to maintain roads throughout the year. Potholes are fatal for motorists during monsoon. So roads have to be repaired. The Municipal Corporation (MC) should do the patch work on priority basis as carpeting of roads may not sustain during monsoon. It will be wastage of tax payers money. The MC should have utilised the Lockdown period for recarpeting roads as due to absence of vehicles, the work could have been hassle free.Dr Shailja Beniwal, ChandigarhProvide more funds to MCThe MC should have recarpeted road in UT by now. Even patchwork has not been done, which has added to commuters’ problem causing a lot of inconvenience. Potholes appear on roads because of substandard repairs leading to more wear and tear of vehicles and poses risk to lives of motorists during rains. The Administration should provide sufficient funds to the MC for recarpeting roads and ensure defect liability period including maintenance. Inner roads should where volume of vehicular traffic is higher than service roads should be repaired first.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (Retd), ChandigarhA technically wrong moveWithout going into details, we should understand that dry atmosphere is required for quality recarpeting of roads. The monsoon has already arrived. To start recarpeting of roads at this time is not advisable. Some roads are in bad shape and require immediate attention. The MC should select these stretches and do patch work so that such roads are temporarily motorable. The civic body should not start recarpeting as it may result in loss of material and money.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhMake up for the lost man hoursThe MC has to repair roads during monsoon so that we do not suffer like every year. Whatever man-hours lost during the Lockdown have to be made up now. Year after year monsoons have caused havoc as we do not adequately plan for it. The MC authorities have to take stock of sectors, which are prone to waterlogging, clean blocked drains and recarpet roads. Roads have to be repaired promptly so that people are harassed during rains.Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttLot of moisture in air is harmfulRoad carpeting should not be carried out during monsoons as there is lot of moisture in the air. Cracks can appear on roads due to sudden rise in temperature after monsoons. However, cleaning of road gullies should continue even during monsoons. Bitumen carpeting can be done after monsoon for the structural safety of roads and to avoid hairline cracks.Col TBS Bedi (Retd), MohaliWaterlogging can damage repair workThere is no doubt that the lockdown has delayed all work. No one can be fully sure when will it rain. If it rains, the whole repair work will get spoilt. Extra efforts will be required and more resources will be used for carrying out road repairs again. Waterlogging can also damage repaired road. Roads should be recarpeted only after the monsoon.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhEffective planning neededRecarpeting of roads during monsoon is not welcome. It would be wastage of money and material. Instead damaged and leaking drains should be repaired and road gullies, manholes and sewage lines be cleaned. Waterlogged and caved in roads and potholes are death traps for commuters and result in traffic snarls and accidents. Effective planning is needed to tide over crisis during the monsoon.Charu Malhotra, MohaliCity is not ready to face the monsoonRainy season comes and goes every year leaving city residents to suffer. City roads are already in bad condition. Recarpeting should be deferred till the end of monsoon. The authorities wake up from slumber only after untoward incident happens. Road gullies, manholes and sewage lines have to be cleaned before the onset of monsoon. The authorities have to plan effectively to face monsoon.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONWith the monsoon arriving full throttle in the tricity, do you think the Municipal Corporation staff, already stretched to the limit during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, are equipped to handle various rain-related civic and health issues like waterlogging and water-borne diseases?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fill-potholes-to-save-commuters-from-a-bumpy-ride-109035
06-07-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Railways generating refund for online bookings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5With a further halt on some passenger trains till August 12, the Ambala division aims at clearing all due refunds so that new trains and routes can be charted out as and when the global and national situation created by the pandemic improves.A senior official at the division said the division’s freight earnings compensated for the fall in passenger services. During April and May, the Ambala division of the Northern Railways recorded its passenger revenue at Rs4.80 crore. The halt on passenger services during the Lockdown accounts for 95 per cent dip in the division’s passenger earnings this year. Last year, during the same time period, the earnings stood at Rs118.13 crore.The official said: “Trains that have been cancelled till August 12 are the ones that were operational before March 22. Trains have been cancelled so that refund can be generated automatically for those, who booked the tickets online.”In Chandigarh, two passenger trains are operational at the moment, Delhi-Una Jan Shatabdi and Paschim Express. “Nothing has been decided right now. Trains are recording 50 and 60 per cent occupancy, which is quite less,” the official added.“At the moment, Ambala-Ludhiana main trunk route is congested. We want to increase the train speed from 110 kmph to 130 kmph. To give better inputs to the track and its maintenance, we are diverting a few trains through Chandigarh route. When the situation gets better, we will start running trains that give good passenger revenue,” the official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railways-generating-refund-for-online-bookings-109013
06-07-2020||---||Man, wife booked on father’s complaint||Chandigarh, July 5A resident of Sector 35, his wife and in-laws have been booked on the charge of wrongful restraint and criminal intimidation on a complaint filed by his father.According to the police, complainant Jaspal Singh reported that his son Manpreet Singh, Manpreet’s father-in-law Anoop Singh and others moved him and his wife Tarlochan Kaur out of their house on Saturday.A case under Sections 341 (Wrongful restraint), 506 (Criminal intimidation) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the suspects at the Sector 36 police station.The suspect, however, did not allow his parents to enter their house. So, they reportedly kept sitting outside the gate of their house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-wife-booked-on-fathers-complaint-109030
06-07-2020||---||Man booked for stalking cop||Patiala, July 5The police have booked a 45-year-old man for stalking and sexually harassing a woman police officer.The suspect identified as Malkeet Singh, a resident of Swai Singh Wala village in Julkan block of the district, was allegedly asking the police officer to be his girlfriend.He has been booked under Sections 354-A and 354-D of the Indian Penal Code. The woman cop was on way to the police station on a scooter when the suspect allegedly started following her. As soon as the police officer pulled over, the suspect asked for her mobile number and then told her: “Please be my girlfriend.”The suspect fled from the spot after the woman police officer scolded him.The Station House Officer (SHO), Gurmukh Singh, said efforts were on to nab the suspect. The incident took place around 9 am, the SHO added.“The suspect is married and has children. We will arrest him soon,” the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-stalking-cop-109032
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||NSUI takes out cycle rally to protest hike in fuel prices in Chandigarh||The NSUI, Panjab University team, launched a protest against the hike in fuel prices by taking out a cycle rally from Sukhna Lake to Sector 17. The NSUI team, under the leadership of Manoj Lubana, national chairman of the sutudent outfit social media, took out the cycle rally targeting the BJP government for its failure to keep fuel prices in check. Lubana said the sharp increase in the fule prices had broken the back of the common man. The government should roll back the hike, Lubana added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nsui-takes-out-cycle-rally-to-protest-hike-in-fuel-prices-in-chandigarh-109033
06-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Eatery in Chandigarh told to pay Rs 2.5K for levying service charge||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, July 5Levying service charge without the consent of the customer has cost dear to a city-based restaurant, The GT Road, Sector 26. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has directed the restaurant to refund Rs60 as service charge to the consumer and also imposed a penalty of Rs2500 for causing him mental harassment.The forum directed the restaurant to pay the amount within 45 days from the date of receipt of its certified copy, failing which the aforesaid awarded amounts shall carry interest @ 9 per cent per annum from the date of the order till its actual payment.In his complaint before the forum, advocate Vikas Gupta said on July 19, 2019, he, along with his guests, decided to go for a lunch at The GT Road, Sector 26, Chandigarh. After lunch, the restaurant raised the bill for Rs2,579 following which he paid the bill in cash. He then left the restaurant in a hurry without checking the bill. It was only after reaching home, he realised that the restaurant had added 2.5 per cent service charge, which came out to be Rs59.90 on the total bill amount, without his consent.He said later, he requested the restaurant to remove the service charge from the bill as it could not be imposed without the customer’s consent, but they refused to do so.It was averred that service charges were not applicable in Chandigarh and other parts of India and thus, the management was violating the guidelines/rules issued by the Government of India.The order cited the direction issued by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution (Department of Consumer Affairs), which clearly revealed that the bill presented to customers might clearly display that the service charge column of the bill might be left blank for the customer to fill up before making the payment.The order further said despite due notices, the opposite parties did not care to contest the case and, as such, it could be concluded that either they admitted the claim of the complainant or had nothing to say in the matter. Hence, the opposite parties have committed unfair trade practice by charging service charges without the consent/approval of the complainant in the invoice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eatery-in-chandigarh-told-to-pay-rs-2-5k-for-levying-service-charge-109034
06-07-2020||Chandigarh||Maloya youth found hanging in forest area||A 24-year-old Maloya resident reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself in a forest area opposite Snehalaya here today.The victim had left home on Saturday to celebrate his friend’s birthday.Police sources said the victim had called up his elder brother and told him that he was going to commit suicide.The victim’s family informed the police and started searching for him. However, they failed to locate him.The police said a person saw a body hanging this afternoon and informed the police. The victim’s family also reached the spot after getting information.The body has been shifted to a mortuary at the GMSH-16. The victim used to work as a salesman at a showroom in Mohali. He had not gone to work since March 20. The police said no suicide note was recovered from the spot. An investigation had been initiated into the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maloya-youth-found-hanging-in-forest-area-109008
06-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh's Sector 38 Mahila Bhawan not serving its purpose||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5The local MC has failed to carry out women-centric activities at Rani Laxmi Bai Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38-C even after more than five years of its opening.At the bhawan, which was built at a cost of around Rs22 crore, a police counselling centre on crime against women, a gynaecological counselling centre, a women library, an exhibition centre, a gym, a hostel and professional courses were planned.The MC could not run the bhawan as its governing body could not be formed due to an apparent tussle between officers and councillors. It seems a consensus could not be reached on who all will be the members of the body. Of these planned activities, only a women gym could be started in 2017, but it too was shut down in a year despite the fact there were 350 women coming to the gym.Councillor Arun Sood said, “There is no policy of hiring a gym trainer in the MC. It is only if the MC Commissioner wants he can work for six months. I have been constant contact with him to frame a policy, but all in vain.”“The women empowerment centre of this level is nowhere in the country. Just like executive bodies of community centres, its governing body should also be made. But officers concerned did not bother till today while I have been taking up the matter,” said Sood.MC Commissioner KK Yadav did not respond to calls seeking comment. Leader of Opposition in the MC and Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla, said, “The bhawan was opened in our time. We had planned to open a women bank, a hostel for outstation women coming to take examination. A computer, a sewing machine, beauty parlour courses and a music centre were also planned. But due to lack of coordination in the BJP-ruled MC, it could not happen. And now the bhawan is now turning into a ‘khandar’.”“It is a total wastage of money just like community centres, Sector 17 multi-level parking and Sector 16/17 underpass. If it’s a mahila bhawan, why don’t they make 100 local women its member and start running it. At least they will be able to conduct some activities,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, Federation of Sectors Welfare Association of Chandigarh (FOSWAC).Now, some of the bhawan’s area has been converted into an MC office. Some rooms have been rented out to art and cultural institutions. Last week, there was an agenda in the House to give it on rent to three instituions to earn revenue, but it was rejected.“Mahila Bhawan was never built to earn revenue, it was envisioned as a women empowerment centre,” said Babla.Was built for Rs 22 crore||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-sector-38-mahila-bhawan-not-serving-its-purpose-109022
06-07-2020||Naina Mishra||Centre asks Chandigarh to stop mid-day meal from centralised kitchens||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5The Program Approval Board’s (PAB) appraisal note of the Mid-Day Meal (MDM) Scheme of Chandigarh has raised the problem of less utilisation of food by children at government schools as their parents have shown reluctance to food supplied by centralised kitchens in the UT.The Centre stated: “The Chandigarh Administration should discontinue the existing system of food supplied by centralised kitchens. Further, the UT should create a set up in which food is cooked and served in school-based kitchens for better coverage under the MDM Scheme.”As per the analysis of the utilisation of food grains during the first three quarters of 2019-20, the UT had utilised only 46 per cent of the allocated food grains, whereas the consumption should have been at least 75 per cent, as laid down by the Centre.It has been learnt that the parents have been demanding that they will allow their children to have food only when the meal will be cooked in school-based kitchens.Only 51 per cent students at primary level and 42 per cent students at upper primary level consumed mid-day meal. District Education Officer Harbir Anand said, “Parents have been demanding that students should be given food that is freshly prepared in school kitchens. The meals in centralised kitchens are prepared a night in advance as these have to be transported the next morning. We are in the process of constructing new school-based kitchens.”There are three centralised cooking institutes (AIHM-42, CIHM-42 and CITCO 17) and seven school-based cluster kitchens in Chandigarh for distributing meal among around 93,762 students.Action plan for 2020-21Tasting of mealOne or two parents should be present while meals are served to the students, so that they can taste it and their statements should be recorded in the mid-day meal register.Testing of mealsA provision of Rs4 lakh is being made for sample testing of cooked food by three centralised kitchens and seven school-basedcluster kitchens once in a month from the NABL accredited government-approved lab during 2020-21.Non-AC taxi for inspectionThe UT Education Department will hire a non-AC taxi during 2020-21 for inspection of centralised/school-based kitchens. For this, a provision of Rs4.32 lakh is being made, which was presented in the 2020-21 Budget.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-asks-chandigarh-to-stop-mid-day-meal-from-centralised-kitchens-109016
06-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||CAT issues notice to Chandigarh Education Department||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Chandigarh, has issued a notice to the UT Education Department on a petition filed by a lecturer seeking regularisation of service.The applicant, Ravinder Singh Saini, is working as a lecturer (hotel management) at Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 10 since 2002 on a contract basis. He contended that he was seeking regularisation of his services in light of the Supreme Court judgment in the State of Karnataka versus Uma Devi case.This petition assumes significance for UT teachers and lecturers as a lot of them are seeking regularisation. Saini stated in the petition that after completing the four-year degree in hotel management from the Dr BR Ambedkar College of Hotel Management, Bangalore, he joined the school. He was selected as per the recruitment rules existing at that time. The appointment of the applicant in 2002 was made in completely transparent rnanner and it cannot be labeled as a backdoor entry. The applicant is continuing his service uninterruptedly till date at basic salary and DA.Saini’s advocate Dhiraj Chawla contended that the case of the applicant was fully covered by the judgment of the Supreme Court of India in Uma Devi’s case. All states were directed to regularise those who have continuously been working for more than 10 years and were duly qualified to be appointed to sanctioned vacant posts.He also contended that even as per the recruitment rules, 2011, the applicant was eligible for direct appointment/regularisation to the post of vocational lecturer. He said at the age of 45, the applicant is overage for all public appointments and the respondent authorities ought to consider his claim for regularisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cat-issues-notice-to-chandigarh-education-department-109018
06-07-2020||---||Auto driver dies, drug overdose suspected||Chandigarh, July 5A 30-year-old auto driver died due to suspected drug overdose at Dhanas here last night. His friend was also found unconscious.The police said they received information that two persons were lying unconscious in an auto at Dhanas.The police said auto driver Gaga, a resident of Mullanpur, and his friend Manoj, a resident of Dhanas, were found unconscious. They were shifted to the GMSH, Sector 16, in a PCR van. Gaga was declared brought dead at the hospital, while Manoj was discharged after treatment.The police said the victim and his friend took liquor in Sector 17. Later, the duo came to the forest area of Dhanas where they injected drugs. “Gaga was a drug addict. He had returned from a drug rehabilitation centre around three months ago. He was admitted there for nine months,” said a police official.The police said the body had been shifted to a mortuary. The autopsy would be conducted on Monday. Meanwhile, inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Sarangpur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-driver-dies-drug-overdose-suspected-109004
06-07-2020||---||15 more infected of Coronavirus in Mohali||Mohali, July 5In a major surge in Covid-19 cases, 15 persons tested positive for the virus in Mohali district today.As many as 11 persons contracted the virus at Behra village in Dera Bassi sub-division. The infected persons are four men, aged 51, 40, 27, and 24, a boy, aged 17, three women, aged 45, 32 and 28, and three girls, aged 18, 17 and 14. All 11 patients from the village are contacts of already positive cases.A 57-year-old woman from Lalru, a 26-year-old man Dera Bassi, a 36-year-old woman from Phase IV, Mohali, and a 23-year-old man from Kurali were also found infected with the virus.Six patients dischargedFive Covid patients from Kharar and one from Mohali were discharged from the hospital on Sunday.Girl contracts virus in Panchkula’s Sec 17A 16-year-old girl from Indira Colony, Sector 17, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said she was a contact of an infected youth, who had tested positive on July 2.8 patients dischargedEight patients have recovered, taking their cumulative figure to 102. With this, the recovery rate has increased to 84.2 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-more-infected-of-coronavirus-in-mohali-109005
06-07-2020||---||9 violate District Magistrate’s orders, held in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 5Nine persons were arrested by the police for allegedly violating orders of the District Magistrate on July 4. While eight persons were found roaming in the city during restricted hours, one was found roaming without a mask.The police said Vinod and Mohit, residents of EWS Colony, Dhanas, were found roaming at EWS Colony Park near the Sarangpur police station; Raghuwinder Singh and Hanuman Sahu, residents of Mauli Jagran Complex, were found roaming in the Mauli Jagran area; Santosh, a resident of Sector 32, was found roaming near the Sector 32/33 small chowk; Akhileshwar Mahto and Balwinder Singh of Burail village were found roaming in Sector 45; Amit, a resident of New Indira Colony, Mani Majra, was found roaming near the house; and Shiv, a resident of Maloya Colony, was found roaming without a mask near a market at Maloya Colony.They were arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-violate-district-magistrates-orders-held-in-chandigarh-109006
06-07-2020||---||Young Activa rider killed in hit-and-run in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 5In a hit-and-run accident, a 30-year-old youth was killed after the Activa scooter he was riding was hit by an unknown vehicle at the Sector 34/35/43/44 chowk last night.The victim has been identified as Ankush Gupta, a resident of Sector 40. He was returning home from his friend’s house in Sector 20 when the incident took place.The police said a Sector 44 resident, who was out on a walk, saw the victim lying on the road following which he informed the police around 9.45 pm.A PCR vehicle reached the spot and shifted the victim to the GMCH, Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead. The victim was wearing a helmet, which broke that lead to a head injury. “His life could have been saved had he worn an ISI-mark helmet,” said a police official.The police said the victim had a private job, while his father, Anil Gupta, owns a shop at Shastri Market, Sector 22. He is survived by his parents and a sister, who lives abroad.The police have registered a case under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC in this regard at the Sector 36 police station. The police said there were no CCTV cameras near the spot.Helmet was of poor quality: CopA police official said the victim’s helmet was of poor quality, which broke leading to a head injury. They said his life could have been saved had he used an ISI-mark helmet.Marriage proposal was on the cardsPolice sources said a girl’s family was supposed to meet the victim on Sunday with a marriage proposal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/young-activa-rider-killed-in-hit-and-run-in-chandigarh-109007
06-07-2020||Prabhat Katiyar||Commuting a challenge on this road in Zirakpur||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, July 5Tall claims of the Zirakpur Municipal Council of providing motorable roads seem to have fallen flat as potholes and accumulated rainwater on an approach road in Singhpura here have become a nightmare for commuters and residents.The approach road from the Singhpura light point connects several villages and housing societies.The condition of the Nagla road has turned from bad to worse after the rain that lashed the city last night. The road has turned into a virtual pool. It has now become a risky affair for commuters to cross this stretch. Motorists, especially two-wheeler riders, drive with caution to avoid skidding due to the slush on the stretch. Potholes on the road also pose a threat to motorists after the rainwater accumulates here.Alleging apathy on part of officials concerned, residents said: “Whenever it rains, the situation worsens as water accumulates on the road. A large number of motorists commute on this road daily. It becomes difficult to cross this stretch due to slush after every rain.”Sandeep Kumar, a local resident and a commuter, said: “Driving on this stretch has become a Herculean task for us. Motorists, especially two-wheeler riders, are scared of using the road. It gets risky to drive on the muddy road after it rains.”SK Jain, an office-bearer of a society on this road, said: “The authorities should at least repair the broken patches so that rainwater doesn’t accumulate here. The maintenance of the road should be carried out on a priority”.Officials of the Zirakpur Municipal Council could not be contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commuting-a-challenge-on-this-road-in-zirakpur-109020
06-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||There’s hope, money lost on PUBG can be recovered: Experts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5A few days after The Tribune reported how a teenager from Kharar spent Rs 16 lakh on PUBG, it has now been learnt that the amount can be recovered.Yes! Parents can rectify mistakes committed by their children by following a procedure as suggested by cyber experts. According to cyber security consultants, there are 90 per cent chances that the amount may be recovered in 120 days if the payment has been made through Google Play in an “unauthorized” way.The same applies to a direct purchase from PUBG, if details are given to the gaming company.What parents should doIn the case reported by The Tribune, the teenager from Kharar made a direct purchase using his parents’ account. Experts say if parents write a notice to PUBG and provide details to the company (his PUBG ID, card details, transaction dates, payment details, proof that the account belongs to them and not their son), there are high chances that the amount may be refunded as legally, the teenager cannot withdraw from his parents’ account without their consent. “It’s not his account and he used his parents account without their permission. Since he made a direct purchase, it may take time but this is the most effective way to claim back the money. The parents have to write to the PUBG operator/developer, reporting all details as “unauthorised” transactions,” claimed a cyber security consultant, requesting anonymity.Play Store purchase easy to claimAccording to an expert, had the teenager used Google Play Store for purchasing in-app facilities, it would have been easier to claim the money. “If such problems occur with the third party purchase, the amount can be refunded in 120 days subject to terms and conditions. In a majority of the cases, the party holds the amount for a week. If someone raises a claim of “unauthorised” transaction in a certain number of days (as mentioned in the policy), the amount gets refunded on submitting details,” claimed the expert.Will pursue matter, says fatherThe aggrieved father of the teenager claimed that he would pursue the matter as discussed with cyber security experts. “I will surely pursue the matter. Experts have extended help to me and have briefed me about the refund process,” he said.Refund policy“Google does not give refunds for most Google Play purchases. However, there are exceptions. One can also contact the application/game developer directly. The developer can help with purchase issues and can process refunds pursuant to its policies and applicable laws,” as is mentioned by the Google Play help centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theres-hope-money-lost-on-pubg-can-be-recovered-experts-109003
06-07-2020||---||No money for sister’s wedding, migrant worker ends his life||Panchkula, July 5A 25-year-old migrant worker, living in a rented accommodation at Bhagwanpur village in Barwala, reportedly committed suicide yesterday morning.He hanged himself from a ceiling fan using a cloth around 4.30 am, the police said. Hailing from Rampur in Uttar Pradesh, Umesh Kumar was in distress as he could not manage funds for his sister’s marriage.No suicide note was recovered from the spot. He is survived by his wife and four children.The Barwala police post in-charge, Assistant Sub-Inspector Rajbir Singh, said, “The victim went into another room, took alcohol and committed suicide around 4.30 am. Family members told us he was depressed as he could not arrange money for his sister’s marriage, which was to take place on July 29.” His post-mortem examination was conducted today at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here. The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter under Section 174 of the CrPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-money-for-sisters-wedding-migrant-worker-ends-his-life-109009
06-07-2020||---||177 evacuees back from Kuwait||Mohali, July 5An evacuation flight from Kuwait, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 177 passengers landed at the Chandigarh international airport here today. The GoAir flight arrived at 6.30 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines.A Health Department spokesperson said health officials took utmost precaution during the screening and passengers also maintained social distancing.He said no passenger was found suffering from fever, cough, cold, etc., and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus. Health teams deployed at the airport asked the passengers to take precautions such as covering their face with a mask, using hand sanitisers, washing hands and observing social distancing norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/177-evacuees-back-from-kuwait-109010
06-07-2020||---||Mohali teenager spends Rs 2 lakh on PUBG||Mohali, July 5A Mohali-based 15-year-old boy has allegedly spent over Rs2 lakh on playing PUBG (Player Unknown’s Battlegrounds).According to his uncle, the boy started playing the game in January this year. He used to spend his maximum time playing PUBG. The boy was allegedly trained by a senior from his school for making payments through his grandfather’s bank account and attaining expertise in the game.The teenager’s uncle said his nephew had misused the bank account of his grandfather, which was opened for his pension deposits. He made 30 payments in the past two months amounting to Rs55,000. The 15-year-old was making payments through a PayTM account, which he made on his grandfather’s name by using his personal documents.The boy’s uncle, who runs a shop in Chandigarh, said they came to know about this on Friday when they checked the statement of boy’s grandfather’s bank account. After that, the boy agreed to have spent more than Rs 2 lakh on the game. He said he paid the amount to his senior, who is reportedly living in Zirakpur, for purchasing UC (a form of game currency needed to purchase skins of cars and guns).“We came to know that he had also purchased a special SIM card for the game. Earlier, when we used to find some cash missing from our wallets, we did not pay much heed to the boy,” said his uncle.The family has also written a complainant to the Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal through an e-mail about the transactions of Rs55,000 and alleged that their child was being lured by his senior.Dr Nitin Gupta, a psychiatrist, who is counseling the boy, said: “The cases of game and mobile addiction have arisen during the lockdown. Many kids are indulging in solitary activities rather than group activities which is also becoming a cause of mental fatigue. I appeal to the parents that they should supervise their children and involve them in group-based family activities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-teenager-spends-rs-2-lakh-on-pubg-109031
06-07-2020||---||Chandigarh records 46.4 mm of rainfall||Chandigarh, July 5The city recorded 46.4 mm of rainfall in 24 hours, bringing respite to people from the hot weather conditions.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, it rained 46.4 mm in 24 hours from 8.30 am on Saturday till 8.30 am on Sunday. Rain/thundershowers are expected to continue in the city for three days.Due to rain, trees were uprooted at several places in the tricity, while branches of several others fell on roads, causing inconvenience to commuters. There were also reports of waterlogging on several roads and some parking lots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-46-4-mm-of-rainfall-109036
06-07-2020||---||Seven fresh cases of COVID-19 in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 5Seven fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the city today, taking the tally to 466.A 26-year-old woman from Sector 20, who works with the UT Education Department, was among those found infected.Five of a family from Dhanas also tested positive for Covid-19 today. They are three men, aged 22, 26 and 20, a woman, aged 20, and a 1.5-year-old baby boy. They are family contacts of a previously diagnosed case from Dhanas. A 58-year-old man from Sector 21 also contracted the virus. He has seven family contacts. All of them have been quarantined.A 48-year-old doctor at the GMCH-32 also tested positive for coronavirus. The doctor, a resident of Sector 32, is the contact of a male nurse at the hospital. The nurse, a resident of Mohali, had tested positive on Saturday. The 48-year-old doctor is yet to be included in the UT tally.Both nursing officer and the doctor had operated upon a Covid patient, said sources.Sources said seven more employees of the UT Education Department also tested positive today. Of them, four are from Chandigarh, two from Mohali and one from Panchkula. UT officials were yet to include the four city residents in the UT tally.A total of nine employees of the UT Education Department have tested positive till now. Meanwhile, the first floor of the UT Education Department was sealed today. An official order by the Director, School Education, reads: “Due to some suspected Covid-19 cases in the Directorate of Education, UT, office rooms and branches, including the office of the Director, School and Higher Education, situated on the first floor of the Additional Deluxe Building, Sector 9, will remain closed till further orders. During the closure period, staff members will remain at home-quarantined.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-109037
06-07-2020||Zirakpur||Two booked in firing incident||Mystery shrouds youth’s deathChandigarh: A 20-year-old youth of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, was found dead under mysterious circumstances on a bench at the Ramlila ground. The police have ruled out any foul play in the incident. The victim has been identified as Ajay Kumar, a resident of Phase II of the colony. He was found lying unconscious on the bench and rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police said he had left his house on Saturday without informing anyone. The police said the body had been shifted to a mortuary and an investigation initiated into the matter at the Sector 26 police station. TNSPromote students without exam: NSUIChandigarh: The NSUI, Panjab University (PU), submitted a letter to the PU VC requesting promotion of all students to next semester without exams. “On Saturday, the Punjab Government announced to promote students of the state without any exams. Chandigarh should follow in its footsteps,” said NSUI’s Manoj Lubana. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-booked-in-firing-incident-109038
