06-08-2020||Mohali||Three cousins booked for raping 8-year-old girl on Raksha Bandhan day||In a shocking incident, an 8-year-old girl was raped by her three cousin brothers and ironically the incident had occurred on the day of Raksha Bandhan festival when brothers vow to protect their sisters from evil.  The incident came to light when Dr Sangeeta Jund, Project Director Childline 1098 Mohali, today was called for handling the case of an alleged rape of the girl by her three cousin brothers who are stated to be above 20 years of age.  The child confided in her mother, who took her to Ambala Civil Hospital, where the child’s allegation was confirmed. The mother later approached the SHO of Lalru police station.After the medical examination of the girl at Civil Hospital at Dera Bassi, the Lalru police registered a case against the three accused under Section 6 of POCSO Act and relevant sections of the IPC.The police later raided the residence of the three accused and apprehended them. The culprits would be produced in the court tomorrow to seek their police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-cousins-booked-for-raping-8-year-old-girl-on-raksha-bandhan-day-122968
06-08-2020||---||Sunny Enclave MD Bajwa sent to seven-day police remand||Mohali, August 6Jarnail Singh Bajwa, MD of Sunny Enclave, was on Thursday produced in the local court which remanded him to seven-day police custody.The real estate developer was arrested yesterday by the Kharar police in connection with a property-related cheating case registered against him in 2019. A day before yesterday, he was arrested in several cases of cheque bounce, registered in Chandigarh Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum.Kharar DSP Pal Singh said, “Today, the suspect was produced before a court which sent him to seven-day police custody. Now we will interrogate him regarding the case registered against him on the complaint of Jaspreet Singh, a resident of Sector 39, Chandigarh. The suspect had sold the plot of the complainant to a third party by breaking the agreement. The case dates back to November 2, 2019 and registered under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC at the Sadar Kharar police station.”Bajwa’s counsel, Dinesh Kumar Sharma said Jaspreet Singh, an NRI, had purchased a plot costs Rs 34 lakh from Bajwa in Sector 123 here. He had made Rs 27 lakh payment for the same. But due to some registration and possession issues in the property, Bajwa was unable to provide him the same plot. Although, he had offered him another property of the same price, which Jaspreet refused to buy and submitted the complainant to the police, said Bajwa’s counsel.As per the information, Jaspreet had asked Bajwa to return his full amount of Rs 27 lakh but the latter failed to provide the same.Pertinently, Bajwa is accused in several cases of fraud and cheating regarding property, registered in various police stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sunny-enclave-md-bajwa-sent-to-seven-day-police-remand-122958
06-08-2020||---||Chandigarh reports 57 new COVID-19 cases||Chandigarh, August 6Chandigarh on Thursday reported 57 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally in the Union Territory to 1,327. The new cases included three one-year-old boys.The cases surfaced in many areas, including Sector 40, 41, 52, 22, Ramdarbar, Dhanas, Burail, Manimajra and Bapu Dham colony. A total of 777 people have been cured, while the death toll stands at 20.A total of 16,958 samples have been taken for testing and of them, 14,623 tested negative while reports in 81 cases are awaited, it said. There are 539 active cases in the Union Territory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-57-new-covid-19-cases-122933
06-08-2020||Mohali||Highest spike of 68 fresh cases of COVID-19 in Mohali district||The Mohali district witnessed a highest spike of 68 new cases of coronavirus taking the total count to 1,119.Meanwhile, 36 patients have recovered and discharged from the hospital on Thursday.Most of the cases have surfaced from Kharar, Derabassi, Zirakpur, Nayagaon, Mohali and Lalru city.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that all the patients have been admitted to the Covid care centre in Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He said all the patients were responding well to the treatment.As of now there are 1,119 positive cases and out of these 625 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital while there are 477 active cases with 17 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/highest-spike-of-68-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-mohali-district-122910
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh ASI who led a campaign to sensitise people about pandemic tests coronavirus positive||ASI Bhupinder Singh of Chandigarh Police, who has been sensitising people about the pandemic, has tested coronavirus positive.He has been admitted to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.Sources said Bhupinder showed mild symptoms following which his test was conducted on August 3.Bhupinder had carried out an intensive awareness campaign to sensitise people about coronavirus in the city.He has also written a song on coronavirus and had sung it for The Tribune.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-asi-who-led-a-campaign-to-sensitise-people-about-pandemic-tests-coronavirus-positive-122891
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid test: Chandigarh says no prescription needed, private labs insist||Despite tall claims by the government of having ramped up the manufacturing of testing equipment and setting up infrastructure by allowing private laboratories to conduct Covid tests, city residents feel hassled getting themselves tested at these private labs if they do not have a qualified physician’s prescription.What labs sayPrivate labs claim they need a prescription from a medical practitioner in line with the ICMR guidelines despite the UT Administration having asked them not to seek a prescription.Private labs claim they need a prescription from a medical practitioner in line with the ICMR guidelines despite the UT Administration having asked them not to seek a prescription. The UT Administration today reiterated its orders saying, “Private labs approved by the ICMR and located in Chandigarh are allowed corona testing through the RT-PCR test without a prescription from a medical practitioner on a payment basis.”Shivam Sakhuja, a city resident, while sharing his experience of Covid testing at a private lab, says, “The Administration claims no prescription is required, but the private lab denied testing without a prescription. I had chosen the private lab thinking it would take less time as it is risky to wait for long hours in a government health facility with infected people all around.”Similarly, a resident of Sector 29 faced problems when a private hospital, which sampled his mother for Covid, did not prescribe the Covid test for the immediate family contacts and neither intimated the IDSP cell of the UT about the positive case. “I couldn’t get myself tested in a private lab as I did not have the prescription. I then visited a government facility and got myself tested,” he said.Three private laboratories – SRL Diagnostic Laboratory, Atulaya Healthcare and Metropolis Healthcare – all in Sector 11, are conducting Covid tests in Chandigarh.While Atulaya Healthcare is providing the Covid 19 test by three methods — RT PCR for Rs2,000 per test, antibody on chemiluminescence immunoassay (CLIA) for Rs999 per test and antigen on rapid card for Rs1,500 per test, SRL Diagnostic Laboratory and Metropolis Healthcare is at present conducting only the RT-PCR test.Pankaj Kansil, director, Atulaya Healthcare, said, “We started Covid testing on June 10 and have done approximately 1,500 tests so far.We have already ramped up our capacity to 180 tests per day and will further increase to 500 tests per day by end of this month. We are testing as per the guidelines set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). We have gone a step further and are collecting samples in the Lysis medium containing tubes as the virus becomes inactive immediately after transferring the sample into the tube. This additional precaution neutralises the virus as soon as we take the sample, eliminating the risk of infection to our doctors, technicians and other staff.”Arvind Kampani, assistant general manager of Metropolis Healthcare, said, “We are only taking samples from Mohali private hospitals, which are primarily pre-surgical or before delivery. The samples are sent to Delhiand the reports are received the next day. We don’t have a sample collection kiosk in Chandigarh. We are only conducting the RT-PCR test for now. We will soon apply for home collection of Covid-19 samples in Chandigarh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-test-chandigarh-says-no-prescription-needed-private-labs-insist-122619
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration fixes rates for private hospitals||The UT Administration today fixed the treatment charges for Covid patients at private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics.As per the protocol established by the Administration, the rates for private hospital beds would be all inclusive as a package. The package would include the cost of medical care of underlying comorbid conditions, including supportive care, and cost of medication for the duration of care for Covid.However, drugs such as tocilizumab or remdesvir are excluded from the package and will be charged as per the MRP. It has been clarified that these drugs will be given to patients after an expert review.Though the charges for medical care of comorbidities will be part of the package, emergency interventions required for comorbid conditions such as CAS would be charged extra. This would include short-term haemodialysis (one dialysis) as part of acute care during the current admissions.The charges will not include the cost of the Covid-19 diagnostic test.For pregnant women, the cost of delivery and care of newborn would be charged by the hospital extra as per the prevailing rates of relevant packages. Besides, major surgical procedures done on the patients during stay in the hospital will be charged extra.The Administration has clarified that the charges for plasma therapy “beyond the ICMR study” will be discussed later as per the government guidelines.Also, patients with mild disease who do not want to go for home isolation or government Covid care centres may opt for health facilities on a payment basis which may not be a hospital but improvised isolation facilities created in hospital or non-hospital premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-fixes-rates-for-private-hospitals-122673
06-08-2020||Dera Bassi||Rape accused flees custody||A man accused of raping a 16-year-old neighbour fled from police custody at the Civil Hospital here today.The suspect, Ajay Kumar, was arrested on Tuesday night. He was produced in a court today and remanded in three-day police custody.Later, the police took him to the Civil Hospital around 2.15 pm for a medical examination. However, the suspect gave the cops a slip.The suspect had been violating the girl for a long time. The matter came to light when she was found six-month pregnant. Ajay worked with the victim’s father in a private company. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rape-accused-flees-custody-122696
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||SIT to probe child trafficking racket||The UT police today constituted an SIT to probe the child trafficking racket busted recently.The SIT will be headed by the ASP (South) and has two Inspectors (SHOs of police stations in Sector 36 and 31), three Sub-Inspectors and an ASI as the members.Infant ill, Suspects told his motherCops today visited Malerkotla and traced the parents of a two-day-old boy recovered from the suspects. Their statements have been recorded by the police.Meanwhile, the role of the Sector 40 family from whom an 11-day-old girl was recovered is being verified. The girl was sold to the couple by the suspects around a week ago.Police sources said the childless couple claimed that one of the suspects, Bhawna, a resident of Burail, had approached them and revealed that she was a newborn girl’s aunt. “The couple had mentioned that Bhawna told them that her sister is already a mother of few girls and cannot afford another girl child following which they are willing to give it to a family that needs one,” the police sources added.The police said the couple claimed that they demanded that they wanted to meet the child’s parents and wanted to take all necessary steps for child adoption. The couple’s claims were being verified, the police added.The UT police had nabbed Amarjit Singh (29), a Punjab Police constable and resident of Kharar, Mandeep Singh (35) of Jalaldiwal village in Ludhiana, ASHA workers Kuldeep Kaur (32) of Patiala and Sarabjit Kaur (40) of Sangrur, and Bhawna (32) of Burail, Chandigarh, on August 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sit-to-probe-child-trafficking-racket-122725
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Biggest spike, 64 more +ve in Chandigarh||The city today reported 64 fresh cases of Covid. The biggest single-day spike so far took the UT tally to 1,270. Around 42 per cent of the total cases are active.The new cases include 21 persons whose rapid antigen test reports came positive. The city’s positivity rate is 8.1 per cent.The fresh cases have surfaced in Sector 52, 40, 24, 42, 43, 47, 41, 46, 34, 39, 28, 45 and 30, GMCH-32, Dhanas, Burail, Hallo Majra, Khuda Lahora, PGI, Raipur Khurd, Kajheri, Bapu Dham Colony and Dadu Majra. Among the new contacts four are employees of the PGI and a Haryana Civil Secretariat staffer.As many as 16 persons contracted the infection from their family members and nine from their workplace.A total of 715 patients have recovered from the diseases so far while 20 succumbed to it in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biggest-spike-64-more-ve-in-chandigarh-122736
06-08-2020||Mohali||In biggest surge, Mohali tally up 62||The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said all patients had been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He said the patients were responding well to the treatment. Most of the cases had surfaced in Kharar, Dera Bassi, Zirakpur, Nayagaon and Mohali, he said. The district has so far witnessed 1,051 positive cases. There are now 445 active cases. Seventeen Covid deaths have been reported from the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-biggest-surge-mohali-tally-up-62-122737
06-08-2020||Panchkula||26 new cases in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/26-new-cases-in-panchkula-122738
06-08-2020||Panchkula||Survivors’ low immunity hits plasma therapy||Plasma therapy, which is used to treat Covid-19 patients, is facing hurdles in the district with many recovered patients not having neutralising antibodies in their blood, which are required to fight the deadly virus. The same is the case with those found positive through sero survey.A sero test is a blood test conducted to find whether the examinee was ever infected with SARS-CoV-2 and has developed antibodies against the virus. Over 40 persons have been found positive in the district so far through the sero survey.CMO Jasjeet Kaur said, “This is very early phase. The screened patients did not have the required antibodies due to which they cannot donate plasma. Currently, we call recovered patients individually. Soon, we will decide on how to reach them in a collective manner so as to convince them for screening to donate plasma.”She said, “It has been found that patients with symptoms have higher immunity level. We relatively have 70 to 80 per cent of asymptomatic patients in the district.” Till date, only four cured patients with adequate immunity levels have donated their plasma to the blood bank at the Civil Hospital. A 45-year-old man of Rajiv Colony was the first donor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/survivors-low-immunity-hits-plasma-therapy-122739
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Court refuses to take cognisance of offence||Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, has refused to take cognisance of the offence against suspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur in a three-year-old bribery case as the sanction for prosecution of the proposed accused has been declined by the DIG of UT Police, the competent authority in the matter.While rejecting the complainant’s application, the CBI court, in its order passed today, made clear that the CBI or the complainant has the liberty to move the appropriate authority/ superior court against the final order dated August 3, 2020, of the DIG.The complainant, Prem Singh Bisht, had moved an application before the court praying for taking the cognisance of the offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act against Inspector Jaswinder Kaur as the competent authority had failed to submit its final order on sanction for prosecution of the proposed accused within three months of the CBI court order dated February 13 this year.The case pertains to October 2017 when the CBI arrested Sub-Inspector Mohan Singh while accepting a bribe of Rs2 lakh from Bisht at the Sector 31 market after Bisht made a complaint to the agency.Bisht had alleged that Sub-Inspector Mohan Singh was the investigating officer in an attempt-to-murder case and was demanding Rs9 lakh to drop the names of three of his employees from the FIR.Bisht had alleged that Inspector Jaswinder Kaur had directed him to fulfil Mohan Singh’s demandfailing which the complainant and his employees would be harassed and chargesheeted in the case.The complainant has submitted that the DIG of the UT police did not consider and discuss the findings of this court given in the February 13 order regarding consideration of the sanction for prosecution of Inspector Jaswinder Kaur.CBI Public Prosecutor KP Singh submitted that while granting or declining the sanction for prosecution, the competent authority had to see whether prima facie there was sufficient material for granting the sanction. It was not the authority’s duty to see whether there was sufficient material for conviction or acquittal of the said accused at the stage of granting or declining the sanction for prosecution, the Public Prosecutor added.After hearing the submissions of the Public Prosecutor, the complainant and the District Attorney, the CBI court ordered that it could not take cognisance of the offence against the proposed accused, Jaswinder Kaur, as the sanction for her prosecution had been declined by the DIG of the UT police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-refuses-to-take-cognisance-of-offence-122741
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Finally, Chandigarh RLA registers multi-coloured car||The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) today passed the multi-coloured Ambassador car and issued a registration number.Advocate Ranjit Malhotra had purchased the vehicle in July 2019 from a counsellor of the European Union, posted in New Delhi. The vehicle was delivered to him in Chandigarh in August 2019. The artwork on the vehicle was done by renowned Mexican artist Senkoe.However, the UT authorities had declined the registration number on the grounds that the colour of the vehicle had been changed from white to “multi-colour”. Malhotra then approached the High Court seeking directions that his 2009-model car be given a registration number. The HC ruled that the authorities could not decline to register a vehicle merely for the reason that there was artwork on its body, and directed the UT to register the multi-coloured Ambassador Grand Harit-C-1800.Malhotra said he received a call from the RLA yesterday to get his car registered. The car had been passed and the registration number issued, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/finally-chandigarh-rla-registers-multi-coloured-car-122742
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Scanty footfall, membership issues — Slow start for gym owners in Chandigarh||Though many city gyms resumed their services today, the business remained slow. The Covid-19 scare among fitness enthusiasts kept them either indoors or in parks and other open spaces. Consequently, gyms witnessed scanty footfall. Even those who visited these exercising hubs haggled endlessly for their membership fee lost to the four months of lockdown as gyms remained shut. Most gyms chose to remain shut today, including Burn Gym and Body Zone in northern city sectors, Suprama Fitness, Sector 35, and Fitness First and Ozi Gym and Spa in Sector 37.Akash Rana, owner of Octane Fitness, a gym in Sector 32, said, “Before the pandemic, I would get about 50-60 enquiries for membership and this place was jam-packed, but not more than three people visited today.” Rana had opened the gym in September 2019 and just one month before the lockdown, he had branched out to Sector 15. “Most people are asking us to extend their membership to compensate for the four-month shutdown, but we have been paying the rents and other commercial bills. It’s quite a rough start,” he adds.Things are no different at Akahara Gym in Sector 33. Gym trainer Pradeep Singh said that before the lockdown, more than 70 people visited the gym. “Now, because of the guidelines, we have restricted the batch to 10 people, but only three people have come today. Most of them want their membership dues settled,” he said. For now, he said, the gym might consider extending the time period of people’s membership by four months despite losses to encourage them to visit the gym.In Sector 15, Manoj Verma, owner of Fitness World, said: “Old members are coming, but the business is slow. We have had only 12 people here since morning.” He added, “Maybe, we will have to struggle for two more months, but things will get better.” For membership issues, he too is looking at extending the time period lost to lockdown by 50 per cent on the condition that members take a new membership.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scanty-footfall-membership-issues-%E2%80%94-slow-start-for-gym-owners-in-chandigarh-122744
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||High Court raps Panjab University for trying to curb freedom of speech||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has rapped Panjab University for trying to curb the freedom of speech and expression of an “uncomfortable Senator”, who often questioned the authorities.The rap by Justice Fateh Deep Singh came on a petition against the university and other respondents by Munish Pal Singh, alias Munish Verma, through counsel Pankaj Jain. He was seeking quashing of an order dated December 20, 2019, whereby his name was removed from the register of graduates.The PU submitted that the petitioner was guilty of misconduct in the process of holding annual examinations for 2014. He committed a lapse and thereby, tarnished the university’s image.Jain contended the action against the petitioner could be attributed to his activism. He had blown the whistle regarding certain important issues pertaining to the university and its budget. Describing it as the primary cause of his victimisation, Jain contended the petitioner gave a dissenting note on the university budget for 2015-2016 in the Senate on March 29, 2015. It was accompanied by a complaint to the university Chancellor. He, in turn, had ordered an inquiry.Jain added the process was nothing but a sinister design woven by the authorities to ensure that “the action against the petitioner was of such nature so as to resist his election to the Senate in future”.Referring to the petitioner’s whistleblower stand, Justice Fateh Deep Singh observed it was never satisfactorily refuted in the pleadings of the respondents that he was an uncomfortable Senator, who often questioned the authorities keeping in view the larger interests of the university. The inquiry was initiated on his stand by the Chancellor and was still pending. As such, it was nothing but a device brought about with “this sole purpose”.Alluding to transcriptions prepared by the petitioner from a DVD obtained under the RTI Act, Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted the court examined the dialogue during the meeting between various persons, including the Vice-Chancellor.The Bench asserted: “Rather what ensues of this unrebutted document is that the authorities were in undue haste to accomplish their designs to ensure that the petitioner is thrown out of the Senate by all ways and means. What one can concur is that the respondent authorities perturbed over the conduct of the petitioner are trying to curb freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19 to the petitioner”.An annexure was reflective how the Vice-Chancellor was trying to curtail the members individually from participating in a meeting. It eroded the sanctity of “concurrence” for the removal of registered graduates, making it an empty formality.A dialogue attributed to the Vice-Chancellor to a query posed by a professor was illustrative of how the questions by Senate members were turned down obviously due to the power wielded by the Vice-Chancellor, the Bench asserted while holding illegal the order wherein the respondents removed the petitioner’s name from the register.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-raps-panjab-university-for-trying-to-curb-freedom-of-speech-122745
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandra Jyoti from Mohali bags 28th rank||Mohali resident Chandra Jyoti Singh (22) made the tricity proud by securing an All-India rank (AIR) of 28 in the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) exams, the results of which were announced yesterday.Chandra Jyoti is a history (Honours) graduate from St Stephen’s College, New Delhi. She cleared the civil services exam in her first attempt itself.She studied for six to eight hours regularly and up to 10 hours before exams. Becoming a civil servant has been her childhood dream, she shares. Sharing her examination strategy, she said she would make short notes and flow charts for revision. Chandra Jyoti said: “I knew I wanted to clear this exam since childhood and had clear goals. I was not demoralised when I scored low marks in mock tests. I did not go to any coaching institute and relied on self-study.” Her father is a doctor and mother is homemaker. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandra-jyoti-from-mohali-bags-28th-rank-122746
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University nod to promotion of pupils to next class||The Panjab University has finalised the conditions for promoting the students, except for exit classes, as per the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines.In an order passed today evening, the PU announced promoting all students registered at teaching departments/constituent colleges/regional centres/affiliated colleges intermediate classes to the next semester/class.However, the decision for exit class examinations has been put on hold.As per the order, the respective institutions should make sure that all such candidates have filled and submitted their examination forms/fee for May 2020 semester examination. The admission to all those promoted students to the next class will be provisional — to be regularised on the fulfillment of all conditions.The provisional promotion will be based on the fulfilment of conditions.The order stated: “If any student is found ineligible till May 2020, his/her promotions will stand cancelled. The promoted students will have an option to appear in the examination to improve their grades. The modalities/criteria to award marks/grade for May 2020 will be uploaded on the university website.”Evaluation processAfter the provisional promotion, students will be evaluated on the basis of 50 per cent performance of average of all previous semesters and 50 per cent internal evaluation of current semester (assessment already submitted on the basis of MST, attendance, extracurricular activities, projects, field studies, assignments and others). The same policy will be applicable for students with reappear in an exam.Extra chanceIt has been proposed to give a ‘special chance’ to the students having a reappear/reappears in the ongoing undergraduate and postgraduate courses. The matter has been submitted for the final approval of the VC. “We have received many queries regarding students worried about submitting fee for reappears/reappear and admission to the next class. It’s decided that an additional chance will be given to students. Our motive is to help students,” said Navdeep Goyal, chairman, PU Co-coordination committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-nod-to-promotion-of-pupils-to-next-class-122748
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||‘Non-functioning of regular courts not a ground for interim bail’||Stating that the non-functioning of regular courts on account of Covid-19 does not make an accused entitled to be released on interim bail, the court of Special Judge Sanjiv Joshi rejected the bail application of a woman, who was arrested with heroin.Nirmala of Dadu Majra Complex has been in the custody since 2018 after she was arrested with 200-gm heroin and other drugs by the police. The counsel for the petitioner argued that he wanted to examine some witnesses, but due to the non-functioning of regular courts, the accused is unable to adduce her evidence. It has been further submitted that the accused is the only bread earner of her family — two children and an ailing mother.He further submitted that the accused be granted benefit of interim bail during the period of non-functioning of the courts and after the regular courts reopen, the accused shall surrender in the court.Public prosecutor opposed the application and said her bail application was also dismissed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court.After hearing the rival contentions and perusing the file, the court stated that the petitioner was not entitled to the benefit of interim bail as she was caught with 200-gm heroin and injections of buprenorphine and pheniramine maleate.The petitioner has been chargesheeted under Sections 21 and 22 of the NDPS Act. The present case is fixed for defence evidence but due to the non-functioning of the regular courts, the same could not be recorded. “Since bail application moved by the accused was dismissed by the High Court, this court does not find it appropriate to release her on interim bail on account of non-functioning of the regular courts,” stated the judge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/non-functioning-of-regular-courts-not-a-ground-for-interim-bail-122749
06-08-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||SDM among 14 test Covid +ve in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib SDM Sanjeev Kumar is among 14 persons who tested positive for Covid today.Panic gripped the district as the SDM came in contact with the Deputy Commissioner (DC), SSP, SPs, MLA Kuljit Nagra, Bassi Pathana MLA Gurpreet Singh GP, MP Amar Singh, the Civil Surgeon and other district officials during a function held in Civil Hospital yesterday.Panic grips districtPanic gripped the district as the SDM came in contact with the Deputy Commissioner, SSP, SPs, MLA Kuljit Nagra, Bassi Pathana MLA Gurpreet Singh GP, MP Amar Singh, the Civil Surgeon and other district officials during a function held in Civil Hospital on Tuesday.After the news broke out, some of the officials left their offices and quarantined themselves and postponed all their engagements. The MLAs and MP are under home quarantine.The DC urged people to strictly follow the guidelines to defeat Covid.Civil Surgeon NK Aggarwal said he had also been quarantined. He said there was no immediate need for officials to undergo testing as the peak level of virus was reported on the fifth day.The district tally stands at 416. The Civil Surgeon said 18,819 samples had been collected till today and 416 reported positive. He said that 292 had been cured and discharged from the hospital and there were 121 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sdm-among-14-test-covid-ve-in-fatehgarh-sahib-122751
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Class XI admissions: Chance for pupils with discrepancies in forms||The UT Education Department has revised the admission schedule after receipt of admission forms with discrepancies and objections.“During the ongoing online admission process to Class XI at government senior secondary schools, many forms have been received with discrepancies and objections, which need to be removed before the display of the common merit list,” reads a letter issued by the Education Department.The scheduleThe students with discrepancies and objections are now being given a chance to correct these. In case the objection is not removed by the candidate, the case will be considered the way it is in the case of absence of documents.A list of students along with objections will be uploaded on the website on August 7. The students will be required to remove the discrepancies and upload the documents by August 9. The common merit list will be displayed on August 14 and the final list indicating the allotment of schools and streams shall be displayed on August 20. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/class-xi-admissions-chance-for-pupils-with-discrepancies-in-forms-122752
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Youth held with heroin||Registration slots: DC writes to govtMohali: Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said a waiting period of 7 to 8 days was prevalent in the matters of property registration. ‘’Hence, we are writing to the state government for increasing the registration slots for each sub-registrar. To regulate the influx of people into the sub-registrar offices, we want working hours extended from 8 am to 6 pm. We are also exploring the feasibility of holding a revenue lok adalat at the village level.’’ TNSPowercom staff on HUNGER strikeMohali: Members of the Powercom and Transco Contract Employees’ Union on Wednesday went on a hunger strike in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s Office and Assistant Labor Commissioner’s office in Sector 76 here. Only five leaders were seen staging a protest. State president Balihar Singh, circle president Manjinder Singh, Jaspal Singh and Kuldeep Singh said the Powercom CHB contract workers were performing emergency duties during the pandemic, but they were being laid off. TNS26K apply for PU coursesChandigarh: A total of 26,067 applications have been received by Panjab University for admission to various undergraduate and postgraduate courses till date. As many as 12,071 applications have been received for undergraduate courses, while 13,996 have applied for postgraduate courses. In all, 3,107 have submitted both their forms and fee in the undergraduate category, while 3,317 submissions were made in the postgraduate category. In the undergraduate category, 3,975 submitted forms, while in the postgraduate category, the total number of forms submitted is 4,029. TNS39,850 apply to city collegesChandigarh: A total of 39,850 applications have been received by the Directorate of Higher Education (DHE), UT, for online admission to local colleges for both centralised and non-centralised courses. A total of 21,559 applications have been received for non-centralised courses and 18,291 for centralised courses. As many as 6,765 applications have been received for BCom, followed by 3,524 for BBA, 2,233 for BCA, 1,728 for BSc (non-medical) and 1,140 for BSc (medical). As many as 12038 applications have been received for BA in four government colleges. Due to the late declaration of results by the National Institute of Open Schooling Board, the DHE extended the last date to apply for both centralised and non-centralised courses till August 7 (2 pm). TNSGold chain snatchedMohali: Two masked men allegedly snatched a gold chain from a woman in the residential area of Phase 3B1 on Wednesday morning. The victim, Japjeet Kaur, was taking a morning walk with one of her neighbours when the incident took place. The miscreants came on a black motorcycle. One of them followed the victim and snatched her chain. A bystander, Aditya Mahajan, tried to nab the miscreants twice, but they escaped. Sub-Inspector Amandeep Singh said: “The incident took place around 7.25 am in front of house number 199 in the locality. The police are scrutinising the footage of CCTV cameras installed near the crime spot.” A case has been registered. TNSTheft at Dadu Majra houseChandigarh: Cash and jewellery worth several lakhs were stolen from a house at Dadu Majra village. According to the police, complainant Angad Kumar Gupta reported that an unknown person entered his house after breaking open the locks and stole Rs46,000, two gold mangalsutras, two pair of earrings, two silver anklets, two gold rings, two silver ornaments, a mobile phone and documents. The police have registered a case at the Maloya police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-with-heroin-122755
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||‘Set up panel to study facilities at hospitals’||Keeping in view the rising number of Covid-19 cases, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed that a committee of medical experts should be constituted to study the existing facilities in the three major medical institutions and also recommend methods to enhance Covid-19 treatment.Keep watch on open-air eating placesVP Singh Badnore also directed KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, and Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner, to keep a watch on open-air eating places and dhabas, which could lead to Covid infection, if due care is not taken by diners.‘Follow guidelines or face closure’On opening of gymnasiums and yoga institutions, Badnore directed that the guidelines notified for gymnasiums and yoga institutions should be strictly followed. “Any violation will invite closure of the unit,” he said.During a review meeting, UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that testing of samples had been substantially increased with the introduction of rapid antigen testing. “All arrangements are in place to accommodate mild, moderate and critical cases at various centres,” he said.Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, stated that rapid antigen testing had been started for the first time in the UT.“Out of 220 samples collected from various dispensaries, 21 have been found positive,” he said.He also mentioned that from July 31 to August 4, the medical survey team had covered screening of 7,989 persons and all symptomatic cases had been sent for testing. They had tested 1,392 persons who reached the city by trains and buses.The Administrator directed Finance Secretary AK Sinha to urgently hold a meeting of all officials concerned to finalise the congested markets that should follow odd-even formula and such shopping areas that needed to be totally closed for social distancing.The DC stated that they had already issued 10,000 challans for violation of social distancing norms and not wearing mask.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/set-up-panel-to-study-facilities-at-hospitals-122757
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Elderly man’s second autopsy at PGI today||The UT police have decided to get second autopsy of the elderly man done, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances in Sector 10 here.DSP (Central) Ram Gopal said they had decided to go for second autopsy to clarify certain things. The first autopsy was conducted by a board of doctors at the GMSH, Sector 16. Meanwhile, the second autopsy will be conducted at the PGI on Thursday.The police said the viscera samples had also been sent to the CFSL, Sector 36.The victim, Amrit Singh Thapar of Delhi, had arrived with his wife to stay with his son at his house in Sector 10. He was found dead in the washroom of the house on August 2. The police had earlier claimed that the victim had hanged himself with the help of his turban in the washroom.However, a suspicion was raised that there might be some foul play behind his death, following which further investigation was initiated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-mans-second-autopsy-at-pgi-today-122759
06-08-2020||Mohali||Now, Sunny Enclave MD Jarnail Singh Bajwa held in property fraud case||Jarnail Singh Bajwa, MD of Sunny Enclave, was today again arrested by the Kharar police in connection with a property-related cheating case registered against him in 2019.Bajwa was arrested seven months after being declared a proclaimed offender in several cheque-bounce cases registered in the consumer court in Chandigarh. The court had issued non-bailable warrants against him for the same.Bajwa was today produced before a Chandigarh court, which refused to grant him bail.Kharar DSP Pal Singh said: “He was arrested yesterday in connection with cheque-bounce cases in Chandigarh. Today, we arrested him in a case under Section 420 of the IPC registered at the Sadar Kharar police station in 2019. The suspect is in our custody. He will be produced before a Kharar court tomorrow.”Bajwa’s advocate Dinesh Kumar Sharma said: “We disposed of 11 cases today after making full payment before the consumer court. Partial payment of over 30 cases was also done. Payments in few cases are yet to be done and he will get bail only after that. Due to financial crunch during Covid-19, payments to people could not be done. Now, we are trying to sort out all cases within next four to five days. Bajwa’s intention is honest and he is responsible for the payments.”Dinesh said there were a total of 58 cases registered against Bajwa amounting to more than Rs5 crore in the consumer court. He was produced before the court in this regard.According to information, the court has set a condition before him to make at least 50 per cent payments in each case to get bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-sunny-enclave-md-jarnail-singh-bajwa-held-in-property-fraud-case-122760
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||PCR vehicle windowpane broken, 2 held||Two persons, including a juvenile, have been apprehended for breaking a windowpane of a PCR and detering cops from performing their duty at Mauli Jagran.According to the police, Poonam, a constable posted in the PCR wing, reported that she, along with PCR driver Ashok Kumar, was on patrolling at Charan Singh Colony, Mauli Jagran, on August 4 when two boys threw a brick at the vehicle following which the rear windowpane was broken.The suspects then escaped from the spot.A case under Sections 332, 353, 427 and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station.Later, two suspects — Akash (22), alias Sumit, a resident of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula, and a 16-year-old boy — were apprehended. The boy has been sent to the Juvenile Home while Akash will be produced in court tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pcr-vehicle-windowpane-broken-2-held-122761
06-08-2020||Ambala||Woman duped of Rs2.50L, 1 booked in Ambala||The police have registered a case against a person for duping a woman of Rs2.50 lakh on the pretext of providing a job to her son in the Railway Police.In her complaint to the police, Mahindro Devi of Naraingarh alleged that Narender Singh Fauji, a resident of Ambala, who works in the Army, came in her contact in October 2018. He told her that he had arranged jobs for several boys in the Railway Police as he was in the Army and several senior Railway Police officials were in his contact.Narender assured that he could get a job arranged for her son, Randhir, too. He had sought Rs5 lakh for the job. Of this, Rs2.50 lakh was given in advance while the remaining amount was to be given after getting job.The complainant alleged that she gave Rs2.50 lakh to Narender and his uncle Mamchand. They assured her that they would soon get a job arranged for her son. After they failed to arrange the job, a panchayat was held in June 2019 in which the suspects gave a cheque for Rs2 lakh and assured to return the remaining amount of Rs50,000 in August. When the cheque was produced in a bank, it got dishonoured. Later, they refused to repay the money.A case has been registered under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC. SHO Naraingarh Arvind Kumar said: “A case has been registered on the woman’s complaint and investigations have been started. We will check whether the suspect works in the Army or not.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-duped-of-rs2-50l-1-booked-in-ambala-122762
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Vigilance forwards complaint to DGP||A complaint received by the UT Vigilance Department over alleged irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits during the initial days of the Covid pandemic has been forwarded to the UT DGP for appropriate action.In the complaint, it was alleged that PPE kits purchased between April 4 and May 20 were purchased at unreasonable prices.According to the complaint, documents procured from the Police Department had revealed that 850 PPE kits, along with 500 N-95 masks, were purchased at a cost of Rs6.70 lakh from three firms.While 280 kits were purchased from M/s Medicare Distributors, Hisar, at Rs2.23 lakh, 370 kits at a cost of Rs2.36 lakh from M/s Nimrit International, Ludhiana, and 200 kits and 500 N-95 masks from M/s Vashist Pharma in Maloya, Chandigarh, at Rs2.63 lakh.Meanwhile, the Police Department had also purchased 3,000 PPE kits from another firm through government e-marketplace (GeM) at a cost of Rs6.96 lakh. The complainant has demanded a probe in the purchases made by the Police Purchase Committee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vigilance-forwards-complaint-to-dgp-122763
06-08-2020||Panchkula||Social distancing norms go for a toss at event in Panchkula||Office-bearers and workers of the district unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) forgot to maintain social distancing while celebrating the groundbreaking ceremony of Ram Temple in Ayodhya by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during an event held at the district BJP headquarters in Sector 2 here today.State BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar, Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Union Minister of State Rattan Lal Kataria were among prominent dignitaries present on the occasion.Even several persons, including former Kalka MLA and BJP leader Latika Sharma, were seen without a face mask in violation of the Covid-19 protocol.A ‘havan’ ceremony was also organised to mark the historic event. Party leaders and workers also witnessed live “bhoomi pujan” ceremony from Ayodhya on a television in a packed hall on the first floor of the party office.This incidentally came at a time when coronavirus is spreading at a fast pace across Panchkula. The district has so far witnessed 763 positive cases. Three people have died due to the disease in the district.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing the nation, had earlier stressed the importance of social distancing to prevent the spread of Covid-19. However, the party leaders seemed to be flouting the guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-distancing-norms-go-for-a-toss-at-event-in-panchkula-122764
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP distributes 30-quintal laddoos||The local unit of the BJP today performed a ‘havan’ to commemorate the “bhoomi pujan” ceremony of Ram temple in Ayodhya.“Finally, the time for that all of us have been waiting for the past nearly 500 years has come. Now, a grand temple of Lord Rama will be built in Ayodhya. After the ‘bhoomi pujan’, there is an atmosphere of festival in the country as well as abroad. People have lit temples and their houses with lamps,” said Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood here today.On this occasion, the BJP also illuminated its office with lights.The ‘havan’ was organised at the party office, ‘Kamalam’, this morning and was broadcast live through Webex.Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, VK Sharma, Neha, Pawan and Radheshyam Garg from Brahma Kumari Samaj, Edmin Gill and Rajeev Mashi from Christ Church, Akali Dal (Badal) president Hardeep Singh and Sanjay Tandon were among others present on the occasion.As soon as Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for Ram Temple, nearly 30 quintals of laddoos were distributed. Apart from this, a community kitchen was also organised at the party office.Sood expressed gratitude to all people and said they were fortunate enough to witness the construction of this temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-distributes-30-quintal-laddoos-122765
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Dedicated dialysis facility for Covid patients at GMCH-32||The UT Administration has started a dedicated dialysis facility for Covid-19 patients at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.According to an official, the city has around 250 patients who require maintenance dialysis on a routine basis. Of these patients, around 80 per cent go to private hospitals for their maintenance dialysis.The rationale behind the decision earmarking the facility was that dialysis patients face reluctance from private hospitals after contracting Covid infection.The GMCH-32 has 10 dialysis machines and one such machine has been earmarked to an independent room for Covid-19 patients who will also require dialysis.The Administrator directed the Principal Secretary, Health, to start dedicated dialysis facility for Covid patients, who require regular dialysis. This will reduce burden on the PGI. Covid patients requiring regular dialysis may contact the Director Principal, GMCH-32.Dr BS Chavan, Director-Cum-Principal, GMCH-32, said earlier they used to refer such patients to the PGI. Since the PGI was already crowded, the facility had been started here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dedicated-dialysis-facility-for-covid-patients-at-gmch-32-122767
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||Accept digital documents, Chandigarh Adviser asks all departments||With an aim to reduce requirement of seeking physical documents from citizens for availing of various public services, UT Adviser Manoj Parida has asked all departments and boards and corporation under the UT Administration to adopt and implement DigiLocker platform.“All departments will be issuing certificates to citizens through DigiLocker. The departments have also been asked to accept digital documents issued by other government entities through DigiLocker,” he said.With the issuance of the order, documents issued on the DigiLocker platform will be treated on a par with physical copies and accepted by all. This is in line with the provisions of the IT Act, 2000, and further rules issued by the Ministry of Electronics and IT in 2016 and 2017 regarding Digital Locker.DigiLocker is a flagship initiative of the Ministry of Electronics and IT, Government of India, under the Digital India programme. It is a secure cloud-based platform to access documents and certificates issued by an authority and to verify the same in a digital way, thus eliminating the use of physical documents. At present, DigiLocker has more than four crore registered users across the country and provides access to whooping 3.79 billion documents.At present, certain certificates issued by the DC office are available through DigiLocker. The UT Administrator had last month launched e-Challan facility. Integration with DigiLocker has also been done whereby citizens can show driving licence and RC through DigiLocker mobile app to traffic personnel.Citizens can easily register on DigiLocker through mobile app or web portal and have access to key documents such as Aadhaar card, driving licence, PAN record, EPF UAN card and other documents of various Central Ministries and state governments. CBSE marksheets can also be accessed through the platform. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accept-digital-documents-chandigarh-adviser-asks-all-departments-122768
06-08-2020||Chandigarh||CHB’s proposed policy for PG accommodations opposed||Opposing the proposed policy of the Chandigarh Housing Board for paying guest accommodations, a social activist said it was overriding the earlier provisions notified by the UT Administration.In a letter to the Adviser to the Administrator, RK Garg said: “There is a duly notified PG policy of the Chandigarh Administration, which is applicable in the entire UT. Hence, making another policy on the same subject will create legal complications also.”As such, the CHB might be directed to drop this draft and bring its all properties under the existing notified PG policy of the Administration, he said.Meanwhile, the City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations suggested that the CHB should increase the validity period of registration to two years from one year as mentioned in the draft policy, keeping in view the general academic sessions of educational and coaching institutions.The Forum said the Board should also waive the condition of mandatory stay of the PG owner on the premises.Charges for utilities such as water and electricity could be same as applicable to hostels under educational institutions, which are generally lower than commercial rates but higher than domestic rates, said the Forum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chbs-proposed-policy-for-pg-accommodations-opposed-122770
