06-01-2021||Chandigarh||78 new COVID-19 cases, 1 more death recorded in Chandigarh in a day||The tally of COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh increased to 20,104 on Wednesday with 78 more people contracting the viral infection, while the death toll reached 323 with another person succumbing to the disease, according to a medical bulletin.The Union Territory currently has 256 active cases, it stated.(Click here for the latest developments on Covid-19 epidemic)As many as 61 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 19,525, the bulletin stated.A total of 1,87,897 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing so far and of them, 1,66,855 were negative while reports of 110 samples were awaited. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/78-new-covid-19-cases-1-more-death-recorded-in-chandigarh-in-a-day-194640
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Four birds found dead at Sukhna Lake, surrounding areas in Chandigarh||Amid a bird flu scare, four birds were found dead at Sukhna Lake and its surrounding areas here, officials said on Wednesday.The Chandigarh Forest and Wildlife Department said it is checking whether they are any more casualties of the birds.Of the four birds found dead included a common coot and a mormont, which are migratory birds, and a pigeon and an egret, an official of the department said.He said the department was maintaining an extra vigil at Sukhna Lake and its surrounding areas in view of the bird flu scare.No case of bird flu has been reported in Chandigarh so far, the official added.“The samples of the birds have been sent to RDDL (Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory) Jalandhar for diagnostic investigation,” said Abdul Qayum, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Chandigarh.It may take three days for the report to come, he added.The Centre on Wednesday said Avian Influenza, or the bird flu outbreak, has been reported at 12 epicentres in four states—Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh—and advisories have been issued to contain further spread of the infection in poultry ducks, crows and migratory birds.In a statement, the Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said other states have been asked to keep a vigil on any unusual mortality amongst birds. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-birds-found-dead-at-sukhna-lake-surrounding-areas-in-chandigarh-194594
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Rains lash Punjab, Haryana; Chandigarh records 13.6 degrees Celsius||The minimum temperatures stayed above normal levels in Punjab and Haryana on Wednesday following rains in both the states.Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, recorded its low at 13.6 degrees Celsius, eight degrees above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said here.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their respective minimums at 11.9, 11.8 and 13.2 degrees Celsius, up to six degrees above normal.Minimum temperatures of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 13.2, 12.8, 7.2 and 13.2 degrees Celsius respectively.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala recorded their respective minimums at 12, 11.7 and 13.5 degrees Celsius, up to nine degrees above normal.The minimum temperatures of Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur settled at 10.4, 9.6, 10.5, 12 and 12.4 degrees Celsius respectively.Among places which witnessed rains in the past 24 hours included Chandigarh (3.4 mm), Ambala (8.3 mm), Hisar (7.6 mm), Karnal (25.8 mm), Bhiwani (11.3 mm), Sirsa (8 mm), Amritsar (12.9 mm), Ludhiana (3.7 mm), Patiala (5.1 mm), Adampur ( 6 mm) and Gurdaspur (5.9 mm). — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rains-lash-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-records-13-6-degrees-celsius-194532
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Bar Council of India decides to scrap one-year LLM course||As the Bar Council of India (BCI) decided to scrap the one-year LLM course, introduced in 2013, Panjab University (PU) is now looking towards some drastic changes.As per notification issued by BCI Legal Education (Post Graduate, Doctoral, Executive, Vocational, Clinical and other Continuing Education) Rules, 2020, the postgraduate course—Master's degree (LLM) has to be of two years (completed in four semesters).The course (LLM) is offered at PU’s Department of Law and University Institute of Legal Studies and Regional Centre, Ludhiana.In what could be a major setback, PU was planning to introduce the same course through correspondence mode, starting this year. However, after this notification, PU has to abide by the new rules which would further lead to delay in developments.As per the notification, “A Master Degree Program in Law of one-year duration introduced in India in 2013(as per notification) by the University Grants Commission shall remain operative and valid until the Academic Session in which these Regulations are notified and implemented but not thereafter at any University throughout the country.”-LLB compulsory for further admissionThe notification also made a compulsory to have a three-year or five-year LLB will for taking admission to LLM course. “As per the Rules, a Master's degree in any specialized branch of Law offered in the Open System to any graduate, such as Business Law or Human Right, or International Trade Law without having LLB/BA LLB as the requisite entry-level qualification shall not be designated as LLM.-Limited seats, revenue setback for PUPU used to conduct entrance test for filling seats under LLM courses, which helped the institution generate revenue. Even the number of seats was limited, subjected to increase or decrease as per requirement after approval of PU senate and syndicate. However, after the introduction of these rules, a common entrance test will be conducted to fill-in limited seats.“Admission to LLM will be through Post Graduate Common Entrance Test in Law (PGCETL) to be conducted by the BCI. Until the PGCETL is introduced the present system followed by respective Universities shall be followed. After introduction, it (PGCETL) shall be mandatory to admit the students from the merit list of the Test,” stated the notification. It further added, “LLM degree obtained from a Foreign University, which has been prosecuted without an equivalent LLB degree shall not be equivalent to Indian LLM degree. One-year LLM obtained from any foreign University will not be considered equivalent to Indian LLM degree. However, one-year LLM degree obtained after an equivalent LLB degree from any highly accredited foreign university may entitle the person concerned to be appointed as a visiting professor in an Indian University for at least one year to consider such one-year LL.M. degree with one-year teaching experience as a Visiting Faculty/internee faculty/clinical faculty the Master degree obtained on one year term may be considered equivalent.”-No dissertation submission to Assistant Professors, maintain teacher: student ratioThe notification also directs that the dissertation should be now submitted to superior ranks of Assistant Professors. “The institution should also have a dedicated core faculty of not less than 10 of whom minimum 4 should be Professors/Associate Professors.” It has been also asked to maintain student: teacher ratio. “The conditions to be satisfied to offer an LLM course including student-teacher ratio not exceeding 1:10 and maximum student strength of 20 in each branch of specialization subject to maximum of 50 students’ overall in the LLM program of the institution.”The BCI will introduce two professional efficiency enhancement continuing education courses only for Advocates who are enrolled with any State Bar Council. The rules will come into force from the date notified by the BCI.-Promoting students to adopt teaching?Experts believe the changes announced may help law graduates to adopt the teaching profession in a very phased manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bar-council-of-india-decides-to-scrap-one-year-llm-course-194517
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||NSS volunteers distribute masks||DBU holds online programmeChandigarh: Desh Bhagat University's student branch and the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers organised an online programme on "Implementing Lean Approaches: Administering Transfiguration Risks" in collaboration with IEEE SPAX of the US. Er SS Bhatia, managing director, The JAVS Mohali, shared his views on "Quality of Life Cycles". Dr Adil Usman, Associate Member of MP-IDSA, Ministry of Defence, shared the various IEEE opportunities available for student branches. Dr Zora Singh, Chancellor, DBU, talked about the importance of lean principles. TNSBalwinder made SGFI joint secyChandigarh: The School Games Federation of India (SGFI) has appointed Balwinder Singh, Sports Officer, District Education Officer (DEO), Chandigarh, its new joint secretary. He has been elected unanimously by the nominated representatives of all affiliated states/UTs/units of the elective council body of the SGFI. TNSSharma Chd Khel Bharti chiefChandigarh: Khel Bharti (Kreerda Bharti) has appointed Trideep Sharma president of Khel Bharti Chandigarh. He is at present practising law at the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Sharma is a professional taekwondo and tennis player. He has won a number of medals in senior state championships. TNSChandigarh Chess AssociationChandigarh: Dr Vipnesh Bhardwaj, honorary secretary, Chandigarh Chess Association, has been elected vice-president of the All-India Chess Federation for the term 2021-23. The elections were held on January 4. The office-bearers of the Chandigarh Chess Association and its members congratulated Bhardwaj. The representatives from 32 state associations participated in these online elections. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nss-volunteers-distribute-masks-194461
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Burglars strike at two houses||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/burglars-strike-at-two-houses-194460
06-01-2021||---||Rs 3-lakh scholarship given to student||Ropar, January 5The Saini Charitable Education Trust here has provided LR Mundra scholarship of Rs 3 lakh to Sarvesh Saini, who is doing PhD in Robotics from the IIT, Roorkie.Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri handed over a cheque to Saini at a function held at Saini Bhawan here on Monday.A blood donation camp was also organised where 57 units of blood were collected.On the occasion, a quarterly magazine, 'Saini Sansar', was also released.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-3-lakh-scholarship-given-to-student-194455
06-01-2021||---||Date sheet, norms out for exams starting on Jan 15||Chandigarh, January 5Panjab University has issued guidelines/instructions for the students appearing for the online examinations starting from January 15 for re-appear, professional courses, deficient subjects, environment education and intermediate semesters the results of which were cancelled. The instructions have been released and uploaded on the university website, said Prof Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examinations, Panjab University.Students can access these instructions at the notice board:https://exams.puchd.ac.in/show-noticeboard.phpand date-sheet at :https://exams.puchd.ac.in/datesheet.php.The students appearing for the re-appear examinations are advised to download their admit card from the university’s UG and PG websites, i.e. ugexam.puchd.ac.in and pgexam.puchd.ac.in, respectively, after successful submission of forms from January 5. The examinations will be held in two sessions, as per allotment, from 9.30 am to 12.30 pm and from 1.30 pm to 4.30 pm.The question papers will be activated at 9.10 am and 1.10 pm, respectively. Undergraduate students can use 36 A4 size sheets and postgraduate students can use 40 A4 size sheets. Only one side of the sheet should be used for writing the answers.The answer sheets will not be accepted through e-mail. Students appearing in the morning slot are required to send the hard copy of their answer sheets at the designated address before 3 pm on the same day of examination.The first page of the answer sheet must be the photocopy of the admit card. The answer sheet should be stapled/tied in the serial order and must have the page number written on each page. Students appearing in the evening slot should upload their answer sheets within next one hour of completion of the paper at the link provided on the website.A PDF of the answer sheet is to be created with admit card as the first page and other pages should be arranged in the serial order. Page number should be written on each page. A hard copy of the answer sheet along with a photocopy of the admit card is required to be posted at the designated address on the next working day within two hours of opening of the post office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/date-sheet-norms-out-for-exams-starting-on-jan-15-194454
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||PEC launches 1-week course||A one-week short-term course on micro-manufacturing started at Punjab Engineering College (PEC) in collaboration with the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Patna, today. The event is an initiative by the mechanical engineering department to celebrate 100 years of PEC.The inaugural session was held virtually. The session was attended by the Director (PEC), Head of Department (HOD) of Mechanical Engineering (PEC), HOD of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering (PEC), HOD of Mechanical Engineering (NIT-Patna) and the faculty members of both institutes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-launches-1-week-course-194452
06-01-2021||Mohali||Registration must for bodies providing housing to kids||The registration of all government and non-government organisations operating in the town providing housing facilities to children in the district has been made mandatory under Section 41, subsection (1), of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.District Child Security Officer Navpreet Kaur said such organisations had to register as per the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act.Navpreet Kaur said in order to get organisations registered, the documents should be submitted by January 15 to the District Child Protection Office at the district administrative complex.A sentence of up to one year or a fine of Rs 1 lakh or both can be imposed if any organisation fails to register, she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/registration-must-for-bodies-providing-housing-to-kids-194451
06-01-2021||---||Work on new bus stand in Patiala gets underway||Patiala, January 5Construction of the new Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) bus stand on the Rajpura road started with “bhumi pujan” here today.After attending the “bhumi pujan”, PRTC Chairman KK Sharma said the construction of state-of-the-art bus stand would be completed within the stipulated period of 15 months.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had laid the foundation stone of the Rs 60.97-crore project in October last year.Modern facilitiesSharma said the new bus stand would have a total constructed area of 1,48,513 square feet, including a basement for 44 four-wheelers and 526 two-wheelers, 23 shops and showrooms. Besides, it would have a waiting lounge, two food courts, one locker room, two dormitories and four elevators. A workshop is also being constructed there.The premises will also house an administrative block, a cash and bill branch, record room, workshop, fuel pump and a washing station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-on-new-bus-stand-in-patiala-gets-underway-194450
06-01-2021||Panchkula||32 test +ve, no death in Panchkula||As many as 32 fresh Covid cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours.However, no death was reported from the district till Tuesday evening.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said of the 32 positive cases, one case each was reported from Morni and Sector 7, two each from Kalka, MDC-5, Sector 2, 19, 20 and 25, three from Sector 8, seven from Sector 21 and four each from Pinjore and Sector 6. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/32-test-ve-no-death-in-panchkula-194442
06-01-2021||Mohali||One fatality, 36 cases in Mohali||One more Covid fatality was reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 348. It also saw 36 fresh cases, taking the tally to 18,411, while 58 more patients were cured of the disease. Among the fresh cases, 35 were reported from Mohali (urban) and one from Dhakoli. Of the 18,411 positive cases reported from the district, 17,132 patients have been cured. There are now 931 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-fatality-36-cases-in-mohali-194441
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 41 cases, one death||With 41 fresh cases of Covid-19, the UT has crossed the 20,000 infection mark to reach a tally of 20,026. One more death was reported, taking the toll to 322.A 45-year-old woman from Maloya died at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. A total of 116 more patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours, taking the tally of recovered patients to 19,464. There are now 240 active cases in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-41-cases-one-death-194440
06-01-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Jalandhar lab collects 80 bird samples from Barwala||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 5A team of Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, visited poultry farms in the Barwala area and collected 80 samples of birds to confirm the presence of avian influenza or bird flu.Confirming the same, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the team reached the Barwala area for re-sampling of birds and collected 80 samples. He said there were no confirmed reports of avian influenza yet. The chicken could have died due to Ranikhet or infectious laryngotracheitis.Department issues advisoryMukesh Kumar Ahuja said as per information, over 1.25 lakh birds had died in the past 10 days. They were awaiting report from the Jalandhar lab. They could say anything on the disease after receiving the report.Meanwhile the Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department, Haryana, has issued an advisory regarding poultry and poultry products.An official spokesperson for the department said as per the advisory, poultry and poultry products should be cooked at 70°C and consumed as usual with no fear of acquiring infection with avian influenza virus.He said before consuming poultry, consumers should ensure that all parts of the poultry were fully cooked (no “pink” parts) and eggs, too, were properly cooked (no “runny” yolks).He said four lakh poultry birds died in the past 10 days in 20 poultry farms with epicentres near Garhi Kutaha and the other near Jaloli village in the Barwala area in Panchkula district. There were a total of 77,87,450 birds in poultry farms in Panchkula district and the mortality of birds was 4,09,970.The spokesperson said during food preparation, raw poultry and poultry products should never be allowed to mix with items eaten raw. Moreover, when handling raw poultry or raw poultry products, persons involved in food preparation should wash their hands thoroughly and clean and disinfect surfaces in contact with poultry products. Soap and hot water were sufficient for this purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jalandhar-lab-collects-80-bird-samples-from-barwala-194255
06-01-2021||Naina Mishra
||Doctors warn against indiscriminate use of CT scan among Covid patients||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, January 5 Doctors from the PGI have warned against the indiscriminate use of chest computed tomography (CT) scan on Covid-19 patients and indicated when to use CT scan in these patients by medical professionals. According to the doctors, CT scan is particularly useful for those Covid-19 patients who show a sudden and unexplained clinical deterioration or are unresponsive to treatment. Among recovered patients, CT scan may be used on those who are on follow-up or show hypoxia/functional lung impairment. CT chest is needed to differentiate the sequel of Covid infection (lung fibrosis) from other causes. An article published in the IJMR, which is the official journal of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), aims at removing the ambiguity regarding the use of CT scan of the chest in Covid and to stop its misuse. Dr Mandeep Garg, a chest radiologist at the PGI, Chandigarh, is the lead author, who took initiative to compile a joint study from the leading medical institutes of India. Other co-authors are Dr Ashu Bhalla, AIIMS, New Delhi, Dr Aparna from the CMC, Vellore, and Dr Nidhi, Dr Inderpaul Sehgal, Dr Uma, Dr Vikas Suri, Dr Ritesh, Dr Narayana, Dr GD Puri and Dr MS Sandhu from the PGI. “CT scan of chest is an invaluable diagnostic tool in Covid-19 as lungs are the most commonly involved organs. In the beginning of the pandemic, there was a lot of confusion and fear associated with the disease. During that time, due to lack of any clear-cut guidelines, CT scan of chest was exploited indiscriminately and its rampant misuse is continuing even today. CT scan of chest needs to be done only in specific clinical situations and every Covid patient does not need CT scan,” said Dr Garg. “I get several CT scans for review every day, most of which are not needed in the very first place. So, I feel it’s an absolute misuse of resources and waste of man hours. Through the present review, we have defined the indications of CT scan in a manner that is practical, understandable and easy to put to practice,” adds Dr Garg. “We have been adhering to these guidelines while doing CT scan in Covid patients at the PGI, Chandigarh. It is important to understand that CT scan doesn’t change the management in a majority of the patients and is useful only in specific scenarios,” said Dr MS Sandhu, head of radiodiagnosis at the PGI. Chest CT scan may also be considered in those Covid patients who are at an increased risk for disease progression.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctors-warn-against-indiscriminate-use-of-ct-scan-among-covid-patients-194256
06-01-2021||---||Journey of several trains cut short||Chandigarh, January 5The Ambala division of the Northern Railways has issued a circular stating that due to farmers’ protests in Punjab, journey of several trains has been cut short.Plying over Chandigarh station earlier, the journey of train number 02715 Nanded-Amritsar Express JCO will be short terminated in New Delhi on Wednesday. Consequently, the 02716 Amritsar-Nanded Express JCO, which will leave on January 8, will short originate from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi.Train number 02925 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Express Special JCO starting on Wednesday will be diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar.The 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Express Special JCO will be diverted to run via Amritsar- Tarn Taran-Beas.The 04650 Amritsar-Jaynagar Express Special JCO will be diverted to run via Amritsar- Tarn Taran-Beas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/journey-of-several-trains-cut-short-194257
06-01-2021||
||Fired computer teachers await dues||Chandigarh, January 5 The salary for four months of at least 150 computers teachers, who were fired from various government schools in October, has been pending till date. This is the scenario despite the directions of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) to the UT Education Department for releasing the claims of the computers instructors. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, School Education, said the matter was subjudice in the court. On October 22, CAT directed the UT Education Department to consider the claims of “relieved” computer teachers for releasing their salary. The CAT was told that computer teachers working in government schools till September had not been paid salary since June. The computer teachers were selected in 2008 by a UT agency, ‘Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC)’. The problem started after the work was given to a private company through Gem portal instead of the SPIC this year. The computer teachers alleged that the private contractor was demanding money from them. As per their complaints, the new contractor was adopting illegal methods to extract money by demanding Rs12,000 from teachers. A 35-year-old male teacher said: “I had to withdraw my fixed deposit money to pay my son’s fee. Many teachers have taken a loan to carry out their daily expenses. We are left jobless after the department fired us for taking a stand against corruption. We want the Education Department to release our salaries and take strict action against the contractor.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fired-computer-teachers-await-dues-194258
06-01-2021||---||Sessions on meditation, asanas mark Day 2||Chandigarh, January 5The Day 2 of the ongoing workshop on yoga - “The Scientific Way of Living” - was attended by BK Anita, senior rajyoga teacher and centre in-charge of Global Peace House, Sector 15.The workshop is being organised by the Government College of Yoga Education & Health, Sector 23, in collaboration with Film Studies UIFVA & UITTR, Chandigarh University, Gharuan.BK Anita spoke about the seven energies that are necessary for leading a blissful life. She stressed that meditation is the key for the journey in words, a journey of self-discovery and re-discovery. This was followed by a practical session on meditation by BK Preeti.A session on basics of shatkarmas (trataka) was conducted by Sarghi Kohli, in which she explained the theoretical and practical aspects of trataka. It was followed by a session on yogic ways of healthy living by Dr Mohinder Kumar. He explained the yogic ways through which one can lead a disease-free life.A practical session on advance asanas and pranayama was conducted by Roshan Lal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sessions-on-meditation-asanas-mark-day-2-194259
06-01-2021||
||Aryan, Aditya to clash for tennis title||Chandigarh, January 5 Aryan Thakur will face Aditya Chauhan in the boys’ U-18 title clash on the concluding day of the Roots-AITA Challenge Series (III) U-18 National Ranking Tennis Championship in Zirakpur tomorrow. In the semi-finals played today, Thakur overpowered Aryan Arora 9-5, while Chauhan ousted Karan Shandilya 9-2. Earlier, in quarterfinals, Thakur defeated Upnishad Bharadwaj 8-5 and Chauhan overpowered Lakshya Gupta 8-2. Arora stunned top seed Sartha Gandhi 8-6 and Shandilya defeated Agnivesh Bharadwaj 8-2 before making their way to the semis. In the girls’ U-18 semis, top seed Aditi Singh easily registered a 9-3 win over Radha Sadhra, whereas Riya Kaushik upset second seed Radhika Vasudeva by logging a closely contested 9-8(7) victory. Aditi made her way to the semis by defeating Mehakpreet Kaur without conceding a single game 8-0 and Riya defeated Khushleen Kaur 8-3. Radha defeated Vanya Arora 8-7(5) and Radhika ousted Sidhak Kaur 8-2 in other quarterfinal matches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aryan-aditya-to-clash-for-tennis-title-194260
06-01-2021||Chandigarh||Avik bags two gold, silver||Avik Bhatia, 12, who hails from Nawanshahr, has won two gold medals and a silver medal at the Junior National Equestrian Championship at Army and Polo Riding Club New Delhi. He was also declared as the ‘Best Rider’ in his category.During the events, Bhatia emerged as the best rider from Punjab. Earlier, he had secured both first and second positions in the ‘Show Jumping’ and won a gold as well as a bronze title in ‘Dressage’ in Rajasthan.It was followed by a gold medal in the ‘Individual’ category at the AGL, New Delhi. He continued his winnings by bagging a gold in ‘Jumping’ as well as ‘Dressage’ at the GSE, New Delhi. In merely a span of three months, he has won more than 10 gold medals in various regional equestrian leagues across different states in ‘Show Jumping’ and ‘Dressage’. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/avik-bags-two-gold-silver-194261
06-01-2021||
||Sarwan wins wrestling gold||Chandigarh, January 5 Sarwan and Pawan claimed top two positions, respectively, in the 55-kg category of Greco-Roman event on the concluding day of the Chandigarh State Senior Wrestling Tournament at the Mani Majra Sports Complex here today. In the 60-kg category final, Ankush defeated Ankit and Sachin won the 63-kg category gold medal by defeating Praveen. Ankit defeated Deepak in the 67-kg final bout, whereas Sachin bagged the 72-kg category title by defeating Gaurav. In the 77-kg category title clash, Jitender overpowered Vinit. Somvir Rathi ousted Neeraj for the 82-kg category gold, while Vishu won the 87-kg gold medal by defeating Jatin. In the 97-kg category final match, Karan overpowered Vijay and Ravi emerged victorious in the 130-kg final by overpowering Manjeet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sarwan-wins-wrestling-gold-194262
06-01-2021||Zirakpur||Liquor smugglers’ gang busted, four  land in police net||The police have arrested four members of a gang involved in a fraud of repackaging of cheap liquor bought from Chandigarh into expensive foreign brands.  The luxury bus, which was used to smuggle the liquor, was seized and empty bottles, labels and seals brought from Delhi were also found in it. The excise and police departments also recovered a huge quantity of liquor from a warehouse at Yamuna Enclave in Zirakpur. The suspects have been identified as Jatinderpal Singh, a resident of Motia Enclave, Zirakpur, Jatinder Singh, a resident of Kurukshetra, Karan Goswami, a resident of Bhabat, and Fateh, a resident of Jind. A case under Sections 420 and 120B of the IPC and the Excise Act has been registered at the Zirakpur police station. Zirakpur SHO Onkar Singh Brar said: “We are investigating as to where the liquor was being smuggled and the search is on for others involved.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-smugglers-gang-busted-four-land-in-police-net-194263
06-01-2021||
||Snatchers target 2 women in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 5 Two snatching incidents were reported from the city last evening. In both incidents, purses were snatched from the victims. In one of the two incidents, complainant Santosh Kumari (58), a resident of Sector 27, reported that she was returning home from the market around 6 pm when a motorcycle-borne miscreant snatched her purse containing Rs5,000, documents and medicines.   The police were informed, who visited the spot. A case has been registered at the Sector 26 police station.   In the other incident, a motorcycle-borne miscreant snatched a purse from a woman, Soniya (37), near her house in Sector 44 around 8.50 pm. The purse contained Rs2,000, a voter card, three debit cards and a credit card. The suspect was riding a black motorcycle wearing a helmet. The victim failed to note down the registration number of the motorcycle. The police have registered a case at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatchers-target-2-women-in-chandigarh-194242
06-01-2021||Karam Prakash||Pvt hospitals caught on the wrong foot||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 5In the wake of the rising number of Covid deaths despite a sharp decline in the number of positive cases, the Health Department has issued strict warnings to private hospitals against “hiding” suspected cases.The department has directed private hospitals to conduct the RT-PCR test of the suspected patients. According to the Health Department, suspected patients are not tested timely and start taking treatment from private service providers due to which proper Covid treatment gets delayed. Hence, the fatalities are on the rise. In the warning issued to private hospitals and clinics, the department told them that the RT-PCR test was mandatory for the suspected patients before starting any treatment.The department has found private players using non-confirmatory methods such as CT scan and X-ray for Covid detection. The department said during the inquiry of recent Covid deaths, it was found that a number of patients had visited private hospitals with symptoms, but their RT-PCR test was not conducted, owing to the delay in the treatment.In an incident, a private hospital allowed a Covid positive patient aged around 75 to go home without informing the Health Department. The said patient died within a few hours.Notably, 64 cases have been reported in the past four days while 11 people died of Covid — a mortality rate of 17 per cent. Sources said positive cases were going ‘unreported’ that later lead to deaths.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “We have issued a strict warning after it came to fore that private hospitals and clinics were treating symptomatic patients without getting a Covid test conducted. In fact, private practitioners were not even isolating the suspected patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pvt-hospitals-caught-on-the-wrong-foot-194243
06-01-2021||Panchkula||Panchkula Mayor, councillors take oath||Six days after the results of the Panchkula MC elections were declared, newly elected Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal, along with 20 councillors, was administered the oath of office at the conference hall of the PWD rest house here today.The oath was administered by Ambala Divisional Commissioner Deepti Uma Shankar. Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta was also present during the swearing-in ceremony.The 20 councillors who were administered the oath were Narinderpal Singh Lubana from ward 1, Suresh Kumar (ward 2), Ritu Goel (ward 3), Soniya Sood (ward 4), Jai Kumar Kaushik (Ward 5) Pankaj (ward 6), Ushar Rani (ward 7) Harinder Malik (ward 8), Rajesh Kumar (ward 9), Gurmail Kaur (ward 10), Omwati Punia (ward 11), Sonu (ward 12), Suneet Kumar (ward 13), Sushil Garg (ward 14), Gautam Prasad (ward 15), Rakesh Kumar (ward 16), Akshaydeep Chaudhary (ward 17), Sandeep Singh (ward 18), Paramjit Kaur (ward 19) and Mohammad Saleem Khan from ward 20.Two councillors Soniya Sood and Paramjit Kaur took the oath in Punjabi, while all others took the oath in Hindi.After taking the oath, Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said he would try to fulfil all promises made in the election manifesto and would work with determination to make Panchkula clean, beautiful and green.DC Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, MC Commissioner RK Singh, DCP Mohit Handa, SDM (City) Richa Rathi, Deputy Commissioner, MC, Deepak Sura, state BJP vice-president Bento Kataria, district BJP head president Ajay Sharma and district JJP president OP Sihag were among those present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mayor-councillors-take-oath-194244
06-01-2021||---||Warmest January night since ’17||Chandigarh, January 5 The city recorded the warmest night of January in four years. The city recorded a minimum temperature 14°C on Tuesday, nine degree above normal. Last year on January 22, the highest minimum temperature was 11.9°C. On January 31, 2018, it was 10.2°C.  However, on January 26, 2017, at 14.6°C, the city had witnessed a slightly warmer night. Meanwhile, the city witnessed 2.8 mm of rainfall till 8.30 pm on Tuesday. Light rain is expected on Wednesday as well. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/warmest-january-night-since-17-194246
06-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||BJP rebel Shukla’s nomination rejected||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5The political upheaval in the BJP yesterday turned out to be a damp squib today.In a blow to BJP’s rebel councillor Chandrawati Shukla, her nomination for the post of Mayor was rejected on technical grounds today. She had filed her papers in protest against the party’s official candidate, Ravi Kant Sharma.While Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla was her proposer, Satish Kainth was the seconder in the nomination form. The Congress had yesterday declared that Babla might withdraw his candidature to support Shukla, but the plan came a cropper today.MC Secretary Anil Kumar Garg reasoned: “One person cannot be a proposer or seconder more than once. Councillor Kainth was the proposer for Babla and seconder for Shukla. Thus, the second nomination was invalid.”However, Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla alleged: “It is due to the pressure of the ruling BJP that Shukla’s nomination was cancelled. Before this, the BJP had wrongly changed the wards during the delimitation process. People will teach the BJP a lesson in the coming MC elections.”City BJP president Arun Sood said: “As per Section 59 of the MC Act, the nomination was rightly rejected. If the Congress thinks there is an anomaly, it can move the court. Thirteen new villages were added to the the MC limits, so ward delimitation was bound to happen. The Congress does nothing else than abusing the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.”Looming issuesShukla’s candidature may have been rejected, but the threat of cross-voting still looms large over the BJP.Sources said unhappy councillors might turn the tables in favour of Congress Mayor nominee Babla during the elections on January 8 in the MC House.Though there are 27 votes in the House, the saffron party has already lost several votes before the poll. Ex officio member MP Kirron Kher and councillor Heera Negi are unlikely to come due to ill-health. Former ally and SAD’s lone councillor Hardeep Singh has already declared to boycott the poll. BJP councillor Bharat Kumar has announced his resignation stating that he would not vote for anyone.Sood, however, said: “All our 20 councillor votes are intact. They will vote for the party candidate.” The Congress has five councillors.‘Will not allow mobile phones’Congress Mayor candidate Babla said they would ensure that no BJP councillor brought mobile phones to the House on the date of voting. Reportedly, some councillors are asked to click photos as a proof that they voted for the party nominee only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-rebel-shuklas-nomination-rejected-194247
06-01-2021||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Veterinary Department collects samples of poultry, migratory birds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5In the wake of deaths of migratory birds and chickens in neighbouring states, the UT Veterinary Department today collected over 20 samples of birds from different areas in the city. A senior official of the department said the samples were collected from seven-eight places, including poultry farms in Mani Majra and Hallo Majra and water bodies in the city, including Sukhna Lake.The official said special teams were formed to collect the samples that would be sent to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar for testing.As a pro-active measure, the department was keeping a close watch on the situation for the past three days, but so far, no symptom of any disease was found in the birds in the city, he added.The official said the samples were being sent to the laboratory so that the department could timely prepare for any eventuality.He said sample-collection was a routine exercise carried out on a monthly basis, but due to the deaths of migratory birds in Pond Dam in Himachal Pradesh and chickens in poultry farms in the Barwala area of Panchkula, the department did not want to take any chances.He said there was no need to panic as birds had not exhibited any symptom of flu or influenza so far.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said so far, the situation appeared to be normal as no unnatural behaviour had been noticed by the department in the birds at Sukhna Lake and other water bodies in the city.He said the staff of the department had been put on a high alert and they were closely monitoring the situation. Chickens in a large number had died under mysterious circumstances at more than a dozen poultry farms in the Barwala area of Panchkula district.Also, more than 2,000 birds of different species were found dead at Pong Lake in Himachal Pradesh over the past one week. Preliminary reports of five samples of Bar-headed goose have tested positive for flu-like symptoms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veterinary-department-collects-samples-of-poultry-migratory-birds-194248
06-01-2021||Mohali||Chhatbir zoo shuts aviary for visitors||The walk-in aviary and bird enclosures at the Chhatbir zoo have been closed for visitors as a precautionary measure keeping in view the bird flu scare in the region. The zoo authorities have already implemented the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and the state government. The walk-in aviary at the zoo is the longest in the country with 45 species of birds and is a major attraction for the visitors.Officials said the aviary, set up on nearly two acres, would remain closed for at least one week, depending on the report of the samples taken from the region. Zoo field director M Sudhagar said, ‘’All samples taken from Punjab are clear till now. However, as a precautionary measure, the aviary and the bird enclosures in the zoo have been closed for at least one week.”All the bio-security measures are being taken, and birds in the nearby forests are being watched, he added.Cleanliness in the bird enclosures is also being reviewed from time to time. “We are closely coordinating with the state Veterinary Department and our veterinarians are also on alert,” he said.Although there have been no confirmed cases of bird flu in the region, the mass death of poultry in Barwala have raised concerns in the tricity. Veterinarians expressed the hope that the avian flu, problematic in the peak winter, is likely to subside after January.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chhatbir-zoo-shuts-aviary-for-visitors-194249
06-01-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhaya||Kin of accident victim get Rs 1.11-crore relief||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh, has directed Oriental Insurance Company Limited to release Rs1.11-crore compensation to the widow, two children and parents of a head constable — Gurvinder Singh — of the Chandigarh Police, who died in a road accident in 2018.Harpreet Kaur, the widow of deceased Gurvinder Singh, and other claimants filed the petition under Sections 166 and 140 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, through counsel Ashwani Arora, seeking a compensation from the driver and owner of the vehicle that was involved in the accident and an insurance company.Gurvinder Singh died in the accident after he was allegedly hit by a tractor-trailer on November 11, 2018, near Ambala. The deceased was riding his motorcycle on the road from Handesra to Rani Majra when the accident took place. The counsel of the claimants stated that on the date of the accident, the age of the deceased was 48. He was serving as a head constable in VIP security, Sector 29, Chandigarh. He was drawing a monthly salary of Rs75,000 and the claimants were dependent upon his earnings. So, they put forth a claim of Rs2 crore as compensation, along with 12 per cent interest per annum from the date of the filing of the claim petition till realisation.The respondents — the driver of the tractor-trailer and the insurance company — raised various questions on the petition of the claimants. After hearing the arguments, MACT noted: “The insurance policy proves that the tractor was under an insurance from the respondent company. The driving licence was valid and effective on the date of the accident. There is nothing to show that there was a violation of the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. Hence, the respondents — driver, registered owner/insured and insurer — shall be jointly liable to pay the compensation amount to the claimants.”The court has directed them to pay Rs96.37 lakh to the claimants with an interest at the rate of 9 per cent per annum from the date of petition till actual realisation. After the calculation of the interest, the court directed the insurance company to release Rs1.11 crore to the claimants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kin-of-accident-victim-get-rs-1-11-crore-relief-194250
06-01-2021||Our Correspondent
||Railway police arrest illegal ticket seller||Fatehgarh Sahib, January 5 The crime branch of the Railway Police, Ambala Division, raided the premises of an illegal ticket seller at Mandi Gobindgarh today and nabbed him. An FIR has been registered against him at the Sirhind railway police station. An SI said the police got a tip-off that a person was selling railway booking tickets at high rates in the Motia Khan area of Mandi Gobindgarh. The crime branch team raided the premises of Hari Om Kumar and found that he was downloading railway tickets from his personal e-mail ID and selling those to migrant labourers at high rates. One has to take a dealership from the Railways to sell tickets.  The police recovered four tickets from him and arrested him under section 143 of the Railway Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railway-police-arrest-illegal-ticket-seller-194253
06-01-2021||---||Best performing Mohali youth clubs to get sports kits||Mohali, January 5The Punjab Youth Development Board (PYDB) is committed towards development and welfare of the youth of the state and it will launch the “Youth of Punjab Campaign” on January 7.This was stated by Sukhwinder Singh Bindra, chairman, PYDB, while releasing the phamplet/brochure of the campaign at the board’s office in Mohali on Monday.Sukhwinder Singh Bindra said Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh would launch the campaign from Ludhiana, which would be followed by district-wise distribution of sports kits in consultation with local Deputy Commissioners as well as District Coordinators of the Youth Welfare Services. Under the campaign, sports kits would be distributed among all active rural sports clubs state-wide.Bindra said: “Five best performing youth clubs of Mohali district have been selected. These clubs will be felicitated and handed over sports kits by the Punjab Chief Minister during the launch ceremony of the campaign. Each kit includes cricket, volleyball and football equipment in a quantity sufficient to cater to about 50-70 players”.Bindra said the aim of the campaign was to wean away youth from drugs, encourage sports culture in the youth as well as to channelise their energy in positive direction.The PYDB chairman hoped that those budding players who were not so fortunate to afford personal sports infrastructure or had no access to sports equipment would avail maximum benefit out of the sports kits being provided to the rural youth clubs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/best-performing-mohali-youth-clubs-to-get-sports-kits-194254
06-01-2021||Mohali||Shanta Kumar, family members may be discharged from Fortis Hospital tomorrow||Former Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Shanta Kumar and his family members, who had been admitted to the Fortis Hospital in Mohali for treatment for Covid-19, are likely to be discharged on Thursday evening.A spokesman for the hospital said Shanta Kumar and his family members were doing fine and could be discharged on Thursday evening or Friday morning. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been calling regularly to enquire after his health.Shanta Kumar’s wife Santosh Shailja had died due to complications related to the coronavirus in the early hours on December 29. A day after, the 86-year-old leader and his son Vikram Sharma were admitted to the Fortis Hospital on December 30 as a precautionary measure. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shanta-kumar-family-members-may-be-discharged-from-fortis-hospital-tomorrow-194157
