06-12-2020||---||Two more Covid deaths, 101 new cases recorded in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 6The COVID-19 death toll in Chandigarh rose to 291 on Sunday with two more fatalities, while 101 new cases took the infection tally to 18,027, a medical bulletin issued here said.There are 922 active cases currently, it said.A total of 60 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the total recoveries to 16,814, as per bulletin.A total of 1,51,473 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,32,612 have tested negative while reports of 102 samples were awaited, the bulletin added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-covid-deaths-101-new-cases-recorded-in-chandigarh-180808
06-12-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Anil Kapoor spotted on Chandigarh streets doing his favourite form of cardio; watch||Bollywood veteran actor who always inspires to remain fit was spotted cycling on streets of Chandigarh. Anil Kapoor has always amazed the audience with his workout routine. Taking to the microblogging website, Anil revealed his favourite form of cardio. "One of my favourite forms of cardio! #earlymorningbikerides #Chandigarh," he wrote along with the video. One of my favourite forms of cardio! #earlymorningbikerides #Chandigarh pic.twitter.com/E7f7PZsmMQRecently, amid speculations, Anil informed that he tested coronavirus negative while shooting for his new film "Jug Jugg Jeeyo".There were reports that Anil, along with the film's co-stars Neetu Kapoor, Varun Dhawan and Kiara Advani had tested positive for the virus in Chandigarh, where they are currently shooting. Taking to Twitter, the 63-year-old wrote he is doing well and thanked fans for their continued love. "In the interest of putting any rumours to rest, I have tested negative for COVID-19. Thank you all for your concern and good wishes," Anil Kapoor tweeted. Meanwhile, on the work front, Anil will be next seen in Karan Johar's multi-starrer 'Takht'. Apart from this, he will also feature in Shekhar Gupta's 'Mumbai Saga'.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anil-kapoor-spotted-on-chandigarh-streets-doing-his-favourite-form-of-cardio-watch-180738
06-12-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||CHB scheme at IT Park by March||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is planning to launch a group housing scheme for general public at the Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Information Technology Park (IT Park) by March next year.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had given his consent to the project in July this year.A senior official of the CHB said in-principle approval to the scheme was to be taken from the Board of Directors before the launch of the scheme. He said the drawings of the project were ready and after getting a go-ahead from the Plan Approval Committee, environment clearance would be obtained to launch the project. The entire process was likely to take nearly three to four months, he said, adding that a meeting of the Board was likely to be held this month.The Board would replace the mandatory EWS flats with two-bedroom flats. The UT Advisory Council’s Standing Committee on Urban Infrastructure and Planning had already approved forgoing the construction of EWS flats at the site, he said. The official added that a survey was being conducted for the construction of flats under the EWS category at some other place. Two more towers of two-bedroom flats would be constructed in place of EWS flats at the IT Park project site, added the official.Under the scheme, the CHB will construct nearly 750 flats of different categories, including two-bedroom and three-bedroom, in seven-storey buildings.The Board has 123 acres in its possession at the IT Park where 20 sites will be developed. The CHB will construct nearly 750 flats at two sites, while the remaining 18 sites will be given to private builders for development. The Board has hired a private consultant so that the flats can be prepared with a better design.The CHB will build flats on two plots, measuring 10.51 acres and 6.43 acres. The prices will be fixed after the drawings are approved. The scheme will come up close to the high-end officers’ flats to be constructed for the governments of Haryana and Punjab, and the UT Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-scheme-at-it-park-by-march-180538
06-12-2020||---||PGI adds another feather to its cap||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5Continuing with the tradition of creating benchmarks, the PGI again won laurels by winning the national award in the ‘Best Hospital’ category for its outstanding contribution towards the promotion of cadaver organ donation.Adding to the accolades, Dr Navdeep Bansal, working as transplant coordinator at the PGI, bagged the “Best Transplant Coordinator” award.It is the fourth consecutive time that the PGI, Chandigarh, has won the national award for its contribution to the organ donation programme.Expressing delight at the achievement, PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram said: “It is an honour to be acknowledged nationally for the PGI’s contribution towards the promotion of the deceased organ donation programme for the fourth time in a row. These national awards are a reiteration of the fact that we are on the right track and our multiple teams working in the field of organ donation and transplantation have been able to make a difference through their consistent efforts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-adds-another-feather-to-its-cap-180539
06-12-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali city accounts for dist’s 70% cases over last fortnight||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 5Mohali city has seen 70 per cent of the Covid-19 cases that have surfaced from the district in the past 15 days.Of the 2,088 cases reported from the Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi sub-divisions in the past fortnight, 1,455 cases have been reported from Mohali city alone. The recovery rate in the district has declined from 90 per cent to 84 per cent in the same period, compounding the problem. The number of active cases had also spiked from 1,154 to 2,280.Of 100 fresh cases reported from the district on Saturday, 66 were from Mohali city. The district also recorded two fatalities, taking the toll to 290.During a random survey of the markets in the city and other places in the district, it was found that people were moving without a mask, thus exposing themselves to the deadly virus. The health authorities have been warning people not to move out without a mask.According to rough estimates, around 30 per cent people moved out of their house without wearing a mask during the festive season in the markets.Nodal Officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur said spike in Covid cases was due to the non-implementation of social distancing norms, especially during the recent festival season.She said people in Mohali city have stopped wearing masks and exercising caution. In villages, social distancing was maintained and even people were taking precautions.The district administration had already imposed night curfew in the district from December 1 in view of the spike in Covid cases. The administration had also doubled the penalty for not wearing a mask and spitting in public places from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000. Any violations shall invite criminal proceedings under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the IPC, 1860.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-city-accounts-for-dists-70-cases-over-last-fortnight-180540
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths in Chandigarh, 98 more +ve||Two deaths, 100 new cases in MohaliMohali: Two more fatalities due to Covid were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 290. Besides, 100 new cases surfaced in the district on Saturday while 122 patients got better of the disease. Among the new cases, 66 were reported from Mohali (urban), one each from Boothgarh and Kurali, 14 from Kharar, 11 from Gharuan and seven from Dera Bassi. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-in-chandigarh-98-more-ve-180542
06-12-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula goes past 9K mark||The infection count in the district now stands at 9,045. With no new death, the toll remained 131. Among the new cases, 10 were reported from Kalka, six from Sector 15 and five each from Sector 16 and Sector 8.While 8,403 patients have defeated the virus so far, 511 cases are active. The district recovery rate is 92.90 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-goes-past-9k-mark-180543
06-12-2020||---||2 months on, Patiala district witnesses six deaths in a day||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 5The district reported six Covid deaths in the past 24 hours for the first time after around two months. The sudden rise in deaths due to the virus has raised alarm bells for the Health Department.As per the Health Department, the district toll rose to 442 on Saturday. Experts believed that the surge in deaths was a cause of concern.However, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra claimed that all six patients, who died of the deadly virus, had one or more comorbid conditions. They were suffering from other diseases such as diabetes, hypertension, heart ailments and breathing issues.He said a 70-year-old man, a resident of the Samana block, died on his way to the Government Rajindra Hospital.When asked about the sudden rise in deaths due to Covid, he said: “Six fatalities in a single day were accidental. I appeal to people that they should immediately report to the nearest health centre as soon as symptoms appear. Any delay can prove fatal.”Meanwhile, the district today reported 49 fresh cases, taking the tally to 14,865.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-months-on-patiala-district-witnesses-six-deaths-in-a-day-180545
06-12-2020||---||Drive on Kishangarh roads no less than off-roading||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5Roads in Kishangarh village, which are in a pathetic state, are not likely to get a healing touch of the Municipal Corporation (MC) this year too. Reason: The civic body is going to stop road recarpeting work in the city in mid-December due to “non-conducive” weather.‘7 yrs on, authorities’ apathy continues’For the past seven years, the roads here are in an awful condition yet the authorities concerned paid no heed. Some village roads have 3-foot-deep potholes. They can at least fill these. -  Jassi Lubana, Kishangarh Resident & City AAP youth ChiefIt has been several years that residents are awaiting a smooth ride. Year after year, the village, located near Sukhna Lake, is facing apathy of the authorities concerned even as the MC conducted road recarpeting work in different parts of the city.“For the past seven years, the roads here are in an awful condition yet the authorities concerned paid no heed. There are three-foot-deep potholes on some roads here. They can at least fill these,” said Jassi Lubana, a Kishangarh resident and city AAP youth president.Residents said earlier, the village was under the jurisdiction of the UT Administration and was now brought under the corporation. They rued that things, however, did not change on the ground. “Even a short spell of rain would worsen the situation. Let alone driving, even walking becomes difficult here,” added Sanjit Singh, a local.The MC had earlier claimed that they would first recarpet the worst road in the UT. Considering the condition of the roads in the village, the claim does not seem to be true.An official concerned said the outer road here was under the Administration while the inner roads fell under the jurisdiction of the civic body. “We had prepared an estimate of the inner roads of Kishangarh and other areas, and sent it to the Administration while demanding funds. We have not heard from the Administration yet,” said the MC official added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drive-on-kishangarh-roads-no-less-than-off-roading-180547
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Man found dead at liquor vend||The deceased has been identified as Khem Singh, a resident of Sector 34.The police said Khem Singh was suffering from jaundice. He was working at the vend for the past two months and used to sleep there. He did not respond when a fellow worker tried to wake him up in the morning. Workers at the vend and the victim’s family members rushed him to the GMSH-16 where he was declared brought dead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-at-liquor-vend-180548
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||2 hang selves to death in Chandigarh||Two persons reportedly ended their lives by hanging in the city today.A 25-year-old youth, who was employed with the Verka Milk Bar in Sector 17-E, allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself at a public toilet near the booth.The deceased, identified as Pramod, was rushed to the GMSH-16 where he was declared brought dead. The police received a call about the incident at around 4:35 am. The victim used his muffler to take the extreme step.In another incident, a labourer hanged himself to death at an under-construction building of the Community Centre in Sector 35 where his brother was putting up.The deceased has been identified as Parmeshwar Dyal, 36, a resident of Chitrakoot (Uttar Pradesh). He is survived by his wife and three children. Dyal was employed at a construction site in Eco City and was living in Mullanpur.The police said the labourer was under depression following the death of his brother recently.The incident came to light around 8:30 am when workers found Dyal hanging at the Sector 35 site.The police said he, along with his elder brother, was to leave for his village soon and was staying with him at the site.The police rushed him to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. The matter was being investigated, said the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-hang-selves-to-death-in-chandigarh-180550
06-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Psychiatric issues among women rose during lockdown: PGI study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5A study by the PGI has found that the proportion of women attending emergency services with psychiatric issues after the imposition of the Covid-induced lockdown was higher due to personal issues and workload.Study by PGI doctorsDuring the study period, 587 patients availed of the psychiatry emergency services. In the pre-lockdown period, 291 patients (100 females) were assessed, while 296 patients (133 females) were assessed during the lockdown.From 34 per cent of female patients attending emergency services before the lockdown, the numbers rose to 45 per cent during the lockdown. The study has been authored by Dr Sandeep Grover, Dr Devakshi Dua, Dr Swapnajeet Sahoo and Dr Subho Chakrabarti from the Department of Psychiatry, PGI.The study published in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry reads: “Compared to the pre-lockdown period, a significantly higher proportion of female patients attended the emergency services during the lockdown period, reflecting a higher level of stress among women. There are many reports of domestic violence, an increase in issues between couples and increased workload on women. These all could have led to a negative impact on women and resultantly, they sought psychiatric help more often.”The study also suggested that there was an increase in the proportion of patients diagnosed with schizophrenia availing of the emergency services during the lockdown. This finding suggests that in the absence of routine services, possibly many patients with schizophrenia experienced a relapse of symptoms and were brought to the emergency services. There could be many reasons for relapse such as difficulty in procuring/purchasing a particular medication, an increase in the level of stress, and an adverse household environment.Meanwhile, there was a significant decline in the proportion of patients diagnosed with delirium, acute stress reaction and number of patients appearing with self-harm by ingestion of poison during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/psychiatric-issues-among-women-rose-during-lockdown-pgi-study-180551
06-12-2020||---||‘Farm laws will affect the masses’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5On a call given by the Naujawan Bharat Sabha and the Punjab Students’ Union (Lalkaar), effigies of “Modi-Shah-corporate nexus” were burnt at the Sector 17 Plaza here today.Intellectuals and social activists were present at the spot. Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union also gathered at the Plaza and joined the protest.AAP wing burns PM’s effigyChandigarh: Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Yuva Morcha burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and some corporates in Kishangarh village on Saturday. Party convener Prem Garg said the ‘anti-farmer black laws’ had been made to sell farmers to the capitalists. He said the BJP came into power making big promises for the welfare of the farmers, but rather than strengthening the MSP, they were crushing the soul of agriculture. TNSSpeakers underlined the “deadly” consequences of agrarian and electricity laws for the masses. “The laws are against the state’s autonomy and will increase the conflict between the Centre and the state. These laws will also eliminate the PDS system on which millions are dependent. The laws will intensify unemployment by eliminating permanent employees of the FCI and increasing contractualisation,” said Aman from PSU Lalkaar.The revision of the Essential Commodities Act would increase black marketing of products, resulting in inflation, speakers opined.“Further, speakers criticised the Modi government and the media for labelling the present struggle as fundamentalist and regionalist. Therefore, it is necessary to foil such attempts and exhibit solidarity with the present struggle,” said Manav, a city-based activist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farm-laws-will-affect-the-masses-180553
06-12-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Court sets aside conviction in Rs 34L cheque-bounce case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5Additional Sessions Judge Rajeev Goyal has set aside the order of the Judicial Magistrate (First Class), Chandigarh, convicting a person under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, and sentencing him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year and pay a compensation to the tune of Rs68,82,796 i.e. double the amount of cheque.Madan Lal Arora filed an appeal under Section 374 of the CrPC against the judgment of conviction and sentence dated March 13, 2020 passed by the Court of Judicial Magistrate (First Class), Chandigarh, in a criminal complaint titled Bhushan Power and Steel Limited v/s M/s Maa Vaishno Gramodyog Sansthan.Bhushan Power and Steel Limited Complaint filed a complaint against the accused and others alleging that in discharge of their legally enforceable liability, the accused issued a cheque dated November 17, 2015 for Rs34,41,398. At the time of presentation to the bank, the cheque got dishonoured with remark “account closed”.A legal notice was also served upon the accused calling upon them to make the payment within 15 days of receipt of the notice, but to no avail. It led the complainant to file a complaint under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. After finding guilty, the Judicial Magistrate (First Class), Chandigarh, pronounced the sentence.The convict later filed an appeal to compound the offence by claiming that the matter settled amicably.The court said as per the settlement effected vide memorandum of settlement dated August 4, 2020, the entire due amount stands paid and now nothing remains due against the appellant.The court order read: “In view of the compromise in my opinion, accepting the prayer so made will go a long way in promoting harmony between the parties. Hence, prayer to compound the offence under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act deserves to be accepted.”The court directed the appellant to deposit a sum of Rs10,000 with the District Legal Services Authority. The court also referred the Supreme Court judgment in KM Ibrahim v/s KP Mohammad & Anr, 2009(6) and Vinay Devanne Nayak v/s Ryot Seva Sahakari Bank Limited, 2008, in which it was held that compounding in case under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, is permissible at the appellate stage. Once compounding is permitted under Section 147, the conviction of the accused under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881, should be set aside.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-sets-aside-conviction-in-rs-34l-cheque-bounce-case-180555
06-12-2020||Mohali||Farmers get tips on retaining  soil health||World Soil Day was celebrated in all three blocks of Mohali district today.Teams from the Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, under the leadership of block-level agriculture officers, sensitised farmers to ‘keep soil alive, protect biodiversity’, the theme of World Soil Day.Experts described the importance of soil, biodiversity, ill-effects of soil pollution, strategies to mitigate the menace and concept of soil health, role of soil biodiversity for sustainable soil health.The experts apprised the farmers of using the optimum level of fertilisers and pesticides for the maintenance of soil health. Farmers requested the experts to provide a mobile soil testing van in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-get-tips-on-retaining-soil-health-180556
06-12-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar on Covid impact||The Department of Biotechnology organised a webinar, under the aegis of the Punjab Academy of Sciences, on 'Covid 19: Impact on Health System' today.It was inaugurated by PU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar. He said the current crisis had given us an opportunity to reconsider our life choices. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-on-covid-impact-180557
06-12-2020||---||Chandigarh Department spreads awareness on good health||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 5The UT Sports Department today organised a ‘prabhatpheri’ at different coaching centers, under the Fit India Campaign, to create awareness on good health among residents with the slogan ‘Adha Ghanta Roz Fitness Ka Dose’.The initiative was taken on the directions of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports.Coaches, managers and players enthusiastically participated in the processions that were held across the city — at Sector 7, 16, 34, 42, 46, 56, Lake Sports Complex and Mani Majra Sports Complexes.Director, Sports Department, inaugurated the event at the Sector 42 Sports Complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-department-spreads-awareness-on-good-health-180558
06-12-2020||Mohali||Bonus for cooperative societies||Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu distributed bonus cheques among milk producers’ cooperative societies that had secured top three positions in Mohali.Sidhu said Verka milk dairy played an important role in providing a market to milk producers of Punjab, but it needed to do more to enhance the reach of its products in other states.The minister said Markfed, Cooperative Banks and Cooperative Milk Producers were major contributors to the economy of Punjab.Mohan Singh Dummewal, Chairman, Milk Union, Ropar, said since the commencement of cooperative milk work in Punjab, the economic condition of the members of various societies had improved a lot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bonus-for-cooperative-societies-180560
06-12-2020||Amit Bathla||Ticket aspirants going all out to gain edge over competitors||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 5Following announcement by the State Election Commission for much-anticipated Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections, ticket aspirants, including for the post of Mayor, have pulled up their socks to gain an edge over their competitors.From frequent phone calls, visiting party offices to lobbying through closed ones holding prominent posts in the party, every tactic is being used by party workers as the race to secure tickets has gained momentum.Even though the list of contenders could still get longer in the days to come, party insiders claim candidates with high winning chances are likely to get ticket on a green light from the top brass.Two key players – the BJP and the Congress – are expected to go through a round of meetings prior to finalising names – expectedly before December 10, a day before nomination begins.Still receiving applications, says BJPAppearing to be more active and disciplined with a better organisational structure, the local unit of the BJP said they continue to receive applications for the posts of councillor despite expiry of the last date for submission of names on December 2.The BJP district president, Ajay Sharma, said, “Aspiring candidates are visiting the party office in Sector 2 every day in the hope of a ticket. But, we will prepare an internal survey report on the basis of inputs from ward in-charges, which will be submitted to top leaders for a final decision. Even though the party didn’t seek names for Mayor’s post, we have still received many.”Vaishali Kansal, who is seeking the saffron party’s ticket from Ward No. 11 (reserved for women), said as a dedicated member of the party from the past many years, she should get the councillor’s ticket.She, however, added, “It is up to the party to decide or depends on the luck, who will be the candidate.” “Whatever the decision party takes, we are one,” she told The Tribune in a bid to reflect unity among her party leaders.Received 200 names so far, says CongressApparently rift-ridden and lethargic compared to the ruling party, the Congress on the other side said they have received around 200 names for the councillors post and 10 for the Mayoral ticket.“The window for the ticket application will remain open till December 7 evening,” the Haryana Congress has announced. The five-member consultative committee tasked to screen candidates for the elections met state Congress chief Kumari Selja yesterday for the first time in Chandigarh to decide way forward on probable candidates. Another round of talks will take place tomorrow.“The Congress will not only win the Mayor’s post, but also get majority of seats,” a senior Congress leader said.Salim Dabkori, who won the 2013 election from Ward No. 20 as an Independent candidate backed by the Congress, is reclaiming his candidature from the grand old party.“I am confident of getting the Congress ticket as I have worked for people’s welfare in last seven years,” he said.The voting for the local elections will held on December 27 and results will be out on December 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ticket-aspirants-going-all-out-to-gain-edge-over-competitors-180561
06-12-2020||---||ADC appointed returning officer||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 5The Additional Deputy Commissioner, Mohd Imran Raza, has been given the charge of returning officer for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections.“To ensure free, fair, transparent and peaceful elections of the Municipal Corporation Mohd Imran Raza has been appointed returning officer,” said Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Thursday, a day after the State Election Commission announced schedule for the civic body elections.Raza has further designated four district officials as assistant returning officials, who will assist him in Municipal Corporation elections in all 20 wardsof Panchkula.The Haryana Roadways General Manager, Panchkula, Ravinder Pathak, will be assistant returning officer for Ward No. 1,2,3,6 and 7. Candidates contesting from these wards can get their nomination filed at the SDM’s court room No. 117A in the Mini-Secretariat.The Naib Tehsildar, Panchkula, Ishwar Singh, has been appointed as assistant returning officer for Ward No. 4,5,8,9 and 10. He will accept nominations from these wards at his office in room No. 109 in the Mini-Secretariat.The Raipur Rani Tehsildar, Joginder Sharma, will be assistant returning officer for Ward No. 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. He will accept nominations from these wards at the Tehsildar Office in room No. 107 in the Mini-Secretariat.Similarly, the District Development and Panchayat Officer (DDPO) Kanwar Daman Singh, has been given the charge of assistant returning officer for Ward No. 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20. Candidates contesting from these wards can file their nominations in the court room No. 102.Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Mohd Imran Raza said, “Nominations for Mayor can be filed in room No. 115 in the Mini-Secretariat.”The voting for the civic body elections will held on December 27 and results will be out on December 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adc-appointed-returning-officer-180562
06-12-2020||---||Probing officer yet to seek ballistic report||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 5Three weeks after a blast at a dhaba in Lalru during pilferage of petrol from an oil tanker in the basement, the district administration is yet to seek ballistic report of the incident in which three persons, including dhaba owner, were killed.According to information, delay in seeking report was due to the municipal elections to be held in the district. Pertinently, the blast took place when the victims were pilfering petrol from an oil tanker in the basement behind Rama Dhaba in Sarseni village on the main Chandigarh-Delhi highway.Three persons, including dhaba owner Jaswinder Singh (35), were killed in the explosion while one person suffered severe burn injuries. The victims used a ‘tullu’ pump to pilfer petrol from tankers at the dhaba, which was sealed after the incident.The victims used drums with the capacity of 200 to 500 litres and rooftop water tanks to store petrol.Sub Divisional Magistrate Kuldeep Bawa, who is probing the blast, said he would seek the ballistic report of the incident and soon start an inquiry.They were busy in preparing the draft electoral roll for the forthcoming municipal committee elections, which delayed inquiry, he added.They would seek the ballistic report and prepare an inquiry report by December 10, he said.During preliminary investigation, it was found that the usual practice was to steal 100 litres of petrol from one tanker, which can hold up to 1 lakh litres of oil. The stolen petrol was sold at cheaper rates, which was Rs5 to Rs7 less than the current market price. The stolen fuel was stored in drums of five litres each.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/probing-officer-yet-to-seek-ballistic-report-180563
06-12-2020||---||Smart City projects reviewed in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5The Joint Secretary and Mission Director, Smart Cities, Government of India, Kunal Kumar, visited UT to review Smart City projects.During his visit, he was accompanied by Municipal Commissioner KK Yadav.He visited Sector 39 water works where storage capacity is being augmented. He inspected Legacy Waste mining project site at Daddu Majra and enquired about bio-soil, construction and demolition waste and RDF disposal.He also visited Capital Complex and saw the restoration work of heritage buildings. A key feature of his visit was use of cycle to cover major part of destinations to promote cycling in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/smart-city-projects-reviewed-in-chandigarh-180565
06-12-2020||---||Monkey detention case: Accused denied permission to travel abroad||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5A local court has dismissed the petition of an accused in monkey detention case seeking permission to visit Dubai. The accused tattoo artist, Kamaljit Singh, sought permission to visit abroad for business related work. The Forest Department had booked Kamaljit Singh and his manager Deepak for allegedly confining a monkey and sharing its picture along with him on his Instagram account. The Forest Department had filed case before the court after accused were booked on August 19 for violating the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.In the orders, Judicial Magistrate-Class I (JMIC) Lovejinder Kaur said, “No urgency has been cited by the accused for their visit to Dubai especially in the given circumstances when the world is suffering from the fatal Covid-19 pandemic and uncertainty is all over the globe.”“Moreover, in the opinion of this court seeking permission to visit abroad on the pretext of business is nothing, but mocking the criminal dispensation system duly established by the law at such hard time especially when the trial is yet to be proceeded against the accused,” the JMIC added.“Needless to observe that a government agency is also at the doorstep of this court for ensuring presence of applicants in India as they are still collecting evidence against the accused. It is certain that courts always strike a balance between both the parties pending trials. It’s duty of the court to impart justice and provide a fair trial,” the JMIC said.“This court is aware that the right of freedom of movement is one of the fundamental rights provided to citizens of India, but at the same time certain reasonable restrictions have been imposed upon the same. In no way, this right can hinder the criminal justice dispensation system,” the JMIC said. “The present application stands dismissed being devoid of merits. However, nothing stated herein would any way shall have any bearing on the merits of this case,” the JMIC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monkey-detention-case-accused-denied-permission-to-travel-abroad-180567
06-12-2020||---||Woman’s murder case solved, relative nabbed||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 5The Patiala police claimed to have solved the murder case of a 43-year-old woman with the arrest of one of the suspects.He has been identified as Gurmeet Singh, a relative of the victim.The woman was found murdered at her house in Partap Nagar on the intervening night of November 28 and 29. Her 13-year-old son was also injured in the attack.Patiala Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Vikramjeet Singh Duggal disclosed that the victim had recently filed a complaint against the suspects in a property-related matter.The SSP said the suspects had tried to deceive the police by showing the murder as an outcome of a theft attempt. However, during investigation, the police found some important technical shreds of evidence, which culminated into the conspiracy wherein the victim was murdered by Gurmeet Singh after consultation with his brother Gursewak Singh.The Patiala SSP said the suspect was today produced before a court, which sent him to three-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/womans-murder-case-solved-relative-nabbed-180569
06-12-2020||---||Will make Punjab sporting powerhouse, says minister||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi interacted with nine budding players, who have been identified for high-level training and facilities, and assured them of complete support from the government.The players are Utkarsh (archery), Lalit Jain (archery), Devinder Singh Kang (javelin throw), Arshdeep Singh Junior (javelin), Raj Singh Rana Junior (javelin), Tanvir Singh (shot put), Twinkle Chaudhary (athletics), Gurinder Vir Singh (athletics) and Lovepreet Singh (athletics).“The plan to make Punjab a sporting powerhouse is already being implemented with ‘Catch-them-young’, our guiding motto. Many youngsters have been identified and the department has started talent scouting at the grassroots. Top coaches are being roped in to hone their talent and prepare them for big leagues,” said Sodhi.“We will take care of finances and logistics for the players. A detailed programme has been already shared with the Sports Minister,” said DPS Kharbanda, Director, Sports, Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-make-punjab-sporting-powerhouse-says-minister-180570
06-12-2020||---||Patiala doctors extend support to agitating farmers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 5The doctor-fraternity has announced its support to farmers, who are protesting at the borders of the National Capital, against the three agriculture Acts.Doctors of government and private sectors in the city will provide free medical treatment to protesting farmers. In fact, they have formed a group called “Doctors for Farmers” to extend all possible medical help to protesters.Dr DS Bhullar, convener, Doctors for Farmers’, said, “There is a strong resentment among doctors across the state against the contentious farm laws.”“We are with farmers in their fight against the draconian agriculture laws. It is our moral and ethical duty to provide medical aid in the form of free medicines to farmers. Medical camps will be organised at the protest sites. Given the hard stand of the Central Government the agitation can get little longer,” he added.Doctors for Farmers will bear all expenses. These include ambulance expenses at the protest sites of farmers. Farmers will be admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, if situation warrants.The group also strongly condemned the Haryana police for use of tear gas and water cannons on farmers while they were on their way to Delhi.Besides, doctors wore black masks on Saturday to protest in support of farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-doctors-extend-support-to-agitating-farmers-180572
06-12-2020||---||Chandigarh lad Akshay remains front runner on Day 3||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5Local lad Akshay Sharma continued as the front runner in the title race on the Day 3 of the ongoing Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational 2020.The 31-year-old Sharma, overnight leader by one shot, carded a hard-fought 1-under-71 at Chandigarh Golf Club to take his tournament total to 10-under-206.Noida’s Amardeep Malik, who was overnight tied second, also returned a 71, to be placed second at 9-under-207.Pre-tournament favourite Anirban Lahiri (70) gained two spots to occupy tied third at 8-under-208 along with Patna’s Aman Raj (68) and Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat (72). While Aman gained seven spots in the round three, Veer dropped one spot.Chandigarh’s Karandeep Kochhar produced the round’s best score for the second day in succession as he shot a 67 to rise 12 positions to sixth place at 7-under-209.Order of Merit leader Udayan Mane (72) of Pune, Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa (70) and Delhi-based teenaged rookie Harshjeet Singh Sethie (73) were all tied seventh at 6-under-210.Among other prominent names, SSP Chawrasia (70) was tied 21st at 1-under-215, Gaganjeet Bhullar (74) was tied 36th at 2-over-218 and Jyoti Randhawa (73) was tied 42nd at 3-over-219.“The weather conditions were the toughest today, especially when I started. It was extremely windy so club selection was difficult and that resulted in bogeys for me. On the front-nine, I found only four greens in regulation and just couldn’t hit it close enough,” said Sharma.Malik (68-68-71), another two-time winner on the PGTI, came up with an eagle, three birdies and four bogeys during his 71 to keep himself in the hunt. He also closed the day in style with a birdie chip-in on the 18th from behind the green.Raj will be the third player in the leader group on Sunday, thanks to his bogey-free effort of 68.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-lad-akshay-remains-front-runner-on-day-3-180573
06-12-2020||---||Mohali range trainees excel in golf championship||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 5Three Mohali Golf Range (MGR) junior golfers excelled in the three-day 2nd Forest Hills Junior Championship held at Forest Hills Golf and Country Club.Six-year-old Ojaswani Saraswat claimed the first position in her age category with a score of 6-under 66. She scored 1-under par 35 and 5-under par 31, her career’s best with two eagles and three birdies in the round of 31, to claim the winning position.She played the 9-hole tournament each day with a par of 36. Another trainee, eight-year-old Aryaveer Singh Grewal claimed the top spot in his age group with a score of 44. He shot three birdies to claim the spot. 13-year-old Arnav Dhaka claimed the second position in category-B with scores of 9-over 81 and 6-over 78. All three golfers are coached by Arjuna Award winner golfer Harmeet Kahlon, Director Golf, MGR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-range-trainees-excel-in-golf-championship-180574
