07-05-2020||---||Leopard with its paw cut falls into water tank in Panchkula village; rescue operation launched||Panchkula, May 7A leopard with one of its paws cut fell into a ground-level water tank at Tikri village of Morni block in Panchkula district on Thursday.The animal was in agony because of its severed right paw, the result of suspected poaching activity. This leopard seemed to have escaped from a jaw-trap. One leopard was resuced from a trap a few months ago.After hearing the leopard's moans, villagers found the animal in the tank, which had no water, and informed wildlife officials.The officials then launched a rescue operation using a tranquiliser gun and net.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/leopard-with-its-paw-cut-falls-into-water-tank-in-panchkula-village-rescue-operation-launched-81655
07-05-2020||---||25 pc migrants cancelled travel plan indicating Punjab heading towards normalcy: Mohali DC||Mohali, May 7Even as 1,288 people left for their home town Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh around 25 per cent people who had earlier registered themselves with on the online portal of the Punjab government later changed their mind and are staying back.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said 35 per cent less than those who had registered themselves on the government portal turned up for departure.He said 1,188 people were contacted a day before for confirmation of departure plan but 25 per cent  declined to go while another 10 per cent did not turn up at the railway station even after confirmation. Therefore, the administration mobilised the ones in reserved/waiting list and facilitated their departure, he added.Dayalan said, “It is a good omen as refusal of people to go back is an indication that we are limping towards normalcy; permission to resume labour-intensive construction work and industrial operations has reduced the threat of losing an earning opportunity and will check mass exodus.”Dayalan appealed to the migrant workers that since normalcy is being restored gradually, any migrant except those in acute distress, who don't want to go back, are welcome to stay back in the district. He said the registration on the portal doesn’t imply that they have to compulsorily leave and added that they can always choose to stay back and work.Meanwhile, 1,288 workers who had come from Hardoi district of UP, for working in Mohali district, headed for their native district in the non-stop train with no intermittent stoppage before Hardoi.Dayalan, ADC Ashika Jain, SDMs and other officers gave a send-off to the labourers.The DC said the 24-coach train left Mohali Railway Station at 10 am running right on schedule and the staff deployed at the railway station ensured that workers adhered to social distancing while boarding the train. The administration ensured drinking water and food for all on board.He said the workers were screened thoroughly at the designated collection centres before they boarded the train. They were ferried via buses from the eight collection centres to the railway station, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-pc-migrants-cancelled-travel-plan-indicating-punjab-heading-towards-normalcy-mohali-dc-81571
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 11 new cases, UT tally rises to 135||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 11 new coronavirus cases, taking the union territory’s case tally to 135.Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 reported 10 cases, taking the total in the colony to 76. Three of a family—two 25-year-old women and a 27-year-old man—have contracted the deadly disease. Their 36-year-old neighbour has also tested positive for coronavirus.Among others who tested positive in the colony are three members of one family, two members of another family and a 6-year-old child. All cases are from within the containment area.An 11-year-old girl from Sector 30 has also tested positive for the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-11-new-cases-ut-tally-rises-to-135-81565
07-05-2020||---||Rs 92K robbed at gunpoint||Mohali, May 6A 30-year-old man, who works at a factory in Ghataur village, was allegedly robbed of Rs 92,000 and a mobile phone at gunpoint here today.Gurpreet Singh, owner of the factory where the victim works, said Ram Vinay and a driver were going in a pick-up to purchase plastic stock from Dera Bassi when an unidentified biker stopped them near TDI City, Landran.Suddenly, the miscreant opened the door of their vehicle and allegedly pointed a gun at them. He threatened them to hand over all cash they had. Vinay gave them the cash. The miscreant fled after taking the key of the vehicle and a mobile phone.Harjinder Singh, investigating officer, said, “The investigation is on. We have scrutinised CCTV footage, but didn’t find any lead. The call dump of the area has been lifted to get more details.” A case has been registered at the Sohana police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-92k-robbed-at-gunpoint-81304
07-05-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Now, pay more for petrol, diesel in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6City residents will now have to shell out Rs 2.80 extra for petrol and Rs 2.72 for diesel. The UT Administration has decided to enhance VAT on the fuel to mobilise extra revenue amid the Covid crisis.With the hike in the VAT rates of petrol and diesel, the Administration will get additional revenue of nearly Rs 100 crore during the financial year 2020-21.The UT prices of petrol and diesel will continue to be slightly less than the neighbouring statesVP Singh Badnore, UT AdministratorThe new prices of petrol will now be Rs 68.62 per litre and diesel Rs 62.02 per litre.The new rates of VAT on petrol are “22.45 per cent or fixed rate of Rs 12.58 per litre, whichever is higher” and on diesel is “14.02 per cent or fixed rate of Rs 7.63 per litre, whichever is higher”.Earlier, the VAT on petrol and diesel was 17.45 per cent and 9.02 per cent, respectively.The new rates will come into effect from the midnight of May 6 and May 7.The existing rates of petrol and diesel in the city on Wednesday were Rs 65.82 and Rs 59.30, respectively.“The prices in the city will continue to be slightly less than the neighbouring states,” said UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-pay-more-for-petrol-diesel-in-chandigarh-81305
07-05-2020||---||No let-up, more worry, tally 124||Chandigarh, May 6Nine more persons in the city tested positive for Covid today, taking the tally to 124.Four family members of a community contact of a positive case of Bapu Dham Colony tested positive for the virus. They are an 18-year-old girl, a 35-year-old woman, a 41-year-old woman and a 24-year-old woman. Two more members of the same family have been sampled and their report is awaited.A 20-year-old youth and a 65-year-old woman from another house in the colony have also tested positive for Covid. A 15-year-old boy and a 58-year-old woman from yet another family have also been found positive for Covid from Bapu Dham. They are community contacts of a ward attendant of the GMCH from the colony, who had tested positive on April 24.There are 66 positive cases from Bapu Dham now.A 34-year-old resident of Sector 56, who was sampled at the Civil Hospital, Mohali, and tested at the PGI, has been reported positive for Covid. He has seven family contacts at the Sector 56 house and nine more at Sector 52. All of them are asymptomatic and have been quarantined at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-let-up-more-worry-tally-124-81306
07-05-2020||hali||Zirakpur man +ve for Covid||A resident of Zirakpur has tested positive for Covid, raising the district tally to 96.The 57-year-old man is a resident of Golden Sand, a residential colony in Zirakpur area. This is the first ever Covid case reported from the Zirakpur area.Disclosing this, Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the man had undergone operation at a private hospital in Sector 26, Panchkula, recently. He said during the treatment, the hospital authorities had sent the samples of the man for testing, the reports of which were positive.He said the management of the private hospital had informed them in this regard. He said the patient had been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. The Civil Surgeon said teams of the health department had been sent to the Zirakpur area to take the samples of the family of the affected person and other contacts.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said so far, a total of 2,605 persons had successfully undergone the quarantine period while the number of people currently undergoing quarantine period was 971. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-man-ve-for-covid-81307
07-05-2020||---||Traders want spacious Sec 17 market opened||Chandigarh, May 6With their shops closed, traders in Sector 17 are facing problems and have demanded that they be allowed to operate the way establishments in sector markets are running.“We have fixed liabilities of employees’ salaries and expenses like household, electricity bills for office, bank loans, office rent as well house and property tax,” said Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17.Maintaining social distancing would not be a problem, keeping in view the vast open space and spacious showrooms, if the market was opened, he said. “We urge the Prime Minister to waive the interest on all types of loan for up to six months and a special package for middle-class traders for their expenses,” he added.“I don’t see much harm in allowing opening of shops in Sector 17 on odd-even basis. It has plenty of open space as compared to other sector markets. Keep eating joints shut for a few more days as these witness rush,” Prem Garg, president of the city unit of AAP.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the Sector 17 market could not be opened because the Ministry of Home Affairs did not allow market complexes to open. He said they were reviewing the situation on daily basis, adding that not only Sector 17, but other markets in the city would be opened in a phased manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-want-spacious-sec-17-market-opened-81308
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||ISBT-17 set to house fruit, veggie traders from Sec 26||The UT Administration has made all arrangements to temporarily shift the fruit and vegetable market from Sector 26 to the bus stand in Sector 17.A trader at the Sector 26 mandi said nearly 150 commission agents would be shifted to the new premises on Monday and the sale and purchase of fruits and vegetables would start from Tuesday. He said they had sought passes for 25 vendors for each commission agent.Earlier, the traders were reluctant to move to the bus stand, but agreed after and assurance of facilities there. He said the mandi would be shifted for nearly a month.The trader said their was enough stock of essential commodities.On initial problems to be faced at the new place, he said they would try to streamline the supply chain at the earliest. He said the city would be divided into four zones — East, West, North and South. The vendors will be sent to every nook and corner of the city.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said the arrangements for temporary shifting of the market at the ISBT-17 had been finalised. He added that specific vendors had been assigned to particular sectors and their medical screening and ID cards distribution etc had already been done. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/isbt-17-set-to-house-fruit-veggie-traders-from-sec-26-81309
07-05-2020||Naina Mishra||Sub-Inspector Harjeet Singh expresses gratitude to PGI doctors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6Patiala Sub-Inspector Harjeet Singh, whose amputated hand was successfully re-implanted, today visited the PGI for a follow-up. He was discharged on April 30.Harjeet Singh took to the social media for the first time to thank the team of PGI doctors who performed the surgery. He said: “I am thankful to the team, led by Dr Sunil Gaba, for taking care of me. Doctors have given me a new lease of life.”Plastic surgeon Sunil Gaba said: “He was recovering fine till now and there is a little movement in his fingers. His hand will require physiotherapy for a few days. It will take one to two months for him to properly move his fingers. However, wrist movement will be restricted for some time.”He said: “Initial seven to 10 days were crucial for re-implanted. For two to three days, there is always a high chance of blockage of blood vessels. Then the chance of infections increases.”On April 14, after two days of the first surgery, another surgery was carried for at least 10 hours.Unpreserved part poses a challenge“We get five to six cases of amputated body parts every month, but we are able to save only those where the amputated part is not immersed in water or ice,” said Dr Gaba.The reason which led to successful surgery of Singh was that the amputated hand was well-preserved and reached the PGIMER in three hours of being severed. The amputated part should reach the hospital in four to six hours. A pressure bandage should be tied on the cut part so that there is minimal blood loss and patient can be operated on.Gaba added: “Only a clean-cut and non-crushed body part can be re-implanted.”How to preserve an amputated part?Whom to consult?A plastic surgeon in the area should be immediately contacted so that he/she could make arrangements for surgery. If the facility is not available locally, one should report to local hospital where the amputated part can be preserved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sub-inspector-harjeet-singh-expresses-gratitude-to-pgi-doctors-81312
07-05-2020||---||Now, shops in Mohali to open from 7 am to 3 pm||Mohali, May 6What’s Allowedn People can visit banks from 9 am to 1 pm.Only two persons, besides driver, allowed in four-wheelers, that too, only for permitted activities. No pillion riders will be permitted on two-wheelers.As further relaxation in timings for opening shops, the district administration today allowed shopkeepers to open their shops from 7 am to 3 pm. Earlier, they were asked to open shops from 9 am.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan said as per the revised guidelines of the state government, they had given certain relaxations in addition to those already in place. Amendments made vide this order shall supersede previous orders to that extent. He said the shops would remain open from 7 am to 3 pm and added that that all other restrictions placed vide orders of May 4 shall continue.Girish Dayalan said liquor shops might be allowed to open from tomorrow as per the state government policy subject to the fact that they adhere to the time restrictions placed on other shops — 7 am to 3 pm. Further, no liquor shops can be opened in containment areas/zones, he added.Any violations shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code, 1860, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-shops-in-mohali-to-open-from-7-am-to-3-pm-81313
07-05-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration takes up matter with Mohali||Chandigarh, May 6A day after Covid-19 positive patient fled the city to his hometown in Uttar Pradesh, putting several lives in danger, the UT Administration today raised the matter with its Mohali counterpart during a video conference of tricity DCs.“We raised the issue with the Punjab Government. How could they allow him to go before his test result was out? Even if one has to be allowed to isolate oneself at home, there is a process that needs to be followed. And an undertaking is required from the person. It is also to be checked whether he has a separate room for isolation,” said a top UT officer.“It is a gross negligence on part of the Civil Hospital, Mohali. It is a crime on part of the patient to have travelled 800 kms on motorcycle, violating the lockdown,” he added.Mohali DC Girish Dayalan said: “They (UT) had discussed the matter. Without test report result, he could not have been quarantined at the hospital. We had directed him to do the same at his home.”Mohali Civil Surgeon Manjeet Singh said: “The patient had mild symptoms. Thus, he was asked to isolate himself after being tested.”Timely callThe 34-year-old man, who rode a bike with a pillion rider from Sector 56 to Pratapgarh in Uttar Pradesh, got a call from a doctor when he was 20 km away from his village.“The doctor told him he was Covid positive. The patient called the village pradhan. He was shifted to a hospital and the pillion rider has been home quarantined,” Udaipur police station SHO told The Tribune over phone.Meanwhile, in Chandigarh, about 70-80 of his contacts in Sector 56 and Sector 52, have been home quarantined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-takes-up-matter-with-mohali-81315
07-05-2020||---||NDPS accused flees police custody, caught||Chandigarh, May 6A 26-year-old man, who was arrested by the crime branch with heroin two days ago, escaped from the police custody and was caught again after a chase yesterday.The incident happened when the accused was being taken back to the jail after being produced before the duty magistrate in Sector 22.Accused Dishant Goel, a resident of Sector 21, was arrested with 10.29-gram heroin on May 4.After completing the formalities at the duty magistrate house, the police were about to leave when the accused pushed them while sitting in the police vehicle and fled the spot.He ran for 200 metres before he was nabbed again by the police.The police said a case under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused.He was later remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ndps-accused-flees-police-custody-caught-81316
07-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Nod to industry operations||As per the directions of the state government, Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill has ordered allowing industrial operations in the district with a few conditions.This comes as a relief to industrialists and workers, especially in Mandi Gobindgarh. The DC ordered industrialists to make sure that the main gate, machinery, canteen, meeting room, conference hall, lifts, toilets and the drinking water places are disinfected twice a day. Factory owners will ensure disinfection of employees, not more than two to four should use the lift, no unwanted visitor on the premises, the list of nearby dispensary, clinic and the doctors be displayed. She said it would be a responsibility of the owner to brief the staff about the Covid instructions and to provide them with masks, gloves and sanitisers.She said officers would conduct surprise checking of the units and if any violation was found, strict action would be initiated against the owner. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nod-to-industry-operations-81317
07-05-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Lockdown knocks down salon business in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6Non-essential commercial ventures, including parlours and salons, suffered heavy losses due to the lockdown in April. While rental charges pose a major concern for those in beauty businesses, those employed in the sector have not received their salaries for April.Around 60 per cent of the staff at salons are urban migrants (mostly women and transgenders), especially from the North-East. Most of them want to return to their hometowns, fearing unemployment.Richa Agarwal, owner of Cleopatra, a salon chain with seven branches across tricity, says, “In Chandigarh, gyms, spas and parlours were closed on March 15. Having saved up on GST and other expenses, we have suffered losses worth Rs 10 lakh.” The salon employs 250 staff members with an average income of Rs 20,000 per person. “We pay heavy rents, and even if salons open by June, people may not come due to the Covid fear. The business will continue to suffer losses if the situation remains the same,” she adds.Rekha, 45, a freelancer, said, “I am going home to Uttarakhand. I haven’t been able to make any money in April. I had barely saved enough for me and my son to get through June. I can’t take risk.”Things have not been any different for Veer Kaul of Headmasters. “Our sector has mostly women entrepreneurs. At our three branches in the tricity, nearly 150 people work. Sixty per cent staff comprises migrants from Uttarakhand and North-East, most of whom will be unemployed if the business shuts. We haven’t been able to pay our staff for April because there’s no money,” he says. With no sales from mid-March to April, Veer pegs his approximate losses at Rs 25 lakh.Tamanna, a transgender, who works at a small parlour in Mohali, says, “We have been asked to stay at home and we haven’t been paid a penny. I don’t know what to do.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-knocks-down-salon-business-in-chandigarh-81318
07-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||Birthday surprise for specially abled||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6A visually challenged man, who holds MA and BEd degree, got a home when he turned 39 today.Forced to take to begging due to the traumatic family life and failed attempts to get a job, Billu Paswan was today shifted to Sector 21-based Cheshire Homes, a place for the destitute, by the local Municipal Corporation.He has been living and begging outside Sai mandir in Sector 29 for nearly 2.5 years.“I spotted him several times on way to office. He was living under a tree. We got him shifted to Cheshire Homes and we will try to find a job for him. He can work in a call centre or helpline,” said Vivek Trivedi, social development officer, MC.After schooling from the blind school in Sector 26, he did his MA (Hindi) from the PU. Later, he pursued his BEd from Government College of Education, Sector 26, in 2008 and also cleared CTET. He completed his education through donations.“I tried for teacher’s job and took several examinations, but could not find a job. Till 2017, I was living at a hostel in BEd college on compassionate grounds. Then they asked me to vacate. I had nowhere to go and started living outside the temple,” he said.His father is mentally challenged and is admitted at a hospital in Palsora and mother died when he was a child.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/birthday-surprise-for-specially-abled-81319
07-05-2020||Mohali||First train with migrants to leave for UP today||The first train carrying 1,188 migrant workers will leave for Hardoi, Uttar Pardesh, from the Mohali railway station at 10 am tomorrow.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the train would comprise 22 bogies with 54 passengers in each bogey. He said the process would continue for 20 days. In the beginning, one train would be started and later on, as per the requirement, two or more trains would be added.He further said the train had been started with the consent of the UP Government and there would be no inter-district stoppage, which meant starting from Mohali, the train would only come to a halt at the railway station in Hardoi.Dayalan said the migrants would be given packed food free of cost during the journey. All expenses would be borne by the government. Detailing the modalities, he said, “It is only after getting acceptance from the inbound state (where the train is scheduled to go), the DC sends indent to the railways and the train is allotted.”He said, “The passengers were informed via SMS, which also serves as a ticket for them, to report at one of the eight collection centres in the district for screening.”He further said the passengers would board the buses going to the railway station in a staggered manner. He said the first train would leave for UP tomorrow, while the second train would also go to UP the next day.The Deputy Commissioner appealed to all migrants that no one should go to the railway station directly because the boarding would be strictly as per the messages they received. He said these messages should not be forwarded or shared with others as message sent to each allottee would be verified at the designated collection centres.He said the railway station would be barricaded and cordoned off with no possibility of individual movement and added that only government buses with identified and duly screened migrants would be permitted at the railway station. — TNS1,188 stranded migrant workers in first batchThe first batch of 1,188 migrant workers in Mohali district will travel by train to Hardoi in Uttar Pardesh from the Mohali railway station. The train will comprise 22 bogies with 54 passengers in each bogey. Around 20 Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel will travel on the trains for the protection of passengers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-train-with-migrants-to-leave-for-up-today-81320
07-05-2020||---||Over 50 Bapu Dham residents moved to quarantine centre||Chandigarh, May 6Following Chandigarh Tribune reports, the UT Administration has finally woken up to reality and has shifted around 60 persons from densely populated Bapu Dham Colony (BDC), Sector 26, where home quarantining is difficult, to a quarantine centre (community centre) in Sector 47.“About 50-60 people from Bapu Dham have been shifted to community centre in Sector 47. We did not want them to get infected from the area affected more in the colony. They will have to stay for 14 days under quarantine at the community centre,” said UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta.In two back-to-back reports — ‘Chandigarh fails to shift people from densely populated areas to quarantine centres’ and ‘Space crunch in colonies a cause for concern in UT’ — it was highlighted that people from BDC were not being shifted to quarantine centers, which may increase chances of infection.About 50 per cent of the cases are from the BDC. Nearly, 50 to 52 thousand people reside in 2,500 houses. The administration even ignored suggestions of the Coordination Committee of Experts from the PGI, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 to open Covid care centres and quarantine centres.66 positive in BDCAs many as eight positive cases have been reported from Bapu Dham in the last 24 hours thus taking total count of the colony to 66.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-50-bapu-dham-residents-moved-to-quarantine-centre-81321
07-05-2020||---||Conduct rigorous screening for 3 days, Health Dept told||Chandigarh, May 6UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday expressed grave concern over rising Covid-19 positive cases in Bapu Dham Colony.During the daily review meeting, the Administrator directed the Health Department to conduct intensive and extensive screening of all persons residing in six containment zones for three days.The Administrator directed the Director, Health Services, to examine all cases of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), which could be actually symptoms of Covid and test all such suspected cases.The Administrator also desired that the number of testing of persons should be substantially increased, so that all cases are automatically captured at the earliest.He asked the citizens to report to the nearest dispensary incase they feel sick or show any symptoms of Covid.The Administrator also appealed the residents to intimate the administration about any person in their area showing symptoms of Covid-19.Home delivery of books gets nodSiren at 7pm to make people aware of ongoing lockdown||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/conduct-rigorous-screening-for-3-days-health-dept-told-81322
07-05-2020||---||319 stranded in Mohali leave for home||Mohali, May 6With the drive to help stranded people return home entering its third day today, a total of 319 persons, including students, from Nayagaon and Kharar left for their hometowns in Uttarakhand, J&K and Leh in 13 buses.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the stranded people were thoroughly screened as part of the medical procedure. He said social distancing norms were also strictly observed at the time of carrying out the screening process and boarding of buses.Dayalan said a total of 175 students staying in Nayagaon were sent back in seven buses to Leh (Ladakh), while from Kharar, a total of 106 people hailing from Uttarakhand and J&K were sent back via six buses to their destination.He said till date, a total of 1,196 people from Uttarakhand, J&K and Leh had been sent to their states in 45 buses. He said on the first day, 464 people were sent back to their home states in 18 buses, while on Day 2, 413 people were sent in 14 buses.The stranded people expressed heartfelt gratitude to the state government and the district administration for facilitating their travel back to their states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/319-stranded-in-mohali-leave-for-home-81323
07-05-2020||---||Consumer Commission jurisdiction not ‘driven out’ by RERA: High Court||Chandigarh, May 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court today ruled that the jurisdiction of a Consumer Commission under the Consumer Protection Act was not driven out with promulgation of the ‘RERA’ Act. As such, its orders could not be declared nullity and non-est.The ruling by Justice Lisa Gill through video-conferencing came on a petition filed by Ansal Lotus Melange Projects Private Limited against the Punjab State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission and other respondents.The petitioner had challenged two orders passed by the Commission on a complaint filed under the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act for refund of Rs 18, 11,578, along with 18 per cent per annum interest and compensation.It was alleged in the complaint that the builder had come up with the project at Kharar-Landran road in Mohali district and had offered units/shops for sale. Possession of the unit was to be delivered within three years from booking/allotment. But the petitioner allegedly failed to handover the possession within the stipulated period. Rather, development work was not carried out by the petitioner at the site.The Commission held that the complainants were entitled to the refund of the amount deposited, along with 12 per cent per annum interest and Rs 50,000 compensation. Challenging the order before the High Court, the petitioner’s counsel the Commission lacked authority or jurisdiction to take cognisance of any matter covered under the Real Estate Regulatory Authority Act, which was a complete code in itself. It was “vehemently” argued that ‘RERA’ was a comprehensive enactment complete in itself and it dealt with all the disputes which may arise between a developer and the allottee.Justice Gill asserted there was no dispute that the ‘RERA’ was a complete code in itself. A regulatory authority had been set up for regulation and promotion of the real estate sector and to ensure sale of plots, apartments etc., in an efficient and transparent manner, besides protecting the interest of the consumers and to further establish an adjudicating mechanism for speedy dispute redressal.An appellate tribunal had also been established for hearing appeals from the decisions, directions and orders of the regulatory authority. But Section 88 of ‘RERA’ specified that the provisions of the Act were not in derogation of the provisions of any other law for the time being in force.Justice Gill added counsel for the petitioner was unable to deny that the Supreme Court in “Pioneer Urban Land and Infrastructure Ltd and another versus the Union of India and others” specifically held that the remedies afforded to the allottees of plots/apartments etc., under various statutes were concurrent remedies. The allottees were in a position to avail their remedies under the CP Act, RERA as well as the Bankruptcy Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consumer-commission-jurisdiction-not-driven-out-by-rera-high-court-81324
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Six arrested for holding meet in Covid hit Sec 30-B||Six residents of an ‘affected pocket’ in Sector 30-B were arrested today by the police for holding a meeting to mobilise people and put pressure on the UT administration to open the area, which is sealed as a large number of Covid-19 cases are being reported from there.Police said they received an information that some people are holding a meeting in a park in the sealed area. After reaching the spot, the police found around 30 persons who asked to be allowed to move out of the sealed area.Officials said before holding the meeting an announcement was made using a loudspeaker asking locals to remove their cars parked in the park.Those arrested have been identified as Sushil Kumar, Partap Singh, Surinder Singh, Hakam Singh, Harsh and Surjit Singh. Six persons along with 25 others were booked on the complaint of Executive Magistrate Sat Pal under Sections 188, 269, 270 of the IPC and under Section 51 B of the Disaster Management Act, said the police. The six men were released on bail.Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO, Industrial Area police station, said since a large number of people had gathered in the park they asked those leading the meeting to come forward for deliberations, which helped them in identifying the conveners of the meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-arrested-for-holding-meet-in-covid-hit-sec-30-b-81325
07-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Salary deducted, safai sewaks threaten to boycott work||Dera Bassi, May 6 Sanitation workers in Dera Bassi threatened to boycott work claiming that their salary has been deducted. In Dera Bassi, around 150 safai sewaks are working under six different contractors. They said on the one hand, the entire country is honouring safai sewaks for working during testing times and on the other hand, the administration has deducted their salary.  Sanitation workers led by Harvinder Kumar, head of the Cleaning Workers’ Union, Derabassi, threatened to go on strike if pay cut was not withdrawn. Harvinder said in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, safai sewaks were hesistant to work, but they convinced them.  He alleged that some safai sewaks were paid Rs 2,900, Rs 2,700 and some Rs 3,000 instead of their monthly salary of Rs 7,000. Harvinder said it’s very difficult to run a household for such a mere amount. Officials of the Municipal Council said salary of those sanitataion workers was deducted who didn’t come on duty for more than 10 to 15 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/salary-deducted-safai-sewaks-threaten-to-boycott-work-81326
07-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Cong councillor’s worker tests +ve||Panic gripped Sirhind as soon as it came out that a labourer working on a combine harvester of Gurpreet Singh Lalli, councillor-cum-organiding secretary, District Congress Committee, tested Covid-19 positive.  Lalli along with 12 workers had gone to Uttar Pradesh for harvesting wheat and had come back from UP recently. Both Lalli and his mother are councillors. Sources informed that Lalli was home-quarantined but he continued to serve langar. He even honoured frontline warriors, Fatehgarh Sahib SDM and policemen in his ward.  Lalli said he along with his 12 workers had gone to UP to harvest wheat.  Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, said they came to know that two combine workers have come back from UP and they were home-quarantined.  He said  one of them tested positive. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-councillors-worker-tests-ve-81327
07-05-2020||Amit Bathla||Shortage of stock has booze lovers disappointed in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 6Though liquor shops in the district were allowed to open during the lockdown today, tipplers had to return empty-handed as a majority of the liquor vends remained shut throughout the day apparently due to the shortage of stock.According to officials, almost all liquor vends in urban areas, including Sector 10, 11, Industrial Area Phase 2, were closed. However, outlets in rural areas remained operational.36 shops open in rural areasAn official of the Excise Department claimed that around 36 shops, mostly located in rural areas, opened today. Panchkula has a total of 68 liquor vends in 34 zones. Each zone has two liquor stores. The auction for three zones (Sector 10-11, 5-8 and Industrial Area Phase 2) for the 2020-2021 year is yet to be held.Some liquor vends were closed due to the restrictions in movement. “A licensee from Sonepat, who has 10 vends, kept his outlets closed due to movement issues,” sources said.However, liquor vends in Sector 20 and 21 were operational where long queues of booze lovers were witnessed. They had marked white circles for people to maintain social distancing.Surjeet, who was waiting for his turn at a liquor shop in Sector 21, said, “I reached here by 8 am, but the outlet opened at 9 am. I will buy enough stock as the government may revoke permission to open liquor shops like Mumbai.”Covid cessThe Haryana Government has introduced 'Covid cess' on liquor bottles, which will vary from Rs 5 to Rs 50. Liquor shops will remain open from 7 am to 7 pmLiquor sales badly affected“A total of around Rs 152 crore was generated from liquor sales in the 2019-2020 financial year in Panchkula. In March, the district earned Rs 7.5 crore from liquor sales, while no revenue was earned in April,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shortage-of-stock-has-booze-lovers-disappointed-in-panchkula-81328
07-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||Risking own life to ensure victims get dignified cremation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 6At a time when everyone keeps away from attending or performing the last rites of those succumbing to Covid-19, fearing the virus may spread, Sukhwinder Singh Saini (29) is leading the charge of handling such bodies. He, along with others, has cremated five bodies so far.Earlier, Sukhwinder, a sanitary inspector with the MC, used to ensure cleanliness at the cremation ground. However, after the imposition of the curfew, he was also given the charge of sanitising different public areas, along with the cremation of Covid victims.I don’t fear cremating virus-infected patients. God has given us an opportunity to serve people, and we must do so. My colleagues in the MC and the medical staff are handling a tougher jobSukhwinder, Sanitary Inspector, MC As soon as he receives a call regarding the death of a Covid patient, he rushes to the cremation ground in Sector 25. “When a Covid patient dies, the hospital concerned informs his/her family members to reach the cremation ground at a particular time. I also get informed by my seniors and our team, along with a sanitation vehicle, reaches Sector 25,” he says.“By the time the ambulance reaches there, we get the area cleaned. Following this, we sanitise the electric crematorium. We then provide PPE kits to the workers of the cremation ground. After this, we sanitise the ambulance staff,” says Sukhwinder, who joined the civic body on an outsourcing basis in 2014.Asked about doing this courageous job in this time of crisis, he says, “I don’t fear cremating virus-infected patients. God has given us an opportunity to serve people, and we must do so. Also, there are my colleagues in the MC and even medical staff, who are handling a tougher job.”Dr Amrit Warring, Medical Officer of Health, MC, says, “We have formed a specialised team on the directions of MC Commissioner KK Yadav. We take all preparations before and after the cremation. We also ensure that there is no overcrowding. I appreciate my staff for treating everyone like their family. We feel blessed that we can help people in some way.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/risking-own-life-to-ensure-victims-get-dignified-cremation-81332
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mild cases to be treated at Chandigarh's ayurvedic hospital||The Sector 46 hospital has marked approximately 50 beds for Covid facility. Dr Naresh Mittal of Dhanwantri Hospital said, “The hospital has put all resources at the disposal of the Chandigarh Administration. The OPDs at the hospital will continue to function.”UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said, “As per the GOI guidelines, an ayurvedic doctor or MBBS doctor is required at the Covid care facility. We will be providing an MBBS doctor from the GMCH, Sector 32, for basic medication. The new patients with asymptomatic and mild symptoms and those who do not have home isolation facility will be shifted to the Sector 46 hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mild-cases-to-be-treated-at-chandigarhs-ayurvedic-hospital-81334
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sec 22 police post incharge transferred to Police Lines||239 vehicles impoundedChandigarh: The UT police impounded 33 vehicles, including 31 two-wheelers, for violating the social distancing norm on Wednesday. While two-wheelers had pillion riders, more than three persons were found travelling in a car. An auto was impounded since there is restriction on plying of autos in the city. Meanwhile, a total of 239 vehicles were impounded on Wednesday for various lockdown violations. The police also rounded up 143 persons and three persons were booked for not wearing a mask. TNSWebinar held on Covid-19Chandigarh: The University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences organised the 1st international pharmaceutical sciences webinar. Prof D Samba Reddy, College of Medicine, Texas,held a scientific conversation on Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sec-22-police-post-incharge-transferred-to-police-lines-81337
07-05-2020||Chandigarh||SBI donates Rs 8 lakh for slum children||PPE kits donatedChandigarh: The SBI donated 100 PPE kits and 40 litres of sanitiser to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. Dr Ravi Gupta, Medical Superintendent, received the consignment from Lalit Mohan, Deputy General Manager (DGM), and Rajesh Gupta, Regional Manager (RM), SBI. Mohan said each PPE kit consists of one coverall, nitrile gloves, goggles, face shields, 3-ply surgical mask and shoe cover.Safety essentials distributedChandigarh: Hockey Chandigarh officials donated sanitisers, face masks and knitted washable hand gloves to the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation and the Food and Supply Department. The consignment was handed over by Anil Vohra, Secretary General, Hockey Chandigarh, along with Vice-President Satinder Sharma, Olympian Deepak Thakur and Joint Secretary Ajay Singh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sbi-donates-rs-8-lakh-for-slum-children-81338
