07-08-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Court rejects former UT cops’ application to become approver in alleged disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 7The local court here on Friday rejected the applications of co-accused former UT inspectors to become approvers and be pardoned in the of Balwant Singh Multani case.The court of Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) Deepika Singh, while pronouncing the judgement, opined that the investigating agency — Special Investigation Team (SIT) — can make a request to the court for tendering for pardon for the accused.Three former UT cops, Inspector Jagir Singh, Sub-Inspector Harsahai Sharma and Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Kuldeep Singh, co-accused with former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the disappearance of former CITCO employee Balwant Singh Multani, had filed an application in the court seeking permission to turn approvers and be pardoned in the ongoing probe against them.Former DGP Saini is the main accused in the case.The court of CJM Deepika Singh, in its order, further opined: “However, in the present scenario, it would be proper if the investigating agency independently applies its mind and moves an application for grant of pardon that no direct evidence is available with them. The investigating agency should consider as to if it can collect the pieces of evidence so as to put all the accused to trial or the investigating agency if feels the necessity of making some of the accused as approvers and, if so, how many accused and which particular accused needs to be made approver keeping in view role in the commission of the offence. After carrying out this exercise, the investigating agency can make a request to the court for tendering of pardon to those particular accused.”Sources said now on behalf of the three accused, the SIT will file an application to become approvers in the case.All three co-accused UT cops had recorded their statements under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) before the judicial magistrates on different dates in Mohali recently.Both Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh are also co-accused in the previous FIR registered at Mataur police station against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the alleged disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani. Anokh Singh and Jagir Singh are on bail in this case.It is worth mentioning that former Inspector Jagir Singh is also co-accused, along with Inspector Anokh Singh, in another FIR registered at Kharar police station (Sadar) on July 27 on the charges of fabricating evidence.They were booked under Section 195-A of the IPC on the complaint of Inspector Sukhvir Singh, SHO, Kharar police station (Sadar). Anokh Singh was arrested by Mohali police against the fresh FIR and after taking him on three days police remand, he was sent to judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-rejects-former-ut-cops-application-to-become-approver-in-alleged-disappearance-of-balwant-singh-multani-123431
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Three more coronavirus fatalities take Chandigarh’s death toll to 23||Three more coronavirus deaths took Chandigarh’s death toll to 23, the UT’s medical bulletin said on Friday.All three victims were over 60.  An 82-year-old man from Sector 7 who was diabetic died of a cardiac arrest at the Civil Hospital in Sector 48. He tested positive for coronavirus on July 24, and had been admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 with complaints of chest pain and breathing difficulty, and later had to be put on a ventilator.    The second case was a 62-year-old man from Sector 39 who was brought dead to the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital at Sector 16 on Thursday. He tested positive after his death.The third case was a 77-year-old man from Sector 25 who also died at the Sector 48 hospital. He tested positive for COVID-19 on August 1 at GMCH-32. He was diabetic and had hypertension. The bulletin said he died of cardiac arrested on Friday afternoon.Chandigarh also reported 47 new coronavirus cases that took the union territory’s tally to 1,374. The fifure also includes 11 people who tested positive in a rapid antigen test.  Three of the new cases were over 65.Seventeen of Friday’s cases were contacts of previously diagnosed cases---either family members of workplace contacts.More than a quarter---about 530 cases---of the city's total COVID cases are still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-more-coronavirus-fatalities-take-chandigarhs-death-toll-to-23-123428
07-08-2020||---||50 fresh cases of COVID-19 surface in Mohali||Mohali, August 7Mohali on Friday reported 50 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total count in the district to 1,169.Meanwhile, a two-year-old boy became the latest fatality in the Mohali district, taking the total number of deaths due to coronavirus to 18 in the district.The two-year-old boy was a resident of Phase 8 and was admitted to GMCH-32 with some ailment.Meanwhile, 23 patients recovered and were discharged from the hospital on Thursday.Most cases in the district have surfaced from Kharar, Derabassi, Zirakpur Nayagaon, Mohali and Lalru city.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all patients had been admitted to the COVID Care Centre in Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He added that all patients were responding well to the treatment.As of now, there are 648 cured and discharged patients while there are 503 active cases with 18 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-surface-in-mohali-123418
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration to reintroduce odd-even system in congested markets of city||Chandigarh Administration announced on Friday that it was reintroducing the odd-even system in eleven of the city’s most congested markets for the next six days.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore ordered the administration to implement the odd-even system in congested markets on the basis of the recommendations received from the Committee headed by Finance Secretary to contain spread of infection.The system will be reintroduced Krishna Market, Sector 41; Market area near old PNB Bank/Bihari Garment, Burail Chowk; Shastri Market, Sector 22; Patel Market, Sector 15; Sector 8 Internal Market; Azad Market, Sector 20; Palace Market, Sector 20; Booth Market, Sector 21; Palika Bazar, Sector 19; Sadar Market, Sector 19; and Janta Market, Sector 27, the UT administration said.The order also said that Sector 43’s Scooter Repair Market will remain closed on Sundays. Additionally, the following shops of Sector 22’s Mobile Marketwill remain closed for next six days:SCO 1010-11- Radha MarketSCO 1030-31- Attari MarketSCO 1004- Sweety MarketSCO 1003-04The decisions will be reviewed every week. The Sub-Divisional Magistrates will coordinate with Markets Associations for smooth functioning and strict enforcement of the above orders, the new order said.The administration has also decided to keep Sukhna lane closed on weekends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-reintroduce-odd-even-system-in-congested-markets-of-city-123407
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia detained by Chandigarh Police for protesting against Punjab govt||Senior Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia, along with SAD workers, were detained on Friday by Chandigarh police after they staged a protest near Punjab Raj Bhawan, demanding the dismissal of Punjab government over Hooch tragedy.The protestors were rounded up at Chandigarh's Sector 3, police station."A list of the protestors will be made, and further action will be taken," said a police official. Also read: Punjab Hooch tragedy: Amarinder ensures strict action, raises compensation to Rs 5 lakhMajithia's Facebook post claimed that "the Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh met the Hooch tragedy victims' families for 10 minutes, which showed that Captain's government is not bothered about them"."The Congress may back down from its responsibility towards the people, but the SAD will keep fighting to the last to get justice for these victims", read Majithia's post.Sharing a live post on Facebook, Majitia wrote in Punjabi: "ਮੁੱਖ ਮੰਤਰੀ ਵੱਲੋਂ ਨਕਲੀ ਸ਼ਰਾਬ ਦੁਖਾਂਤ ਦੇ ਪੀੜਤਾਂ ਨਾਲ 10 ਮਿੰਟ ਦੀ ਮਿਲਣੀ, ਇਹ ਸਪੱਸ਼ਟ ਕਰਦੀ ਹੈ ਕਿ ਕੈਪਟਨ ਸਰਕਾਰ ਨੂੰ ਪੰਜਾਬ ਦੇ ਲੋਕਾਂ ਪ੍ਰਤੀ ਕੋਈ ਹਮਦਰਦੀ ਨਹੀਂ ਹੈ। ਕਾਂਗਰਸ ਚਾਹੇ ਲੋਕਾਂ ਪ੍ਰਤੀ ਬਣਦੀ ਜ਼ਿੰਮੇਵਾਰੀ ਤੋੰ ਪਿੱਛੇ ਹੱਟਦੀ ਰਹੇ, ਪਰ ਸ਼੍ਰੋਮਣੀ ਅਕਾਲੀ ਦਲ 'ਜਾਅਲੀ ਸ਼ਰਾਬ ਘਟਨਾਕ੍ਰਮ' ਦੇ ਪੀੜਤਾਂ ਨੂੰ ਨਿਆਂ ਦਿਵਾਉਣ ਲਈ ਅਖ਼ੀਰ ਤੱਕ ਲੜਦਾ ਰਹੇਗਾ। #HoochTragedy #Protest Shiromani Akali Dal."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-leader-bikram-singh-majithia-detained-by-chandigarh-police-for-protesting-against-punjab-govt-123370
07-08-2020||---||Generate your own water bill||Chandigarh, August 6In view of Covid-19, the MC has created a facility wherein a consumer can upload his/her water meter reading on e-Sampark mobile application or e-Sampark web portal.“Based on the reading, we will be able to generate bills. Due to the pandemic, we were unable to send our staff for taking the meter reading and the bills were being generated on an average basis. With this facility, things will be different. Consumers have to fill the numbers on their water meter and post a picture of it,” said a senior MC official.The facility has been developed by the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC), with support from the National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology.Mayor Raj Bala Malik and MC Commissioner KK Yadav inaugurated the application for uploading the reading of water meters.The Mayor said android/IOS users could install the e-Sampark mobile application and thereafter, meter reading could be uploaded with its picture. “The details of the water account number are also required to be added. Those who have already downloaded the mobile application will be required to update the same,” she said.She said this would enable the consumers to submit their water readings and reduce the complaints of excess/wrong billing.The complete process for submitting the water readings is available on the website of corporation. The consumers should adhere to the instructions and water reading should be submitted only during the period when it is due, as is described on the website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/generate-your-own-water-bill-123095
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Suspended cop seeks interim bail for son’s wedding||Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI court, has issued a notice to the CBI on an application submitted by suspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, who is an accused in a graft case, seeking interim bail to attend the wedding of her son.While attaching the invitation card and booking receipt of a hotel as proofs of the wedding, Kaur has moved the application under Section 439 of the CrPC for participating and performing rituals on the occasion of her son’s marriage on August 14.Jaswinder Kaur surrendered before the court on July 25 and is under the judicial custody in the Burail jail.Terminder Singh, counsel of the petitioner, pleaded that the presence of Jaswinder Kaur in the marriage function was necessary. The petitioner has also given an undertaking that she will not visit the Mani Majra police station or meet anyone connected with the case. It was also stated that the she will not visit any place except for her house or the hotel. The court has fixed August 10 as the next date of hearing.Terminder Singh also moved a separate application before the court for directing the investigation officer concerned of the CBI to preserve the recording of CCTV cameras for June 30 from 10 am to 4 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspended-cop-seeks-interim-bail-for-sons-wedding-123096
07-08-2020||---||21-yr-old youth arrested in rape case||Mohali, August 6The Balongi police have arrested a 21-year-old youth for allegedly raping a girl for seven days consecutively.The accused has been identified as Charanpreet Singh Manu, a resident of Khuni Majra here. He was working as a labourer.The police said the victim’s age is between 16 and 18 years and it was not confirmed if she was a minor. The victim and the accused were friends, said the police. The victim told the police that the accused took her to his rented room in Balongi village and raped her for a week there.Inspector Amardeep Singh, SHO of the Balongi police station, said: “The accused was sent to one-day police custody by a local court today. The victim’s age would be determined by a test. Further investigation is on.”A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) of the IPC at the Balongi police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/21-yr-old-youth-arrested-in-rape-case-123097
07-08-2020||---||Two arrested for Pinjore man’s murder||Panchkula, August 6The Panchkula police have arrested two persons in connection with the murder of a man, whose body was found in a car near Madawala village in Pinjore last month.The suspects have been identified as Vikramjit Singh, a resident of Sangrur in Punjab, and Avtar Singh, a resident of Fatehabad in Haryana.According to the police, they were produced before a local court today, which remanded them in four-day police custody.On July 10, the police were informed that a car met with an accident on Siswa road in Pinjore and the driver of the car died in the mishap.However, the post-mortem report raised doubt over the cause of his death. It was revealed that the victim died due to strangulation. Later, the investigation was handed over to the Sector 26 crime branch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-for-pinjore-mans-murder-123098
07-08-2020||---||Child trafficking: Statements of infants’ parents recorded||Chandigarh, August 6The UT police today brought the parents of two newborn children, who were found after a child trafficking racket was busted, to the city and recorded their statements under Section 164 of the CrPC.A few days ago, the police had nabbed five persons, including a Punjab Police constable and two ASHA workers, and recovered a two-day-old boy who was to be sold in the city. Their interrogation also led to the recovery of a 11-day-old girl child, who was sold for Rs1 lakh to a family in Sector 40.The police traced the parents of the boy in Malerkotla and girl’s parents in Muktsar. They were brought to the city and their statements were recorded.The suspects have reportedly admitted of selling several kids in the past. They used to sell a girl child for Rs80,000 to Rs1 lakh and a baby boy was sold for Rs4 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/child-trafficking-statements-of-infants-parents-recorded-123099
07-08-2020||Mohali||Eight booked for Jagatpura clash||A week after nine persons were injured in a clash between two groups over loud music being played by a family near a government school in Jagatpura village, the police today booked eight persons.Cross-cases have been registered on the statements of both parties.On the statement of Manu Ram (from the family that played the music), two persons have been booked under Sections 323, 324 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC. Whereas on the statement of Arshad (from the opposite party), six persons have been booked under Sections 323, 341, 506 and 148 of the IPC.Investigating officer ASI Sikandar Singh said, “Only Manu Ram is undergoing treatment for his injuries in the hospital while other eight injured persons were discharged. We have registered a case on the basis of medical reports of both parties.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-booked-for-jagatpura-clash-123100
07-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Can’t treat education institutes as gas stations, says HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 6More than a year after Panjab University refused extension of affiliation to DAV Institute of Management for running an MBA course, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has set aside the order saying educational institutes could not be treated as a gas station which could be commissioned or decommissioned depending upon business exigencies.The observation came after Justice Arun Monga took note of the fact that the withdrawal of temporary affiliation to the institute was purportedly due to overall brand equity loss of the MBA course apart from alleged non-compliance of prerequisite conditions for extension of affiliation.Justice Monga added educational institutes could not, and ought not, to be treated as retail outlets of a licensed commodity. “It is not a gas station/petrol retail outlet which can be commissioned or de-commissioned, in any manner, as the licensing authority so wishes, depending upon its business exigencies”.Justice Monga also took note of DAV Institute’s contention through its counsel RD Anand that the present scenario in the university was a reminder of Shakespearean expression ‘Something is rotten in the State of Denmark’, referring to the times when the country was festering with mismanagement.The judge asserted that the manifestation in the present case appeared to be that of institutional egos between Panjab University and the DAV Institute. “Perhaps, individuals at the helm of affairs are responsible for it. Internal friction ought not to have any place amongst academic coparceners viz the university and its affiliated colleges/institutes.”Justice Monga added that alma mater carried a certain sense of pride for the rest of every student’s life. But a peculiar situation had arisen in the case owing to institutional clash of country’s two premier institutions. The alumnae were facing the paradox of no alma mater. “If the stated stand of the respondent (University) is to prevail, the management institution shall have to shut down. Students who have already graduated would naturally be awarded degrees but, for rest of their lives, will be product of a defunct institution.”The Ruling:n Justice Monga ordered that the question whether AICTE or UGC/ affiliating university was the governing/regulating body for MBA course be kept in abeyance, awaiting decision by the Apex Court on the issuen Justice Monga held that the inspection committees constituted in the case and their inspection reports forming the basis for temporary extension refusal were not in accordance with law.n The competent authority of the respondent-varsity was directed to constitute a fresh inspection committee strictly in accordance with the provisions of UGC (Affiliation of Colleges by Universities) Regulations 2009.n Justice Monga added the panel should not include person who has already expressed adverse opinion against the grant of initial affiliation or its extension for the petitioner’s MBA programmen On receipt/consideration of inspection report of the newly constituted panel, the competent authority would take a fresh decision on extension. Till then, the petitioner’s affiliation for MBA programme would stand extendedn University was directed to let the petitioner complete all requirements for registration for academic session till fresh decision ‘No place for internal friction’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cant-treat-education-institutes-as-gas-stations-says-hc-123101
07-08-2020||---||Brand Factory charges extra for carry bag, fined Rs30,000||Mohali, August 6The District Consumer Disputes and Redressal Forum, Mohali, has slapped a fine of Rs30,000 on Brand Factory at Cosmo Plaza in Zirakpur for charging Rs 8 for a carry bag from a Chandigarh resident.The complainant, Karan Singla, a resident of Nirvana Society, Sector 49, Chandigarh, stated that he had purchased a shirt from the outlet on February 10, 2019 and was charged Rs8 extra for the carry bag.The complainant while alleging deficiency in service on the part of the opposite party had sought the refund along with a compensation of Rs4.5 lakh. He had also demanded Rs40,000 as litigation expenses.Forum president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma and member Natasha Chopra observed, “We feel that carry bag is definitely a part and parcel of the sale and the defendant had no legal or moral right to charge Rs8 extra for it. We feel that such type of malpractice should be curbed with strong hands. There is definitely an unfair trade practice adopted by the opposite party.”The forum further observed, “To curb such malpractice, it is important to impose a special cost on opposite party.”The forum further directed the opposite party to deposit Rs30,000 in the Legal Aid Account of this Commission so that in future it may refrain from adopting such type of malpractice.The forum directed the opposite party to pay Rs8 to the complainant within 30 days besides paying compensation of Rs2,000. The forum further ordered the opposite party to comply with the order within 30 days failing which the complainant will be entitled to interest at the rate of 12 per cent per annum on his compensation amount.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/brand-factory-charges-extra-for-carry-bag-fined-rs30-000-123103
07-08-2020||Mohali||Dera Bassi to have Covid centre||In view of the rising Covid-19 cases in Mohali, the district administration has decided to set up yet another Covid care centre at Dera Bassi.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “We are expecting a surge in cases. So, we have prepared our Covid spike management plan well in time and have now put it into action.”Notably, the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, has the capacity of 500 patients. The DC said a Covid care centre at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, has been operationalised with 200 dedicated beds for asymptomatic patients and added that they have arrangement of another 800 beds which can be used, if need arises.Dayalan said private hospitals have been told to reserve more beds. He said a special facility has been created in district hospital to accommodate and handle deliveries of Covid positive expectant mothers. The second TrueNat machine for testing has been installed at Dera Bassi.“Antigen testing has been commenced. We target to do at least a hundred tests a day on the contacts of positive patients so that we can check the further exponential growth in cases from those contacts. A dedicated call centre would be operationalised soon,” said the DC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-to-have-covid-centre-123104
07-08-2020||---||Bansal writes to Home Minister on Estate Rules||Chandigarh, August 6Former Member Parliament (MP) Pawan Kumar Bansal has written to Home Minister Amit Shah urging him to ask the Chandigarh Administration not to seek penalty from occupiers of property in city at the enhanced monthly rate of Rs 500 per sq ft for any alleged building violation or misuse.In a letter to the Home Minister, Bansal said the Capital of Punjab (Development and Regulation) Act, 1952 under which the Estate Rules were stated to have been framed only provided for a fine of Rs 500, which may extend to Rs 20 per day for the time the offence has continued. However, in contravention of the Act, the UT Administrator, promulgated the Chandigarh Estate Rules in 2007, followed by an amendment in 2009 to provide for monthly charges of Rs 500 per sq ft of area under violation.Bansal said the increase in the penalty has led to extreme distress to the occupiers of commercial, industrial and residential properties in the city.Bansal also said that the Punjab and Haryana High Court had declared the Estate Rules to be ultra vires of the Act and had directed the Administration to move, if it so desired, for amendment of the Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bansal-writes-to-home-minister-on-estate-rules-123105
07-08-2020||---||Second autopsy done, report expected today||Chandigarh, August 6The second autopsy of an elderly man, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his son’s house in Sector 10, was held at the PGI, Chandigarh, today.DSP (Central) Ram Gopal said the autopsy report would be received tomorrow.The victim, Amrit Singh Thapar of Delhi, had arrived with his wife to stay with his son at his house in Sector 10. He was found dead in the washroom of the house on August 2. The police had earlier claimed that the victim had hanged himself with the help of his turban in the washroom.However, later foul play was suspected behind his death following which further investigation was initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/second-autopsy-done-report-expected-today-123106
07-08-2020||---||Councillor among 57+ve||Chandigarh, August 6Another councillor tested positive for Covid today.Hardeep Singh of the SAD, a resident of Butrela, was found infected through a rapid antigen test at the Sector 22 dispensary today. Earlier, nominated councillor Ajay Dutta had contracted the virus.“I was feeling feverish for two days while my daughter’s throat was paining. I was today found positive while she tested negative for the virus. I am already in home isolation,” he told Chandigarh Tribune.The councillor had visited the BJP office yesterday. He has appealed to all those who came in touch with him in the last two-three days to get themselves tested on noticing Covid symptoms. The city today reported 57 new cases of Covid. The UT tally now stands at 1,327 with 529 active cases. Seven of the new cases were detected through rapid-antigen tests. The new cases have surfaced in Mani Majra, Burail, Behlana, Dadu Majra, Dhanas, Maloya, Sector 35, 34, 44, 45, 46, 22, 41, 38, 52, 32, 43, 19, 63 and 26.The new cases include an attendant in the EPF department, a BSNL employee and an international traveller. Almost all others are family contacts of Covid patients.Meanwhile, 62 patients were discharged from different health facilities and home isolation today.Panchkula tally 816Panchkula: The district on Thursday reported 54 new Covid cases, taking the tally to 816. Twenty ITBP personnel, aged between 30 and 53, were among the fresh cases. So far, 78 ITBP personnel have tested positive for the virus. Eight persons from Raipur Rani also tested positive. Six persons from Kalka and four men from Pinjore were also found infected. TNS68 fresh cases in Mohali, 36 recoverMohali: The district saw the highest spike of 68 coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the total count to 1,119. As many as 36 more patients recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospital. Most of the new cases have surfaced in Kharar, Dera Bassi, Zirakpur, Nayagaon, Mohali, Kurali and Lalru. Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said all patients were admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He said the new patients were contacts of infected persons. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/councillor-among-57ve-123108
07-08-2020||Mohali||8-yr-old raped on Rakhi, three cousins held||An eight-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her three cousins. The incident occurred on the Raksha Bandhan day, when brothers vow to protect their sisters from evil.The incident came to light when Sangeeta Jund, project director, Childline 1098, Mohali, was called today for handling a case of an alleged rape of a girl by her three cousins, who are stated to be over 20 years of age.The child confided in her mother, who took her to the Ambala Civil Hospital, where the child’s allegation was confirmed. The mother later approached the SHO of the Lalru police station.After a medical examination of the girl at the Civil Hospital in Dera Bassi, the Lalru police registered a case against the three under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and under the Indian Penal Code.The police raided the residence of the three suspects and apprehended them. They will be produced in a court tomorrow. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-yr-old-raped-on-rakhi-three-cousins-held-123109
07-08-2020||Panchkula||Woman orders rakhi, loses Rs 49K in fraud||A 24-year-old woman, Priya, a resident of Rathpur Colony in Pinjore, has claimed that she lost Rs 48,899 in two online frauds after she ordered rakhi for her brother, who lives in Noida. She filed a complaint in this regard at the Pinjore police station.According to the complainant, two persons, in the guise of customer care representatives of Flipkart and Axis Bank, obtained her personal details by hacking her smartphone.The FIR said the victim ordered a rakhi costing Rs150 on July 31 from Flipkart. It was supposed to be delivered by August 6, three days after the festival. Hence, she tried looking for a customer care representative of the company to get it delivered before Raksha Bandhan, but fell victim to the cyberfraud.The fraudsters asked her to follow their directions, after which she lost Rs48,899 in three separate transactions.A case under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Pinjore police station. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-orders-rakhi-loses-rs-49k-in-fraud-123110
07-08-2020||---||Sector 37 houses turn shops, residents inconvenienced||Chandigarh, August 6A number of shops are being run from houses at EWS Colony, Sector 37. The local authorities are allegedly turning a blind eye to the violation, leaving residents inconvenienced.It often leads to traffic jams and commotion in the evening. Fast food joints, mobile recharge shops and vegetable vendors are operating from the residential premises. Eight shops are being run in a small stretch.“There is no check at all. There is a lot of noise in the evening. The road outside these shops gets clogged. How come the authorities are allowing these to operate. Residents are facing a lot of difficulty due to this,” said a local resident.Similarly, several unregistered fruit and vegetable vendors are operating from the roadside in this sector. They often cause chaos on the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-37-houses-turn-shops-residents-inconvenienced-123112
07-08-2020||Panchkula||Man, son die in tractor accident||A 75-year-old man and his 45-year-old son were killed after being caught under their tractor while giving way to an ambulance near Barwala.The victims have been identified as Somnath, a former sarpanch of Dhandardu village in Barwala, and his son Sanjeev Kumar.The police said the mishap took place on the Rihod-Khatauli road yesterday when they were returning from the Barwala grain market on their tractor with a rotavator attached to it.The police said, “While allowing an ambulance to overtake, the tractor driver lost balance and the vehicle fell into agriculture fields. Passersby rushed to rescue the father-son duo trapped underneath the vehicle. They were taken out and sent to the Civil Hospital, where they were doctors brought dead.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-son-die-in-tractor-accident-123113
07-08-2020||---||ASI, a Covid warrior, down with virus||Chandigarh, August 6UT ASI Bhupinder Singh, who has been sensitising people to the need for taking precautions to check the spread of Covid, has tested positive for the virus and has been admitted to the GMSH-16.Sources said Bhupinder had mild symptoms following which his Covid test was conducted on August 3.Bhupinder was undergoing a promotion course at the Recruitment Training Centre (RTC), Police Lines, Sector 26, where three under-training recruits had recently tested positive. “I was attending a course there and sharing the mess where under-training recruits used to have food. After they tested positive, the RTC was closed and we were sent back to our units. However, my body started showing symptoms, following which doctors asked me to get myself tested,” he said.At least 165 persons — 48 under-training recruits and 117 cops — were undergoing training and promotion courses at the RTC.Manoj Kumar Meena, the officiating SSP (Traffic), said Bhupinder’s training mates had been isolated as a precautionary measure. He said Bhupinder had not visited Chandigarh Traffic Park (CTP), where he is posted, since July 15 as he was on training and for the past 10 days, he was at home. “He wasn’t in touch with anyone from the CTP. The RTC building has been sanitised,” he said.Bhupinder had carried out an intensive awareness campaign asking people to take precautions to check the spread of Covid in the city. He had come out with a song on coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asi-a-covid-warrior-down-with-virus-123114
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Snatchers target 2 women in Chandigarh||Two snatching incidents were reported from the city today. A gold chain was snatched in one of the incidents.Sources said a woman, Sarabjit Kaur, a resident of Sector 46, was purchasing vegetables from a vendor near her house when two motorcycle-borne miscreants arrived at the spot.The suspect riding pillion snatched her chain, but it fell on the road. The miscreants then sped away from the spot.The police were informed, who visited the spot. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area would be scrutinised.Another snatching incident was reported from Sector 19.The sources said miscreants riding a motorcycle snatched a gold chain from a woman, identified as Janki (72). She was sitting outside of her house, which is situated near the area police station, when she was targeted.The victim raised the alarm, but the suspects managed to escape from the spot. The police have initiated an investigation into the matter. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatchers-target-2-women-in-chandigarh-123115
07-08-2020||---||Sunny Enclave MD Jarnail Singh Bajwa in 7-day police remand||Mohali, August 6A local court today sent Sunny Enclave MD Jarnail Singh Bajwa to seven-day police remand.The real estate developer was arrested yesterday by the Kharar police in connection with a property fraud case registered against him last year. The day before yesterday, he was arrested in several cases of cheque bounce registered with the Chandigarh Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum.Kharar DSP Pal Singh said, “Now, we will interrogate him regarding a case registered against him on a complaint of Jaspreet Singh, a resident of Sector 39, Chandigarh. The suspect had sold a plot of the complainant to a third party in contravention of an agreement.”The case was registered under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC at the Sadar Kharar police station on November 2 last year, the police said.Bajwa’s counsel Dinesh Kumar Sharma said Jaspreet Singh, an NRI, had purchased a plot in Sector 123 from Bajwa for Rs34 lakh. He paid Rs27 lakh for it. Due to some registration and possession issues, Bajwa was unable to provide him the plot. Although the complainant was offered another property of the same price, he refused to buy and approached the police, said Sharma.As per the information, Jaspreet had asked Bajwa to refund Rs27 lakh but the latter failed to do so.Several cases of fraud and cheating related to properties were registered against the Sunny Enclave MD at various police stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sunny-enclave-md-jarnail-singh-bajwa-in-7-day-police-remand-123119
07-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 26 man held with heroin||179 evacuees back from UAEMohali: Twenty-seventh evacuation flight from the UAE, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 179 passengers arrived at the Chandigarh international airport here on Thursday. The Spicejet flight number SG 9302 carrying the 179 stranded passengers arrived at the airport at 2.31 pm. The Health Department spokesman said no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold, etc, and all were asymptomatic for Covid. TNS12 booked under Excise ActChandigarh: A total of 12 cases were registered under the Excise Act by the Chandigarh Police on Wednesday and 185 quarters of country-made liquor and 36 halves were recovered from the suspects. A total of 18 boxes of English made liquor and 48 quarters were also recovered. According to the police, 16 quarters of country-made liquor were recovered from Babu Sahani at the EWS colony, Dhanas; 24 halves from Bhupinder Singh at Makhan Majra; 22 quarters from Pawan Kumar Shukla at Deep Complex, Hallo Majra; 25 quarters from Rinku at Hallo Majra; 24 quarters from Jawala Parsad in Sector 52, 24 quarters recovered from Mohammad Alam at the Sector 38/39 dividing road and 22 quarters from Sanjay Kumar at Palsora village. Meanwhile, the boxes of English liquor were recovered from Gurpreet at the Sector 34/45 light point and 48 quarters from Mohinder at Dadu Majra Colony. TNSTwo fall prey to online fraudChandigarh: Two city residents fell prey to online frauds and lost their money. According to the police, the complainant, Rakesh Kumar Rajput, a resident of Sector 52, reported that an unknown person called him posing as a bank executive and cheated him of Rs32,504 on the pretext of closing his loan. A case regarding the incident has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. In another incident, Ashwani Kumar Sood, of Sector 39, said he was cheated of Rs60,000 in lieu of returning an article purchased online. Cases have been registered at Sector 39 police station and an investigation has been initiated. TNS24 new cases in Fatehgarh SahibFatehgarh Sahib: Officials of the district administration, including the Deputy Commissioner, SSP, SPs, DSP and Bassi Pathana SDM, tested negative for Covid on Thursday. However, 24 residents tested positive for Covid, taking the district tally to 440. In all, 23 patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital. OCThree injured in road mishapChandigarh: Three members of a family were injured after a truck hit them at Palsora, Sector 56, on Wednesday night. The incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed at the spot. The driver left the truck at the spot and fled. All three victims received multiple injuries and were admitted to the GMSH-16. One of the victims, Ramesh Kumar, who runs a roadside food stall, said he, his wife and their son were near the stall when the incident happened. The stall was crushed and they were injured. A case has been registered. TNSGive Rs 50L to kin of health staff: UnionMohali: Members of the Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) and Lady Health Visitor (LHV) Union demanded that the Punjab Government should give compensation to the families of health workers, who sacrificed their lives during the pandemic. Union president Jasbeer Kaur Moonak said the authorities were silent on the issue. She said the government should provide compensation to the family of Paramjit Kaur of Lohgarh village in Barnala, who lost her life in the fight against Covid. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-26-man-held-with-heroin-123126
07-08-2020||---||Chandigarh Housing Board to go by Chandigarh Administration policy on paying guests||Chandigarh, August 6The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to implement the paying guest (PG) policy of the UT Administration pertaining to independent houses.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the decision was taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors here today. However, approval of the UT Administration would be obtained before implementing the policy, he added.The CHB had prepared a draft policy to allow PG accommodations in independent residential houses allotted by the board on the pattern of the policy of the Estate Office, UT.The move was initiated to discourage unauthorised PG accommodations in the city after three girl students died in a fire that broke out inside a congested PG accommodation in Sector 32-D on February 22 this year.At present, PG accommodation is not allowed in the dwelling units of the CHB.Key features of the policyCHB to rework Sector 53 schemeThe CHB is planning to modify its costliest General Self-Financing Housing Scheme in Sector 53. Even after slashing the prices twice, the CHB had failed to get a good response to the scheme, as it had received only 178 applications for 492 flats of various categories. Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said, “The proposed housing scheme in Sector 53 needs to be reworked. The matter will be taken up with the UT Administration again for increase in the density and FAR so that more flats with better specifications can be constructed.” Thereafter, the revised scheme might be brought before the Board of Directors for consideration, he added.No transfer fee if sale deed is registeredThe transfer charges at 15 per cent of the consideration amount and stamp duty will not be applicable in cases where a freehold CHB dwelling unit is transferred through a registered sale deed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-to-go-by-chandigarh-administration-policy-on-paying-guests-123127
