07-09-2020||---||Mohali-based visa consultancy booked for fraud||Jammu, September 7The Jammu Crime Branch on Monday registered a criminal case against three cheats, including an owner of a Mohali-based visa consultancy firm, for defrauding two Reasi residents on the pretext of providing work visa for Canada.The accused have been identified as Mohali’s Aditya — who has claimed to be owner of a firm by the name "VFS Global Associates" — and his associates Daljeet Singh, also from Mohali, and Love Preet Singh of Jalal Patti Khudi Kalan, Barnala.(A Dubai-based company has claimed the name 'VFS Global' has been fraudulently misused. See below for that company's claim.)According to the Crime Branch, Manpreet Singh and Gagandeep Kaur, residents of Bharkh village in Pouni tehsil of Reasi district, in a written complaint alleged that they had a conversation with Aditya after getting a reference about his consultancy from a television channel. “The accused induced and lured the complainant and later also showed some kind of an offer letter from Canada and told him and his wife to deposit money in the name of health insurance, medical check-up and the processing fee,” said an official spokesperson of the Crime Branch.“He later demanded more money for finger print forms, embassy fee and the accommodation charges for their stay in Canada. After taking an overall amount of Rs 4,59,800 from the complainant, the accused did not respond nor did he pick their phone calls,” the official added.The Jammu Crime Branch initiated preliminary verification and established prima facie offence against the accused, said the official.Statement from VFS Global, which claims it is a Dubai-based global visa processing firm, and not a Mohali-based firm:“We would like to clarify that VFS Global is not an immigration or recruitment firm. It is a global visa outsourcing and technology service provider managing administrative and non-judgmental tasks for 64 governments in 144 countries. VFS Global is a portfolio company of EQT, a global private equity firm headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden.We categorically state that we are in no way associated with persons named in the case as the 'owner' or staff member employed by the company.The association made, hence, is misleading and false, and VFS Global is not involved in this case in any way. It seems to be a case of a fraudulent entity misusing our company's good name and reputation to scam unsuspecting citizens and we strongly condemn such acts.VFS Global takes a zero tolerance stand against fraud and takes all such allegations very seriously, when they are brought to our notice. We are also reaching out to the authorities to understand this case and will extend every support to them to take action against such fraudulent entities."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-based-visa-consultancy-booked-for-fraud-137767
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adds 232 new cases; tally stands just under 6,000||Chandigarh reported 232 new coronavirus cases---a development that takes the union territory’s COVID- 19 infections to just short of 6,000.The UT also reported three new deaths, taking its tally to 74.Over a quarter of the UT’s 5,995 cases are still active.All three of those who died were women and one of them was over 70.A 45-year-old woman from Dhanas who was diabetic died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Saturday.The second was a 72-year-old woman from Sector 43 died at Mohali’s Sohana Hospital on Monday, and the last was a 50-year-old woman from Sector 37 who died of acute respiratory distress syndrome---a disease frequently seen in COVID victims---at PGIMER.Chandigarh’s COVID-19 cases have been spiralling since the beginning of this month. The UT has been consistently reporting infections in triple digits and has added over 1,649 new cases---which is just over 27 per cent of its total cases---and 18 deaths in a week since September 1.The development comes on a day when Mohali reported 224 new cases with six fatalities, and Panchkula reported 88 new cases and two deaths. Tricity’s total single-day case count stands at 544 with 11 deaths.Tricity’s spikeChandigarh’s spike also corresponds with a general uptick in coronavirus cases seen in the Tricity since the end of August. The Tricity has added 3,901 new coronavirus cases---27 per cent of its total 14,247 infections---to its tally since the beginning of the month.Forty percent of its total cases are still active in the Tricity.  Tricity’s total death toll stands at 224.Where Tricity standsChandigarhTotal: 5,995Active: 2,184Deaths: 74MohaliTotal: 5,106Active: 2,358Deaths: 113PanchkulaTotal: 3,146Active: 1,214Deaths: 34||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adds-232-new-cases-tally-stands-just-under-6-000-137764
07-09-2020||---||6 more die of Covid-19 in Mohali, toll up to 113||Mohali, September 7Six Covid-19 deaths and 224 new cases were reported from the Mohali district on Monday even as 117 patients have been discharged from various hospitals in the last 24 hours.An 84-year-old man from Mohali was the eldest fatality of the day. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to the Grecian Hospital.The youngest fatality of the day was a 33-year-old woman from Sector 91 who died in Shalby Hospital.Meanwhile, A 71-year-old man from Sector 71 succumbed to the virus at IVY Hospital, Mohali.A 58-year-old woman from Jawaharpur died at Command Hospital, Chandimandir. She was also diabetic and hypertensive.A 70-year-old female from Phase-IV died in a Sohana hospital, while a 57-year-old from Sector-78 died in Mayo Hospital on Monday.Most of the cases reported were from Mohali urban (82). Dhakoli was the second on list with 67 cases, followed by Gharuan (28), Kharar (27), Dera Bassi (16), Lalru (3) and Kurali (1).As of now, there are a total of 5,106 cases, of which 2,358 are active. As many as 2,635 patients have recovered from the virus till now, said the Health authorities.  With six deaths on Monday, the toll in the district has gone up to 113.On Sunday, Mohali had reported eight deaths and 215 new Covid cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-more-die-of-covid-19-in-mohali-toll-up-to-113-137757
07-09-2020||Panchkula||COVID-19: Panchkula reports two deaths, 88 new cases||Panchkula reported 88 new COVID-19 positive cases and two deaths. The tally of cases in the district stood at 3,146, with 1,214 cases and 34 deaths.An 86-year-old woman from Sector 4, who was suffering from hypertension, succumbed to the disease.A 55-year-old woman from Pinjore with chronic kidney disease too passed away due to coronavirus.The fresh cases include 18 from Kalka, 11 from Pinjore, four from Sector 19, three from Sector 20, two each from MDC Sector 5, Sector 10, Sector 16, Sector 21, Sector 25, Sector 26, Sector 4, Tangra Kaliram and Tipra, one each Amrawati, Budanpur, Haripur, Indira Colony, Khera Sita Ram, Ratewali, Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 15, Sector 17, Sector 18, Sector 28, Sector 6 and Sector 8.To date, Panchkula has conducted 45,614 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-panchkula-reports-two-deaths-88-new-cases-137756
07-09-2020||---||COVID testing centres to be shifted from Sector 11 by Thursday||Chandigarh, September 7The Chandigarh administration on Monday said COVID testing centres would be shifted from Sector 11 market by Thursday.Adviser Manoj Parida assured the market association to shift it to three places — namely Parade Ground, Sector 17; Exhibition Ground, Sector-31; and Sector 10 wide road near Museum.“The private laboratories have to follow all precautions and safety measures,” the orders read.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-testing-centres-to-be-shifted-from-sector-11-by-thursday-137688
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 50L fine collected through e-challan||Cops distribute masks in Sector 17Chandigarh: A team of the Sector 17 police station distributed face masks among people at the Sector 17 Plaza here on Sunday. Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO, Sector 17 police station, and Jaiveer Rana, incharge, Neelam police post, distributed around 100 masks. TNSMan held for bitcoin fraudChandigarh: A Delhi resident, who was wanted in a bitcoin cheating case, has been arrested by the UT police. The suspect, identified as Dushyant, was arrested by a team of the crime branch and brought to the city. Dushyant was booked on a complaint of Gaurav, a Sector 49 resident. The suspect was produced before the Duty Magistrate, who sent him to five-day police remand. TNS10 ticketless travellers finedChandigarh: Ten persons were fined for travelling without a ticket on 'exam special trains' at the Chandigarh Railway Station on Sunday. A total of nine trains arrived at the station and ferried 219 passengers to the city. The Ambala Division of the Northern Railways ran special trains for the UPSC National Defence Academy and Naval Academy Exam. "We have recovered Rs3,780 from 10 passengers travelling without a ticket," said Surinder Sobti, Chief Ticketing Inspector, CIT line in-charge. TNSDirect flight to Kullu from todayMohali: Alliance Air will begin its operations on the Chandigarh-Kullu route from the Chandigarh international airport on Monday. The flight will depart from Chandigarh at 10 am and reach Kullu at 11 am. From Kullu, it will take off at 11:30 am and arrive in Chandigarh at 12:30 pm. The flight service will operate on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. In the ongoing Vande Bharat Mission, Phase 6, an AirIndia Express flight from Sharjah to Delhi via Chandigarh is scheduled to touch down here on Monday at 4:45 pm and leave for Delhi at 5:45 pm. It is scheduled to reach Delhi at 6:45 pm. TNSRation kits distributedChandigarh: The ninth monthly ration distribution programme was organised by Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation wherein one-month ration kits were distributed among 45 widows on their doorstep. The scheme was started by Sanjay Tandon, president, Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation, in which ration to needy widows is provided on the first Sunday of every month. TNSCab company launchedChandigarh: A new cab company, DASH (Drivers are Stake Holders) Cabs, was launched in Chandigarh on Sunday. The user-friendly platform is an Indian brand being operated with over 3,000 driver partners. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-50l-fine-collected-through-e-challan-137464
07-09-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Gang of criminals busted, 5 arrested||The Fatehgarh Sahib police, in coordination with the Ludhiana police, arrested absconding criminal Neeraj Sharma of Ludhiana, along with four of his accomplices, including a woman from Mandi Gobindgarh.  With this, the police had solved a Rs14.5-lakh dacoity case, said SSP Amneet Kondal. The team seized a .32 bore pistol and 15 cartridges from the suspects with an I20 car. A case under Sections 399 and 402, IPC, and Section 25, Arms Act has been registered against them. Accomplices of Neeraj Sharma are Mandeep of Jalandhar, Deepak of Ludhiana, Gurwinder Singh and Navdeep Kaur, both of Jalandhar. The SSP said all of them were involved in the Ludhiana gambling den dacoity of Rs14.5-lakh. Sharma was facing several criminal cases of dacoity, robbery and attempt to murder, the SSP added.  He was also absconding in an attempt to murder case near Shingar Cinema, Ludhiana, the SSP said. Mandeep was a proclaimed offender, who was arrested in October 2017, the SSP added. “He has 13 criminal cases registered against him. He bailed out in 2019 and fled in March 2020,” the SSP said. Deepak admitted his involvement in the dacoity. He revealed that he gave two .32 bore pistols to one of the suspects. The gang was planning to rob 4-kg gold from a goldsmith in Hoshiarpur and hatching conpiracy to commit dacoities in Mandi Gobindgarh, the SSP added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gang-of-criminals-busted-5-arrested-137458
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Pawan Kumar Bansal urges Kirron Kher to ensure funds for Chandigarh||Former city MP Pawan Kumar Bansal has urged MP Kirron Kher to ensure that city residents do not suffer due to the Centre’s apathy in allocation of resources to the UT.Bansal recalled that the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission recommended an allocation of 30 per cent of the UT receipts for the MC. The corporation had sought Rs1,073 crore for the current year, but was allocated a meagre Rs425 crore. A further cut of 20 per cent was slapped, bringing the allocation down to Rs340 crore, which was lower than the grant-in-aid allotted to the MC seven years ago. It was Rs359 crore in 2013-14. He rued ‘unfair’ treatment given to the UT and the MC by the Centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pawan-kumar-bansal-urges-kirron-kher-to-ensure-funds-for-chandigarh-137459
07-09-2020||Provide adequate funds to civic bodies to clean road gullies||Proactive approach by Chandigarh MCs can rid tricity of monsoon woes||Launch web portal for complaintsWe all know that monsoon related problems are there even if the Administration is fully prepared to deal with waterlogging, cave-ins and water entering houses. Sometimes roads are not in good condition and go unnoticed by the MC, but are problem for the people. Therefore, a web portal should be launched on which residents can post their problems and an immediate action is taken by the authorities concerned to resolve them.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhRain Exposes lack of MC preparednessThere is no doubt that the initial rain in the tricity brought some relief from scorching heat, but at the same time once again exposed lack of preparedness on the part of the MC authorities. A lot of inconvenience is caused to the public, including daily commuters, who are caught in unending traffic jams, face waterlogging and road cave-ins. Office goers reach their destinations in almost double the time usually taken. Why the authorities aren’t taking lessons from incessant rains in the past? Roads should be repaired well in advance before the arrival of monsoons. There no improvement in drainage infrastructure or rainwater harvesting. Why the MC authorities are not fully prepared by cleaning all stormwater drains before the rainy season. Rather, cleaning of drains should be a routine activity.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliQUESTIONThe UT has failed to improve its ranking and has remained at the 29th position in the national ranking on ease of doing business released by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. Rigidity in rules such as non-conversion of leasehold industrial plots to freehold and no increase in FAR are behind the dismal ranking of the UT, rue industry insiders. Do you think the rules should be eased to attract investments during Covid times as a thriving industry will create more jobs?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@ tribunemail.comPay contractors for work done on timeOn-time work completion and prompt payments are two sides of the same coin as it leads to a win-win situation for both the MC and contractors. The respective MCs of the tricity have no systems in place for making payments for work contracts in a time-bound manner. Such delaying tactics are clearly visible in civil works carried out by contractors across all departments, especially the engineering wings of the MCs. Non-maintenance of road gullies and stormwater drains, repairing of potholes not being done, lack of dewatering pumps, shortage of manpower and flooded roads of residential areas create apathy and misery for the population. The singular reason is delayed payments by those at the helm. Streets in Zirakpur turn into streams, which leads to traffic jams and clogged roads. Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali are no better and lack planning or disaster management, which puts residents’ lives at risk. Snapping of power cables by falling trees adds to inconvenience by long hour cuts. The MC has to act proactively to provide relief to residents from rain fury.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurFix accountability of officials concernedThere is complete lack of accountability in civic bodies due to various reasons like political patronage, job security, non-linking of salaries with performance, lack of supervision and corruption. There is dire need to overhaul the working of Municipal Corporations to save money and increase efficiency. The monthly performance of each official, including contract workers, should be assessed. The ghost/non-performing employees should be removed from service irrespective of his/her position to stem the rot.KC Rana, ChandigarhFinish cleaning work before monsoonThe problem of waterlogging during monsoon has been continuing year after year in the tricity. The arrival of monsoon is known, but still the problem persists. Clean drains, repair roads and clear vegetation from nullahs before rains come. SOPs must be followed to complete preventive works before the onset of monsoon every year. Area wise responsibilities for the B&R and the Drainage Department must also be fixed to complete works before monsoon. If this cannot be planned in city like Chandigarh then nothing can be done for other towns.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliNo one cares about residents’ issuesSurely, during rainy days, we witness blocked or overflowing road gullies and stagnant water on streets and roads and even in parks. Rainwater filled potholes on roads get wide and are invisible to motorists and cyclists, who get injured. Nobody cares about problems of tricity residents. Even money-minded officials of the Municipal Corporations look the other way. Nor does our Member Parliament come to personally see and address people’s problems. Shame on all!RK Kapoor, ChandigarhWithdraw facilities given to councillorsIt is negligence on part of the MC on the pretext of fiscal crunch every year. Re-carpeting of roads, filling potholes and cleaning of roads ahead of monsoon are basic necessities. The MC should prioritise work, allot funds for cleaning and start preparation to deal with monsoon woes on time. The civic body has to cut down unnecessary expenditure on events and tea parties. Money spent on study tours and renovation of officers’ houses should be cut and facilities given to councillors be withdrawn.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliResidents of low-lying areas always sufferWith record rainfall in August people residing in the low lying areas had a real tough time. Waterlogging in these areas is not a new phenomenon. The MC has not done enough to improve the drainage system and stop entry of excess rainwater in houses. Knee-deep water enters garage lanes at the Modern Housing Complex, which have a design flaw. Many MC and UT Chief Engineers have personally visited the site over the years, but failed to provide a viable solution to this perennial problem. This year too with Covid effect and paucity of funds with the MC residents did not expect much to happen and suffered silently. But, their anguish over waterlogging during monsoon should not go unnoticed any further.SC Luthra, ChandigarhTake councillors into confidenceMonsoon-related problems as cited are apt to occur if not handled well in time. Excess of everything is bad. We can not fight nature, but have to prepare ourselves well in time so that we are able to control the havoc created by torrential downpour. The City Beautiful has a large percentage of senior citizens. They need take extra care. As such timely repair work becomes all the more important. Municipal Corporation (MC) officials cannot visit every nook and corner of the tricity. We cannot expect so much from our MC. Our area councillors should be taken into confidence and asked to inform the MC well in advance to undertake repair and cleaning works. Our city is old. Some northern sectors have old trees, which need to be taken care off. They need timely pruning and some have to be removed altogether.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhConstruct high capacity road gulliesThe answer to waterlogging woes in Chandigarh lies in cleaning 30,000 road gullies, using super suction machines and removing waste that chokes gullies. Higher capacity road gullies, which can handle over 25mm rain, must be constructed where waterlogging is severe, especially near roundabouts. The civic authorities must mend broken roads by filling potholes, clean drainage pipes and de-weed seasonal rivulets annually before monsoon. The rain shouldn’t play a spoilsport. Rainwater should be harvested from road gullies.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhCannot blame civic authorities this yearThis year we cannot blame the civic authorities for rain-related problems as they are already over-burdened due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But yes, otherwise every year the civic authorities are not prepared for handling such issues. There has to be a proper planning for such problems and that too with timeline. Many times the authorities get into action only with the start of the monsoon season. Quick action teams should be formed to look into monsoon-related issues. A fool-proof feedback from residents can be of good help. Hope next year timely action will be taken by the civic authorities so that residents of the City Beautiful need not suffer during monsoon.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhSafety of people comes firstFlood gates of the Sukhna Lake were opened in the wee hours. As a result, the catchment areas were flooded with rainwater. Water gushed into houses while residents were asleep and played havoc with their household property. Panic stricken residents found themselves helpless in the odd hours. Had the Administration been proactive in taking precautionary measures, loss of property could have been minimal. It is, therefore, foremost responsibility of the Administration to first announce the date and timing of opening the Sukhna Lake flood gates. Hopefully, the Administration, having learns a lesson from its failure, would plug loopholes in disaster management to combat such like eventuality in future.Hardeep Singh Sulach, MohaliBring lax officials to bookEvery year tricity residents face issues of waterlogging and rainwater entering their houses, shops and offices. All this is due to not cleaning of drainage pipes. The MCs of tricity levy many taxes. But officials concerned do not perform their duty and residents suffer. At the same time, tricity residents must do their bit by not throwing garbage on roads and in streets to prevent choking of gullies. If officials are found lax in their duties they must be brought to the book. Higher ups must keep a regular check on works to be undertaken before the onset of monsoon.Moti Bhateja, Chandigarhlaunch helpline number for plaintsIn tricity some sectors are low lying and get waterlogged during the rainy season. The Administration is well aware of this issue, but still the problem occurs every year. Drains have to cleaned from time to time especially before rainy season. Special boreholes should be constructed in the low-lying areas in the city. A helpline number should be launched for people to register their rain-related complaints. Special task force should be deputed in the area most affected by rain.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhDon’t blame nature for man made disasterCauses and effects of the havoc played by recurring rainwater related problems are well known. There is no dearth of engineering expertise, solutions and resources, but sadly there is lack of will. The civic authorities cannot be caught unaware/unprepared every year. It is commonly heard ‘Nehar kachchi te naukri pacci’ and ‘Nehar pacci te naukri kachchi’ (a smoothly running concrete canal needs no staff, but a breach feeds many). Simply, reliable maintenance, augmentation of stormwater infrastructure and absence of impediments to free flow of rainwater can stem the rot. Fixing responsibility is not an easy task because many factors can be attributed to passing the buck. Nature’s fury must not be blamed for man made disasters. The elected representatives, a link between authorities and the public, are paid heftily paid, but are not answerable. It’s a sin/curse to be poor and weak and suffering is its corollary.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaConduct survey before monsoonWhy the civic authorities do not visualise issues they can face before the onset of monsoon. They must take steps before hand. Officials concerned must conduct a survey of low-lying areas and check whether the sewerage system has been cleaned. Residents Welfare Associations can be taken into confidence and apprise the Administration about waterlogged streets in their area. Officials concerned must frequently visit different city areas during the rainy season.Tarlok Singh, ChandigarhPolythene bags choke drainsObviously, the MC staff is fully equipped to handle rain-related issues. Improper disposal of polythene bags chokes drains. No doubt, it is adding to waterlogging woes. So, all drains and gully traps should be cleaned by the MC. Low-lying areas should kept under the watch of the trained civic body staff. The MC should ensure doctors presence in dispensaries to deal with monsoon-related health problems. It’s duty of every resident to help the civic authorities tackle issues cropping up in the monsoon.Anita Tandon, KhararIdentify waterlogging spots before repairsAlthough Chandigarh has best drainage system, residents face rain- related difficulties every year. The MC can prevent waterlogging of streets by timely cleaning of road gullies and gutters. Houses in the low-lying areas should have higher courtyard levels than roads to prevent entry of rainwater on premises. The MC should undertake re-carpeting and repair works of roads well in advance of monsoon after earmarking trouble spots in order to prevent waterlogging and road cave-ins.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhMake officials pay for residents’ lossesHeavy rain adversely affects the life of people every year. The MC authorities being fully aware of this fact do not take steps to ensure proper drainage of rainwater, road repairs and filling of potholes. As the MC authorities are never serious about monsoon-related issues, the best way to wake officials concerned is to recover residents losses from them. This will definitely give positive results.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliBan polythene bags in tricityDespite spending huge amount of taxpayers’ money waterlogging remains an unsolved issue in the tricity. Poor maintenance of roads and sewerage, failure to ban polybags and decrease in green cover area by laying paver blocks creates waterlogging and rainwater enters houses. This leads to accidents, adversely affects health and damage materials. The MC should ensure regular cleaning of choked drains and road gullies. Polythene bags should be banned in the tricity and rainwater harvesting must be mandatory. Inadequacies in the drainage system of flood-prone areas must be reviewed.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (Retd)Construct wells to store rainwaterHandling nature’s fury is a challenging job, but routine problems faced every year can be managed if the Administration takes up the matter sincerely. If possible, the engineering wing should identify low-lying areas facing waterlogging and other rain-related problems during the monsoon season, dig safe borehole on nearby vacant land to divert water and save it for use after proper treatment. Although the project seems costly, it will be one-time expenditure.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliEffective planning need of the hourDamaged and leaking rainwater drains should be repaired. Road gullies, manholes and sewage lines must be cleaned. Flooding, cave-ins and potholes create traffic snarls and cause accidents. Effective planning is the need of the hour to face monsoon blues.Charu Malhotra , Mohali||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/proactive-approach-by-chandigarh-mcs-can-rid-tricity-of-monsoon-woes-137460
07-09-2020||Lovleen Bains||Aspirants relieved as Panjab University extends admission date||Doraha, September 6In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Panjab University (PU) has extended the last date for admission to various undergraduate and postgraduate courses till September 10.Admission seekers seem to have heaved a sigh of relief as some of them were facing problems in taking admissions either due to transportation issues or in some cases due to inability to pay the admission fee in the stipulated time period.Senate member Dr Inderpal Sidhu said as per the decision of the coordination committee and the Vice-Chancellor’s approval, the last date for admission to UG/PG courses of affiliated/ constituent colleges of the PU had been extended to September 10.Harpreet, a student from Ghudani village who wanted to take admission in an undergraduate course in a local college, said: “I was aware of the fact that I would be charged late fees after August 31, which was the last date. I failed to reach the college before the last date due to some transportation issues. I have scored 94 per cent marks in Class XII. My father works at a factory and he hasn’t got his salary till now. I had dropped the idea of taking admission this year as we were not in a position to pay fee. But, as the date has been extended I am hopeful that I can get admission now.”Ashima, who took admission in the BSc course recently, said: “I brought Rs2,000 extra to pay late fee. But I was delighted when I came to know that the university has extended the date of admission.”Kamalpreet, an admission seeker, whose father is a daily wager, also seemed to be relieved. “I tried my level best to submit the fee before the last date but failed to do so. I brought extra money as late fee to submit the form. However, I can use the same now for paying the second instalment of fee,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aspirants-relieved-as-panjab-university-extends-admission-date-137561
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Eight years on, PO Dhirender Partap lands in police net||A proclaimed offender (PO) in an assault case, who was absconding for eight years, has been arrested by the operation cell of the UT police. The PO has been identified as Dhirender Partap (34), alias Mela, a resident of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula.The police said a case was registered against Dhirender at the Mani Majra police station in May 2006. The complainant, Hans Raj Rana, had alleged that he, along with his friend, was attacked by Dhirender with a liquor bottle at Mauli Jagran. Dhirender was arrested and later released on bail after which he remained at large. He was declared a PO in December 2012. The police said the suspect was produced in a court today, which sent him to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-years-on-po-dhirender-partap-lands-in-police-net-137472
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man dies, friend hurt as bike rams into tree||A 26-year-old man died while his friend riding pillion suffered injuries when the motorcycle they were riding went out of control and rammed into a tree on the road separating Sector 25 and 38 here last night. The duo was in an inebriated condition. They were not wearing a helmet at the time of the accident.The police said the deceased has identified as Shiv Kumar (26), a resident of Kharar. Sources said Shiv and his friend consumed liquor at a shop in Sector 38 (West). Later, they were going to Zirakpur when the accident took place. Shiv lost control over the motorcycle and rammed it into a tree.The police were informed about the accident. The injured persons were rushed to the GMSH-16. Sunny was referred to the PGI where doctors declared him brought dead.The police said the pillion rider received minor injuries. An investigation has been initiated into the matter at the Sector 39 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-dies-friend-hurt-as-bike-rams-into-tree-137473
07-09-2020||---||Chandigarh MC website archaic||Chandigarh, September 6The Municipal Corporation website provides stale information regarding the status of projects and the Budget.The MC has not updated the status of any civil, horticulture, road or electricity projects for the past three years on its website. It was last updated on November 20, 2017.Also, the Budget has not been uploaded for the year 2019-20, even as the financial year is already over. The corporation has also failed to upload the balance sheets of financial years after the fiscal 2016-17.“We demand an inquiry into this lapse. All ongoing projects should be updated on the website and complete details should be provided so as to ensure transparency. Even at the project sites, the details of expenditure, the dates of the start and deadline of the project should be mentioned,” said city AAP president Prem Garg.“People have a right to know at what stage a project is. There should be transparency. Such information should be updated on the website immediately,” said Gagan Kumar, a city resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-website-archaic-137475
07-09-2020||---||14-year-old girl raped in Panchkula||Panchkula, September 6A 14-year-old girl from Rally village in Sector 12-A here was allegedly raped by a person living in the same locality on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. A case was registered following the victim’s medical examination at the Civil Hospital here.According to the police, the victim’s mother filed a complaint against one Vijay for allegedly raping her daughter. In the FIR, the complainant said: “We (all family members) slept after having dinner on Saturday. When I woke up around 1 am, I found my daughter missing. I couldn’t trace her until she returned around 3:30 am. Upon inquiry, she revealed that Vijay took her to his room around midnight and physically assaulted her”.The victim’s family hails from Unnao in Uttar Pradesh, the FIR read.“The girl was taken for a medical examination and sexual assault was confirmed. On the woman’s complaint, a case was registered against the suspect under Section 6 of the POCSO Act,” the police said.Inspector Wahida Hamid, SHO of the Women police station, said: “The suspect is yet to be arrested. Hunt is on to nab him.” When asked about the suspect’s identity and age, Wahida said the girl couldn’t tell much about him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-year-old-girl-raped-in-panchkula-137476
07-09-2020||Amit Sharma||On swindler’s list, UT DSP’s Facebook friends||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 6A fraudster created a fake Facebook profile of a UT DSP and demanded money from people as financial help.The fraudster created a fake profile of DSP (East) Dilsher Singh Chandel and sent friend requests to the people who were already friends with the cop on the social networking site.Modus operandi While some people accepted the request, others ignored it. Soon after a friend request was accepted, the fraudster started a conversation on the Facebook messenger and requested them for financial help. One of those who received the message for financial help stated that the fraudster sought Rs20,000. The suspect mentioned that the money could be transferred through Google Pay.The fraudster even mentioned that he would return the money the next day. Similar messages were received by all those who accepted the friend requests.After getting such messages, people informed the DSP about friend requests being received by them followed by messages for financial help. The DSP then posted a message on his Facebook profile to caution everyone about the fake email ID prepared in his name. He urged everyone not to act or fall prey to the swindler.Many people commented on the DSP’s post about receiving such messages and shared screenshots of the messages received from the fraudster. The DSP submitted a complaint to the police through the PCR on Saturday night. Sources said the complaint would be probed by the cyber crime investigation cell.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-swindlers-list-ut-dsps-facebook-friends-137477
07-09-2020||Mohali||8 deaths in Mohali, toll goes past 100||Eight deaths and 215 new cases of Covid-19 were reported from Mohali district today. With fresh fatalities, the district toll touched 107. Besides, 96 patients have been discharged from various hospitals in the last 24 hours.As many as six fatalities of the day were reported from the GMCH in Patiala. Those died were as 65-year-old man from Nayagaon, a 71-year-old man from Sunny Enclave, a 64-year-old woman from Phase II, a 60-year-old diabetic and hypertensive man from Kurali, a 41-year-old man from Mohali and a 45-year-old woman from Mubarikpur.A 57-year-old man from Nayagaon died at the GMCH in Sector 32, Chandigarh. He was also suffering from hypertension. A 55-year-old woman from Kharar breathed her last at the PGI.The fresh cases reported today belonged to Mohali urban (87), Dhakoli (42), Kharar (36), Gharuan (33), Dera Bassi (11), Boothgarh (two), Banur (two) and Kurali (two).Don’t entertain customers sans mask, shopkeepers toldThe food safety team of the Health Department visited the sweets and grocery shops in Nayagaon. District Health Officer Subhash Sharma and his team instructed the shopkeepers there that goods should not be sold to customers who have not covered their faces. The official also checked the quality of food items at various shops and destroyed the substandard and expired items. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-deaths-in-mohali-toll-goes-past-100-137478
07-09-2020||Panchkula||14-yr-old boy, 3 others lose life in Panchkula||The district today reported four Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 32. A 14-year-old boy from Kundi village became the youngest victim in Panchkula. He tested positive post-death.Health officials said the boy was brought dead to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here. He had a history of severe abdominal pain.The three other deceased are a 56-year-old woman from Nanakpur village, a 76-year-old woman from the MDC, Sector 5, and a 52-year-old woman from Sotwala village. The trio had co-morbidities.Meanwhile, 137 more persons were found infected in the district today, taking the tally to 3,078.The fresh cases include 18 from Pinjore, 16 from Sector 19, 11 from Buddanpur, nine from Sector 4, eight from the MDC, Sector 5, six each from Raipur Rani, Sector 15 and 16, five each from the MDC, Sector 6, 25 and 9, four each from Sector 20 and 28, three each from Hangola, Kundi, Rajjipur, Sector 10 and 21, two each from Sector 2, 6 and 7, one each from Toda, Abheypur, Barwala, Kalka, Madanpur, Nanakpur, Saketri, Sector 12, 14, 23, 26, 27 and 8. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-yr-old-boy-3-others-lose-life-in-panchkula-137479
07-09-2020||---||Chandigarh sees 2 deaths, 261 cases||Chandigarh, September 6The city today reported two more deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 71.Those who succumbed to the virus are a 58-year-old man from Dhanas and a 50-year-old man from Mani Majra. They both died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. A medical bulletin said both patients were diabetic. The Mani Majra resident was also suffering from hypertension.Meanwhile, 261 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the city today, taking the tally to 5,763. The city has been witnessing an increase in the number of positive cases as well as fatalities since the beginning of this month. It has been reporting 200-plus infections every day since September 1. The UT has witnessed over 1,440 fresh cases and 15 deaths in less than a week. Forty-four per cent of the cases in the city are still active.A total of 149 persons were discharged from hospitals as well as home isolation after being cured of the disease, the bulletin said.Director, School Education, Deputy found infectedA day after UT District Education Officer (DEO) Harbir Singh Anand died of Covid-19, the Director, School Education, RS Brar, and the Deputy Director, School Education, Rajinder Kaur, were also found suffering from the contagion. A total of 20 persons from the department will be sampled. The DEO office has so far reported four coronavirus cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-2-deaths-261-cases-137480
07-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Central team in Chandigarh for 10 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 6A Central team sent by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to address the challenges in dealing with the Covid pandemic and strengthening public health measures in the UT, which has been witnessing a high number of cases, will hold a meeting with the stakeholders in the Administration tomorrow.TESTS PER MILLIONChandigarh 33,434National avg 40,327Prof PVN Laxmi of Community Medicine, PGI, and Sahil Goel, Deputy Director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), are the members of the Central team.Prof Laxmi said, “We will be looking into measures taken by the Chandigarh Administration and identify gaps, if any. We will make some recommendations to address the problems. We will hold a meeting with the stakeholders on Monday to review the situation.”The team will be in the city for 10 days. It will provide extended guidance in managing the Covid pandemic. The team members will visit areas reporting a high number of cases, including containment zones, to checking containment and surveillance, infection prevention and control practices besides reviewing testing and the status of health facilities for Covid-19 patients.The team will submit a daily report of the activities undertaken by it to the District Magistrate with a copy marked to the Joint Secretary (Public Health), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Chandigarh has 2,250 active cases whereas its cumulative cases stand at 5,763. The number of tests per million and cumulative positivity stand at 33,434 and 16 per cent, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/central-team-in-chandigarh-for-10-days-137481
07-09-2020||---||Court shows leniency after store apologises||Chandigarh, September 6The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has directed Aditya Birla Fashion and Retail Limited, Elante Mall, to pay only Rs100 as a compensation for harassment and mental agony and refund the cost of a carry bag (Rs7) to a consumer. The apparently lenient judgment came after the shop management apologised for charging for carry bags, The commission also directed the store to pay Rs1,000 as litigation expenses to the consumer. Story HighlightsBalwinder Singh of Chandigarh had filed a complaint with the commission after he was charged for a carry bag by the store at the Elante mall.He said the cashier of the store handed over the items to him without putting them in a carry bag and said if a customer wanted a carry bag, he/she had to pay Rs7 for it. Terming the practice as deficiency in service and unfair trade, he sought compensation from the store.During the hearing, the store management pleaded that the amount for the carry bag was charged after getting the consumer’s consent.The management said it had stopped charging for carry bags now and was giving them for free to customers.After hearing the arguments, the court observed: “Since the store has apologised for its mistake and stopped charging for carry bags, we deem it proper not to impose any punitive costs upon the opposite party, but direct them to pay a compensation of Rs100 for mental agony and refund the cost of the carry bag to the complainant.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-shows-leniency-after-store-apologises-137447
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Residents go for multiple testing, add ambiguity to Chandigarh Covid count||The city residents have been found getting tested for Covid-19 multiple times through the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test and rapid antigen testing in different laboratories to clear their ambiguities.No on-demand testing in government labsDespite an advisory from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the UT Administration will not go for on-demand Covid-19 testing in state-run laboratories. The new guideline does away with prescription by a registered medical practitioner.UT Adviser Manoj Parida recently took to the social media to appeal to the city residents to voluntarily give Aadhaar number so as to eliminate duplicate cases. Parida’s appeal read: “While getting tested for Covid, all are requested to voluntarily give Aadhaar number since our records show four positive cases when the same person gets tested four times.”Adviser urges residents to voluntarily provide Aadhaar numberUT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “People are taking a number of tests such as RT-PCR or antigen, thereby increasing UT’s positivity rate. A number of people, who are anxious and cannot await test results, are going for both RT-PCR and antigen tests. We have not been insisting on Aadhaar card for the test as we cannot make it a mandatory practice. But the double-counting can only be eliminated through Aadhaar card number and thus, we have urged residents to voluntarily provide Aadhaar number. Otherwise, it puts an additional burden on the testing infrastructure.”A 34-year-old man, who recently tested positive for Covid, shared how he got himself tested at both government and private facilities. He said, “The UT health authorities conducted a rapid antigen test (RAT) that came positive. I was unsure about RAT, so I went for RT-PCR test from a private laboratory and tested positive again.”The UT Adviser said, “People are taking a number of tests such as RT-PCR or antigen, thereby increasing UT’s positivity rate. A number of people, who are anxious and cannot await test results, are going for both RT-PCR and antigen tests. We have not been insisting on Aadhaar card for the test as we cannot make it a mandatory practice. But the double-counting can only be eliminated through Aadhaar card number and thus, we have urged residents to voluntarily provide Aadhaar number. Otherwise, it puts an additional burden on the testing infrastructure.”Fake addresses“Another problem is that many people are giving fake addresses and getting themselves tested, which is also reflected in the Covid tally. In a situation like this, misinformation adds additional burden to the existing manpower that is already under pressure for contact tracing and testing,” said Parida.UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said, “Through Aadhaar card number, it will become easy to locate the person as sometimes mobile numbers are not properly working.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-go-for-multiple-testing-add-ambiguity-to-chandigarh-covid-count-137448
07-09-2020||Chandigarh September 6
||Chandigarh BJP unit announces election, disciplinary panels||City BJP president Arun Sood today announced election and disciplinary committees of the party.  He has appointed nine members in the election committee and three members in the disciplinary committee. All these appointments have been made according to the party’s constitution. Significantly, Sood was unanimously authorised to appoint members of both committees as per the party’s constitution, in the party’s state-level executive meeting held on August 30.  Sood will be the chairman of the election committee, while MP Kirron Kher, organisation general secretary Dinesh Kumar, former state president Sanjay Tandon, state vice-president Asha Jaswal, state general secretaries Chandrashekhar and Rambir Bhatti, Mahila Morcha state president Sunita Dhawan and Scheduled Caste Morcha state president Krishna Kumar will be the other members of the committee. The names of the candidates at the time of the Municipal Corporation elections and the name of the candidate for the post of MP during the Lok Sabha elections have been sent to the National Parliamentary Committee by the members of the election committee. Raghuveer Lal Arora, a senior party worker, has been appointed as the chairman of the three-member disciplinary committee. Apart from this, Hitesh Pandit and Jagjot Singh, both lawyers, have been appointed as the other two members of the panel. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-unit-announces-election-disciplinary-panels-137449
07-09-2020||College admissions||Apply for 4th counselling by today||Chandigarh, September 6A virtual meeting of the core committee members of the online joint prospectus 2020-21 and members of the technical panel constituted for the purpose was held at the PGGC-42 yesterday to decide about the further course of action for online admissions to centralised courses (BCom/BCA/BBA/BSc) in view of the extension to admission (without late fee) till September 10 by Panjab University.The committee recommended that applicants can submit willingness for the fourth online counselling for all centralised courses till tomorrow (September 7 till 11 am). The list of applicants and colleges allotted will be displayed on September 9 (9 am onward). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/apply-for-4th-counselling-by-today-137450
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Pharma company duped of Rs 5.05 lakh||The UT police have registered a case of cheating against two persons for duping a pharmaceutical company to the tune of Rs5.05 lakh. Complainant Lalit Dogra of ADDII Biotech Pvt Ltd, Phase II, Industrial Area, alleged that in 2017, they wanted to purchase paracetamol powder following which they forwarded a request to IndiaMART buyers help desk in December 2017, which suggested them a company named Eli Lilly.  The complainant alleged that they then contacted the company’s representative Balajee John and later transferred Rs5.05 lakh to the account provided by the company. However, the complainant later found that the person concerned was not reachable and the company’s information was also not available on IndiaMart. A case has been registered against Vinod Sharma and Balajee John, representatives of IndiaMart and Eli Lilly. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pharma-company-duped-of-rs-5-05-lakh-137451
07-09-2020||---||Decision evokes mixed response||Mohali, September 6The Punjab Government’s move to revoke its earlier decision of putting posters outside the houses of Covid positive patients under home isolation or quarantine has evoked mixed reactions from people in the district.While everyone agrees that the stigma attached with being a Covid patient has to end, not everyone is convinced that removing the posters is the right decision.“The move is fraught with great risk. It can backfire. What will the government do then?” asked VB Gupta, a retired Punjab Government employee and a resident of Phase VII, Mohali.Questions are being raised if putting posters leads to ostracisation of the affected family, then the government should have considered it before.“I think the health experts must have weighed the advantages and disadvantages of doing away with the practice. Obviously, a big spurt in cases everyday is one of the reasons for the move,” said Rajat Chauhan, a Zirakpur-based private practitioner.Two clinicians, who are dealing with Covid patients in government hospitals, did not wish to comment on the poster debate but emphasised that the underprivileged section was still not understanding the gravity of the situation.“Awareness regarding wearing a mask and washing hands has been created, but a lot of people still do not understand how grave the situation can be,” said a medical officer of the Mohali subdivision.The move is aimed at minimising the stigma resulting from such posters at the doors of patients. In some cases, it has been found that the affected family removes the poster from the door as it is pasted with a gum, and therefore, easily removable.People are also complaining that the Health Department is not informing neighbours so that they may take precautions. A Covid patient, who has now recovered, narrated an instance of his paranoid neighbour, who objected to the patient coming out in his balcony. Another person, who was home-quarantined recently, said: “Government officials have been very cooperative with us, but the way neighbours ostracise a family is detrimental to the mental health. So, not putting up posters may be okay.”Nitesh Bhardwaj, a resident of Sector 78, said: “A family in our building is under home quarantine. So, the garbage collector has stopped coming to pick up the garbage. It has been five days that garbage has not been picked up from my house. I fear that if neighbours see me going out to throw the garbage in the dustbin, they may object to it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decision-evokes-mixed-response-137452
07-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali builder fined for failing to hand over flat to buyers||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed a Mohali-based builder to refund Rs50,000 booking amount to two city residents, along with Rs10,000 compensation, for failing to hand over possession of a flat to them. The commission has also directed the developer to pay Rs7,000 as litigation expenses to the residents.  Indrani Goswami and Amalendu Goswami booked a one BHK flat on May 22, 2017, under the project, ‘Dara Kingdom’, at Sector 115, Mohali. The total value of the flat was Rs6,50,000, including service tax, etc. The complainants paid a booking amount of Rs50,000 to M/s Dara Buildtech and Developers Limited, Mohali, on July 10, 2017.  The complainants said the possession of the flat was to be handed over within two years, but they later discovered that there was no development work at the site. Besides, the realtor did not have the requisite permission/sanction from the competent authorities. The commission then sent a notice to the developer, but it failed to file a reply. The court, in its order, said according to records, it was clear that the developer failed to start the project. Thus, the non-delivery of the unit to the complainants and non-refund of the amount on the part of opposite parties amounted to indulgence into unfair trade practice and a deficient act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-builder-fined-for-failing-to-hand-over-flat-to-buyers-137453
07-09-2020||
||Remembering Neerja Bhanot||Chandigarh, September 6 A candle-lighting ceremony was organised in the memory of Neerja Bhanot at the Neerja Bhanot Hall, Girls Hostel Number 10, in Panjab University today.  At present, the hostel has been converted into a Covid isolation centre and is harbouring several Covid patients. Every year on this day, the staff and residents of the hostel remember Neerja Bhanot, who laid her life while saving the lives of passengers on a flight that was hijacked on September 5, 1986.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remembering-neerja-bhanot-137455
07-09-2020||---||Sisters reunite with father after 8 years||Panchkula, September 6Two teenaged sisters from West Bengal, who had been missing for the past eight years, reunited with their father today due to the efforts of a Haryana policeman, who went an extra mile to find their families.For the past five years, the girls had been staying at Bal Sadan here, a home for orphaned and destitute women and children.ASI Rajesh Kumar of the anti-human trafficking unit of the Haryana Police, who often visited Bal Sadan for his work, had counselled the two sisters in September 2018 for the first time. When he initiated a dialogue with them, the sisters revealed that their parents were separated in 2012. Then, their paternal aunt (bua) had brought them to Chandigarh on the pretext of providing them with good education, but forced them to work as domestic help in bungalows.This went on for a few years before they were rescued by the UT police and sent to Bal Sadan in Panchkula.The ASI said: “After my first conversation with the two sisters, I came to know that they hailed from Lankapara in Alipurduar district. When I contacted an NGO in West Bengal, I got to know that the girls’ grandmother still lived in their house. When the NGO tried to reach their grandmother again in March 2019, she had passed away.”“It was a setback, but I was determined. I then decided to contact an NGO in Meghalaya. I shared the photos of these girls with the NGO. Their team found the sisters’ paternal aunt (chachi). We then got to know that their father worked in Himachal Pradesh,” said the ASI.Their father identified them through a video call. After all formalities were completed, the father reached Panchkula today and met his daughters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sisters-reunite-with-father-after-8-years-137456
07-09-2020||---||To contain surge, Central teams in Punjab, Chandigarh||New Delhi, September 6The Health Ministry today rushed a Central team each to Punjab and Chandigarh, which have been witnessing a surge in cases.The teams will assist in improving containment, surveillance, testing and clinical management of Covid patients to reduce mortality apart from providing guidance on timely diagnosis and follow-up. The teams will remain stationed in the state and the UT for 10 days.The Punjab team consists of PGI (Chandigarh) community medicine expert JS Thakur and National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Deputy Director Akshay Kumar. The Chandigarh team includes PGI doctor PVN Laxmi and the NCDC’s Sahil Goel.Of the total 63,473 Covid cases in Punjab, 15,731 are active. The state has seen 1,862 deaths and the testing per million stands at 37,546 (India’s average is 34,593.1). At 4.97 per cent, Punjab’s positivity rate hovers at the lower cumulative spectrum.Of the total 5,763 cases in Chandigarh, 2,250 are active. The testing per million and the cumulative positivity in the UT are 33,434 and 16 per cent, respectively.Relapse new worry, 2nd case surfacesCovid re-infection is emerging as a new area of concern with Bengaluru reporting relapse of the viral infection on Sunday just three days after Mumbai saw a similar case. A private hospital in Bengaluru confirmed Covid re-infection in a 27-year-old woman who had tested positive in July and had been discharged after recovery. On September 3, a Mumbai doctor tested positive for the second time in a month.Meanwhile, India on Sunday saw a record 90,632 daily infections, overtaking Brazil to become the world’s second most Covid-hit nation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/to-contain-surge-central-teams-in-punjab-chandigarh-137482
