07-12-2020||Zirakpur||Two-storey building collapses in Zirakpur; no one injured||A two-storey building, Kamboj Medicos, near Balaji Enclave on Patiala road, collapsed on Monday as illegal digging activity in the adjacent plot weakened its base.No one was injured as occupants had vacated the building after cracks in the walls were seen in the day time.Police said a chemist shop was being run on the ground floor with the first floor being used as a store.Police and fire officials were stationed at the spot before the building came crumbling down. Huge crowd had gathered to witness the spectacle and people were seen filming the incident on their mobile phones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-storey-building-collapses-in-zirakpur-no-one-injured-181134
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Karandeep Kochhar prevails in playoff against Anirban Lahiri to win Jeev Milkha Invitational golf meet||Karandeep Kochhar fashioned a remarkable come-from-behind victory at his home course, prevailing in the playoff against Anirban Lahiri at the Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational golf tournament, that was extended by a day due to fading light, here on Monday.Local favourite Kochhar, who began the tournament with a disastrous four-over-76, made a grand comeback with his next three rounds of 66, 67 and 68 to end up in a playoff with pre-tournament favourite Lahiri after both carded 11-under-277 for the week.The Rs 1.5 crore event, presented by TAKE Sports, yet again produced a play-off like the two previous editions at the Chandigarh Golf Club.The 21-year-old Kochhar (76-66-67-68) and Lahiri (70-68-70-69) were in a deadlock after being tied at the end of the first two playoff holes on Sunday.The meet was then extended due to the fading light and playoff resumed with the third extra hole on Monday. This was the first time in PGTI history that a tournament was extended by a day.Kochhar, who began the final round in sixth place and three off the lead, went through a rollercoaster of emotions on Sunday after incurring a one-shot penalty for accidentally causing the ball to move on the 17th hole which as a result forced the match into a playoff.He showed great mental fortitude to come back and prevail on the third playoff hole on Monday making a 15-feet birdie conversion even as Lahiri missed his 12-footer for birdie.Kochhar thus claimed back-to-back wins on the TATA Steel PGTI having won the previous event on the tour at the same venue last month.This was his third title and second win as a professional on the PGTI. He had won his first title on the tour while still an amateur in 2016.“I went on the range this morning and practised some drivers and wedges,” Kochhar said.“I knew the flag was easier with water not in play so my focus was on hitting a good drive down the middle to set up a 100 yards full sand wedge approach and then get inside 10 to 15 feet of the pin to put the pressure on Anirban. I managed to execute this strategy well,” he added.Kochhar’s win pushed him up from second to first position in the PGTI Order of Merit as his winning cheque of Rs. 24,24,750 took his season’s earnings to Rs. 33,50,680.He also earned five Official World Golf Ranking (OWGR) points which propelled him from 442 to 355 in the world rankings.“I got good advice from Jeev Sir last evening who told me to believe in myself no matter what the situation. It means a great deal to me having made such a good comeback after starting with a 76,” Kochhar said.“Winning two events in a row is special and I feel I can continue this winning spree further at the next event in Jamshedpur as I’m playing the best golf of my life right now.”It was also a memorable outing for PGA Tour regular and seven-time international winner Lahiri who returned to play an event on the PGTI after over six years. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/karandeep-kochhar-prevails-in-playoff-against-anirban-lahiri-to-win-jeev-milkha-invitational-golf-meet-181118
07-12-2020||---||Chandigarh to have lay-bys for buses near stops||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6In a move aimed at checking road accidents and traffic congestion, the UT Administration is going to build bus lay-bys near bus stops.Bids invited till Dec 8lanes for ambulancesThe Administration is also planning to create dedicated lanes for ambulances on city roads. Such lanes are mainly planned on roads connecting the UT with Panchkula and Mohali such as Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg.These will be constructed at Sector 4, 27, 19, 21, 22, 23, 42, 51, Dakshin Marg, Shanti Path and Sector 46. The Administration has floated tenders and has invited bids from agencies till December 8.It had floated tenders earlier as well, but did not get the desired result. Thus, the work got delayed. The nearly Rs22-lakh project is expected to be completed in three months after a firm is allotted the job.Under the project, lay-bys are to be marked on roads near bus queue shelters. The buses have to halt at the lay-bys only. If drivers stop buses anywhere else, they will be challaned. This will help check road accidents which occur due to buses stopping suddenly in the middle of moving road traffic.At some points, there are already spaces marked for buses and auto-rickshaws to stop. However, autos are mostly seen flouting norms, causing accidents. The authorities have also planned to mark spaces for autos, but are too slow in implementation.Besides, the Administration is also planning to create dedicated lanes for ambulances on city roads. Such lanes are mainly planned on roads connecting the UT with Panchkula and Mohali such as Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg. Ambulances are often seen stuck in jams. They find it hard to negotiate through the traffic. The move will check traffic chaos and provide uninterrupted passage to emergency vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-have-lay-bys-for-buses-near-stops-180916
07-12-2020||---||No cash payment for tickets at Chhatbir Zoo||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 6Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, also known as Chhatbir Zoo, which remained closed since March 17 due to the pandemic, is all set to reopen for public from December 10.Safety measures in placeOfficials said the zoo would reopen for visitors with strict guidelines. We would accept only online booking and cashless payments. People above 65 years and children below 5 had been requested not to visit the zoo. He said the link for booking online tickets was available on the zoo website (chhatbirzoo.gov.in). QR code system and PoS machines would also be available at the booking counters. Entry tickets would be valid only for two hours after entering the zoo.He said a maximum of 2,700 visitors would be allowed to enter the zoo, which would remain open from 9.30 am to 4.30 pm. There would be three slots of 900 persons each in three shifts.In between the shifts, the zoo premises would be sanitised during a half-hour break. A disinfection squad would frequently sanitise railings, barricades and public amenities.Zoo officials said initially battery-operated carts (ferry) with the charter system would only be allowed for a family or related persons, who might reserve the full cart. Single-use plastic would be banned inside the zoo. Minimum cash transactions would be allowed in the outsourced facilities such as parking, canteen and carts. M Sudhagar, Field Director of the zoo, said: “Visitors will have to wear a mask inside the premises. In case anyone forgets to bring the mask, he/she can purchase it from a counter at the entrance. The visitors will also have to pass through the medicated foot mat at the entrance to the zoo”.The authorities have decided not to open the reptile house, nocturnal house and lion and deer safaris in the initial days. The zoo, which is spread over 505 acres, is home to around 1,500 animals and birds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-cash-payment-for-tickets-at-chhatbir-zoo-180918
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees two deaths, 101 fresh infections||The city on Sunday reported two deaths and 101 fresh cases, taking the toll to 291 and tally to 18,027. A 65-year-old woman from Sector 49 and a 39-year-old man from Sector 52 succumbed to the virus. There are 922 active cases in the UT. As many as 16,814 patients have been cured so far. In the past 24 hours, 1,064 tests were conducted in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-two-deaths-101-fresh-infections-180919
07-12-2020||Mohali||157 more +ve, 1 fatality in Mohali||The district witnessed one more fatality due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours.Meanwhile, 157 fresh cases surfaced in the district on Sunday. As many as 133 patients were cured and discharged from the hospitals. Among the fresh cases, 120 were reported from Mohali (urban), three from Banur, one from Lalru, six each from Dera Bassi, Dhakoli and Kurali, seven from Gharuan and 8 from Kharar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/157-more-ve-1-fatality-in-mohali-180920
07-12-2020||---||2 succumb to virus in Panchkula , 66 infected||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 6The district on Sunday reported 66 fresh coronavirus cases and two deaths, taking the infection count to 9,111 and the toll to 133.A 79-year-old man from Sector 25, who was also suffering from diabetes mellitus type 2 and hypertension, succumbed to the disease.An 83-year-old woman from Sector 17, who was also suffering from hypertension, lost her battle to the virus.Among the fresh cases, six were reported from Sector 19, five each from Sector 10, Sector 11, Sector 2 and Sector 25, and four from Kalka, Sector 16, Sector 20 and Sector 21.While 8,442 patients have recovered from Covid-19, 536 cases are still active.The recovery rate of the district stands at 92.65 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-succumb-to-virus-in-panchkula-66-infected-180921
07-12-2020||---||Ray of hope for kin of slain advocate||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6With the CBI getting permission for polygraph test of two suspects in the murder case of Sukhmanpreet Singh, alias Sippy Sidhu, the slain advocate’s kin see a ray of hope in the case.The CBI had moved an application to get the polygraph test conducted of two persons, Simrandeep Singh Sandhu, an advocate, and Karampal Singh, which was allowed by the special CBI court.Sippy’s mother Deepinder Kaur said she sees a ray of hope after a long wait. “We have been waiting for justice for the past five years. We are hopeful as the investigation is on the right track,” Kaur said.Sippy, a national-level shooter, was shot dead on September 20, 2015. A .12 bore gun was used in the crime and four bullets were fired from it. Though several persons, including a Judge’s daughter, who is a suspect in the case, were questioned, the police failed to nail the killers.Irked over the shoddy probe, Sippy’s kin and friends staged several protests, including near the Prime Minister’s house in Delhi, demanding an impartial probe. In January 2016, the case was transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), after which the investigating agency registered a murder case and began a probe.The role of a woman in Sippy’s murder cropped up during the CBI investigation. However, they wanted to gather more clues, following which, around seven months later, in September 2016, CBI sleuths announced a reward of Rs5 lakh for anybody providing a clue that could help crack the case.The CBI also gave a newspaper advertisement stating that “there is reason to believe that a woman was accompanying Sippy’s killer at the time of the murder. The said woman is also being given this opportunity to come forward and contact us if she is innocent. Otherwise it shall be presumed that she was a party to the offence”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ray-of-hope-for-kin-of-slain-advocate-180922
07-12-2020||---||At 26.8°C, hottest Dec day in Chandigarh in 4 years||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6The city today recorded the highest maximum temperature in December after 2016.Chandigarh recorded a maximum temperature of 26.8°C, three degrees above normal. Last year, the highest maximum temp in December was 25.8°C. In 2018, it was 25.4°C and in 2017, it was 25.8°C. In 2016 also, the highest maximum temperature of the month was 26.8°C. In December 2014, however, the city had recorded the highest maximum temperature of 28.4°C. Met officials attributed the increase in temperature this December to a clear sky over so many days.The minimum temperature recorded today in the city was 12.4°C, five degrees above normal. This is the highest till now in the current month this year. Last year, on December 12, the highest minimum temperature was 13.3°C.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-26-8%C2%B0c-hottest-dec-day-in-chandigarh-in-4-years-180923
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Youth riding SUV nailed with pistol||A 24-year-old youth riding an SUV was nabbed by the UT police with a 32 bore pistol and two live cartridges.A team, led by Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO of the Sector 17 police station, nabbed the suspect, Gagandeep Singh, a resident of Ropar.He was riding a Toyota Fortuner when the police stopped him at a naka in Sector 17. He had come to attend a party at a nightclub. The police said Gagandeep returned from Dubai in October. He works at the Dubai airport with an aircraft maintenance team.The police said during questioning, he revealed that he had enmity with a few persons in Ropar following which he procured a pistol from a person known to him. A case under the Arms Act has been registered. He was produced in a court and remanded in two-day police custody.5 held with 6 pistols in monthIn the past one month, five persons have been nabbed by a team of the Sector 17 police station and six pistols have been recovered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-riding-suv-nailed-with-pistol-180924
07-12-2020||Karam Prakash||A wedding with a difference||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 6Amid the ongoing farmers’ agitation, a groom was seen holding a flag of the Kirti Kisan Union in support of the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws at Khang village in Patran block of the district. Giving the go-by to social rituals, the groom gathered all “baratis” and requested them for their support to the protesting farmers.The groom, Ajay Kumar, also donated Rs 11,000 ‘shagun’ for the protest.Ajay said: “I am the son of a farmer. Therefore, whenever I get an opportunity in any event, I try to highlight the issue of the farm laws.”The groom said the farmers’ agitation had become a people’s movement. He appealed to everyone to support the farmers.The family members of the groom were also with him to express solidarity with the farmers. They raised slogans in support of the protesting farmers at the wedding. Jaspal Chaudhary, elder brother of the groom, said they had been actively participating in the farmers’ protest for the past two months.He said: “Initially, relatives and family members of the bride were reluctant. However, later they praised the idea. People who came to attend the wedding also appreciated our efforts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-wedding-with-a-difference-180925
07-12-2020||---||In her death, infant gives new lease of life to boy||Chandigarh, December 6A 39-day-old girl child gave a new lease of life to a 15-year-old boy from Patiala. The family of the child donated her kidneys after she suffered renal failure, here today.The child was born on October 28 and had brain anomalies incompatible with life. The girl’s parents brought her to the PGI on November 25.When doctors told her parents - Sukhbir Singh Sandhu and his wife Supreet Kaur from Amritsar - that their daughter wouldn’t pull through, they decided to donate her kidneys and save someone’s life.The victim’s father, Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, who works as an agriculture development officer and is also the president of the Plant Doctors Services Association, Punjab, said: “It’s something no family should have to go through. We agreed to organ donation because somewhere in our hearts, we felt that our daughter’s such short mortal journey had a ‘purpose’. She came to this world only to give life to someone else in pain. Despite the heartache that we are going through, we knew it was the right thing to do.”Prof Ashish Sharma, Head, Department of Renal Transplant Surgery, PGI, said: “Retrieving organs from children for transplant is rare. It is even more uncommon from such young children with congenital anomalies. The case had its own types of challenges. The best-matched recipient was grown-up. So, both kidneys were transplanted onto one recipient considering the age factor.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-her-death-infant-gives-new-lease-of-life-to-boy-180929
07-12-2020||Should panjab university have senate or board of governors/directors||Retain Senate, but no political interference, please||University should Go ahead with boardPanjab University should have Directors/ Board of Governors because they are more responsible. Take for example managements of colleges. There is no need for Senate? The university authorities should go ahead with the new option.Jaskaran Bhandari, ChandigarhUniversity Senate needs reformsPunjab University (PU) definitely needs a Senate and a Syndicate, but reforms are required in these two bodies. The Senate and the Syndicate were established in the interest of the university, but over the years they have become undemocratic and ridden with factionalism. As a matter of fact, Senate and Syndicate have become dens of corruption. University administration officials are forced to become mute spectators at their meetings. Hence Senate and Syndicate have become hindrances in improving the academic and administrative quality of the university. This led to decline in relevance of the two governing bodies over a period of time. Both should have members from the field of higher education. Politics should be shown the door. Delay in elections to Senate is hurting interest of students.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurSenate has given birth to dirty politicsSenate has given birth to dirty politics in Panjab University. It has led to misgovernance of the university for the last five decades. The university should have Board of Governors. Its members should be eminent persons from the field of management and have proven track record of bringing institutions back on the track. Their number should not exceed five.KC Rana, ChandigarhSenate cannot be replacedSenate comprises 92 members of whom 50 per cent are elected and the remaining are nominated. It is an independent body and sans any politicians. All members of Senate are able educationists, who take collective decisions. Senate elections are held after every four years. The system has been in place for a long time and the university is performing well. The Board of Governors or Directors will not be so effective in university governance as they will be nominated by the Chancellor. As a result good number of politicians will become Senate members. Panjab University deserves to be headed by educationists. Decisions taken by educationists can improve teaching and benefit students.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhHold online Senate electionsPanjab University should continue with Senate. During the Covid pandemic Senate elections are not possible. Without Senate the functioning of Punjab University will be interrupted. So, Senate elections should be held online. The new House will help in smooth functioning of the university.Adish Sood, AmlohForm board for one yearPanjab University must have a governing body to function properly. It must include one representative each from academics, administration, sports, law and colleges. Class IV employees' and students' representative should also be included to raise their grievances. One person from the higher authorities and the VC should be included in the body for redressal of grievances and implementation of policies. The duration of the governing body should be one year so that new members with innovative ideas can be included in it for the betterment of the PU. Elections to the body should be held on time without any gap.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliBoard is better choice for varsitySenators have been looking after the PU affairs for a long time. The system has the approval of the Central Government. Switching over to Board of Governors/Directors may be better choice because candidates with proven track record can be selected from other states. Board will form and implement better policies for Panjab University. The PU authorities can study working of other institutions to change the Senate system. The new system should have backing of the Central Government.MR Bhateja, NayagaonSenate comprises best of brainsThere is no doubt that Panjab University should continue with its Senate. This elected body is best for working of the university. Education system under Board of Governors/Directors is a failure. Senate comprises best of brains, who are aware of the shortcomings and amendments to be made, to improve academics and administration in the university. Senate is not under any political pressure, which is why the Central Government is going after the body as it wants to dictate its ideology to the PU House.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhSpare Panjab varsity for students’ educationAny system will work perfectly sans political interference. At least spare institutions for students’ education. The present Senate system has been working perfectly till date. Delay in Senate elections has created problems for the university. It is due to political interference. It will be better if Panjab University continues with Senate to run its affairs.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliSenate part and parcel of univeristyPunjab University should continue with Senate as it comprises only academician whereas Boards of Governors/Directors will be a politically appointed body. Moreover, Punjab University is the only institution in the region, which can boast about Senate. This tradition must continue as it is part and parcel of the university. Tempering or dilution of the present system will affect academic standards of the university. Board of Governors/Directors will increase political interference, which in turn will affect university standards. PU should retain Senate at any cost for the betterment of the university, its faculty and students.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhSenate has not outlived its utilityThe four-year term of Panjab University Senate came to an end on October 31. Now, PU is without apex governing body. There is now uncertainty over its future with polls not being notified, a development coinciding with the Central Government announcing National Education Policy, which envisages constitution of the Board of Governors in all universities. Now, the role of Senators in functioning of the PU has come under criticism. The notion of Senate has not outlived its utility in the academic institution. What has outlived is the role assigned and privileges accorded to Senators in the PU Act 1947. What is needed is reforms in the Senate. The PU Act needs a review to meet requirements of the university. The present Senate should continue till a new body is formed.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliA Better option is to overhaul the senateAlthough, scrapping and dissolution of the PU Senate, which is claimed to be politically stained, in favour of a neutral Board of Governors (BoG) to be nominated by the Central Government as per the National Education Policy (NEP), seems a Utopian reform, yet it will shift the decision making from the local level to the Centre. Localised control is better than the centralised as issues don't get overlooked and stakeholders can have a say in the affairs of the university. Instead of scrapping Syndicate, it must be overhauled by including academician rather than politicians from non-academia, who have been governing the body and taking decisions ignoring even senior PU professors. New Syndics must be governed by stricter laws.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhOld order must changeThe Senate-Syndicate model of governance for the PU is no longer in tune with its scope and potential that has undergone a sea change over the past decades when it mainly conducted all examinations from Matriculation onwards. Punjab and Haryana colleges are no longer obliged to be affiliated with it. The old order must change lest one good custom should eat up the institution. At present PU is neither a central nor state university. This scourge is dwarfing its growth. It's high time that the PU becomes a Central University under its usual uniform governance model. PU needs to concentrate on excellence in education and research with no room for student or faculty politics. A new governance model is long overdue. A Board of Governors should take control of the university affairs.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaMore democratic than boardSenate is working well in Panjab University (PU). Some other institutions have adopted Board of Governors/Directors, which is also working. Senate is more democratic than board or directors. As per the popular saying "For the form of governance, let fools contest, but what administrated best is the best". The question is to provide the best administration, facilities and welfare of students and university. Elected representatives are more accountable than nominated directors or governors. Senate should continue in PU without becoming a political body.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar (retd), MohaliIt Has served its purpose wellSenate should not be abolished because Senators work for the university and make policies for students and faculty members. It is a unique and majestic system which has representation from different walks of life. Senate has not outlived its utility in the academic institution. It has always discharged its responsibilities and served its purpose well. No doubt, some reforms may be required in the Senate. Senators must be accountable to university students, faculty and the staff for policies and achieving objectives of the institution.Anita Tandon, KhararIts A hindrance in varsity's functioningMany students and even former VCs feel that Senate has become means to appease some leaders. The Senate system has become a hindrance in the functioning of the university. This is the right time for comprehensive reforms. A Board of Governors/Directors take control of the PU affairs. This model is successfully working in many institutions.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaTwo heads always better than oneEveryone knows that a single person can not run any institution. Two heads are better than one. An effective and proper advisory committee can solve every problem systematically. The PU Senate has been working for the welfare of the university. Senate is better than the Board of Governors/Directors. Students and staff members can easily contact Senators and discuss their problems. A board/Directors cannot help university students, faculty and the staff because they will not understand their basic problems.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliIts A forum for political slugfestPanjab University has a rich legacy which needs to be preserved at any cost. Of late, the Senate has failed in its responsibility of running the university professionally. It has become a forum for political slugfest in most meetings. No professionalism is displayed in interactions during Senate meetings. It's high time that a new governance model is adopted by Panjab University so that it regains its lost stature. PU needs to minimise manual work for student centric dissemination of quality services. A Board of Governors is the best way forward.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhSenate elections in dire need of reformsSenate is an old and democratic way to elect members who make policies, solve issues and help in functioning of the university. There is no change in the Senate elections from last many years. A voter in the graduate constituency is a person, who has already left university. The university should reform Senate elections. If that is not possible then PU must shift to Board of Governors like in other institutions.Avinsh Goyal, ChandigarhBoard can make PU admn more efficientNomination of professionals and educationists as Directors and on the Board of Governors would bring more efficiency in the Panjab University administration. It would also help in quick and effective decision making vis-a-vis the existing Senate system. Moreover, adoption of the new system will stop wastage of time, money and energy on conducting Senate elections. Besides, political influence will also reduce in the university. Urgent issues will be resolved. If constituted, board will have nominees from different disciplines having sufficient and relevant experience in the field of education and research. The board will have a strong and sustainable administrative control over the university.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliAbolishing Senate won’t be a good moveAbolishing the PU Senate is not a right move. Already elections to the Senate have been postponed on one pretext or the other. When elections can be held in states in the Covid-19 pandemic then why not for the Senate? There is no reason to delay elections with a view to abolish PU Senate. It will deny democratic rights to students, faculty and the staff of the university. The authorities must shelve the move to abolish Senate and hold elections to the body.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliSenate doing fairly well, should continuePanjab University should continue with the present system as it is doing fairly well. Board of Governors will entail a lot of political influence and day-to-day working will be impacted. Outside influence especially political will be detrimental for the university. It may create differences between student unions and lead to unrest. It may favour government agenda even if it is not good for students and the teaching fraternity.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhHold Senate elections immediatelyThe Senate poll, which was to be held before the end of its present term, has been postponed. Worst will be when the term of the Syndicate ends on December 31. No meeting of the body was held after July 2020 . Both Senate and Syndicate have been rendered defunct on flimsy grounds. In the absence of these statutorily constituted bodies, all decisions taken arbitrary by the authorities are illegal. To upkeep the constitutional and conventional traditions of the university and in the interest of academia and research, the need of the hour is to hold early elections of Senate followed by Syndicate.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONThe enhanced fine for not wearing a face mask seems to have failed to act as a deterrent and instil a sense of responsibility among residents of Chandigarh and Mohali. What more needs to be done to make people wear a mask in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent toopenhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/retain-senate-but-no-political-interference-please-180965
07-12-2020||---||Unemployed teachers protest near Chief Minister’s residence in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 6Demanding jobs, hundreds of unemployed ETT/TET pass teachers held a protest near the residence of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh here today.Teachers staged a sit-in at the YPS roundabout, 100 metres away from the CM’s residence, after they were stopped by the heavy police force from marching further.Protesters raised slogans against the state government for failing to provide jobs to them for the last three years. The protesting teachers said the state government had been dilly dallying on providing jobs for years altogether.They demanded that the Education Department should advertise 10,000 ETT posts, ETT teachers should be allowed to apply for 8,393 pre-primary teachers’ posts and relaxation in the age for filling posts.Deepak Kamboj, state president, unemployed ETT TET Pass Union, said, “Over the years, the government has given only assurances, but not jobs to ETT teachers. If the government fails to provide jobs to unemployed teachers, we will be compelled to intensify our protest.”After hours of sit-in, teachers called off their agitation when officials of the district administration gave a written assurance of a panel meeting with the education minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unemployed-teachers-protest-near-chief-ministers-residence-in-patiala-180966
07-12-2020||---||Interim report on fiscal, administrative matters of Punjabi University submitted||Tribune News ServicePatiala, December 6A high-level team of officials of the Punjab Government has submitted its interim report on financial and administrative matters of Punjabi University to the state government. Officials said the report carries over 20 to 25 points for consideration that includes overstaffing in the past.While Dr BS Ghuman, former Vice-Chancellor (VC) of Punjabi University, ceased to be part of the team after he resigned from his post as the VC, the two other members Additional Chief Secretary Revenue, Viswajit Khanna, and the Higher Education Secretary, Rahul Bhandari, submitted the report.The state government had instructed the team to prepare a report for optimisation of the university’s salary budget, increasing its revenues and rationalisation of staff salaries among others in August.Insiders said the members had submitted report comprising over 20 to 25 points for consideration. It was with the Chief Minister’s office now, they added. The report covered almost all aspects of the financial status of the university, they said. Information on overstaffing through arbitrary recruitments in the past was an important aspect of the report, they added.When contacted, Rahul Bhandari said report had been submitted. Due process was followed in preparation of the report as per the directions of the CM office, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/interim-report-on-fiscal-administrative-matters-of-punjabi-university-submitted-180967
07-12-2020||Patiala||Punjabi University to hold exams in blended online-offline mode||Punjabi University has decided to continue with an online-offline blended mode for conducting semester exams of intermediate classes. The university will conduct all odd semester exams except those of semester one of all courses, which started in August, from December 15 through online-offline blended mode.Also, the university will hold classes on holidays to complete syllabus of first semester students. The exams of both undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be of four hours duration, including two hours for uploading answer sheets. Students will have to attempt 50 per cent question paper.The university has also decided to do away with rechecking of answer sheets for the current semester exams. Meanwhile, the university will conduct practical exams after theory exams.Dr BB Singla from university examination branch said, “The university has decided to declare all Saturdays as working days till March . First semester classes of postgraduate courses will continue till March 26.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-university-to-hold-exams-in-blended-online-offline-mode-180968
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||PUTA protest||The ongoing protest by the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) entered the 17th day today. The PUTA executive is holding protest on delay on career advancement scheme (CAS) promotions. Following demise of Prof Manoj Kumar from the UIPS, PUTA observed complete silence during today’s dharna as a mark of respect to the departed soul. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-protest-180969
07-12-2020||---||Support grows for Bharat Bandh call||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 6Coming in support of protesting farmers, eminent sports promoter Narinder Singh Kang along with social activists and city residents today burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Mohali today.Addressing a gathering, Kang said they would create awareness among the business community regarding farmers’ cause. He said those who cannot go to Delhi should also support the farmers. He said members of Mahant Jabir Dass, president, Pheruman Dal said, they would sit on fast unto death if the central government did not withdraw the farm laws.City residents, including advocates, doctors and business, also offered their support and decided to join the farmers at the Delhi border to protest against the agriculture bills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/support-grows-for-bharat-bandh-call-180970
07-12-2020||---||Bar Council backs protesting farmers, donates 1,000 blankets||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6Extending support to farmers, the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, today urged the Centre to withdraw the farm laws.Karamjit Singh, Chairman, Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, said they oppose the laws passed by the Central Government as these are not only detrimental to the interests of farmers but to the interests of lawyers too.He said under the new Acts, the disputes will be heard by SDM/ADMs who are not trained to hear the litigation involving civil consequences and moreover, they are administrative organ of the government and would be unable to protect the rights of farmers.Karamjit Singh said advocates of Punjab and Haryana for the last two months have been actively participating in the farmers’ agitation. He said the council also supports the Bharat Bandh call given by farmers for December 8 and requests the advocates of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, including Punjab and Haryana High Court, to abstain from work on the said date. The Bar Council is also writing a letter to the Chairman BCI and to the Chairman’s of all state bar councils throughout the country to support the call of Bharat Bandh by abstaining from work. The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana have decided to send 1,000 blankets and dry ration to farmers at Singhu border.Petrol Pump Dealers’Assn extends supportThe Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association, Punjab, has also extended its support for the Bharat Bandh call of farmer organisations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bar-council-backs-protesting-farmers-donates-1-000-blankets-180971
07-12-2020||Panchkula||CWA constitutes committee for poll management||The Citizens’ Welfare Association (CWA), an apex body of all Residents Welfare Associations (RWA), has constituted a five-member committee for poll management, including selection of candidates from various RWAs. The CWA had decided to contest the upcoming Panchkula Municipal Corporation election to be held on December 27.Members of the panel include MR Sayal, SK Nayar, Sunil Jain, Rakesh Sondhi and Bhagwan Das.The members will jointly decide on selection of candidates for the civic body elections to be duly supported by the RWAs in various sectors.SK Nayar, one of the committee members, said, “The CWA is not supporting or affiliated with any political party. We are working independently for the welfare of the citizens of Panchkula in all respects. The last seven years of the civic body has been marked by political gimmicks and corruption due to which Panchkula has gone at least 40 years back. No action has been taken by the government to catch hold of the increasing instances of corruption in past few years.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cwa-constitutes-committee-for-poll-management-180972
07-12-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Rift in COA over formation of panels||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6Before conducting elections to choose the new house, Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) will form committees to resolve problems related to affiliation and disaffiliation of local associations, confirmed its president Amarinder Singh Bazaz.However, Secretary Maha Singh maintained that the elections will be held on March 31, and the next house will decide on the issue.The expected rift within the COA emerged in its latest annual general body meeting and executive committee meeting, held on December 4, to discuss the election plan.The problem of affiliating or disaffiliating associations is important in terms of ensuring votes to come into power for the next four-year term.The COA is already facing the flak for not conducting a single championship in the past 13 years. Various associations had accused the COA for allotting illegal affiliation to some units, who have not conducted a single championship and not even affiliated to national body or the UT Sports Department.However, such associations have voting rights in the COA. In such scenario, resolving this issue is important.“The elections will be held on or before March 31. For solving this ongoing issue of affiliation or disaffiliation units, committees will be formed. The same has been proposed and approved by majority units of the house. One thing is clear that we will be following COA’s constitution and National Sports Code before taking any further step,” said Bazaz.When contacted, Maha Singh said, “The elections will be held on March 31 and there’s no need of forming any committee. It will be solved by whosoever gets elected for the next term. The associations have been here since long and there’s no such problem.”No report on expenditureAnother issue raised in the meeting was of presenting COA’s expenditure report. Sources said that the secretary was about to provide details, however the house demanded that COA treasure should present the report as per protocol. COA’s treasure Anumit Singh Sodhi, who is son of Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and also the youngest person to be appointed State Information Commissioner, did not attend the meeting. The expenditure report is also a key factor among COA units, as it has not organised any championship.Trump card forpresident’s post?Amid the entire tussle, sources said a group in the COA may present their trump card, at the eleventh hour, by elevating Anumit to the post of president to ensure next four-year term. Sources confirmed that Rana Gurmit, who is also life president of the COA, had held meetings. Till the filing of nominations, groups are exploring all options, confirmed a source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rift-in-coa-over-formation-of-panels-180973
07-12-2020||---||In a first, e-lok adalat to be held in Punjab on Dec 12||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 6In view of the Covid pandemic, the Punjab State Legal Services Authority has decided to hold National Lok Adalat in e-lok adalat format for the first time in the entire state on December 12.Disclosing this here today, Justice Arun Gupta, District and Sessions Judge and Member Secretary of Punjab State Legal Services Authority, said the e-Lok Adalat would be held under the guidance of Justice S Muralidhar, Executive Chairman and Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Gupta said the decision to conduct e-Lok Adalat has been taken to maintain social distancing protocol amid the pandemic. He said adequate arrangements are being made to hold e-lok adalat as well as physical lok adalat.He said the general public may contact the front offices or secretary, District Legal Services Authority, of their respective districts to take part in the National Lok Adalat. For any legal assistance, people can contact the Punjab State Legal Services Authority at 1968 helpline.Gupta said one can contact for cases pending in the courts such as criminal compoundable offences, NI Act cases under Section 138, bank recovery cases, MACT cases, Labour disputes cases, electricity and water bills (excluding non-compoundable), matrimonial disputes, service matters relating to pay and allowances and retirement benefits, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-a-first-e-lok-adalat-to-be-held-in-punjab-on-dec-12-180974
07-12-2020||---||2 arrested for raping minor||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 6The Kharar police have arrested two persons for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl. One of the accused is the brother of the victim. The minor is a daughter of a labourer who lives near the grain market.According to the police, the minor alleged that her brother and his friend used to rape her. The matter came to light when the victim was taken to Civil Hospital, Phase-6, Mohali, where doctors found her six-month pregnant. Being a minor, the doctors informed the police.Bhagwant Singh, SHO, Kharar City, said, “We have arrested two accused yesterday and produced them in the court today. The court has sent them to three days’ police remand.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-raping-minor-180975
07-12-2020||---||Lahiri, Kochhar’s playoff continues||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6The last day of Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational Golf Tournament was extended by a day, the first time in the history of the PGTI, after local favourite Karandeep Kochhar made a sweeping comeback to set up a playoff title race with Anirban Lahiri, at Chandigarh Golf Club, today.what the rule saysFor the third consecutive year, this tournament’s winner will be decided on a playoff. Indian star and former Asia No. 1 Lahiri (70-68-70-69) and local favourite Kochhar (76-66-67-68) extended into Monday due to fading light. The third extra hole of the playoff will resume on Monday.The protagonists Kochhar and Lahiri ended the regulation 72 holes with matching totals of 11-under-277, Kochhar, who began the week with a disappointing 76, made a grand comeback with his determined last round of 68 while Lahiri stayed the course with a resilient 69.At the end of regulation play, Kochhar incurred a one-stroke penalty for accidentally causing the ball to move on the 17th hole. The local lad, playing on his home course, joined seven-time international winner Lahiri in a playoff to decide the winner.Kochhar collected birdies with 10 to 20 feet conversions on the fourth, eighth and 11th. He also chipped-in for birdie on the 15th and landed bunker shots within six and four feet for birdies on the second and 16th. On the 17th, his ball landed in the right rough before he accidentally caused it to move thus resulting in a double-bogey there.Lahiri on the other hand was not having it easy on the front-nine as he dropped two bogeys in exchange for a birdie. But his round was back on track as he tap-in birdies on the 13th and 16th and a 15-feet birdie conversion on the 15th. The two-time winner on the European Tour then picked up another birdie on the 17th.“It’s great to fight my way back into the tournament after a poor start in round one. I feel I got better with each day. I was disappointed about the one-shot penalty I had to incur,” said Kochhar. While Anirban said, “I just had no momentum going on the front-nine today. I was trying to be patient and finally hit my stride from the 13th but was still unable to apply pressure on Kochhar.”Curious case of penaltyAccording to onlookers, Kochhar was told to pick the ball by the tournament referee and thereafter he relocated it in the fairway. However, later some PGTI member came to him and informed him about the penalty. "He could have played accordingly. He was told there's no penalty and he can touch the ball. But later, he was told about the penalty. It has mentally affected his game," said Gurdeep Kochhar, Kochhar's grandfather.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lahiri-kochhars-playoff-continues-180976
07-12-2020||---||FOSWAC, RWAs give inputs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 6To ensure better coordination between the police and the public, a meeting with members of the FOSWAC and the RWAs was presided over by KB Singh, IPS, IGP (retd), who has been appointed as single member of the Police Reforms Commission, here at Neighbourhood Park in Sector 21-C today.Addressing the first-ever public meeting of the newly-formed commission, Singh said the focus of the police will be to ensure cordial and cooperative environment in its day-to-day functioning.He said the mechanism to deal public grievances in respect of the Police Department will also be streamlined. Keeping pace with the latest technological advancements, the police telecommunication network will also be upgraded, he added.During the meeting the chairman and members of the FOSWAC gave various suggestions on police reforms.The meeting was also attended by the DSP (CID) Ram Gopal. The commission would interact with various government departments, NGOs, RWAs, market associations to seek their suggestions on police reforms in UT. FOSWAC Chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu suggested holding regular meetings. He said there is a need to improve the image of the police in the eyes of the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foswac-rwas-give-inputs-180977
07-12-2020||Chandigarh||Theft at DRDO scientist’s house||Fit India Prabhat Pheri at PUChandigarh: The Department of National Social Service organised a “Fit India Prabhat Pheri”. Dr Vivek Kumar, Chairperson, Centre for Medical Physics, Navneet Kaur, Department of Geography, Tilak Raj, University Business School, Anuj Kumar, Department of Computer Science and Application and Dr Sucha Singh, University School of Open Learning, participated in the programme. TNSMemorial meeting heldChandigarh:A The Society for Promotion of Science & Technology in India (SPSTI) held a memorial meeting to pay tribute to Dr FC Kohli, founder and first CEO of Tata Consultancy Services, in association with the Chandigarh Chapter of NASI (National Academy of Sciences India), Technology Enabling Centre (TEC), University Institute of Engineering & Technology and Panjab University Alumni Association Chandigarh. TNSPU Prof gets sahitya AwardChandigarh: VK Alankar, Chairman, Sanskrit Department, has been selected for the Punjab Sahitya Shiromani (Sanskrit) Award for the year 2019. Prof Alankar has written over 15 books on subjects such as vedas, philosophy of sanskrit grammar, mimansa philosophy, literature, Pali etc. He is also a well-known Sanskrit poet. In the year 2015, at the World Sanskrit Conference in Thailand, he presented his paper on the writings of Punjab and in 2018, he conducted a session at the World Sanskrit Conference in Vancouver, Canada, and presented his paper on the ‘Contribution of Punjab to Vedic Studies’. OCNEET topper gets cash rewardChandigarh: Gurkirat Singh, NEET tricity topper, received a reward of Rs 1.5 lakh from Helix Institute, Sector 34. Gurkirat, a native of Ratia, Fatehabad had secured All India Rank (AIR) 15 and got admission in MBBS in the AIIMS, New Delhi. TNSMaid booked for stealing Rs30 lakhMohali: The police have booked a maid for allegedly stealing Rs 30 lakh from a house in Phase 7. The accused has been identified as Suman, a resident of Mataur, who was employed as a maid at the house of Sher Singh, a retired drug controller, in Phase 7. On being probed, the accused returned Rs 2.65 lakh but later fled the spot. The police have registered a case against the accused under section 381 of the IPC at the Mataur police station. tnsUIPS Scholar Gets FellowshipChandigarh: Gajanand Sharma, a PhD research scholar of Pharmaceutics division at University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), was awarded the prestigious research associate (RA) fellowship by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Government of India, for a period of three years and extendable to five years. TNS‘Mask pao, Corona bhajao’ CAMPAIGNMohali: The Mohali traffic police today initiated ‘Mask Pao, Corona Bhajao’ (Wear mask, get rid of corona) campaign. ‘’Issuing traffic challans for violation of the government guidelines is our duty. However, we are also distributing free masks for citizens’ welfare,’’ said Gurjot Singh Kaler, SP (Traffic). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-at-drdo-scientists-house-180978
