07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths, 98 fresh virus cases in Chandigarh||Two more people died from coronavirus in Chandigarh on Saturday while 98 new cases pushed the union territory’s infection count to 15,025, according to a bulletin. So far, 232 people have succumbed to the infection in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana. There are 815 active cases as of now, the bulletin said.A total of 53 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 13,978, as per the bulletin.So far, 1,14,773 samples have been taken for testing, of which 99,067 tested negative while reports of 127 samples are awaited, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-98-fresh-virus-cases-in-chandigarh-167537
07-11-2020||---||Birthday celebrations end in tragedy, boy charred in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 6A 17-year-old boy was charred to death, while two of his friends were seriously injured when the Baleno car they were travelling in collided with a Honda City at the Sector 28/29-Industrial Area light point during the wee hours of today.The Baleno, that had a CNG kit fitted, caught fire following which the minor boy’s body was charred while the other two also received serious burn injuries.The deceased has been identified as Akashdeep (17), a Class XII student and resident of Gurdaspur district. His friends Dalip and Vishal were seriously injured. Akashdeep and Dalip had come to the city yesterday to celebrate Vishal’s birthday.They were returning from Sector 22 towards the Industrial Area when their car was hit by a speeding Honda, heading from Tribune Chowk towards the Transport light point, around 3.30 am. Vishal, who is a taxi driver, was driving the Baleno, while the Honda was being driven by Rajneesh (52), a resident of Sector 28.The trio was heading to Zirakpur were they were supposed to stay at a hotel.The police said the Baleno car went up in flames following the collision. There was a CNG kit installed in the car, which may have led to fire.However, the police said the cylinder did not burst.The injured could not come out of the car and all three suffered burn injuries. Akashdeep’s body was completely charred, said a police official.A PCR vehicle rushed to the rescue of the injured, who were taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where doctors declared Akashdeep as brought dead.The police and the Fire Department were informed about the accident following which cops and a fire engine reached the spot and doused the fire.On a complaint of constable Gurnam Singh, who was on patrolling duty, a case has been registered under Sections 279, 304-A and 337 of the IPC against the accused driver at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/birthday-celebrations-end-in-tragedy-boy-charred-in-chandigarh-167135
07-11-2020||---||Gurlal Brar Murder: Gangster Dilpreet Baba brought to Chandigarh on production warrant||Chandigarh, November 6Gangster Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, was today brought on a production warrant by the Chandigarh Police to probe his role in the Gurlal Brar murder case. Baba was produced in a court and sent to three-day police remand.Baba was brought to the city amid high security and has been kept at the Industrial Area police station. The security at the police station has been beefed up. A team of the operation cell has also been stationed there.Brar (26), a former state president of the Student Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU), was gunned down outside a mall by three motorcycle-borne miscreants. He was waiting for his friends in his SUV on the roadside.During an investigation, it came to light that members of the Davinder Bambiha group were behind Brar’s murder. Baba’s role had also surfaced in the murder. A key member of the Bambiha group, Baba was lodged in a jail in PunjabBaba came to the limelight in the city after he, along with his accomplices, shot dead a sarpanch in broad daylight outside a gurdwara in Sector 38 in 2017. Dilpreet was again in the news after he shot at Punjabi singer Parmish Verma in Mohali in 2018.He was nabbed by a joint team of the Punjab and Chandigarh police in July 2018 outside the ISBT, Sector 43.Brar was gunned down outside mallGurlal Brar (26), a former state president of the Student Organisation of Panjab University, was gunned down outside a mall by three motorcycle-borne miscreants. He was waiting for his friends in his SUV on the roadside.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurlal-brar-murder-gangster-dilpreet-baba-brought-to-chandigarh-on-production-warrant-167136
07-11-2020||---||One death, 133 fresh cases surface in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 6The city today reported 133 fresh cases of Covid. The UT tally has now reached 14,927.Besides, an 80-year-old man from Sector 35, who was suffering from diabetes, hypertension, acute kidney injury and chronic heart disease, died at Max Hospital in Mohali.A total of 63 patients have been cured of the virus in the past 24 hours, taking the number of recoveries in the UT to 13,925.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-133-fresh-cases-surface-in-chandigarh-167137
07-11-2020||---||69 new cases in Panchkula; be cautious, people told||Panchkula, November 6The district today reported 69 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 7,383.Among the fresh cases, six each were reported from Hangola and Sector 19, five each from the MDC, Sector 5, Sector 16 and Sector 21, four each from the MDC, Sector 4, Sector 26 and Sector 7, three each from Sector 10 and Surajpur, two each from Amrawati Enclave, Devinagar, Pinjore, Sector 12-A, Sector 14, Sector 15, Sector 29 and Sector 6, and one each from Kalka, Morni, Sector 11, Sector 12, Sector 20, Sector 25, Sector 27 and Sector 8.With a spike in the average daily cases due to the combined effect of a dip in the temperature and the festive season, health officials have urged people to exercise caution by maintaining social distancing and wearing a face mask.Corona volunteers deployed by health officials in various markets have been running awareness campaigns on Covid-19, with a message of “mask is medicine until a vaccine is discovered”.The recovery rate of the district has gone down by 1.5 per cent in a week.The recovery rate was above 96 per cent on October 28 (then the third highest in the state) and now it stands at 94.5.While 6,981 patients have defeated Covid-19 so far, 285 cases are still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/69-new-cases-in-panchkula-be-cautious-people-told-167138
07-11-2020||---||GBS Dhillon is High Court Bar president||Chandigarh, November 6GBS Dhillon was elected as the president of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association in elections held amidst the Covid outbreak and restricted functioning of the courts.In the results declared late this evening, Dhillon defeated former Bar president Dyal Pratap Singh Randhawa.Vikas Malik was elected as the vice-president of the body, while Chanchal K Singla was voted as the secretary. Manjit Kaur was elected as joint secretary, while Parampreet Singh Bajwa emerged victorious for the treasurer’s post. The election was scheduled to be held in April but was delayed after the courts went into restrictive functioning mode following the Covid threat in March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gbs-dhillon-is-high-court-bar-president-167139
07-11-2020||Zirakpur||3 held for attacking, robbing truck driver||Three persons have been arrested for robbing and attacking a truck driver near the Zirakpur flyover on October 28.The suspects have been identified as Arjun Kumar of Bihar, Lachhman Kumar, a Nepalese national, and Asish Rana, a resident of Dhakka Colony, Raipur Khurd, Chandigarh.The trio was arrested near Nature Park in Baltana today. Two knives and a stick used in the crime have been recovered. Zirakpur SHO Rajpal Singh Gill said the suspects were also involved in smuggling liquor from Chandigarh to areas in Punjab at night.Rajesh Kumar of Kaithal was attacked by three miscreants with knives, leaving him grievously injured, around 3.30 am on October 28. The injured was admitted to a private hospital but was later shifted to the GMCH-32.On the victim’s statement, the police had then booked unidentified persons under Sections 392, 324, 341 and 506 of the IPC. The police said the victim had sustained 32 injuries on shoulders, back and stomach. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-held-for-attacking-robbing-truck-driver-167140
07-11-2020||---||3 fatalities, 71 cases in Mohali||Mohali, November 6Three more Covid fatalities were witnessed in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 245, while 71 fresh cases were reported, taking the case tally to 12,730.Among the fresh cases, 62 were reported from Mohali (urban), four from Dera Bassi, three from Lalru and one each from Kharar and Kurali. Meanwhile, 53 more patients have been cured of the disease.The district has so far witnessed 12,730 cases and 11,876 patients have been cured. There are now 609 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-fatalities-71-cases-in-mohali-167141
07-11-2020||---||Man dies as car catches fire on Panchkula-Barwala highway||Panchkula, November 6An unidentified man was charred to death as he was unable to escape from his moving car when it caught fire near Mauli village on the Panchkula-Barwala highway late last night.The identity of the victim is still unknown. The cause of the fire is also yet to be ascertained.Fire engines were called to the spot to douse the fire. It took firefighters 30 minutes to put out the blaze.According to a police official, the flames erupted suddenly while the Maruti Swift DZire was in motion, apparently disabling the central locking of the car, trapping the victim inside.“The vehicle continued to move as it caught fire until it hit a road divider. It was difficult for us to make out the exact registration number of the burnt vehicle. Our efforts are on to trace its owner,” the police official added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-dies-as-car-catches-fire-on-panchkula-barwala-highway-167142
07-11-2020||---||CBI arrests tax official on Rs 20K graft charge||New Delhi, November 6The CBI has arrested a superintendent of the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) posted at Range V in Chandigarh for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs20,000.A senior agency official said a case was registered under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act (as amended in 2018) against Vijay Sehra.“It was alleged that the complainant, Subhash Chand Dadhwal, had received summons from the superintendent through post wherein he was directed to appear in the office along with documents. It was further alleged that the suspect directed the complainant to pay a bribe to settle his tax issue,” the CBI official said.Following the complaint, the CBI laid a trap and caught Sehra “while taking a bribe of Rs20,000” from the complainant, the official said. Later, searches were conducted at his residence in Panchkula and office in Chandigarh, which led to the recovery of incriminating documents, the official added.Gets 3-day remandA CBI court on Friday remanded Vijay Sehra in three-day CBI custody in the Rs20,000 graft case. The investigating agency produced the suspect before the court and sought five-day remand for him, stating that his custodial interrogation was essential to ascertain the names of senior officials among whom the bribe money was supposed to be shared by the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-arrests-tax-official-on-rs-20k-graft-charge-167143
07-11-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Ahead of festive season, Chandigarh Admn bans firecrackers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6Ahead of the festive season, the UT Administration has imposed a ban on the sale or use of firecrackers of any kind in the city.The ban will come into force with immediate effect and will remain in effect till further orders. The Administration imposed the ban under the Disaster Management Act. Any violation of the order will invite penal action under Section 51 to 60 of the Act, besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC.“The directions have been issued as a containment measure to prevent the risk of spread of Covid-19 due to pollution created with the bursting of crackers,” said Manoj Parida, UT Adviser-cum-Chairman, State Disaster Management Authority.Traders oppose UT moveWe oppose the decision of the UT Administration to ban crackers just seven-eight days before Diwali. Traders have already purchased stocks and the move will cause a big loss to them. — Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chd Beopar MandalRecently, the Administration had put the issuance of temporary licence for selling crackers on hold despite conducting a draw of lots.Ahead of festive season, Admn bans firecrackersHailing the decision, Ajay Jagga, member, Rogi Kalyan Samiti, said the ban would bring the much-needed relief to all those affected by the pandemic, senior citizens and children.He said the ban was needed in view of the ill effects of pollution due to burning of crackers on the lungs of people, especially senior citizens, children and those who are in isolation and quarantine.Necessary to prevent second wave of CovidIt is necessary to prohibit the sale and use of firecrackers to prevent a second wave of coronavirus. — Manoj Parida, UT Adviser-cum-Chairman, State Disaster Management AuthorityHe said health experts had warned that air pollutants from firecrackers would aggravate allergies and increase the risk of Covid transmission.Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, said, “While we await the National Green Tribunal to pronounce an order on November 9, the Administration may consider sale or use of green crackers as was allowed by the Supreme Court in 2018.”The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had recently issued notice and sought reply from the UT Administration on prohibiting the use of firecrackers.“We oppose the decision of the UT Administration to ban crackers just seven-eight days before Diwali. Traders have already purchased stock and the move will cause a big loss to them. The UT should have taken this decision at least a month before Diwali if it was required to stop the spread of the virus. The Administration should review the decision,” said Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ahead-of-festive-season-chandigarh-admn-bans-firecrackers-167144
07-11-2020||Mohali||PO held after 7 years||A proclaimed offender (PO), who was on the run for the past seven years, has been arrested by the Punjab Police. The PO, Sunny, a resident of Sector 38, Chandigarh, was nabbed by a team of the Nayagaon police station, led by Sub-Inspector Buta Singh Mann.  He was booked in a case of the NDPS Act in 2010, after he was found possessing two kg of ganja. Sunny was declared a PO by a local court in 2013. He was absconding since then. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/po-held-after-7-years-167145
07-11-2020||---||PGGC-11 Asst Prof on list of top scientists||Chandigarh, November 6  Dr Baljeet Singh, Assistant Professor at Post Graduate Government College (PGGC), Sector 11, has fond a place in the World Rankings of top 2% scientists in an analysis conducted at Stanford University. Based on publications, citations and H-Index, he has been placed at rank 107318 among a total of 15,8792 scientists from across the world.  Dr Baljeet Singh’s ranking in his field has been 676 at the world level in all sciences. Only 1,491 scientists from India feature on this list. This research on ranking was published in the paper, “Updated Science-wide author databases of standardized citations indicators”, of Journal PLOS Biology on Oct 16, 2020 by Stanford University researchers.  Dr Singh has 150 publications and more than 1,500 citations to his credit.  He is also a reviewer of more than 100 international journals. He was awarded Indian National Science Academy Young Scientist Medal in Mathematics 2001. He was a visiting fellow to the University of Salford (2003), London South Bank University (2003) and to the University of Glasgow, UK (2003, 2010, 2013 and 2018). Dr Sangam Kapoor, Principal, lauded Dr Singh's achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pggc-11-asst-prof-on-list-of-top-scientists-167146
07-11-2020||Mohali||Fake FB account of Mohali SHO created||The police have booked unidentified persons for creating a fake account of Phase 1 SHO Manphool Singh on Facebook and seeking money on various pretexts. A case under Section 420 of the IPC and the IT Act has been registered at the Phase 1 police station.Special teams have been formed to nab the culprit. The miscreants uploaded Manphool’s photos on the fake account and sent messages to his acquaintances, seeking money saying that he was in dire need of money. Manphool has written to the social networking site to block the fake account.“I have apprised the senior officials of the fake account and the police are investigating the matter,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fake-fb-account-of-mohali-sho-created-167147
07-11-2020||---||SOPs issued for Mohali medical college||Mohali, November 6  Research scholars and medical students will undergo Covid testing before joining their respective colleges and universities in Mohali district. Students of final year were tested today while those of other classes would have to undergo testing on November 12.  Every student would have to give an affidavit/self-declaration that he would follow the instructions regarding Covid issued by the state government such as wearing a mask, keeping sanitisers, maintaining social distancing and avoiding aimless movement on the college campus. The students would be able to take food to their hostel rooms and the colleges would have to get samples of employees of the mess for Covid testing. Outsiders would not be permitted to enter the college mess. They would be allowed to enter the college in emergency after getting the approval of the authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sops-issued-for-mohali-medical-college-167148
07-11-2020||---||Woman held for sacrilege at Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, November 6An incident of sacrilege was reported from a gurdwara at Devinagar village here today. A 32-year-old woman, Ranjit Kaur, was apprehended by the Granthi of the gurdwara.Dera Bassi police in-charge Satinder Singh said: ‘’The matter is being investigated. The woman is a local resident and has been arrested.’’ Sources said the woman was mentally unstable but the police were verifying the claims.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh and other senior police officials reached the spot after the incident came to light. Police personnel have been deplyed at the place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-held-for-sacrilege-at-dera-bassi-167149
07-11-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Golfers adapt to changes  induced by the pandemic||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6As the Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) makes a comeback at the golf courses of Chandigarh and Panchkula, after almost seven months of halt due to the Covid-19 pandemic, golfers are experiencing what they had never thought of.From filling their own scorecards after every round to not being able to discuss anything regarding the day’s play with fellow golfers, this is something the sport has gone through in recent times.“It seems like coming out of an examination centre. You come, attempt and leave. Unlike previous times, there have been no handshakes after each round, markers (competitors) are not signing scorecards of competitors, no discussions are taking place on the course and moreover, the integrity is maintained without any hassle... This is something I never thought would happen ever,” said Harmeet Kahlon, Arjuna Award winner golfer, who is also playing in the ongoing PGTI event.The Professional Golf Tour of India is perhaps the only association to conduct professional championships during this pandemic. I don’t know how long these new set of rules will last, but such changes have made us believe that the show must go on. —Delhi-based golfer Gaurav GhaiSigning scorecards by markers is a must in golf and it should be signed by the player and the competitor. If one or both of the required signatures are missing, the golfer may be disqualified under Rule 6-6b.However, in view of the Covid-19 restrictions, the golfers are asked to write, sign and submit their own scorecards, which is not usual in golf.This is just one of the steps taken to avoid any human contact.“There have been no customary handshakes after each round. No matter how hard one practises, playing tournaments is really important. I have realised in these two days. I have been working very hard in this lockdown but some small mistakes made me realise that tournament temperament can be only built by playing among competitors,” said another international golfer, Aadil Bedi, who was tied-6th on the second day with a score of 71.As per the Stroke Play (Rule 5.2b), golfers are allowed to practise on a day of the competition after their competition play for the day is complete. However, due to the Covid-19 restrictions, no practice is allowed after the round. “Practice rounds are usually termed as a way to assess the day’s round. Golfers usually like to spend more and more time on the course in order to learn every detail. However, this is for the first time that we have been asked to leave as soon as the round gets over. This is for our own safety,” said Delhi’s Manav Jani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golfers-adapt-to-changes-induced-by-the-pandemic-167150
07-11-2020||---||Now, new policy to check favouritism in traffic wing||Chandigarh, November 6With the aim of curbing favoritism and corruption in the deployment of police personnel in the traffic wing, the UT police have introduced a new manpower management policy on an experimental basis. Now, the staff will be given a fixed weekly off with fixed replacement, curtailing discretion of the deployment officer.The SSP (Traffic), Manoj Kumar Meena, said they were experimenting with the new manpower management policy in the traffic police. “The staff posted in the traffic wing will be given a fixed weekly off with fixed replacement that will remove the discretion in the hands of the deployment officer,” said the SSP.Meena said the system would bring more clarity in the weekly schedule for personnel and curb favoritism or corruption.“Earlier, there was no fixed rest day for police personnel. However, now there will be a roster of off days. This will also end indiscipline in the force as earlier, personnel would sometime avail several days of leave together by not taking offs,” said the SSP.According to the system, the duty and replacement roster will continue to be randomly prepared through a software with zero human interference.Earlier, there was no fixed rest day for police personnel. However, now there will be a roster of off days. This will also end indiscipline in the force as earlier, personnel would sometime avail several days of leave together by not taking offs. —Manoj Kumar Meena, SSP (Traffic)The fixed off days roster will also deal with the issue of stress among police personnel. There have been instances when police personnel complained of stress due to long duty hours and no rest day given to them.The results and feedback of the manpower management policy will be evaluated at the end of November.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-new-policy-to-check-favouritism-in-traffic-wing-167151
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||AAP takes on BJP||The local unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today flayed the ruling BJP for its lackadaisical attitude and non-performance with regard to the welfare of people. Chander Mukhi Sharma, AAP leader, while speaking to mediapersons, said: “People of the city are frustrated with the working style of the BJP.” He said the BJP had failed to run the civic body effectively and the recent developments on the issues of GPS watches and water tariff had clearly shown the misgovernance by the BJP president, the Mayor and the other BJP councillors. The increase in water tariff in Covid times is absolutely unjustified. A wasteful expenditure was made on GPS-enabled watches as there is no provision to check the ground work carried out by the staff, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-takes-on-bjp-167152
07-11-2020||---||District Bar Assn Poll: Fate of 19 candidates sealed||Chandigarh, November 6The fate of 19 candidates contesting for various posts of the executive body of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh, was sealed in the ballot boxes today. The voting was held amid tight security.The result of the elections has been withheld on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The court stayed the result on a petition filed by a candidate challenging the voting right of 69 members who had availed themselves of a waiver in the arrears of subscription.Social distancing norms went for a toss outside the voting hall as supporters of candidates approached the advocates coming for the voting.While all Covid-19 precautions were taken inside the voting hall, it was chaos-like situation at the entry points. A large number of supporters were seen without masks. They even did not care for maintaining social distancing while seeking votes.Advocates Munish Dewan, Neeraj Hans and Bhaag Singh Suhag were in the fray for the post of president. A total of 19 candidates contested for different posts of the executive body of the Bar Association.Advocate NK Kapil, returning officer for the election committee, said of the total 2,848 valid votes, 1,506 votes were polled. Approximately 53 per cent voting was recorded.The High Court had stayed the result on a petition filed by a candidate challenging the voting right of the 69 members who had availed themselves of a waiver in the arrears of subscription. Of that list, only 17 members cast their votes.Meanwhile, one bogus voting was also reported during the polling. Kapil said the matter had been brought to the notice of the police.Police personnel were deployed at the entry to the voting hall to ensure peaceful elections. Kapil said they had requested the police to provide round-the-clock security for ballot boxes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/district-bar-assn-poll-fate-of-19-candidates-sealed-167153
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panel to set up firm to take over assets||The Empowered Committee on privatisation of the Electricity Department has decided to formulate a company that will take over the assets of the department. The first meeting of the committee, which was attended by a representative of the Ministry of Power, along with the transaction adviser, was held today.The committee finalised the Request for Proposal (RFP) and also letter to be written to the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) regarding the transfer scheme.It was also decided to create a Trust, which will manage the pension obligations for government employees, who will be shifted to the private company. Several decisions were also taken to improve competition among the bidders.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said since Chandigarh was a compact well-administered territory, there would be several bidders for privatisation offer and the decision would be taken with total transparency.He also assured that the interest of existing employees would be protected when privatisation was completed.On privatisation, the department will become an autonomous body, which will be divided into the State Transmission Utility (STU) and the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC). The STU will be responsible for smooth transmission of power and the SLDC will be the main body to ensure integrated operation of power system. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-to-set-up-firm-to-take-over-assets-167154
07-11-2020||Panchkula||Satish elected Panchkula DBA chief||Satish Kadian was elected president of the Panchkula District Bar Association today.Despite elections being held under the shadow of Covid-19, advocates in large numbers thronged the District Courts Complex in Sector 1 to elect their representatives today.Kadian defeated his rival Sameer Sethi by a margin of 95 votes. He polled 272 votes.Sunil Kundu was elected vice-president with 303 votes, defeating Rohit Anand who secured 147 votes.Saurabh Sharma was elected secretary with 250 votes while his opponent Ketan Khurana polled 202 votes.The post of treasurer was won by Mohit Sharma who got 266 votes against 180 votes of his rival Ashok Kumar.Chief returning officer Dinesh Kumar Jangra said 89.45 per cent of the 550 electors cast their vote in the District Bar Association elections today. He said all precautions, including installation of automatic hand santiser dispensers at various spots in courts complex, were taken during the elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/satish-elected-panchkula-dba-chief-167155
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Elante expects rise in footfall during Diwali||Having witnessed an increase in the footfall during the Navaratri season, Elante Mall is expecting that the footfall will further increase during Diwali.Amid the pandemic, the mall is yet to witness the same footfall as it used to witness last year. However, it claims that it is improving day by day.“With the increase in pent-up demand and ticket size, we are expecting to clock 50 per cent of footfall that we did during Diwali last year. We are expecting fashion, electronics, F&B and gifting categories to do well,” said Nishank Joshi, Chief Marketing Office, Nexus Malls.“Using the ‘customer-first’ approach this year, we will focus on instant gratification and décor, which will help set the festive context,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elante-expects-rise-in-footfall-during-diwali-167156
07-11-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Monkey confinement case: Court upholds orders to allow bail to tattoo artist||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 6The Court of the Additional Session Judge Vijay Singh has upheld the order of a Judicial Magistrate (First Class) (JMIC) allowing bail to tattoo artist Kamaljit Singh and his manager Deepak for allegedly confining a monkey and exhibiting it by sharing its picture, along with him, on his Instagram account.The Forest Department had filed the revision petition challenging the order of the Judicial Magistrate (First Class) for allowing bail to the tattoo artist and his manager and declining the request for 14-day police remand.The UT Forest and Wildlife Department sought 14-day remand of Kamaljeet and Deepak after they were arrested on August 19 for violating the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.Singh owns Kamzinkzone tattoo studio in Sector 35. The department had arrested the tattoo artist and his manager on a complaint that they kept a monkey and posted its photographs and videos on Instagram.The Judicial Magistrate (First Class) granted bail to the duo on August 20 rejecting the appeal of the department, maintaining that the offence is non-cognisable and bailable.The department sought the remand to rescue the wild animal and complete the investigation. The department challenged the order of the JMIC by filing a revision petition under Section 397 of the CrPC for allowing the bail.Harlove Singh Rajput, counsel appearing on behalf of the accused, cited various provisions of law and judgments maintaining that the Magistrate had rightly declined the request of granting police remand and allowed bail. In view of this, revision petition was not maintainable.After hearing the arguments of both sides, the Additional Sessions Judge ruled that the trial court rightly admitted the petitioners to bail treating the offence bailable and there was no dispute regarding declining the request of granting police remand of the accused. In a bailable offence, the accused has the right to seek bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monkey-confinement-case-court-upholds-orders-to-allow-bail-to-tattoo-artist-167159
07-11-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration imposes stock-holding limit on onions||Chandigarh, November 6To check the rising prices of onion, the UT Administration today imposed stock-holding limit on onions till December 31.In a notification, the Food Supplies and Consumer Affair Department states that dealers, including wholesalers, distributing agents, selling agents or such persons can stock onion up to 25 metric tonnes (MT) while retailers can store up to 5 MT.The order, however, will not be applicable on government agencies possessing onion on behalf of the government. Any importer, being a wholesaler or retailer or dealer, will be exempted for the imported stock of onions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-imposes-stock-holding-limit-on-onions-167161
07-11-2020||---||Road in Mohali Industrial Area, Phase VI, cries for repair||Mohali, November 6The road in the Industrial Area, Phase VI, is in a poor condition. Large potholes have appeared on the road.There are 11 large industrial units each having a total area of five acres in the industrial area. Heavy vehicles loaded with 10 to 12 tonnes of raw and finished products pass through the area causing further damage to the road.The situation becomes worse during rain as it is difficult for cyclists and two-wheelers to cross the inundated road. Former SAD councilor SS Dhanoa said that they had raised the issue several times at meetings of the MC House, but nothing was done to repair the road.He claimed that during rain industries had to close operations as water entered their premises. Owners of industrial units instructed workers not to come to work as it was risky to drive two-wheelers on the slippery road, he added.Owners of industries in the city were paying more than Rs 1 crore as GST, besides other dues, including property tax, he said. The government should reconstruct the road immediately, he added.Municipal Corporation Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said tenders had been passed and the work order issued for carrying out patchwork on the road. The work would start soon, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-in-mohali-industrial-area-phase-vi-cries-for-repair-167163
07-11-2020||---||Ex-servicemen flay proposed cut in pension||Chandigarh, November 6The National Federation of Defence Honorary Commissioned Officers has criticised the proposal of the Directorate of Military Affairs to cut the pension of soldiers and increase in the age of retirement up to 57 years.“Needless to say that such a move is anti-soldier. The government is more worried about the pension burden on the exchequer. Increase in age up to 57 years for the personnel of EME, ASC, Signal and AMC is not a decision based on practical experiences. These defence personnel continue to rotate in peace as well as war establishments. Effectiveness in war and moral of the troops has been compromised in the policy,” said Capt Jagdish Verma (retd), chairman of the federation.He said if the policy was implemented, the federation wouldn’t hesitate to challenge it in the appropriate and competent court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-servicemen-flay-proposed-cut-in-pension-167164
07-11-2020||Amit Bathla||No violence, but resistance still alive at Rattewali||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 6More than 72 hours after a clash broke out between villagers and a police team at Rattewali village in Barwala there were no signs of violence but the resistance by villagers is still alive.Demanding quashing of the two FIRs and release of those arrested for allegedly attacking the police, the villagers say the fight must continue.“We have lost our appetite. We don’t feel like cooking food in our homes. We are not just confined to the walls of our homes. We can come out and raise voice when the police take desperate actions. We will continue this fight until the police allow sons of the village to return home,” vowed a woman protester in a veil under a “shamiyana” (tent) this afternoon.“After everything that’s happened, the authorities haven’t altered their neglectful behaviour towards the villagers. They did not pay heed to our concerns then and continue be unconcerned even now. Do we not live in this country?” she asked.An elderly man said: “We have lost our faith in the police and the local administration. We urge Home Minister Anil Vij to listen to us.”The protest for the cancellation of cases against 14 accused arrested so far continued for the second day on Friday.‘Police targeting innocent youths’Kimti Lal, a member of the village panchayat, said the police were now targeting innocent people of the village as suspects.“My 29-year-old cousin Vikram, who works at the PGIMER, Chandigarh, was picked up by the police for no reason. He is innocent as his name is not even in the FIR. The arrogance has made them (police) blind. Law enforcers themselves have become lawbreakers,” he said.“They (policemen) barged into our houses and beat up several women. Why no case has been filed against the policemen who manhandled them. The police must address these double standards,” he asked.Mining paused, police patrolling onThe licensed mining, the core issue which led to the present situation in the village, has been paused for unknown reasons, apparently due to “unsafe environment”.In his complaint, the mining contractor has alleged that around 50-60 villagers had attacked men working on the mining site and even vandalised his office.Even though the police presence is minimal, the cops remain on constant patrol to avoid another confrontation.Two FIRs registeredTwo FIRs were lodged at the Chandi Mandir police station in connection with the incident. The first case was lodged under Sections 114, 147, 148, 149, 186, 188, 283, 307, 332, 341, 353, 379- B, 384, 427, 270, 271 and 120-B, IPC, and Sections 25, 54 and 59, Arms Act, and Sections 3, 4 and 5, PDP Act, against 13 persons on the basis of a complaint filed by Duty Magistrate Sunil Jakhar.The other FIR was registered against 34 persons under Sections 120-B, 148, 149, 308, 395, 435, 436 and 506, IPC, on a complaint of mining contractor Pradeep Goyal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-violence-but-resistance-still-alive-at-rattewali-167165
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Consumer commission penalises city cloth shop||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, has penalised a cloth shop for deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.The panel directed the owner of Uphaar Sarees and Prints Private Limited, Sector 17-D, to refund Rs 3,450, the cost of the suit which faded after the first wash, to the complainant, Jaspal Singh of Sector 49. The shop owner has also been directed to pay Rs 2,000 as compensation to the complainant and Rs 1,500 as litigation expenses. The suit was purchased in October last year.The complainant got the said suit stitched for Rs 1,200. It has been alleged that after washing, the suit faded and became unwearable. He stated that he made a request to opposite party on December 3 to replace the suit. However, the request was declined following which a legal notice was served on the opposite party, which also failed to fetch the desired results.The complainant approached the commission and sought relief. A notice was sent to the opposite party but nobody appeared before the commission on its behalf.The commission observed that the opposite party indulged in unfair trade practice as it ought to have made good the loss to the complainant. The opposite party did not even bother to redress the grievance of the complainant, which was a deficiency in service, it observed.The commission directed the opposite party to refund Rs 3,450 to the complainant and pay Rs 2,000 as compensation for deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. The commission also ordered it to pay Rs 1,500 to the complainant as litigation expenses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consumer-commission-penalises-city-cloth-shop-167166
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Alliance Francaise head calls on Adviser||Ophélie Belin, Director, Alliance Francaise de Chandigarh, called on UT Adviser Manoj Parida today and discussed the possibility of involving it in promoting cultural activities in the city.Parida mentioned that while posted in Puducherry, several projects were undertaken by him, particularly in restoration of the Old French Building. He assured the director that the Administration would provide all cooperation in organising cultural events involving French and local artistes. A painting exhibition on French and Chandigarh artists in the underpass at the Sector 17 market connecting Rose Garden was also discussed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/alliance-francaise-head-calls-on-adviser-167167
07-11-2020||Chandigarh||Hit by truck, cyclist dies||Labourers’ phones snatchedMohali: The police have registered a case of snatching and assault against five persons under Sections 341, 506, 379-B and 323 of the IPC at the Balongi police station. Complainant Neeraj Kumar said four or five miscreants waylaid labourers and assaulted them before snatching their mobile phones. The suspect then fled from the spot. TNSTwo held with 5 stolen mobilesMohali: The police nabbed two youths with five stolen mobile phones and narcotics at Focal Point near Chanalon in Kurali. The suspects were caught during a checking drive. The duo has been identified as Kamalpreet Singh and Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Kainor village in Morinda. The narcotics powder in possession of Kamalpreet Singh weighed 55 gm, while Sukhwinder Singh had 60 gm of it. A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered at the Kurali (City) police station. A Kharar court sent them to three-day police remand on Thursday. Three of the five owners of the mobile phones have been identified. TNSVarsity to hold special examsChandigarh: Panjab University (PU) will conduct special examinations for the candidates who missed their exams scheduled for March 20 to 24 due to the lockdown and for other reasons, from November 12, said Prof Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examinations, PU. The examinations will be conducted in an offline mode. The centre of examination has been set up on the Panjab University campus. Students can check the date sheet on the examination link (https://exams.puchd.ac.in/datesheet.php) at the PU website. The students must wear mask all the time in the examination centre. TNSWebinar on working womenChandigarh: The University School of Open Learning, Panjab University, organised a Webinar on "Women and Workplace: Peculiar Issues and Coping Strategies". Prof Madhurima Verma, Chairperson, USOL, deliberated on the theme. Prof Rajesh Gill, Department of Sociology, focussed on breaking stereotypes related to working women. Prof. Reicha Tanwar, former director, Centre of Women Studies, Kurukshetra University, Haryana, deliberated on the issue of sexual harassment at workplace. TNSLast dates extendedChandigarh: Panjab University has extended last dates for submission of examination forms of all undergraduate, postgraduate and professional courses (without and with late fee) till November 27. The students can now apply without late fee till November 27, with a late fee of Rs 2,075 till December 4, Rs 6,075 till December 11, Rs 11,075 till December 18 and with a late fee of Rs 22,075 till December 26. Students can also visit the university's website www.puchd.ac.in for information. TNSResults announcedChandigarh: Panjab University has announced the results of Master in Disaster Management (2nd Semester), MA-Women Studies (4th Semester), MA-Defence & Strategic Studies (4th Semester), MSc (HS)-Chemistry (4th Semester), Postgraduate Diploma in International Business (2nd Semester), BSc (Hons) Chemistry (6th Semester), BSc (Hons) Anthropology (6th Semester) and BSc (Hons) Bio-Technology (2nd Semester). TNS2 club managers booked for serving hookahChandigarh: The police conducted checks at clubs here on Thursday night and found hookah being served at two clubs - Boulevard in Sector 26 and Reef in Sector 7. Inspector Narinder Patial, SHO, Sector 26 police station, said three hookahs each were recovered from both clubs. Cases were registered against Ravi, manager of Boulevard, and Manish Sharma, manager of Reef. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-truck-cyclist-dies-167168
