08-05-2020||Mohali||Coronavirus: Dead elderly man among two people who test positive in Mohali||An elderly man who died at a private hospital in Sector 26 was among two who tested positive from Mohali, officials said on Friday--- a development that takes the district's tally to 98 cases with three deaths.A 74-year-old man from Batlana, Zirakpur, died on Thursday evening.  Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said he was admitted to a private hospital two days ago after he complained of chest pain.Hospital authorities informed district authorities of his test results on Friday, the doctor said.His death has yet to be taken into account in the state's COVID-19 tally.  When it does, Mohali’s death toll from COVID-19 will rise to three.Mohali's other case was a 24-year-old woman from Nayagaon who also tested positive. The woman recently had a baby at Government Multi Speciality Hospital in Sector 16.Dr Manjeet Singh said district authorities will now test the woman’s newborn baby and other members of her family, as well as members of the elderly man’s family.The development takes the district’s COVID-19 tally to 98.Meanwhile, three people from Jawaharpur village were released from Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital after they tested negative. They will not however return home just yet, and will instead be sent to a quarantine facility at Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi for 14 days.Of Mohali’s 98 cases, 43 are active and are being treated at the Gian Sagar Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-dead-elderly-man-among-two-people-who-test-positive-in-mohali-82174
08-05-2020|| Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Sector 27 woman among 10 new cases in Chandigarh; UT tally rises to 145||Chandigarh on Friday reported 10 new coronavirus cases, taking the union territory's case tally to 145.In what could spell trouble for the UT, Sector 27 reported its first case after a 35-year-old woman tested positive for the deadly disease. Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 reported 8 new cases, taking the total in the colony to 84. The colony has reported the largest number of cases in the city so far. Maloya also reported a new case, taking the total in the colony to two. Two coronavirus-positive women have given birth to babies at GMSH-16 in the past few days. A Maloya-based 22-year-old woman gave birth on Thursday. The newborn has been sampled for coronavirus and the report is awaited. A Mohali-based 24-year-old woman also delivered a baby on May 7. Her baby's report is awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-sector-27-woman-among-10-new-cases-in-chandigarh-ut-tally-rises-to-145-82096
08-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||Only 2 in ICU, none on ventilator in UT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 7Despite a daily spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the UT, what seems to be good news is that only two of the total active cases from the city at the PGI are in a serious condition and none is on a ventilator. The condition of all remaining patients is stated to be stable.96 Active cases at PGIIt (patient in the ICU or on ventilator) is a ‘dynamic situation’. Depending on the patient’s current condition, it varies. Those who are serious also have chances of recovery. However, others are normal cases. Patients are stable. They have minor symptoms like throat pain or little fever or diarrhoea or cold. — Prof GD Puri, HOD, Anaesthesia & Intensive CareAccording to the PGI, there are a total of 96 active cases from Chandigarh in the hospital. Of them, two have been admitted to the ICU and are on nasal prongs. One case is of a 67-year-old man of Sector 15, who was admitted to the hospital on May 1. The secondcase is of a 60-year-old woman from Dhanas, who was admitted on May 5.“It (patient in the ICU or on ventilator) is a ‘dynamic situation’. Depending on the patient’s current condition, it varies. Those who are serious also have chances of recovery. However, others are normal cases. Patients are stable. They have minor symptoms like throat pain or little fever or diarrhoea or cold,” said Prof GD Puri, Head, Department of Anaesthesia & Intensive Care & Dean (Academics).About nasal prongsThe nasal cannula (NC) is a device used to deliver supplemental oxygen or increased airflow to a patient or person in need of respiratory help. This device consists of a lightweight tube which on one end splits into two prongs which are placed in the nostrils and from which a mixture of air and oxygen flows.According to the UT media bulletin, a total of 138 positive cases have been reported from the city, of which 116 are active cases, 21 have been discharged after recovery and there is one Covid-19 death of an 82-year-old woman from Sector 18. A PGI official said the remaining active cases reported from the city were in other hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-2-in-icu-none-on-ventilator-in-ut-81852
08-05-2020||---||14 more test +ve, city count rises to 138||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 7Covid-19 cases continue to pour in from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 with 12 of the fresh 14 cases being reported from there, taking the tally of positive cases in the city to 138.Three positive cases were reported late tonight. Of these, two are members of a family in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, while another case is from Maloya where a woman tested positive. The cases from Bapu Dham were under home quarantine, but the Maloya woman wasn’t, which has worried officials.One case was reported from Sector 30, which has recorded the second highest number of Covid cases after Bapu Dham Colony. The Sector 30 case is of a 12-year-old girl. She is a family contact of positive cases in the same house.Among the other cases reported from Bapu Dham is a six-year-old boy. He is a community contact of a positive case in the same locality.He has eight family contacts, all of whom have been sampled. Three other residents of Bapu Dham, who tested positive, belong to a family. They are the contacts of previously reported positive cases.A 36-year-old woman, who tested positive, is a community contact of positive cases in the same locality.Five more cases were reported from Bapu Dham. Among them, three belong to a house and are community contacts of positive cases in the locality. The remaining two positive cases are family contacts of an already diagnosed positive case.Meanwhile, a number of persons have been home-quarantined by the contact and quarantine tracing team of the UT. The team said most of the positive cases were of those who were already quarantined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-more-test-ve-city-count-rises-to-138-81854
08-05-2020||Panchkula||Leopard falls into water tank at Morni, rescued||An injured leopard, which fell into a 15-foot-deep water tank at Tikri village in the Morni block here, was rescued by the Wildlife Department this afternoon.There was no water in the tank and the animal was in agony and couldn’t climb the tank on its own because its right paw was chopped off.After hearing its wails, villagers informed wildlife officials, who reached the spot with the police.The officials managed to rescue the leopard around 2:30 pm. The operation lasted for 3.5 hours. The animal was tranquilised before being rescued.Divisional Wildlife Officer Shiv Singh Rawat, who supervised the rescue operation, said: “Around 10.15 am, we got to know about a leopard being stuck in a water tank as villagers were terrified by its presence.”“We found leopard injured with its right paw chopped off. Though his blood had dried up, the injury appeared to be 2-3 days old. We rescued the animal around 2.30 pm. We have sent the animal to Pipli Zoo, Kurukshetra, for treatment,” he said. “The animal didn’t seem to be fit for survival in the wild. It could have wandered in residential colonies and attacked goats and dogs. The veterinary surgeon, who is expected to reach Pipli Zoo from Rohtak, can better assess the condition,” the wildlife official said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/leopard-falls-into-water-tank-at-morni-rescued-81856
08-05-2020||---||6 more from Mohali recover, discharged||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 7A total of six Covid-19 patients belonging to Mohali were discharged from hospitals today, taking the tally of recovered persons to 49. Of these, five patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and one from the PGI, Chandigarh.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said of these, four patients belonged to Jawaharpur village, while one each belonged to Mundi Kharar and Nayagaon.Regarding the status of sampling, Dayalan said out of 2,111 samples tested so far, 1,890 were found negative. He said quarantine period of 2,605 people was over and that of 1,050 was still continuing. He said at present, total positive cases in the district were 96 and the number of active cases was 46.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said Jawaharpur residents would not be sent home yet. They would stay at a quarantine facility at Nirankari Bhawan in Dera Bassi for another 14 days as a precautionary measure, while Kharar and Nayagaon residents would be sent home. They both had been advised to quarantine themselves at home for 14 days. Health teams would keep a track of their health regularly.Dr Manjit said all patients were undergoing treatment at a Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur and their condition was fine. He hoped that the epidemic would be brought under control with the cooperation of people. Therefore, people should prefer staying at homes.PGI Director compliments recovered health workerProf Jagat Ram, Director of the PGI, was present outside the dedicated Covid hospital to compliment the 30-year-old healthcare worker of the PGI on his successful recovery. He was accompanied by Prof Vipin Koushal, in-charge, Covid Hospital, Dr Shefali Sharma, Department of Internal Medicine, Dr Kamal Kajal, Department of Anaesthesia & Intensive Care, Dr Aseem Mehra, Department of Psychiatry, Dr Naveen Pandey, Department of Hospital Administration, and other senior members of the PGI Covid-19 team.The PGI Director presented him with flowers and wished him happy and healthy life. Prof Jagat Ram said: “Healthcare workers are our frontline warriors and our pillars of strength in this war against Covid-19. So, the successful recovery and discharge of our own healthcare worker, one among us, is extremely gratifying not only for his family but also for the entire PGI family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-more-from-mohali-recover-discharged-81881
08-05-2020||---||Workers face uncertain future||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 7It has been more than 45 days since Anil Kumar, 31, has been sitting idle at home. Kumar was working at a screw manufacturing company in the Industrial Area here, but the factory is yet to start functioning even after four days since the UT Administration has eased lockdown restrictions.Kumar says he has no option but to leave for his native village. He rightly despairs that who would pay him without any work. He has no money left to pay room rent and meet other expenses.Like him, several other workers find themselves without jobs. Amid Covid-19 pandemic, most workers stare at an uncertain future as the manufacturing sector in the city is yet to pick up pace.Kumar says several workers have already left for their homes and he, too, has applied to go back to his native village in Balia district of Uttar Pradesh.On Monday, the UT Administration had lifted curbs to commence economic activities by opening market shops and industrial units. However, hardly 20-30 per cent of nearly 3,000 industries here have started operations.An industrialist says even those who have opened their factories are working half-heartedly as there is hardly any orders or work. Some of them are opening their units for a few hours only.Stating the obvious, he says the lockdown has badly affected the whole of the industrial sector. In the absence of any revenue generation, most industrialists are not in a position to pay full salary to their workers. However, they have been taking care of their workers and providing ration, etc., to them and fulfilling their other requirements.Amarpal Singh, owner of a steel factory here, says several of his labourers have already left for their villages. They would come back only after 2-3 months after the situation gets normal. Till then, most industrialists will have to work with limited labour.Pyare Lal, another labourer, who works at a furniture manufacturing factory, says he and most others could not wait endlessly for the factory to start functioning. They have been left with no other option but to go back to their village.According to information, nearly 30,000 migrant labourers have applied to return to their states. Most of the workers are from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Bengal.Workers hired on a contract usually earn between Rs 8,000 and Rs 15,000 per month, according to a union leader. He says as several factories are yet to start production, owners are not ready to pay full wages to the workers. The unionist says this is going against the directions of the government and claims they would inform the authorities as the government had directed the private sector to pay full wages to their workers during the lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/workers-face-uncertain-future-81883
08-05-2020||---||Youth duped of Rs 96,000 on dating site||Chandigarh, May 7A 19-year-old youth reportedly lost around Rs 96,000 after logging in to a dating site offering a membership.The victim, a college student residing in Sector 29, searched for a dating site and got lured to be a member.The site claimed that it provided a platform to chat with girls and later meet them for a date.The victim got lured and paid Rs 910 as security. On May 5, he recieved a call and the caller asked him to further send Rs 16,000, which he did.Unaware that he had been duped, the fraudsters made him further transfer Rs 16,800, stating that the money transferred earlier was sent to a wrong account.When the victim questioned them about his money and asked for a refund, the fraudsters demanded exorbitant cancellation chargesThe victim’s father alleged that his son was threatened by them saying that they would complain against him to the police. The victim, who was paying the money through Paytm, got sacred and further transferred Rs 27,690, Rs 25,110 and Rs 10,000.“He transferred the money from my bank account to his Paytm account and further sent it to the fraudsters’ Paytm account,” the victim’s father said.All transactions were done within a few hours. A complaint of cheating has been made to the cyber crime investigation cell of the UT police. “The different mobile numbers from which the fraudsters called and the Paytm number to which money was transfered have been provided to the police,” the victim’s father said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-duped-of-rs-96-000-on-dating-site-81884
08-05-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||This teacher is a guiding light in true spirit||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 7There are a few who rise up to the occasion when society needs selfless service and lend a caring hand to others in need. One such Covid warrior, who has given up virtually every minute of his time to the service of people, is Pardeep Kumar Saini, a teacher at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 10. He has been multi-tasking as a nodal officer for the Municipal Corporation, NSS programme officer and student counsellor in the evening.I also look after food being cooked for the underprivileged in Sector 52 and MC supplies. Besides counselling students regarding the Covid-19 situation, sometimes I talk to parents who are apprehensive about the unfolding situation. — Pardeep Kumar Saini, GMSSS-10He undertook training from WHO doctors at the GMSH, Sector 16, and then underwent training at the Department of Personnel and Training for psychological care of Covid-19 patients.The 45-year-old is an active member of a team constituted by the Chandigarh Municipal Commissioner to look after the supply and delivery of essential commodities such as vegetables, grocery items and medicines for Sector 63 residents.“I also look after food being cooked for the underprivileged in Sector 52 and supplies by the Municipal Corporation. Besides counselling students regarding the Covid-19 situation, sometimes I talk to parents who are apprehensive about the unfolding situation,” he said.In school, he is also an NSS programme officer guiding groups of children in making masks and helping people with the Aarogya Setu mobile application. There is a mid-day meal kitchen at the GMSSS-10 where food for 4,000 people is being cooked.Saini, who hails from Kurukshetra, feels that with the easing of restrictions, life will start bouncing back to normal, but he is pained at the sight of people crowding liquor vends in the city.“It feels very sad to see people piling over each other in front of liquor vends. The hard work of the past 40 days has gone waste. It was important to give relaxations, people will start working and life will try to get back on track,” said the social science teacher.These days, Saini hardly gets time for himself or family, including wife and two sons studying in Class X and XII. “The schedule has become a bit hectic. I was pursuing MA (English), but for the past 40 days, I have not even touched at my books. There are no regrets though,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/this-teacher-is-a-guiding-light-in-true-spirit-81885
08-05-2020||Amit Bathla||No salaries for school bus drivers, conductors in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 7School bus operators in Panchkula are asking for financial assistance to help them tide over the lean period. Under financial distress, the Panchkula School Bus Operators Welfare Association has written to Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta pleading for a special package to pay salaries of as many as 900 bus drivers and attendants associated with them.A similar request has also been made to Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and District Education Officer (DEO).Harmanjot Singh, executive member, of the operators’ body, said, “As directed by schools and the administration, bus operators are charging students for 11 months instead of the fact that we have to bear expenses for 12 months. We somehow managed to pay salary of drivers and conductors for March. As we are not being paid any further by schools, it will be difficult for us to pay salaries from April onwards.”“Apart from repayment of bank loans for buses, several taxes and insurance premium are borne by bus owners,” he added.“Hence, it will be difficult for bus owners to sustain business under the present circumstances,” he said.“Though instalments are extended for three months, we will have to pay additional interest by either increasing the amount per instalment or the number of instalments will go up. It will be an additional burden,” he added.Struggling to sustain lifeAmrik (47), a school bus driver, who lives in a Mohali village, said, “I have yet to get salary for April. I am running my house on borrowed money. It is difficult to feed my family, including two daughters and a son.”He requested the government to look after the concerns of school bus operators so that they can pay salaries of employees working for them.Private schools should charge only tuition feesIn view of the ongoing Covid-19 situation, the Haryana Education Department has directed private schools to charge only tuition fees from students. Other charges like building and maintenance funds, admission and transport fees should be exempted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-salaries-for-school-bus-drivers-conductors-in-panchkula-81886
08-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Poor sale of liquor riles vend owners in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 7Liquor vends in Mohali witnessed hardly any sale as only few people turned up to purchase alcohol. Low sale has left owners of liquor vends in the district worried.According to a random survey of various parts in the district, including Dera Bassi, Zirakpur and Phase 10, 7, 5, 3B2 and other places in Mohali, only one or two customers were seen at liquor vends.Sunny, an owner of liquor vend, said only 30 per cent sale was witnessed at his vends in the district. “We were expecting fourfold increase in sales as the government has allowed opening of liquor shops in the district after 43 days,” he said.“The main reason for negligible sale is opening of liquor vends in neighbouring Chandigarh on May 5. Middle and upper middle class persons purchased liquor from Chandigarh while the poor people mostly migrant workers have no money due to no work in view of the lockdown,” he added.About online orders, Sunny said, “We are not interested for this as it will promote bootlegging. There is not much difference on the retail sale of liquor in Mohali and Chandigarh, but if one orders a carton containing 12 bottles there is difference of Rs 2,000 per carton.”“A person, who orders liquor on phone, will get acquainted with the delivery man. At a later stage, delivery man will provide customer liquor carton purchased from Chandigarh at much cheaper rate than Mohali. It will cause further loss to liquor vend owners in Mohali,” he added.Even officials of the Excise and Taxation Department visited liquor vends to check actual sales at their counters, he said.Arjun Singh, another liquor vend owner, alleged that liquor was smuggled from Chandigarh during the past two days resulting in negligible sale in Mohali. Most people, who were employed in government and private offices in Chandigarh, purchased liquor from the UT, which led to lower sale in Mohali district, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poor-sale-of-liquor-riles-vend-owners-in-mohali-81887
08-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Liquor home delivery draws flak in Fatehgarh Sahib district||Though the state government allowed to open liquor vends, many shops in most towns of the district remained closed today to protest home delivery of liquor. Meanwhile, liquor shops in Sirhind, district headquarters, and adjoining rural area opened today.Vijay Sharma, alias Tinku, a senior Congress leader and chairman, District Planning Board Mohali, said, “We have decided to open liquor shops after government’s consent. Other contractors should also open their vends. Strike is no solution to any problem.”“Home delivery of liquor should be immediately stopped as it will encourage illegal sale of liquor. Anti-social elements will start liquor smuggling, which will cause loss of revenue to the government and contractors,” he said.Harpreet Singh Prince, a wine contractor, said home delivery should be banned immediately as it would increase liquor smuggling. He demanded that licence fee of the lockdown period should be waived.Sachin, ETO (Excise), said, “The department has called a meeting of contractors to convince them. Moreover, home delivery of liquor is a state-level issue.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-home-delivery-draws-flak-in-fatehgarh-sahib-district-81888
08-05-2020||---||Train with 1,288 migrant workers leaves for UP||Mohali, May 7As many as 1,288 stranded migrant workers left for their hometown in Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh, via Shramik Special train today. However, 25 per cent of them, who had registered themselves on the online portal of the Punjab Government, refused to go back to their native place.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said 1,188 persons were contacted for confirmation of their departure yesterday, but 25 per cent declined to return, while another 10 per cent did not turn up at the railway station even after confirmation. Thereafter, the administration contacted those on reserved/ waiting list and facilitated their departure, he said.Dayalan said, “It’s a good sign and an indication that we are tiptoeing towards normalcy.” He appealed to the workers that since normalcy was being restored gradually, any migrant, except those in acute distress, who did not want to go back, were welcome to stay back in the district.He said registration on the portal did not imply that they had to compulsorily leave and they could always choose to stay back and work, he added.Dayalan and ADC Ashika Jain, along with the SDM and other officers, coordinated and gave a send-off to the labourers.The DC said a 24-coach train left the Mohali railway station at 10 am and staff at the station ensured that all adhered to social distancing while boarding the train. The administration ensured drinking water and food for all on board. He said the workers were screened thoroughly at the designated collection centres and were ferried to the station via buses.Suresh Kumar, a migrant worker at Dera Bassi, said he and other members of his group had decided not to return to their hometown. He said they hoped to get work as the government had allowed industries to start functioning.Stay back if you want, dc tells migrants||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/train-with-1-288-migrant-workers-leaves-for-up-81889
08-05-2020||---||UT police shower petals on staff||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 7The UT police today honoured sanitation workers, helpers, ward attendants and sweepers working with the police department and Police Hospital at the Police Lines, Sector 26, here.UT DGP Sanjay Baniwal, accompanied by other police officers and doctors of Police Hospital, encouraged the staff by showering flower petals on them with police band playing in the background. Masks and sanitisers were also distributed among all personnel present there.“The programme was organised to honour public health workers, who are performing their duties with full devotion in their respective fields,” a police official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-police-shower-petals-on-staff-81890
08-05-2020||---||Education Dept to distribute Class I to VIII books from today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 7“The UT Education Department will distribute textbooks among students of Classes I to VIII, starting tomorrow,” informed the District Education Officer (DEO).Respective school principals will head the distribution process. According to the circular, one parent will be allowed to enter school premises to pick books. To begin with, books of Class VIII will be distributed first in different time slots.“This is an annual exercise, held in March, but owing to the Covid-19 pandemic it has been delayed. Earlier, books were issued when results were declared,” said DEO Alka Mehta.“Principals have been asked to follow a strict procedure and make a schedule. Only one parent will be allowed to enter the school premises and collect the set of books. They will not be allowed to roam anywhere other than the designated area,” the DEO added.“Teachers have already prepared sets of books. Only one section, depending upon the number of students, will be given books in a day,” the DEO said.MD/MS exam postponedThe Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has postponed MD/MS entrance test. The exam for the July session, which was schedule to be held on May 23, has been postponed till further orders due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The authorities informed that the revised dates would be uploaded soon on the portal pgimer.edu.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/education-dept-to-distribute-class-i-to-viii-books-from-today-81891
08-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Industrial theft case solved, Rs10L recovered in Mandi Gobindgarh||Fatehgarh Sahib, May 7District police claims to have solved the theft case in which Rs 28 lakh were stolen from the office of Pardeep Steel and Agro Industry, Mandi Gobindgarh, with the arrest of accused identified as Harvinder Singh, a resident of Mandi Gobindgarh. The police recovered Rs 10 lakh and a motorcycle used in crime from his possession.The SSP, Fathegarh Sahib, Amneet Kondal, said, a theft was reported at Pardeep Steel and Agro Industry, Mandi Gobindgarh, in which Rs 28 lakh was stolen by the accused after breaking open the lock of an almirah. It was a blind case and an FIR was registered against unknown persons, the SSP added.A special team led by SP (Investigation) Harpal Singh and DSP (D) Jaswinder Singh Tiwana arrested Harvinder Singh of Mandi Gobindgarh, at a naka while he was driving motorcycle, the SSP said. During preliminary investigation, Harvinder revealed the truth and on his disclosure the police recovered Rs 10 lakh and a motorcycle, which he had purchased from the stolen money, the SSP added.Four another cases, including under the NDPS Act, were already pending against Harvinder in Fatehgarh Sahib and Ludhiana district, the SSP said.The main accused was Dheeraj Kumar of Mehrajganj district (UP), the SSP added. Two criminial cases were registered against him in Fatehgarh Sahib, the SSP said. Raids were on to nab him, the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/industrial-theft-case-solved-rs10l-recovered-in-mandi-gobindgarh-81892
08-05-2020||---||CAT Bar body donates 100 PPE kits to GMCH||Chandigarh, May 7The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) Bar Association has donated 100 PPE kits to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.Rohit Seth, president of the association, said it was possible with generously donation by members of the Bar in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. He said a few days ago, the association had donated 100 PPE kits to the Director, PGMER.Gilco Group donates 100 PPE kits, sanitisersKharar: Gilco Group of Companies donated 100 PPE kits and sanitizers to SDM Himanshu Jain. Managing director, Gilco Group, Ranjit Singh Gill, handed over kits and sanitizers to the SDM at his office today. “PPE kits have been given to the administration for distribution among government doctors and employees working at the frontline in this epidemic,” said Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cat-bar-body-donates-100-ppe-kits-to-gmch-81893
08-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||To start or not to start, Mohali industrialists caught in a dilemma||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 7Industrialists in the district are in a dilemma whether to start their units or not as there is no uniformity in the policy announced by the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Punjab Government.It was clearly mentioned in the Central Government’s policy as to which industrial units could start functioning, but there was no such mention in the policy announced by the Punjab Government. Also, the industrialists are facing the problem of shortage of labourers as the state government is sending them back to their home states.Gagan Chhabra, president, Mohali Industries Association, said there was no mention about movement of goods in the Centre as well as the state government policies. He said the owners of various industries in the district were in a dilemma as to how to get raw material and dispatch finished products as only trucks with essential items were allowed free movement, that too within the district.Chhabra said there were more than 39,000 migrants in the district and a majority of them were living in rural areas. He said panchayats and village residents were not allowing these migrant workers to move out of the village, fearing the spread of Covid. He said now, the state government were making arrangements for the return of these migrants to their home states. This would create labour crisis.He said both Central and state government should announce a uniform policy with regard to the industries or else allow them to sit at home in peace. He further urged the government to announce a financial package for restarting their industrial units as they had been paying huge taxes to the government in the form of GST and income tax.Another industrialist Abhinav Sharma said there were more than 500 small and medium industrial units in the district and at present, only 10 per cent were running to clear the backlog. He said these industrial units were facing the problem of dispatching finished goods as the movement of trucks to other states was not allowed due to the curfew restrictions in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/to-start-or-not-to-start-mohali-industrialists-caught-in-a-dilemma-81894
08-05-2020||---||37 migrants quarantined||Our CorrespondentDera Bassi, May 7Acting on the directives of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, around 37 migrants were sent to quarantine centres while a few others were home-quarantined after undergoing medical tests at a camp in Behra village, Dera Bassi, here today.To earn their livelihood, hundreds of labourers had gone to far-flung areas for harvesting crops, but had got stuck there due to the lockdown.As scores of migrant workers move back to villages, the state government has decided to screen them for Covid-19 and compulsory 21-day quarantine.Sources said teams of the Health Department had screened around 37 migrants and collected their samples for testing.According to the government orders, the authorities have also asked the police and the Health Department to make a village-wise list of entrants and arrange for their isolation if required.“We have deployed health teams at the border and are checking everyone arriving,” said anofficial of the Health Department.Apart from ensuring that the lockdown orders are followed, the police are now also identifying Covid-affected migrants.Police officials said they were helping people as much as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/37-migrants-quarantined-81895
08-05-2020||---||230 inmates released to decongest jail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 7To decongest the Burail Model Jail amid the Covid-19 pandemic, as many as 133 convicts were released on parole and 98 undertrials were released on interim bail till April 30.In a report submitted to Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court-cum-Chairman, State Legal Services Authority (SLSA), UT, regarding activities carried out during the lockdown period from March 23 till April 30, the SLSA and the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), stated that they would keep on reaching out to people in future as well.The report stated that a total of 98 undertrials were released on special interim bail and a total of 133 convicted prisoners were released on parole on furnishing sureties or on consent of earlier sureties.An effort was made to decongest the Children’s Homes in UT. In Snehalaya, the number was reduced from 113 to 93, in Children Home for Girls, the number was reduced from 174 to 159 and in the Specialised Adoption Agency, the number was reduced from 22 to 8.Apart from this, a total of 50 cases of women and children were dealt with during the lockdown period.The report stated that a one-month community awareness programme was carried out through panel lawyers and para legal volunteers through 11 legal aid clinics in the UT. The programme included awareness generation about social distancing, AarogyaSetu app, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/230-inmates-released-to-decongest-jail-81896
08-05-2020||---||Bail plea of skating coach dismissed||Chandigarh, May 7The Court of Additional District and Sessions Judge today dismissed the anticipatory bail application filed by a local skating coach who was working in a private school here.The coach is accused of raping the mother of his students by threatening and blackmailing her.On the complaint of the victim’s husband, a case under Section 376 (2) of the IPC was registered against the accused, Anil Sharma, at the Sector 36 police station on March 2, 2020.During hearing on the bail application, the defense counsel argued that the accused had been falsely implicated in the case. The accused and the woman had been known to each other. The allegations of blackmailing the woman were false and it was only after her husband told her that he would divorce her, the woman alleged that she was raped and blackmailed and threatened by the accused.Complainant’s counsel Terminder Singh argued that the accused pressured and blackmailed prosecutrix and repeatedly raped and threatened her to spoil the career of her children and even forced her not to disclose facts to anyone.After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the anticipatory bail application of the accused.In a complaint to the police, the woman’s husband had alleged that Anil Sharma, who was skating coach of his sons, befriended with his wife on the pretext of talking about skating career of his sons and then raped her. The woman was allegedly raped several times by the accused after threatening and blackmailing her by showing the woman her objectionable pictures in his phone.The case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bail-plea-of-skating-coach-dismissed-81897
08-05-2020||Chandigarh||Council slams killing of soldiers in J&K||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/council-slams-killing-of-soldiers-in-jk-81898
08-05-2020||Kharar||RBU offers scholarship||Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor, Rayat Bahra University (RBU), said, “The RBGI has launched a special scholarship for all students seeking admission to different courses.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rbu-offers-scholarship-81899
