08-04-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: Sanitisation tunnel installed in Chandigarh's Sector 26 vegetable market||A sanitisation tunnel along with hand-wash stations and dryer was on Wednesday set up at Sector 26 vegetable and fruit market.Soon similar tunnels will be set up in other crowded places, including the two major hospitals in Sector 16 and Sector 32.It’s a comprehensive “Fight COVID Station” having facility of thermal screening by taking temperature, pedestal operated hand-wash and soap dispenser, mist spray of sodium hypochlorite solution and hand dryer facility. It has been installed in Main Mandi Sector 26 and everyone who is visiting will have to pass through it.Manoj Parida, UT Adviser, inaugurated the newly installed sanitisation tunnel.He was accompanied by KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, and Mandeep Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-sanitisation-tunnel-installed-in-chandigarhs-sector-26-vegetable-market-68430
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh administration drawing up post-lockdown plan||Chandigarh Administration was preparing a detailed plan on how to combat coronavirus after lockdown, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said on Wednesday.A press release from the UT administration detailing a review meeting that was held through video conference on Wednesday said the planning was still underway, but gave no details.There is a nationwide lockdown in the city until April 14.Chandigarh has reported 18 cases of coronavirus so far.Chandigarh Administration ordered a curfew on March 24, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered a nationwide lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-administration-drawing-up-post-lockdown-plan-68420
08-04-2020||---||Mohali reports 4 new coronavirus cases, district count 30||Mohali, April 8Mohali district reported four more positive cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total tally in the district to 30.All four new cases have been reported from Jawaharpur village, Dera Bassi, which has emerged as Covid ‘hotspot’ in the district.Of the total 30 cases in the district, half have been reported from Jawaharpur itself, Mohali DC Girish Dayalan said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-4-new-coronavirus-cases-district-count-30-68406
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||265 violate curfew, detained||49 violators held in AmbalaAmbala: The police have arrested 49 persons for violating the lockdown during the past 24  hours on Tuesday. According to the police, the suspects were caught roaming around, opening shops (other than that of essential commodities) and disrupting government servants from discharging their duties in violation of the prohibitory order to contain the spread of Covid-19 . TNSVeterans contributeChandigarh: As the nation continues to battle the Covid-19 pandemic, a large number of veterans from Western Command have come forward to extend their support by contributing to the PM-CARES fund from their savings. Those residing at the Senior Veterans Home (SVH) of Western Command at Panchkula have made major contributions towards the cause. Among the major donors are Subedar Khem Singh, Honorary Lieutenant AD Sharma and Hav SK Chauhan, who have contribute Rs 1.01 lakh each, Surinder Kaur, wife of Late Col Manmohan Singh donated Rs 50.000, while Sub Maj DD Chadha gave Rs 31,000. All serving ranks have already contributed a day’s salary. TNSPU-CET ON June 13, PUMEET ON MAY 31Chandigarh: In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, Panjab University (PU) has rescheduled entrance tests. The PU-CET (PG) will now be held on June 13 and June 14, while PUMEET-2020 will now be conducted on May 31. The prospectus, including application form, for the entrance tests will now be made available online on April 20, instead of April 7 and April 9, informed Prof Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examinations, PU. He said: “A detailed schedule will also be available on the websites.” TNSHelpline for PU studentsChandigarh: To facilitate students during the lockdown and to provide them with information regarding examination and admission, the PU has made helplines operational. Prof Karamjeet Singh, Registrar, PU, said for exam-related queries, KG Grover, AR Examination, could be contacted on 9464511696, and Deepak Kaushik, AR Secrecy, could be reached to on 8146700440. For admission-related queries, Deepak Singh Rana, DUI Office, may be contacted on 9803069111 and students could also make a call to Devinder Singh Rawat, DUI Office, on 9780413094. The dates for May examinations are yet to be decided. TNSDPS starts online classesChandigarh: Delhi Public School, Mohali, has started online classes for students. According to a press release, the school has carefully planned a study package of two hours that students have to sit through daily, divided over several subjects. A routine has been drawn up. The students have been given links, which they use to log on to the virtual classroom. Apart from online teaching via a video-call app, teachers are also sharing chapter-wise assignments of different subjects. The online sessions began from April 1. TNSDesh Bhagat varsity DONATESFatehgarh Sahib: Reacting to the appeal of the Prime Minister, the staff of Desh Bhagat University, Mandi Gobindgarh, has contributed a day’s salary to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund/PM Cares. Chancellor Zora Singh said they were always available to stand by the nation. Pro- Chancellor Tajinder Kaur said as a responsible citizen, it was their responsibility to take all precautionary measures and extend support to overcome the situation. OCSanitisers, Masks distributedChandigarh: Municipal Corporation Councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali today distributed masks and sanitisers to door-to-door garbage collectors in Sector 29. The BJP leader said he had requested Mayor Raj Bala Malik to make the arrangments, following which it was distributed today. Many of the waste collectors did not have masks and were using their clothes or chunni as protective gear. “They visit every house and every nook and corner for picking waste. They come in contact with different people, thus it was imporant to provide them basic safety equipment. Residents will also remain safe with this,” added Devshali. Meanwhile, he said they have been distributing ration or food packets to the needy in his ward. “People are also requested to come forward, if they want to contribute for the cause,” he added. TNSQuack held for violating curfewChandigarh: A quack has been arrested by the Chandigarh police for opening his shop at Gobindpura, Mani Majra during the curfew. Police officials said Roop Chand Dhiman (56), a resident of Mohalla Dera Sahib, Mani Majra, defied curfew orders by opening of his shop. A case under section 188 of the IPC has been registered against him at the Mani Majra police station. TNS4 quarantined in KhararKharar: Four members of a family, who reside in Gillco Valley, Kharar, have been home-quarantined today in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Kharar Civil Hospital SMO Dr Tarsem Singh said those quarantined are relatives of a Ludhiana-based lady who died due to Covid-19 a couple of days ago. He said the victim had visited the said family on March 19. Dr Tarsem said samples of four persons have been sent for testing. OCKharar Admn seals 5 villagesKharar: The administration on Tuesday sealed five villages falling within 3-km radius of Chatamli village in Ropar district. The villages include are Goslan, Kalewal, Badanpur, Barouli and Singhpura. A person suffering from Chatamli was tested Covid-19 positive and has been admitted at a hospital in Chandigarh. Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain said all these villages fall under Kharar sub-division. He said all residents of these were being examined. He said entry and exit of residents from these villages has been banned and essentials would be supplied to villagers. OCTwo held with intoxicantsKharar: Th police have arrested two persons and recovered 170 tramadol tablets from them on Monday. The suspects have been identified as Sunil Kumar and Manjeet Singh. Kharar City SHO Bhagwant Singh said the duo was roaming on a motorcycle. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. The suspects were produced before a local court, which sent them to police remand for three days. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/265-violate-curfew-detained-67329
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Gutted showrooms sans fire NOC||Both showroom owners of Sector 17 where a fire broke out on Monday had been served fire safety violation notices. The duo failed to obtain non-objection certificates (NOCs) from the Fire Department. Jagtar Singh Sandhu, Station Fire Officer, Sector 17, said, “Touchstone had firefighting system, but it was not working. We had served a notice earlier.”He said adjoining electronics showroom did not had a fire safety system. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gutted-showrooms-sans-fire-noc-67156
08-04-2020||---||Women cops prepare meals for the needy||Panchkula, April 7 Apart from dealing with crime against women and matrimonial disputes, women police station in Sector 5, Panchkula, has taken an additional responsibility of preparing food for the needy in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak. After performing their duty, policewomen start cooking food at a special kitchen established at women police station. Over 500 food packets have been prepared in the kitchen, which started on April 4. Station House Officer Neha Chauhan said food packets are being served to the needy by patrolling staff in various parts of the district.  Chauhan said her team focusses on handling complaints regarding crime against women and sometimes they have to mediate in matrimonial issues. She said seeing plight of the needy due to the 21-day national lockdown they decided to do their bit. She said they have been raising Rs 5,000 every day for purchasing raw material. Chauhan said people from neighbourhood have also started providing vegetables and ration for the kitchen. The Station House Officer said they wear gloves, masks and cover their heads while preparing meals for the needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/women-cops-prepare-meals-for-the-needy-67154
08-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Administration rushes to sanitise Jawaharpur in Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, April 7 The Dera Bassi Fire and Rescue Services have launched a mega sanitisation drive in Jawaharpur village to check outbreak of Covid-19 today. The move came after seven people, including a sarpanch and his wife, who had come in contact with Malkit Singh (43), who tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. With this, total count of positive cases in Dera Bassi sub-divison has touched 11. The civic body pressed into service two fire engines to sanitise the village in presence of Gurpartap Singh, ME, Dera Bassi. Gurpartap said the Fire Department is in the village to spray disinfectant. He said teams are on their toes to ensure sanitisation of the village.  “Sodium hypochlorite is being used to disinfect public places,” he said. Officials said squad members have been engaged to provide pick-and-drop service for residents, delivery of essentials and distribution of life-saving drugs to patients.  The administration has asked residents to practise social distancing and wash hands regularly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/administration-rushes-to-sanitise-jawaharpur-in-dera-bassi-67153
08-04-2020||Rajiv Bhatia||Maddening rush at vegetable market||Zirakpur, April 7Social distancing norms are being flouted openly even as Covid-19 patients continue to increase in Mohali district.On Tuesday, locals came in droves to buy vegetables at Zirakpur.“Most residents came by cars and parked their vehicles on roadsides. Ideally, only one person from each household should have come to buy vegetables. People are underplaying the gravity of the situation,” said Sonal, a resident of Pabhat.“People could be seen jostling for space in the vegetable market. There was no one to check them. After seeing rush, I decided to leave the place,” said another resident.While there were many who said they had to take the risk as most vendors in their areas were selling vegetables at higher prices.“There was no option. We can’t afford to buy essentials at exorbitant rates. In mandis, people are not being overcharged at least. The administration should have taken steps to ensure that people don’t flout social distancing norms. When there is nobody to check, , such violations are bound to happen,” said Prakash Chand, who had come with his brother and a friend to the market.On curfew violation, Varinder Dhoot, Naib Tehsildar, said, “We try to deliver essentials at doorstep of residents. At times, it becomes difficult and this is when violations are reported. We cannot fight this battle alone, residents too need to cooperate with us and understand how grim the situation is. I appeal residents not to panic and follow social distancing.”The Mohali district has so far reported 26 cases, 11 of which are from Dera Bassi alone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maddening-rush-at-vegetable-market-67152
08-04-2020||---||Lockdown: Fancy Book Store owner held for opening shop||Chandigarh, April 7Owner of Fancy Book Store in Sector 7 was held for opening his store flouting lockdown order. Police officials were on patrolling duty in Sector 7, on April 6, when they saw the store was open. The store owner Gurpreet Singh Chadha (41), was selling books and stationary items on retail from back door of the shop. Cops asked him to show any permission for opening the shop but he failed to do so. Gurpreet was booked under Section 188 of the IPC at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-fancy-book-store-owner-held-for-opening-shop-67151
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Health Dept surveys 17,668 households||In an ongoing health screening drive, over 17,668 households have been surveyed by officials of the UT Health Department.  A special drive was carried out by the Health department in Faidan village. A total of 3,081 houses were covered for influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms. Six residents had cough, five had common cold and none had fever. Thermal scanning was done on 112 persons. All with minor symptoms were given treatment by mobile team of doctors on duty. This survey was done keeping in view one positive case of Punjab in adjacent  Jagatpura village, a secondary contact of a primary positive contact of a positive case of Covid-19.  Around 42 asymptomatic secondary contacts were living in Faidan who were shifted to a quarantine facility in Sector 47. At Mauli Jagran, Vikas Nagar and Dariya, a total of 11,186 houses were surveyed. 37 fever cases, 52 cough complaints and 1 with difficulty in breathing were found during survey.  Four persons of Maulijagran were quarantined at Infosys Red cross sarai. They were sampled and have been found negative for the Covid-19. At sector-21, 2,023 households were covered in the drive and 7,385 persons were surveyed for ILI Symptoms. Three symptomatics were found on survey and were referred to local health facility. At Sector-33, over 1,372 houses were covered in the drive and 8318 persons surveyed for ILI symptoms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/health-dept-surveys-17-668-households-67150
08-04-2020||Mohali||Fortis designates emergency wing for Covid patients||In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, has designated two separate emergency wings for treating Covid-19 suspects/patients and other patients, respectively.  The isolation facility in the Covid Wing will have the capacity to hold about 12 patients at a given point of time, whereas the Non-Covid Wing will cater to patients with emergencies such as heart attack, stroke management, trauma, mother and child health, and gastroenterology. Two Covid-19 patients discharged Dr Amit Kumar Mandal, Director, Pulmonology, Sleep and Critical Care, said two Covid-19 have been successfully treated and discharged from the hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fortis-designates-emergency-wing-for-covid-patients-67149
08-04-2020||---||200 ration packets distributed among needy||Chandigarh, April 7 To assist the civil authorities to mitigate the adverse economic effect caused by the Covid-19, the Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) here provided 200 packets of dry rations, including dal, rice, wheat flour, sugar, oil and soap for the needy people.  The packs were distributed in the south-western periphery of the union territory with the help and administrative support of Nilambri Jagdale, Senior Superintendent of Police, Chandigarh. Naresh Kumar, Director, SASE, said that in these testing times, the poor are already facing a huge burden of malnutrition, and many are prone to infections in high density population areas. DRDO is working on war footing to help the armed forces, para-military and civilian population and scientists are also brainstorming on the innovative ideas to leverage their expertise in combating the challenge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/200-ration-packets-distributed-among-needy-67148
08-04-2020||---||20-yr-old woman hangs herself from ceiling fan||Mohali, April 7 A 20-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at Manauli village here on last night. The deceased has been identified as Anju Rani, a labourer from Bihar, and was currently living at Manauli village in rented accommodation with his husband, Raj Kumar (23). Raj Kumar said, when he returned home he found the door of his house locked from inside. He entered the house by breaking the windowpane. He found Anju Rani hanging from a ceiling fan.  “No suicide note was recovered from the spot. The exact cause of suicide was still unknown. We have submitted the dead body of the victim to the Civil Hospital mortuary. The family of victim was called and will reach here tomorrow. The post-mortem will be conducted after the family arrives. We will initiate the investigation on the statements of victim’s family members as they can allege it murder too,” said investigating officer Kewal Kumar. The police informed that Anju Rani and Raj Kumar got married a year ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-yr-old-woman-hangs-herself-from-ceiling-fan-67147
08-04-2020||---||PGI develops protocol for SARI patients||Chandigarh, April 7 The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, has developed a protocol for suffering with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI).  “Any patient coming with severe acute respiratory infection should be screened for the Covid-19 according to the Covid-19 guidelines. We would be having difficulty in screening the patients with no travel or contact history. So we have established Severe Acute Respiratory Infection ward (SARI ward) which we would admit the patients according to PGI-SARI Scoring Scale (PGI-SSS) and test for common etiology of acute viral pneumonia,” reads the protocol.   The SARI scoring scale is based on the parameters including fever, SOB, SpO2 less than 95%, cough, high risk (patients with 60 above age, pregnancy, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, chronic lung disorders, steroid use).   If the SARI scale count is above five, then the patient will be admitted and will be tested for H1N1 and the Covid-19 and if tested positive will be admitted in exclusive Covid facility.   If the scale is between two and four, the chest X-ray will be conducted based on which the patient will be suggested for Covid testing and if the count is one or below the patient will be evaluated for the other cardiorespiratory diseases.     There are four patients in SARI ward of PGIMER. Besides, a total of 12 Covid-19 positive patients are admitted in NHE. Out of which three are admitted in ICU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-develops-protocol-for-sari-patients-67146
08-04-2020||---||Babla writes to Centre, seeks relief for biz establishments||Chandigarh, April 7 Devinder Singh Babla, Leader of Opposition in the MC House, today wrote to the Central Government for providing relief to commercial establishments in the wake of Covid-19 lockdown. “The local businesses and traders have suffered huge losses and if we start collating the total economic loss in the city itself, it will cross hundreds of crores of rupees. We urge the Centre to bring a comprehensive economic stimulus package and with special focus on the MSME’s to cope with the loss,” he said. A relaxation of at least three months in the direct and indirect tax structures should be declared as all the business are still paying salaries to their employees and ensuring daily supply of ration and other basic essentials,” he wrote. “We on the behalf of Chandigarh Congress also urge the UT Administration to re-consider the fixed charges on electricity and water bills for commercial establishments as there has been no economic activity for more than 21 days and the shall continue its after effects in coming several months,” he added. Meanwhile, Babla said he had distributed over 1,500 ration packets to the needy in his ward. I thank each Congress worker who has been distributing essential commodities to the needy and destitute, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/babla-writes-to-centre-seeks-relief-for-biz-establishments-67145
08-04-2020||Surinder Bhardwaj---||Safai sewaks honoured with garlands||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 7 Sher Singh, president, Municipal Council, Sirhind-Fatehgarh Sahib, along with other councillors today honoured safai sewaks of the council by garlanding them to mark the World Health Day. He said in the wake of the Covid-19 threat they are performing their duty without any fear and are the true action heroes like health workers. He said in spite of various curfew restrictions they are collecting garbage and also ensuring proper waste disposal. He said their dedication should be appreciated by all. He said he has written to the state government to regularise the services of the temporary and daily wages sweepers and give special increments to the regular ones. He said at present the NGOs are providing them safety kits, but the government should also provide masks, sanitisers and gloves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/safai-sewaks-honoured-with-garlands-67144
08-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo---||Kharar patwari comes forward to perform last rites of Covid victims||Tribune News Service Mohali, April 7 As family members have been staying away to perform the last rites of suspected or confirmed coronavirus disease, it is government functionaries who have been coming forth and doing rituals religiously. Setting an example for others, Harvinder Singh, president, Revenue Patwar Union, Kharar, has written to the Sub-Divisional Magistrate expressing his wish to perform the last rites of anyone who falls prey to the Covid. He said it has been observed that the families members are not turning up to perform the last rites of their relatives fearing transmission of the virus. He said he would perform the last rights on his individual capacity and if anything happens to him he would himself be responsible.  Recently, the last rites of a 65-year-old man of Nayagaon village were performed by revenue officials as his family members were kept in isolation and none of his friends or neighbours come forward to perform the last rites.  The patwari said he was offering his services as he was aware of his social responsibility, besides being a government official.   Notably, the cremation of Padma Shri awardee Nirmal Singh Khalsa, former Hazoori Raagi of the Golden Temple, who died of Covid-19, got delayed as villagers of Verka village refused to allot a place in the village arguing it would spread the virus.  When asked whether his family has any objection on his decision, he said he had discussed the issue with his wife, who works in the Health Department, and both have decided to perform the last rites to create awareness among the masses that the virus doesn’t spread if proper guidelines for handling Covid victims’ bodies are followed. Himanshu Jain, SDM, Kharar, confirmed that Harvinder Singh had submitted the application in this regard. He said they have no objection as it was a noble cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-patwari-comes-forward-to-perform-last-rites-of-covid-victims-67143
08-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Took exams from hospital, says Chandigarh’s first Covid case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 7As the fear of rising Covid deaths and surge in mental health issues has gripped every citizen of the country, the 23-year-old UK returned woman, who was the first Covid case of the city, did not succumb to the hysterics around the disease and appeared for her exams through an online mode for the course she has been studying in London.“I appeared for my university exams as we have to be graduated by July. I attended online classes as my college in the UK is still on,” said the Sector 21 resident. “I am very relaxed now and it is good to move around at home. I will do some cooking at home for my family,” she said.Virus came as normal fluCovid-19 can cause a wide range of symptoms depending on the age and body immunity levels. For me the first symptom was fever, with slight body ache. This lasted for two days, followed by mild cough. On Day 3, I had cold, which lasted for three days.Apart from that I was asymptotic till the end. However, my mom had fever and severe body ache for 3 days. She also had cold and cough for 2-3 days following the fever. Other than that we didn’t face breathlessness, or chest pain. The virus came as a normal flu, and went. Just that it takes a lot of perseverance as it takes days to test negative.Still taking precautionsThe Covid survivor shared that the family members are still taking a lot of precautions at home. “All three of us had been tested positive and we don’t want to take a risk as my father is diabetic. We are still maintaining distance at home. We are still in different rooms and using different washrooms.”Family support crucialCovid has taught life lessons to many us. The survivor shared, “I felt lonely for a couple of days when my family members were discharged before me. I realised that to overcome such a difficult situation, you need positive people around you. Any battle can be won with your people besides you.”She added, “Whenever I felt disheartened, I used to call my friends and family and they would keep me in high spirits. My friends ensured that no pessimistic remarks whatsoever reach me. They made a protective layer around me.”Fought rumoursShe said, “I didn’t realise I was infected. The symptoms were akin to common flu and I felt it will go. Later, rather than fighting the virus, I was fighting rumours and fake news linked with me. Things got a little better when my mom and I got in the same room.”The hospital staff even congratulated me when I was being discharged. Everyone was really caring and I started knowing them by their names towards the end.“Treat Covid as a normal disease. It is not in anyone’s hand. There is no point, treating the Covid patients as untouchables”, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/took-exams-from-hospital-says-chandigarhs-first-covid-case-67142
08-04-2020||---||Panjab University to award degrees online||Chandigarh, April 7The Panjab University (PU) Examination Branch is all set to upload the data on National Academic Depositary (NAD) for awarding online degrees and DMCs to students.Prof Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examination, said reasonable measures have already been taken, including legal agreement and registration of candidates from affiliated colleges and teaching departments.Prof Singh said: “In times of the nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, I felt several candidates may not be able to get examination-related testimonials. It is important to initiate an online mode to issue degrees or DMCs to all eligible PG students as well as PhD scholars for which NAD registration is a must”.He urged all research supervisors of PhD students, who have submitted their thesis, to get registered on NAD so that the office of Controller of Examinations could upload the data for necessary action. Prof Singh said the process of data uploading on NAD had already begun. “The data of all PG/professional courses for session 2017 have been uploaded on NAD. In order to benefit from Digital India initiative, students can view or download a digitally signed degree,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-award-degrees-online-67141
08-04-2020||---||CSIO develops foot-operated water dispensing faucet||Chandigarh, April 7 As part of efforts to mitigate the spread of Covid-19, a ‘Foot Operated Water Dispensation Faucet’ has been developed by the Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) here, in collaboration with a Mohali-based firm.  The device ensures hands-free delivery of water from a plumbing system to ensure defense against cross infections from viruses and microbes as well as preventing the wastage of water. Announcing the development, Dr Sanjay Kumar, Director, CSIO, said they had developed the device to ensure protection from microbes and virus droplets and thus, its outreach vary at household, workplace, public places, hospitals, schools and industry. Vivek Kapoor, Director, Jal Bath Fittings, Mohali, said the devices were being installed at some hospitals of the region. He said the company was ready with necessary infrastructure and consumables to scale up its production and subsequent installation at places across India in a short span of time. According to Dr Vinod Karar, Chief Scientist, CSIO, the mechanism can be easily installed on the existing faucet systems for multi-level flow regulation without affecting the integrity and existence of original water tap systems. It also allows continuous water flow without any constant user engagement of the control pedal. Respiratory viruses such as Covid-19 spread when mucus or droplets containing the virus get into your body through your eyes, nose or throat. Most often, this happens through our hands. Hands are also one of the most common ways that the virus spreads from one person to the next.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/csio-develops-foot-operated-water-dispensing-faucet-67140
08-04-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Door-to-door awareness in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 7 The Fatehgarh Sahib police, led by SHO GS Sikand, today launched a campaign to educate people by door-to-door visits regarding the curfew restrictions and not letting kids play in streets. The Station House Officer said as per the directions of SSP Amneet Kondal, the police have decided to approach people on their doorsteps now.  People are often seeing flouting norms and not paying heed to the requests by the administration.  He said if the police used force on them, it brought bad name to the cops. He said they would educate families in ‘mohallas’ by making announcements and taking out marches. He said besides this, the police would also inform people about drone’s surveillance to identify those violating the curfew orders. He urged people to follow the instructions of the government and maintain social distancing by remaining at home to break the Covid chain.  He said the police personnel are putting their life to risk for the safety of residents, so the residents must understand the gravity of the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/door-to-door-awareness-in-fatehgarh-sahib-67139
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Distance educator’s tryst with technology||In the times when distance educators across the world are weaving a virtual academic network, the University School of Open Learning (USOL) of Panjab University is banking on its experienced faculty. In his ‘Golden Jubilee’ year, a professor of the department, Dr Ravi K Mahajan, has ‘unfortunately credited corona’ for giving him satisfactory moment as a distance educator. In turn, he has witnessed the growth of ‘correspondence education’ to the modern age e-education. in 1991, he contributed the ‘concept and script’ for an educational film ‘Statistics: An Introduction’. The film was telecast on the UGC’s country-wide classroom programme a number of times. Unfortunately, the lockdown gave him an opportunity to realize his dream. After experimenting with a few platforms, he settled with ZOOM to deliver an online session every day since March 23. “Of course it takes about 2 to 4 hours to re-do the study material to be shared on the screen with the students. Being distance learner, the students already have with them study material and the exercise sheets. These sessions are being used by students to get add-ons and clear their doubts, while for some, it is an opportunity to get an overview on the topic,” he says. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/distance-educators-tryst-with-technology-67138
08-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Despite orders against it, pvt schools continue to seek ‘payment for books’||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 7 Days after the UT Administration directed private schools to reschedule the dates for fee submission, a few of the schools are now asking the parents to submit funds in the name of payment for books at the earliest. Schools claim that funds asked are for ‘payment of books’ for the students studying in nursery to Class II. The amount ranges between Rs 3,000 and Rs 4,200 per student. Schools have been sending e-mails to parents with bank details, including the school account number and IFSC code. The parents have been asked to mention their wards’ name and registration number while submitting the amount. On March 30, the Administration had issued orders to reschedule the dates for submission of fee in view of the problems being faced by parents due to Covid-19. However, there has been no respite to parents. “What’s the use of previous circular if we have been asked to submit the payment? Our businesses have come to a halt and people are facing troubles in getting their salaries or meeting daily expenses. In such times, the schools should at least follow the Administration’s orders,” said one of the parents. Meanwhile, after the District Education Officer (DEO) received information in this regard, she issued a warning letter to all schools. “This is the second warning letter as many parents have already approached us raising the same problem. We have been asking the schools to follow the orders. If we find violators now, a strict action will be taken,” said DEO Alka Mehta. The orders states: Ccomplaints from some parents have been received that they are getting messages from some private schools by way of school applications, to deposit fee or any type of outstanding dues in time. On further inquiry from schools, it has been informed by principals that such messages are being transmitted automatically...’ “Keeping in view the existing situation, all private school managements are directed to update their applications to refrain from insisting parents for depositing outstanding dues. Otherwise, recognition of the school shall be withdrawn,’ the order further reads.  “Half of the parents have already submitted the amount fearing the pressure being created by the school management. Automated messages might reach the parents once, but not twice or thrice. And if the messages were sent by mistake, a rectification can be also generated in no time. The higher authorities should intervene in the matter,” said another parent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-orders-against-it-pvt-schools-continue-to-seek-payment-for-books-67137
08-04-2020||---||Mohali police launch ‘Covid Commandos’||Mohali, April 7In the wake of Covid-19 threat and to better align the systemic response with newer and bigger challenges to public health and safety, the Mohali police, under the leadership of SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal, have launched an emergency response team called ‘Covid Commandos’.As many as 19 constables are part of the team. They would look after persons and areas affected with Covid-19 within the jurisdiction of the district.The Covid Commandos are physically fit and self-motivated constables of the district police who have volunteered to take upon the onerous job.The deployment of Covid Commandos will safeguard the remaining police team from first-hand dealing with Covid-positive cases and therefore, reducing the chances of infection catching up with police personnel in the field.Covid Commandos have been provided with personal protective equipment (PPE) with training on proper wear, removal and disposal. They have been given ‘Go-Bags’ that include PPEs for commandos and first-aid supplies for response to community members.They are well-trained and motivated to handle a non-cooperative positive patient also using standard operating procedure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-launch-covid-commandos-67136
08-04-2020||---||Institute of Cost Accountants donates Rs 2.50 cr||Chandigarh, April 7 The Institute of Cost Accountants of India has contributed Rs 2.50 crore to the PM CARES Fund to supplement government’s efforts towards scaling up the public healthcare infrastructure in the country. “The challenge of gigantic proportions cannot be met without each one of us going beyond the call of duty. We are thankful to the elected representatives, members and students at large for their support at this crucial time,” said Balwinder Singh, president of the institute. Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi has constituted the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM CARES Fund) with the primary objective of dealing with any emergency situation such as the one posed by COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/institute-of-cost-accountants-donates-rs-2-50-cr-67135
08-04-2020||Mohali||Vehicle passes issued for medicines||The district administration resolved the issue pertaining to the supply of medicines from Zirakpur to entire Punjab after holding a meeting between the Carrying and Forward Association, Zirakpur, and the transporters here today.  Both parties discussed the issues threadbare during a meeting organised by the district administration. Amit Jain, president, Carrying and Forward Association, said more than 150 godowns of leading pharma companies operate from Zirakpur. They supply medicines to Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. However, they had been facing issues regarding transportation to other parts of the state.  The transporters said after the curfew, they were facing difficulties related to the movement of vehicles. The issue was brought to the notice of DC Girish Dayalan and on his directions, vehicle passes were issued by Regional Transport Authority Sukhwinder Kumar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vehicle-passes-issued-for-medicines-67134
08-04-2020||---||UIET supplies PPE kits, face shields||Chandigarh, April 7 The Design Innovation Centre (DIC) at the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Panjab University (PU), has been giving 3D printed face shield head supports to cater to the PPE requirements from doctors across the region. In the forthcoming weeks, it is expected that the region will fall short by nearly 10,000 such pieces. A group, led by Dr Rakesh Tuli, Dr Prashant Jindal and Dr Mamta Juneja had already developed an indigenous FDM 3D printing machine, which is now being used to produce these face shields. The centre has three such printers to produce more pieces, as and when the demand increases. Undergraduate students Vijay and Sahil have been working in multiple shifts to alleviate this shortage and so far, a commitment of 50 such pieces has been made. Further assistance, in collaboration with the Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL), Chandigarh, is being explored for producing other PPE and intricate ventilator connectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uiet-supplies-ppe-kits-face-shields-67133
08-04-2020||Naina Mishra---||No plans for antibody testing in Chandigarh so far||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 7 So far, the UT does not have any plans for starting rapid antibody testing for speedy detection of Covid-positive cases even though the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has rolled out an advisory regarding blood-based rapid-test kits. UT Adviser Manoj Parida said: “We have not started any rapid testing as yet. We will consider rapid testing method only if a large number of cases arise in any pocket. The decision will be finally taken by the Governor. If there are 20 or more cases in any slum or colony, such measures will be required as per the medical advice.” The ICMR advisory for rapid antibody testing is for those residing in Covid-19 hotspots or areas which have reported large numbers of cases. “Currently, there are no hotspots in Chandigarh as all our infected patients had returned from abroad. There homes are scattered all over the city,” said Parida. The probable containment zones in near future could be slums and peripheral areas of Chandigarh. So far, the UT Administration has not implemented any containment policy.  As per the report of contact tracing among peripheral areas of city, 64 persons from Faida village have been home quarantined, along with 42 persons from Ramdarbar and 73 persons from Dhanas. As per the present guideline of testing, the PCR (polymerase chain reaction) tests is carried to detect Covid cases from samples of throat or nasal swab of people with symptoms or high-risk individuals who might have come in contact with positive patients. The rapid testing kits use blood samples of suspected patients and normally take around 15-30 minutes before the results are out. Under the existing PCR test, in private labs, the government has already put a cap of Rs 4,500 for Covid-19 test. Director Health Service Dr G Diwan said that the UT Administration was waiting for guidelines from the Centre on antibody rapid testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-plans-for-antibody-testing-in-chandigarh-so-far-67132
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh not to open liquor shops during curfew||The UT Administration has decided not to open liquor shops during the curfew.“The decision was taken after consulting all, including government doctors,” tweeted UT Adviser Manoj Parida.Earlier in the day, the Adviser took to micro-blogging site Twitter to seek suggestions on opening of liquor vends for a limited period during the lockdown in the city.“One doctor has suggested allowing two-hour opening of liquor shops lest the addicts go for drugs or depression. Your views group?” Parida had tweeted.However, a majority of Twitter users opposed the idea. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-not-to-open-liquor-shops-during-curfew-67188
08-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Disconnect of sorts surfaces||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court’s move to hear urgent cases through video-conferencing in view of the Covid outbreak appears to have suffered a disconnect of sorts between its offices and the litigants wanting to file petitions.A litigant is required to sign a vakalatnama — a document empowering a lawyer to act for, and on behalf of, his client. But available information suggests the litigants are finding it tough to travel physically or send the vakalatnama to their counsel even through post.Virtual hearing of cases A litigant is required to sign a vakalatnama — a document empowering a lawyer to act for, and on behalf of, his client. But available information suggests the litigants are finding it tough to travel physically or send the vakalatnama to their counsel even through post.The High Court is currently experiencing a judicial slowdown and is working in a restricted mode in view of the Covid threat. It had, on March 24, declared that the hearing of “extremely urgent cases” only would be carried out through video-conferencing or video-calling facility.The issue of vakalatnama has already been underscored by a lawyer, Abhayjeet Singh. He has shot of a communication to the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court raising concerns regarding the handing over of the vakalatnamas to advocates during the lockdown.Describing it as the problem faced by litigants and advocates during the lockdown, Abhayjeet Singh has asserted that justice was being denied to the ones seeking it. Requesting the Chief Justice to consider the issue as “most urgent” and to find a solution, he has asserted that access to justice was fundamental to preserve the rule of law in a democracy.It was the duty of the court to preserve the constitutional commitment and ensure delivery of justice to those seeking it. Modern technology has enabled courts to enhance the quality and effectiveness of administration of justice. The Supreme Court and the high courts, too, had adopted measures to reduce physical presence of lawyers, litigants and court staff across the country and to ensure continuous dispensation of justice.“The problem faced by litigants is that they cannot engage a counsel as they cannot travel physically to sign or hand over the signed/attested vakalatnama, nor can they send it through post as postal services, too, are affected due to the lockdown,” he asserted.He said, “The functioning of courts during the lockdown holds no importance until the issue of vakalatnama is entertained and a solution is found to make justice accessible to all. It is apropos to mention that the jurisdiction of the Punjab and Haryana High Court is vast and litigants/aggrieved person cannot move from one place to other as state transportation and functioning of postal service/courier is also at abeyance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/disconnect-of-sorts-surfaces-67186
08-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees no new case in five days||The city has not reported any new Covid case for the past five days.It was on April 2 that the city saw the last positive case. A 59-year-old woman and her 10-month-old granddaughter, both contacts of Sector 33-A-based NRI couple, had tested positive. So far, 18 cases have been reported in the city and seven of them have recovered.Has UT flattened the curve?The PGI Director, Prof Jagat Ram, said, “It is a good thing that no new positive case has been reported in the city for the last five days. There is a surge in Covid cases in Punjab, which is quite worrisome. We are very confident that we will win this battle.” He said, “Chandigarh is doing well as there is no significant increase in cases. The Covid curve has flattened in the city.”Dr Roosy Aulakh of the GMCH said, “Flattening of curve means that there will be patients, but the cases at one point of time will not exceed the number of health care facilities.”“It is too short a time to say we have flattened the curve. The 21-day time was for the contacts already got infected and they would have shown symptoms in the incubation period. Once we lift the curfew, the situation can change and we will see whether there could be rise in cases,” Dr Aulakh added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-no-new-case-in-five-days-67185
08-04-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||Losses inevitable, but better than losing life, says Gippy Grewal||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 7“Assi pashu te panchhi bol rahe, bhala sukh tan hai. Kyon lok kunde ni khol rahe, bhala sukh tan hai…” For starters, Gippy Grewal brought out this poignant song in the first week of the lockdown. One afternoon, when he was sitting in his garden with his folks, he noticed birds and he felt like they were asking him if everything was fine. From there came the soul-stirring poetry.“Although we haven’t been fair to mother earth, its resources and all other living beings, even then they are all reaching out to us to know if we are doing fine. I feel the sky, the earth, the trees, the flowers, every insect is praying for our well-being. Thus, these feelings became an inspiration for the song.”And to our surprise, the song was written, composed, sung and shot all in one day, that too on iPhone. As far as the “house arrest” is concerned, the singer-actor-filmmaker is looking at it as a holiday.“During our busy days, we keep waiting for the weekend and when Sunday comes and goes, none of us gets to know. This is an opportunity for all those of us who wanted to spend doing things they are passionate about.” Now that includes playing ludo, cricket and carrom with his sons, exercising in the open or at the gym at home, enjoying family time, lapping up web content, watching his sons attend school online and simply being grateful.“My sons had come for a break from Canada, but couldn’t go back due to the lockdown, but their schools have started, so they stay up till 3 in the morning to study. I tell them it’s an adventure they are living and this experience will help them in the long run.”He feels it’s important to highlight the brighter side of things to kids. It’s all about being grateful for Gippy. “I fail to understand those who think this lockdown is like a jail. Their focus is on the negative. We should be positive and thank our government for doing everything to save us. In this critical time, all we’ve been asked to do is stay at home. What if it was about being at borders?”Gippy thinks the pandemic is more like a war and if we don’t learn from our mistakes, we will not survive. “People aren’t taking the situation seriously. I understand the plight of daily wagers, they are hand to mouth. But for all others who are restless to go out and claim it’s for a living, I want to ask them what have they been doing all their life if they couldn’t save enough to stay home for three weeks.”He doesn’t disagree that the economy will witness a dip and many will bear losses. He is one of those at the receiving end. “We had films on the floor, the release for some was scheduled during this time. So, losses are inevitable but it’s better that losing your life. I had nothing when I started and if this crisis will take me back a few years, I am game for it. At least I’ll have life on my side to make up for this time.”Gippy has a very relevant analogy to view this confinement. He says you are living the Bigg Boss show. “How different is the current scenario from the reality show? Even when those participants are locked in a house, they have tasks to keep them going. If that is entertaining, then each one of us can form a routine within our houses to keep it active and busy.”The singer, through his live sessions on social media and otherwise says if we do not have a solution, let’s at least abide by those who are working to find one.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/losses-inevitable-but-better-than-losing-life-says-gippy-grewal-67184
08-04-2020||Amit Sharma||Don’t have PPE? Wear raincoat, Chandigarh cops told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 7In an order issued by the UT SSP, the police personnel have been told to ensure that people at Faidan village follow the curfew orders. However, the cops have been asked to wear raincoats if they fail to get personal protective equipment (PPE). The orders were issued on April 6.Five PPE kits for nearly 20 cops at FaidanOn Tuesday evening, police personnel were provided with five kits, each having a head cover, gloves, shoe cover and a gown, to perform duty at Faidan village. Usually, 20-25 cops are deployed at Faidan village.In the order, SSP Nilambari Jagadale stated, “It has been observed that the curfew orders are not followed at Faidan and people shared posts on social media regarding violations by residents.”The SSP directed the ASP (South) to deploy a PPE-equipped police team at the village, and if PPEs were not available, then use raincoats and book the violators. She also mentioned that it was contagion zone and should not become a hotspot of Covid-19.The police personnel were on duty at Faidan without PPE on Monday. A cop said the PPE should be must at places where possibility of getting infected with the deadly virus was more.When contacted, the SSP said they had arranged PPEs and hence, raincoats were not required anymore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-have-ppe-wear-raincoat-chandigarh-cops-told-67183
08-04-2020||Naina Mishra||‘On testing +ve, I feared for my 11-month-old baby’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 7The role of health workers in the frontline of the Covid war becomes more prominent on World Health Day, which was observed today. Once such case is of PGI staff, who were exposed to the deadly virus while attending to a 65-year-old man from Nayagaon. The man was admitted to the hospital with symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection.Nurses, resident doctors and attendants on duty in the emergency medicine ward number 22 were lined up for treatment of the patient, unmindful of the fact that he was Covid positive. By the time the health workers came to know this, it was already too late as one of the nursing officers got infected and is currently admitted in the isolation ward.“When I tested positive for Covid, the first thing that occurred to me was my 11-month-old baby. All this while, I had been visiting my home and there was a possibility that I might have infected my family as well,” said a PGI nursing officer.He added, “I saw the old man dying in front of me. I was under impression that elderly and young children were the most-affected due to the disease. Today is the seventh day since I tested positive. My baby is safe. He hasn’t shown any symptoms. Doctors consoled me by telling that young children with good immunity are safe too.”He said he had sore throat and fever initially but his condition was stable now.The nursing officer is maintaining contact with his wife and the baby through video-calling.He said he had never been afraid of his performing his duties but the fear for family was inevitable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-testing-ve-i-feared-for-my-11-month-old-baby-67182
08-04-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration makes mask must for residents at public places||Chandigarh, April 7To prevent the spread of Covid-19, the UT Administration has made it mandatory for residents to use a mask or cover the face or mouth with a piece of cloth when at a public place.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore took the decision during a daily review meeting held in the war room at the Secretariat today. The meeting was attended by Adviser Manoj Parida, Principal Secretary, Home, Arun Gupta, Finance Secretary AK Sinha, DGP Sanjay Baniwal, MC Commissioner KK Yadav and DC Mandip Singh Brar. The Administrator also interacted with the DCs of Mohali and Panchkula, the Director, PGIMER, the Director, Health Services, and the Director-Principal, GMCH, through video-conferencing.It has also been decided to defer the payment of water and electricity charges and rent of dwelling units in rehabilitation colonies.During the meeting, Parida informed the Administrator that the number of active Covid cases in the city had come down to 11, which indicated the success of curfew measures and observation of social distancing by residents.The Administrator directed the Principal Secretary, Health, to prepare a Covid management plan for the city on the basis of the guidelines issued by the Government of India.Yadav said a special cleanliness drive had been launched at Faidan today.The DC said 55,150 food packets had been distributed among destitute in various parts of the city. He stated that necessary arrangements had been made for the use of Red Cross ambulance to transport bodies to the cremation ground. He said families at Faidan were given ration packets, so that they do not have to come out of the village.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, Higher Education, stated that online classes were being held for students of classes IX and XI through Google classes. The Administrator directed the DHE to explore the possibility of providing the facility to the students of classes I to VIII.The DGP said the Muslim community in Chandigarh had agreed to observe Shab-e-Barat at their homes only and would not go out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-makes-mask-must-for-residents-at-public-places-67181
08-04-2020||---||Seven more catch virus in Mohali district||Mohali, April 7Seven new cases of Covid-19 have surfaced in Jawaharpur village of the Dera Bassi block of Mohali district, taking the total count of people suffering from the disease to 11 in the village and 26 in the district.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said a total of seven persons of two families, including the panch who has already tested positive and sarpanch of Jawaharpur, tested positive today. He said the new patients were aged between 12 and 50 years.Belong to two familiesDeputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the seven new patients were from two families, including the panch who has already tested positive and sarpanch of Jawaharpur. The affected members of the two families were involved in distributing community food among poor, needy and labourers and have also been consuming the same food. They are also said to be the contacts of the earlier positive cases.He said 55 contacts of a positive person at Jagatpura village were traced and their samples were taken.Dayalan, along with Civil Surgeon, rushed to Jawaharpur to take stock of the situation and sealed the entire village area as a precautionary measure.The affected members of the two families were involved in distributing community food among poor, needy and labourers and have also been consuming the same food. They are also said to be the contacts of the earlier positive cases.It is pertinent to mention here that Mohali district saw four Covid-19 positive cases in a day on Monday. Two days after 42-year-old panch of Jawaharpur tested positive for Covid-19, his father (67), brother (38) and wife (43) also tested positive in the reports that came in the afternoon. All of them have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Sources said the panch of the village came in contact of a foreman, who had come from Delhi to meet him on March 31 and said to have attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. He stayed in the village for a couple of days before leaving for Delhi.The panch owns a tent house and has five to six Muslim labourers as employees.Presently, Mohali has the highest Covid-19 cases in Punjab. Earlier, it was Nawanshahr with 19 cases. Till now, Mohali has reported one death while four patients have been cured.Dayalan said they were undertaking extensive contact tracing to detect possible coronavirus positive cases, which was clear from the fact that of 2,368 samples taken in Punjab, nearly 600 i.e. 25 per cent were taken by the Mohali administration through contract tracing.The DC said a total of 118 samples of the further contacts of those found positive had been taken and as per the protocol, 522 houses were checked for symptoms during a survey.He exhorted people not to panic and stay inside their homes and reiterated that the district administration was well-equipped to tackle the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-more-catch-virus-in-mohali-district-67180
