08-06-2020||---||Dhanas colony in Chandigarh off containment-zone list||Chandigarh, June 8After going through the reports submitted by the Affected Area Committee and on the recommendations of Adviser to the UT Administrator Manoj Parida, the Governor has approved to remove Kachi colony in Dhanas off the list of containment zones in the Union Territory.The Administrator also approved the removal of perimeter control in six pockets of Bapu Dham Colony, which do not have any active COVID-19 cases.Removal of perimeter control will mean that the earlier restrictions imposed on the entry and exit of the residents will now stand relaxed. The Administrator, however, has appealed to the residents to take proper care and follow all precautions to avoid contracting the COVID-19 virus.He has requested residents to maintain social distancing, hand hygiene and the wearing of mask in public places.Parida stated that as directed by the Administrator, the matter regarding the exemption of water and electricity charges of areas, which were kept under the containment zones was being examined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhanas-colony-in-chandigarh-off-containment-zone-list-96280
08-06-2020|| Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police arrest 2 involved in vehicle-theft racket; find stolen SUVs worth Rs 3 crore||Chandigarh Police claim they found 18 SUVs from two people involved in reselling stolen vehicles.Police say their recoveries included eight Toyota Fortuners and were worth Rs 3 crore in total.A suspect they identified only as 39-year-old Ramesh was arrested with a stolen Hyundai Creta. Police soon found that the vehicle had been stolen from Delhi, and that it had a fake chassis and engine number.Ramesh then led to the second suspect police identified as Amit Kumar alias Sabhu (37).Police said the duo would buy stolen SUVs from carjackers in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut and then have RCs made from registration authorities in Haryana for reselling the vehicle.The duo’s arrest led police to track down 18 SUVs---besides eight Fortuners, they also found three Innovas, five Hyundai Creta and two Maruti Breezas---from the people to whom the suspects had sold the vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-arrest-2-involved-in-vehicle-theft-racket-find-stolen-suvs-worth-rs-3-crore-96270
08-06-2020||Mohali||Punjab Health Minister orders enquiry into Mohali chlorine gas leak||Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday ordered an enquiry into the chlorine gas leak in Mohali which caused breathlessness and subsequent hospitalization of nearly four dozen people on Sunday night.The affected were admitted to the civil hospital in Phase VI here.Sidhu visited the colony near the waterworks in Balongi village, where the leak had occurred, and enquired about the health of the people in the locality. He said an enquiry would be held to fix responsibility.All the patients, barring one, has been discharged from the hospital.Panic had spread in the area after the gas leak on Sunday night as all the residents living around the waterworks complained of breathlessness and vomiting. Even two fire brigade employees, who reached the spot, were rushed to Civil Hospital. Later, the fire department officials dug the ground and buried the cylinder, but the gas continued to leak.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that those admitted to the hospital were mostly women, children and elderly persons. He said around 45 people had come to the hospital and they were discharged this morning as they were stable. Singh said only one person was admitted to the hospital at present as he was under observation even though his this condition was also stable.According to Water supply and sanitation officials, the waterworks is under the control of the village panchayat and the chlorine cylinder at the waterworks was outdated. The bottom of the cylinder had become worn out and was leaking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-orders-enquiry-into-mohali-chlorine-gas-leak-96262
08-06-2020||---||Cautious visitors as Elante mall, temples open in tri-city||Chandigarh,  June 8Over two months after Covid-19 pandemic resulted in their shutdown, malls, temples and restaurants reopened in Chandigarh on Monday amidst cautious visitors and elaborate sanitisation activity.At one of the biggest malls in the region, the Elante in Chandigarh, very few visitors dropped in during the first few hours. The authorities at the mall have created multi-layered security set up to ensure safety of visitors. ``For us footfall doesn’t matter much, safety of the visitors and those having shops and showroom is of utmost importance, ‘’ said Executive director, Nexus malls, Anil Malhotra who oversees the operation at the Elante.As per the MHA guidelines the malls will be operated at 30 per cent of their capacity. ``Nobody without a mask will be allowed in. Also we have set up CCTV mechanism inside, so whenever we spot violation of social distancing, our security staff will rush and disperse people,’’ said Malhotra. For those visiting the mall on the first day, adhering to safety guidelines seem to be a must. ``We little apprehensive but we got to live with the virus. Need to be just careful and ensure we don’t violate guidelines,’’ said a resident, Rekha Kapoor.   And not just malls, even places of worship reopened. At one of the biggest temples, Mansa Devi in Panchkula, the administrators have made online registration mandatory before allowing devotees. ``The devotees will have to register online on our website, get an e-token and then only they will be allowed,’’  said Chief Executive Officer, Mansa Devi temple trust, M S Yadav. To begin with only 4500 e-tokens will be issued. The temple in normal times has around 35000 visitors daily on week days and about a lakh on weekends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cautious-visitors-as-elante-mall-temples-open-in-tri-city-96253
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||CISF constable's wife among 6 new coronavirus cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh reported six new cases of coronavirus on Monday, taking the union territory's COVID-19 tally to 320.Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 reported three new cases, including a 25-year-old woman who tested positive on Monday evening.  The wife of a CISF constable who had tested positive on Sunday was also diagnosed with the infection. The couple live in Daria.  A 25-year-old man from Sector 41 who returned from Delhi recently also tested positive on Monday morning.A 49-year-old woman from Manimajra tested positive later in the evening. Her husband tested positive in Panchkula recently. The couple’s 18-year-old son tested negative.The UT now has 30 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cisf-constables-wife-among-6-new-coronavirus-cases-in-chandigarh-96190
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Four arrested for assault||Hockey Chandigarh organises sessionChandigarh: Hockey Chandigarh organised an online interactive session-cum-test as per the guidelines of Hockey India. A total of 21 technical officials, coaches and umpires participated in the question-answer session. According to Anil Vohra, Secretary General Hockey, Chandigarh, three senior technical members — Satinder Sharma, Vipul Kumar and Ajay Singh — were appointed as instructors to setup questions for the purpose. A total of 12 members were qualified for the final video question-answer session. Virender Kumar (umpire) got the first position and Irfan Ahmed (coach) bagged the second position. Simardep Kaur (technical) and Sukhdev Singh (coach) claimed the third position. TNS43 samples collectedKharar: The Health Department came into action after a constable was tested positive for Covid-19 at the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) office. Kharar Civil Hospital Senior Medical Officer Dr Tarsem Singh said 43 samples were collected, including those of seven policemen. He said the constable had been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, while seven cops had been home quarantined. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-arrested-for-assault-96179
08-06-2020||---||Association honours shuttlers||Chandigarh, June 7The Chandigarh Badminton Association honoured players, who have been helping the needy during the lockdown and attending regular practice sessions, at the Sector 38 Sports Complex.Col Raj Parmar, senior vice-president of the association, and Surinder Mahajan, general secretary, felicitated 16 players. The association also announced starting online training schedules for maintaining the minimum presence of trainees at the complex.“The aim of imparting at-home training is primarily to keep the players physically fit and technically abreast so as to enable them in achieving the adaptation stage at the earliest,” said Mahajan. More than 400 shuttlers practice at the complex, which is under the UT Sports Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/association-honours-shuttlers-96178
08-06-2020||Open house||Let employers decide between safety & necessity||RWAs can’t dictateOffice-bearers of all resident welfare associations (RWAs) are acting as ‘zamidars’ of their respective group housing societies and colonies. The order of the UT advisor clearly states that RWAs have no business in the movement of people to residents’ flats. Members of such bodies should be booked. They have no right to stop entry of any person to anyone’s residence, unless he/she is a known criminal or an anti-social element. The administration needs to act fast and ensure that government mandated instructions are followed.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurTheir families are dependent on usMaids take care of our families despite facing hardships. Their families are dependent upon us. The aged and ailing people depend on them as they make their live worth living. The Administration must allow maids/domestic workers to work while taking all precautions.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar, MohaliDoing own work is natural exerciseAllowing maids for domestic work has always been a voluntary decision not mandatory. It needs restraint especially with elderly people at home for their safety. People should make a habit to do their own household work. If people can manage by changing their livelihood so can maids. Only lethargic people are in favour of allowing maids at their homes.Dr Shailja Beniwal, ChandigarhFollow protocol and get back to workDomestic workers should be called back as it will help them earn for their families. They have suffered financially more due to the pandemic lockdown. Side by side precautions can be taken and protocol followed by them for everybody's safety. House cleaners should be asked to properly get sanitised and wear masks. They should be imparted training about the protocol and called back to work.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliDictatorial attitude will not helpRWAs are proving dictatorial in disallowing maids/domestic workers especially to houses where chores cannot be managed without an extra help as in case of senior citizens and those with health problems. I strongly believe that poor migrants should be re-engaged all with precaution like the use of face masks by the house owner and the maid, maintaining hygiene and proper distancing during the time the latter are on the residential premises.Prof Manjit Kaur, MohaliRWAs cannot stop them from workingWhile , employers should continue to pay salary of house maids irrespective of their daily physical presence on compassionate grounds, the restriction by the UT Administration for carrying out duties in permissible hours should not stand in their way. Also, RWAs cannot stop them in doing their duties at a particular house. It lies on the employer’s wisdom to strike a balance between his/her safety in the Unlock 1.0 and the necessity of maid for doing household chores.SC Luthra, ChandigarhThey are part of societyInformal labour like domestic workers/maids are also an integral part of our social system. Therefore, we cannot ignore them. So, there is no harm in allowing them to work while taking all necessary precautions.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliOnus to check hygiene on employersThere are few in the country, who pay domestic help full salary if he/she is not able to attend to his/her duties. During the lockdown, many didn’t get their full or any wages at all. Now, with the Unlock 1.0 in force it does not make sense to hold them back. Most people have started going to offices. Hence, they are not able to do household chores. Besides, maids are suffering due to financial crisis. It will be a win-win situation if maids perform their duties with all required precautions. The onus is on house owners to check their entire hygiene.Yash Khetarpal, PanchkulaIt’s time to let them return to workWhile the fear among housing complexes regarding coronavirus is not invalid, can residents afford to stay indifferent towards the plight of their domestic help? These are the women and men, who work for us on daily basis. We interacted with them in pre-corona days. There are genuine requests for house cleaners from senior citizens, patients, pregnant and working women and nursing mothers as the normal functioning of households isn’t possible without maids. So, they have to be re-employed after taking due precautionary measures.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliProvide masks, PPE gear to maidsDomestic workers/maids faced double whammy when the Administration and the self-anointed ‘thekedars’ in RWAs and guards at housing complexes blocked their free passage. Domestic helps/maids are integral part of urban family-lives and deserve rightful access to work and earn. Nonetheless, as the Covid-19 monster is not leaving us too soon it is incumbent on those engaging extra helps to provide ace masks and PPE kits to them for mutual benefit.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaDomestic work maids’ only source of incomeMost of us have an itch to let our maids back on the job. No household would call helpers from Covid-19 hotspots and containment zones, a condition that both camps are likely to accept. For women with poor background and limited education, domestic work is the only source of income. Maids have to take precautions and get screened for flu like symptoms. If you are a person of means, pay them wages knowing that they will be happy to come back to work.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhAllow them to work againYes, we have been reading in The Tribune about many residents welfare associations (RWAs) refusing to allow domestic helps rejoin work at houses where they had been working before the lockdowns. This is absolutely against government instructions. We have allowed our maid to come to work with face mask and sanitising hands. Action should be taken against those, who stop maids from performing their lost jobs by asking them unwanted and irritating questions.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhSenior citizens depend on themDomestic workers/maids should be allowed to work as senior citizens, young residents and people, working from home, require assistance. But, precautions devoid of any sort of humanistic carelessness have to be taken. We should keep in mind that poverty compels unskilled slum dwellers and rural poor to seek employment as domestic help to earn a living. For the middle-class, it provides cheap labour that keeps their homes running smoothly.Narender Yadav, ChandigarhDon’t allow maids to work for six monthsThe danger from Covid-19 has not subsided. Domestic helps reside in slums of the tricity. Allowing them to do routine work is bound to increase chances of spreading disease as social distancing and other precautionary measures cannot be ensured. Their engagement, especially in thickly populated areas/housing complexes will bring greater risk. As such, the district authorities should not allow them to restart work for another six months, but ensure free food/ration to them.KC Rana, ChandigarhPandemic has created terror in worldTruly the Covid-19 pandemic has terrorised the whole world to such an extent that majority of us dread either to venture out or to welcome a close relative, forget about maids. But our lives, especially of women are upside down without maids. During the Unlock 1.0 when there are so many relaxations maids should be allowed to work. It will serve double purpose. One maids can earn their livelihood and second working couples will get a helping hand. But, maids must follow the guidelines while working.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhWorking couples can’t manageDomestic helps have become our necessity. Working parents can't even think of leaving children alone at home. All offices have resumed work. It is becoming difficult for parents to choose between going to work or staying at home to take care of their children. Work in houses is the only source of income for domestic helps. So, maids must be permitted to work.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhDon’t let covid fear thwart initiativeWe the people and the authorities concerned should pass a joint resolution that rather than let the fear of contracting contagion thwart our initiative, we would strictly take all precautions and insist that domestic workers/maids, who resume their work, also do so religiously. All must realise that without daily help of domestic workers/maids our lives are prematurely crippled. We should be determined and willing to adopt a holistic precautionary approach to the current problem.DR SS Bhatti, ChandigarhRWAs must be fair, not partial‘Dood ka jala chhanch ko bhi phunk phunk kar peeta hai’. The skepticism of people and RWAs in not allowing domestic help to come back to work is understandable. However, RWAs should be fair and not partial. Working couples definitely need domestic help. Life will not be the same. We have to adapt to changed conditions with due precautions. Re-employing our helping hands is our social duty.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliHelp poor and needyEveryone should remember “Help a lame dog over a stile”. People/ RWAs should not be skeptical about allowing domestic help to come back to work. They are poor and needy persons. Their condition is worse. It’s difficult for them to survive. It is true that a close mouth catches no flies. People are also facing many problems to manage in the absence of domestic workers. Some workers are careless. House owners should educate maids and make sure they take precautions.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliIf barbers can work, why can’t maidsA large number of working couples and old persons living in Chandigarh need help of someone for doing daily chores. The lockdown has been relaxed and professionals like barbers are allowed to work. Domestic helps too should be permitted to work. Both house owners and domestic helps should take strict precautions while the latter are at work. Thermal scanning and sanitisation of hands and feet of maids is must.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhDon’t deprive them of right to workDomestic workers/ maids should be allowed to earn their livelihood. They should not be deprived of their right to work. In the present circumstances, it is also necessary to take precautions like medical examination of maids to make sure they are fit to work. Maids should not suffer on account of an unorganised sector or society. We should be more lenient towards such workers.Tarlok Singh, Mani MajraEmployers, domestic helps face crisisIt is not only domestic helps, but their employers too are in dire straits. Domestic helps, who had been on job for years’ altogether, need work and wages. Their employers being scared are uncertain to allow them into their houses. The Administration has left it to employers and RWAs, who are divided on the issue of allowing maids to work. Elders and working couples need maids/domestic helps. In such a situation, domestic helps should be allowed to work while taking all precautions.Jagdish Singh Jassal, PatialaWork at each house on alternate daysNo one can take 100% precautions. Even when we take every precaution, we tend to make a mistake. It is difficult for us and our domestic helps to survive without each other. Still, we cannot risk our or their lives by allowing them at our places every day. Instead, maids/domestic helps can visit every house on alternate days. This way, maids will be able to earn some money and also help their employers in staying safe.Tanishka Pawar, ZirakpurBe realistic & find amicable solutionDomestic helps cannot to be kept away from work as they are finding it hard to sustain their families. House owners are also finding it difficult to manage themselves, particularly working women. RWAs have to be realistic and find an amicable solution. Let domestic helps come duly sanitised and screened. An arrangement can be made to pick and drop them. Single males/female workers can stay within colony/housing complex till Covid-19 situation improves. They can be provided protective gear and their tests should be done regularly.Colonel R D Singh (retd), AmbalaDo daily work with all precautionsCovid-19 has changed our lives and thinking. The disease can be transmitted through symptomatic and asymptomatic carriers, but the life must go on. Calling maids/domestic help to work is upto an individual house owner. As far as I'm concerned my domestic help is coming since May 17. So many diseases and viruses have come and gone. This too will go. The need of the hour is to do our daily work with necessary precautions.Samita Kaur, ChandigarhThey need money to feed their childrenWe have to learn to live with Covid-19 pandemic. One or the other day the lockdown has to be lifted or many people will die due to unemployment and hunger. Citizens have to be educated on behavioural changes they need to adopt for survival. Working women are finding it difficult to manage office and household chores. Domestic helps are cannot survive without money. The need of the hour is to resume our duties while taking all precautions.Charu Malhotra, MohaliQUESTIONIn this new-normal Covid world, high-risk groups — children below 10 and senior citizens above 65 — have been advised, yet again, to stay indoors. Already cooped up for over two months, this can take a major toll on their mental as well as physical health. Families having kids and elderly may be finding it difficult to deal with this situation. What do you suggest should be done to ease this situation without compromising on the health of these high-risk groups?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/let-employers-decide-between-safety-necessity-96177
08-06-2020||Ambala||Man duped of Rs8.15 lakh||The police have booked a person for allegedly duping a resident of Punjab of Rs8.15 lakh on the pretext of doubling his money.The suspect has been identified as Kashmir Singh, a resident of Karnal.Complainant Dinesh Kumar, who works as a truck driver, said he came in contact with Jangshir Singh, a resident of Punjab, who informed that Kashmir doubles currency notes through a dye.He said he and Jangshir reached Ambala City and met Kashmir on May 29. Kashmir and his two accomplices took Rs5.65 lakh and told that the dye was not working and asked to come back on June 1, said Dinesh and added that he came on June 1 and this time Kashmir took Rs2.50 lakh and asked to come on June 6.A case has been registered under Sections 406 and 420 of Indian Penal Code. Sandeep Singh, incharge, CIA-2, said, “Someone has duped the complainant on the pretext of doubling his money. We will nab the suspects soon.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-duped-of-rs8-15-lakh-96159
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Ration for widows||Under the monthly widow ration scheme initiated by the Balramji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation, ration was distributed among widows in the city on Sunday.BJP leader Sanjay Tandon distributed one-month ration kits among them. The foundation’s volunteers gave away the ration to the needy widows on their doorsteps. The foundation also distributed one-month ration kits among 1,784 families in need. Further, 80,000 face masks and around 2,000 sanitisers have also been distributed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ration-for-widows-96158
08-06-2020||---||Woman alleges encroachment on her plot in Majra village||Mohali, June 7A 44-year-old woman of Majra village here has alleged that two villagers have been trying to encroach upon her land in Siswa village and the police have failed to take any action against them.She said she had been running from pillar to post for the past 18 months.The complainant, Jaswinder Kaur, said she had purchased the plot around 15 years ago. A few years after she puchased the plot, Balwinder Singh of Majra village and Shami of Siswa village had started trying to encroach upon the land by occupying some of its area and removing pillars fixed on the plot boundary.She said: “On May 20, I had submitted a complaint to Deputy Superintendent of Police Amroj Singh of Mullanpur division. The police have not taken any action against them. My family has been facing harassment from the past 18 months as we are visiting police officials time and again.”Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Amroj Singh said: “The complaint has been received and the matter is under investigation. Legal action will be taken against those responsible.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-alleges-encroachment-on-her-plot-in-majra-village-96157
08-06-2020||Tribune News Sevice||Mohali STPI celebrates foundation day||Chandigarh, June 7Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), Mohali, an autonomous society under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), commemorated its 29th foundation day.A webinar was organised that witnessed live streaming of sessions on three topics — ‘Role of government in driving innovation and product development’, ‘Rechristening the narratives of Indian IT industry’ and ‘India ahead with transformational ideas, disruptive innovations and pool of talent’. Experts and leaders from government, industry, academia and industry associations deliberated and exchanged their ideas.Dr Omkar Rai, Director General, STPI, said: “India stands at third position in the startup ecosystem. However, Indian startups are facing challenges. We have to work in this direction to facilitate them.”Rajat Agrawal, CEO, Invest Punjab, the excellent collaboration of Punjab and the STPI shall benefit the entrepreneurs of IT industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-stpi-celebrates-foundation-day-96156
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar dwells on covid impact||Best out of waste contestChandigarh: Saveena Kaur Kalsi won first prize in the inter-college online “Best out of Waste” competition, which was organised by Dev Samaj College for Women, Sector 45. Another college student Rupali claimed the second position while Jasmeen Kaur won the third prize. In video presentation, Ishika, Tanish Bansal and Ayushi won first three positions, respectively. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-dwells-on-covid-impact-96155
08-06-2020||The Department of English and Cultural Studies||International E-Learning Workshop||Webinar on career post B-pharmaThe University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) organised an international webinar for students on “Navigating your career post B-Pharma: Putting your best foot forward”. Dr Sukhneeraj Pal Kaur, University of Georgia, Athens, USA, and Arpit Mahindru, a senior analytical lead, Google, New York, USA, enlightened pharmacy students for choosing a successful career pathway. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/international-e-learning-workshop-96153
08-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Desilting, strengthening of Sirhind Choe begin||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 7To save residents of Sirhind and Fatehgarh Sahib from the fury of floods a major portion of the Sirhind Choe has been constructed. The remaining portion passing through the Sirhind area is being strengthened and desilted for draining rainwater and saving farmers’ produce and residents.This was stated by Kuljit Singh Nagra, the area MLA, after inaugurating desilting and strengthening work of the Sirhind Choe passing through residential areas of Sirhind.Nagra along with officials of the Drainage Department also inspected the stretch of Sirhind Choe from Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib to the railway bridge. He directed officials to remove wild grass and silt from the choe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/desilting-strengthening-of-sirhind-choe-begin-96146
08-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Fallen trees at Sukhna raise eyebrows||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 7Morning walkers at Sukhna Lake were caught by surprise on seeing several uprooted trees near the cycle track here yesterday.According to the speculations, trees were axed, but Forest Department officials maintained that the trees fell due to the recent rain and mild storms.The patch where the trees had fallen doesn’t belong to the UT Forest Department — it lies between the boundaries of Sukhna Lake and Chandigarh Golf Club.“We have enquired into the matter and the area is not under the Forest Department. The site is near stair number 1 of Sukhna Lake,” said an official. He added: “It appears that these trees, mainly lacuna and paperwork, fell during the recent rain. The Horticulture Department officials just removed them to clear the cycle track.”However, a few regular walkers said the trees were axed a long time ago. “There are some trees which were axed while many were pruned. The club (golf) workers were also putting wired fencing along the boundary which raises doubts over the claims that the tress fell overnight,” said Parmod, a resident. His friend who accompanies him to the nearby open exercise arena said: “There are chances that these trees must have fallen due to the rain, but how is it possible that only a particular area was affected?” said Anuj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fallen-trees-at-sukhna-raise-eyebrows-96144
08-06-2020||---||Contractual staff protest ‘sacking’||Panchkula, June 7Alleging that the state government has initiated the process to terminate the services of more than 10,000 contractual staff, including security guards, plumbers, liftmen, electricians, sweepers, those working with the Health Department staged a dharna at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here today.The protesters, under the banner of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh Haryana and the Centre of Indian Trade (Haryana), handed over a memorandum addressed to Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij to Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja. They also met Panchkula Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur regarding their demands.Randhir Raghav, a representative of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh, alleged that the Director General (Health Services) had recently asked civil surgeons to start the tendering process for the recruitment of supporting staff, including security guards, safai karamcharis, ward servants, gardeners, liftmen, plumbers and peons, in place of the existing contractual workers, which will affect nearly 10,000 such workers.“All these contractual employees are performing their duties without proper safety gear in the battle against Covid-19. It will be unfair if they are abruptly sacked and will also weaken the fight against the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contractual-staff-protest-sacking-96142
08-06-2020||Amit Bathla||Returnees threat to Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 7Since the government allowed inter-state travel in the country as part of relaxations in the lockdown, Panchkula district has witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases.Almost all cases reported in the past five days had a travel history or link to Delhi, Mumbai, Gurugram and Kolkata — all cities that are badly affected with Covid-19.On June 3, a 52-year-old man from Sector 12-A was tested Covid positive. He had a travel history to Delhi. Subsequently, his 19-year-old son was also found to be infected.Four members of a family from Pinjore, who were found positive on Saturday, had arrived from Mumbai. Found infected on the same day, a Kalka woman had a travel history to Kolkata.Four new Covid cases were reported today. Of them, only one is a native of Panchkula. He had spent 15 days in Delhi before developing symptoms. Two of them belong to Delhi and one hails from Gurugram. They apparently came to Panchkula for work reasons.Collecting data of travellers, says DCTo cope with the threat, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the district administration was collecting the data of people to check their inflow into the district. Six officers have been appointed for the task.“Predominantly, those coming from Covid-19 hotspots such as Mumbai, Delhi, Pune and Ahmadabad are being tested,” he said.Earlier, Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur had also urged RWAs to report any person coming from outside the district to the administration. A meeting was also convened in this regard between RWAs and health officials a few days ago.Around 250 tested in urban areasAccording to an official, around 250 travellers, who arrived in urban areas of Panchkula between May 25 and June 6, have been tested for Covid-19, including seven Army personnel.“We immediately take samples of those entering Panchkula from red zones and hotspots such as Delhi and Mumbai. People coming from other places are sampled after five to seven days,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/returnees-threat-to-panchkula-96141
08-06-2020||---||Panjab University teachers’ body demands appointment of hostel wardens||Chandigarh, June 7The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has submitted a representation to the university Vice-Chancellor for starting the process of deputing wardens at hostels on seniority basis to avoid arbitrariness.The PUTA president, Rajesh Gill, claimed that the process of inviting applications from eligible teachers had still not been initiated by the university.“The silence on the part of university authorities concerned is causing avoidable apprehensions among the faculty, especially those, who are eligible and desirous of applying for the post of hostel wardens,” Rajesh Gill added.“It is reiterated that hostel wardens may kindly be appointed in most transparent and fair manner, avoiding any arbitrariness and pick and choose,” said Rajesh.She further added, “The process of appointment of wardens should be initiated by inviting applications and following the criterion of seniority.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-teachers-body-demands-appointment-of-hostel-wardens-96140
08-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University not to consider certificates of de-recognised associations||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 7While giving admissions under the sports quota to students for the upcoming session, Panjab University (PU) will not consider certificates of those sports disciplines/associations that have been de-recognised by the Indian Sports Ministry recently.“Tournaments organised by such associations for a specific period as mentioned by the ministry will not be entertained. However, the Inter-university Championships, Khelo India Games and others recognised tournaments for same disciplines will be taken into account,” informed officials.The Archery Association of India, Paralympics Committee of India (PCI) and School Games Federation of India (SGFI) were denied recognition by the Sports Ministry along with rowing, golf, taekwondo and gymnastics. In all, 54 NSFs were granted recognition by the ministry till September 2020. The PCI, RFI and SGFI were de-recognised for violating the National Sports Code.In a recent communication issued on June 2, the ministry clarified to renew the annual recognition for this year provisionally till September 30, 2020, for all those NSFs whose suspension was revoked after January 31, 2019.Consideration asper Sports MinistryAs per the PU criteria, 5 per cent of the total seats in each course (PUCET) are reserved under sports category. Merit/participation certificates of preceding three years (July 1, 2017, to June 30, 2020) will be considered for admission. “Certificates of such associations/disciplines will be not considered, which have organised championships during their de-recognition period,” said Dr Parminder Singh, Director (Sports), Panjab University.“However, certificates of Inter-university Championships, Khelo India Games and others recognised tournaments for same disciplines will be taken into account. Achievements of last three years are entertained for admissions in the PU. If any association is de-recognised during that specific period, their certificates automatically stand null as per guidelines,” Dr Parminder Singh added.Disciplines included for admissionAquatics, roller skating (speed skating), archery, rowing, athletics, rugby, badminton, sailing /yachting, baseball, sepak takraw, basketball, shooting, boxing, soft tennis, bridge, softball (women), canoeing and kayaking, squash, cycling, table tennis, equestrian, tennis, fencing, triathlon, football, volleyball, golf, weight lifting, gymnastics, wrestling, handball, wushu, hockey, cricket, judo, kho-kho, karate, chess, netball, yoga, kabaddi, pencak silat, taekwondo and tenpin bowling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-not-to-consider-certificates-of-de-recognised-associations-96139
08-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Sector 33 firing: Youth sent to police remand for 5 days||A 23-year-old youth arrested for the Sector 33 firing incident was produced before the duty magistrate, who sent him to five-day police remand.The suspect, Karan Sharma, a resident of Ludhiana, who is pursuing a course in hotel management from a private university, was arrested by the crime branch on Saturday. Karan was one of the assailants who had opened fire at the hotelier’s house on May 31.The police are conducting raids to nab other assailants involved in the crime.Police sources said they were verifying the information given by Sewak, alias Guri, who had provided the car used in the crime to the assailants, with the disclosures by Karan.The police said the weapons used in the crime were yet to be recovered.Meanwhile, the application for Dipu Banur’s production warrant will be taken up in the court on Monday. Dipu, who is presently lodged at the Ambala jail, had asked Karan to meet Sewak. The assailants had opened indiscriminate fire at businessman and hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33 on May 31. At least 17 bullets were fired at the house. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sector-33-firing-youth-sent-to-police-remand-for-5-days-96133
08-06-2020||Mohali||Chlorine leak lands  25 in Mohali hospital||About 25 persons were hospitalised following a chlorine gas leak at the waterworks in Balongi here late this night.Panic spread in the area after the incident as residents living around the waterworks complained of difficulty in breathing and breathlessness.All patients have been admitted to the Civil Hospital in Phase VI here.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said around 25 persons, including women and children, visited the hospital. As many as 10 patients had been discharged. The condition of all patients was stable. Hopefully, they would be discharged in the next couple of hours.Sources said two fire brigade officials, who reached the spot, were also rushed to the Civil Hospital. Later, Fire Department officials buried the cylinder in the ground, but gas continued to leak till the filing of the report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chlorine-leak-lands-25-in-mohali-hospital-96132
08-06-2020||Mohali||Three fresh cases in Mohali, tally 131||Three new Covid cases were reported from the district today, taking the tally to 131.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the patients who tested positive included a 32-year-old resident of Dhakoli in Zirakpur. He had gone to Amritsar with his friends and returned on June 1. The two other patients are a 57-year-old wife and a 30-year-old son of an already positive patient of Rishi Apartments in Sector 70. Dr Manjit said they had traced 13 contacts of the Sector 70 resident and took their samples. Their reports would be out in the next two days.He said all patients had been shifted to a Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-fresh-cases-in-mohali-tally-131-96131
08-06-2020||Mohali||Vegetable vendor dies  as car hits his scooter||A 57-year-old man from Phase 11 was killed after his Activa collided with a car here today.The victim, identified as Gurmeet Singh, was a vegetable vendor in Mohali. He was going to a market when a speeding WagonR coming from the Sohana side rammed into his scooter at the Phase 7 traffic lights.The police said Gurmeet sustained severe injuries on his head and arms. He was taken to the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 where doctors declared him brought dead. The postmortem would be conducted tomorrow, the police said.The taxi driver, Kulwinder Singh (29) from Barnala district, was arrested and later released on bail. A case was registered against him under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of the IPC at the Mataur police station. — TNSBiker dies in hit-&-run  Chandigarh: In a hit-and-run, a motorcyclist died after being hit by an SUV in Sector 49 here. According to the police, the complainant, Taranjit Singh, stated that a Toyota Innova sped away after hitting a motorcyclist, identified as Sukhwinder Singh, near the Sector 49 petrol pump on June 5. The complainant had noted down the registration number of the SUV. The police were informed about the incident and the victim was rushed to the PGI. The biker succumbed to his injuries on June 6. A case under Sections 279, 337 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the unknown Innova driver at the Sector 49 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vegetable-vendor-dies-as-car-hits-his-scooter-96130
08-06-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula lawyer contracts virus||A lawyer living in a group housing society in Sector 20 here tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the district tally to 34.Today, the test reports of four persons, including three residents of other cities, came positive, officials said. “Only one of them, a native of Panchkula, is being added to the district Covid tally. Hence, the number of cases in the district stands at 34,” they added.The infected person from Sector 20 had a travel history to Delhi. After developing symptoms, he reported to the Civil Hospital where his samples were taken. He has tested positive for the virus, the report stated. The man has been admitted to an isolation ward of the Civil Hospital.Dr Rajiv Narwal, district nodal officer for Covid-19, said, “A person hailing from Gurugram, who tested positive for Covid, was also admitted to the Civil Hospital.”“Two Delhi residents, who had come to Sector 14 for some work and tested positive for the virus, are yet to be traced. Their mobile phones are switched off. They may have gone back,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-lawyer-contracts-virus-96129
08-06-2020||Naina Mishra||Mani Majra man tests +ve, Chandigarh, Panchkula pass the buck over count||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 7Two city residents have tested positive for Covid today.Interestingly, the details of one of the patients, who is from Modern Housing Complex in Mani Majra, have not been recorded either in Chandigarh or Panchkula.As per the official media bulletin of the UT, there are 314 Covid cases, excluding the Mani Majra case, where a 45-year-old man has tested positive. UT officials said the patient was sampled and admitted to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, so the case should be counted in Panchkula.Panchkula Chief Medical Officer Jasjit Kaur said, “We can’t deny health services to anyone who comes to us. There are so many patients coming from Dhakoli and Zirakpur. We have to go beyond numbers. The UT has to take the responsibility as the case cropped up there. We have admitted patients from other states as well, but that doesn’t mean the cases will be counted in Panchkula.”The patient’s two family contacts have been sampled at the GMSH-16. Around 30 persons have been put under home-quarantine. The man runs a computer shop with 8-10 workers in Sector 20. Sources said he had been operating his shop for several days.Meanwhile, a CISF constable, who is posted at the Punjab Civil Secretariat, also tested positive for Covid. He is a resident of Daria village. He had last attended his duty on May 31 and developed fever and tonsils the next day. He said, “I was under home-quarantine. I had also visited the GMSH-16 on June 2, but I was sent back after being prescribed medication.” The 33-year-old constable said, “As the fever didn’t come down, I decided to visit the hospital again on June 6 for medicines. The doctors then recommended a Covid test as fever persisted for more than four days. Today morning, I tested positive for the virus.”He said, “I was not mentally prepared at all as I had gone to collect only medicines. I took all precautions at work, but can’t figure out where I contracted the infection from.”He was deployed as a security guard at the entrance of the Punjab Civil Secretariat, Sector 1. His 21 contacts in Daria were put under home-quarantine, said UT officials. His two family members have been sampled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mani-majra-man-tests-ve-chandigarh-panchkula-pass-the-buck-over-count-96100
08-06-2020||---||Pay obeisance at Mansa Devi, Kalka temples from tomorrow||Panchkula, June 7The Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board has decided to open the historic temple for devotees from June 9.“We received SOPs around 5:30 pm today. Keeping all aspects in mind, we decided to open the temple from Tuesday. It will give us time to ensure necessary arrangements,” said shrine board officials.MS Yadav, chief executive officer of the board, said: “Devotees with online registration will only be allowed to visit the temple. We have made a provision for the entry of 4,500 people every day to ensure the safety of each devotee.”“Online booking can be done on the official website of the board (www.mansadevi.org.in). One person will get a 20-second slot. Devotees will be required to show booking confirmation message and a valid ID proof at the time of the entry to the temple premises,” he said.The total number of persons who will be allowed entry in one slot of 15 minutes will be limited to 90. The darshan of the goddess will be allowed between 6 am and 8:15 pm daily. Chandi Devi temple and Kali Mata temple will also open from June 9.What’s not allowedNo entry for seniors, kidsAs per the SOPs, persons above the age of 65 and children below the age of 10, persons with comorbidities and expectant mothers will not be allowed to enter the temple.Arrangements||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pay-obeisance-at-mansa-devi-kalka-temples-from-tomorrow-96099
08-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Aarogya Setu, COVA apps must to enter malls in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 7As malls in the district are set to open from tomorrow, managements have started giving training to their staff in managing visitors, besides sanitising the mall.Shopkeepers were also given directions to have limited number of customers so as to maintain social distancing.VR Punjab mall, one of the biggest malls in the Kharar area of Mohali, was sanitised today. The management also gave training to its staff in allowing only those visitors wearing face masks and checking their cell phones for COVA and Aarogya Setu apps. Restaurants or food courts in the mall will not operate except for takeaway/home delivery till 8 pm. Lifts will only be used by disabled persons or in medical emergency.Rishab Mehrotra, centre head, VR Punjab mall, said: “The entire complex of the mall was sanitised today. The mall has the capacity to entertain 12,500 visitors daily. We will distribute tokens among visitors to maintain social distancing, besides undergoing thermal scanning at the entry point”.He said shops and other areas in the mall were also sanitised. The staff had been given training in checking visitors’ cell phones to ensure that they had installed COVA and Aarogya Setu apps.Mehrotra said they would be strictly following the guidelines of the Central as well as the state governments. Every person entering the mall should have COVA and Aarogya Setu apps on their cell phones. A family could be allowed to enter the mall if one of the members had COVA app installed in his/her cell phone. Entry to the mall would be based on the token system.He said shop owners should have markers on the floor to indicate social distancing. In any case, there should not be a gathering of more than 20 persons in any shop.Meanwhile, managements of religious places had made arrangements for thermal scanning of devotees.Des Raj Gupta, treasurer, Sanatan Dharam Mandir, Phase IV, here, said: “We have sanitised the temple, which will open for devotees from Monday. We have installed a sanitiser dispenser at the entrance. Devotees will have to undergo thermal scanning. No one will be allowed to enter the temple without a mask. Devotees will not be allowed to make any kind of offerings in the temple.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aarogya-setu-cova-apps-must-to-enter-malls-in-mohali-96098
08-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Malls, eateries, shrines all set to reopen in Chandigarh today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 7Malls, hotels, restaurants and religious places in the city are all set to reopen tomorrow. In line with the Central Government guidelines, sanitisation of premises was done on the eve of their reopening.Few shops to open at ElanteRestaurants at Elante mall will not be reopening on Monday. “We all have decided not to open restaurants. We have a rent issue with the mall management,” said Vipul Dua, director, Peddlers. Many retail outlets at the mall will be closed too. Akshay Kapoor, who runs an apparel store at the mall, said, “There are several issues. I think only 10-15 per cent shops will open on Monday.”At many hotels, sanitiser dispensers have been kept at the entrance. Masks have also been kept for customers, in case they are not carrying one.“We have got sanitisation of hotels done. We are going to ensure social distancing and offer masks and sanitisers to the visitors,” said Arvinder Pal Singh, president, Hotel and Restaurant Association, Chandigarh.However, some hotels like Taj in Sector 17 are not opening tomorrow. “We will take 10 to 15 days more to get back to business,” said Rehman, a duty manager at the hotel.As far as malls are concerned, some have devised a plan under which limited number of visitors will be allowed entry. At Elante, some shops may not open over rent dispute with the mall management.About half of the restaurants in the city are said to be not opening tomorrow. However, those resuming service have made seating arrangements in a way that social distancing is maintained. Some may encourage takeaways.“We earned 70 to 80 per cent of our revenues at night. Due to the 9 pm closing time and serving of liquor not being allowed, 50 per cent of restaurants are not reopening as of now,” said Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association.Some temples have made elaborate arrangements before opening doors to devotees. “We got the whole temple sanitised today. We are putting up a sanitiser dispensers outside. We have removed some bells and covered others with cloth so that devotees don’t touch these. Touching idols is barred too. Circles have been marked to maintain distance between two devotees,” said Brahmjit Kalia, president, Sanatan Dharam Mandir, Sector 38-C.Some temples like ISKCON in Sector 36 are not opening tomorrow. “We need time to make arrangements,” said Amrit Chaitnaya Das from the temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/malls-eateries-shrines-all-set-to-reopen-in-chandigarh-today-96097
