08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali records 95 new coronavirus cases in highest spike yet||Mohali reported 95 new coronavirus cases and another death, district health officials said---the biggest spike in cases the district has seen yet.The developments take Mohali’s cases to 1,264 with 19 deaths.The deceased, a 62-year-old man who was diabetic and had hypertension, had been admitted to Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital some days ago, and was in critical condition, Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said. Most of Saturday’s cases came from Mohali city, Kharar, Derabassi, Zirakpur, Nayagaon and Lalru towns. All patients who tested positive on Saturday are now at a COVID care centre in Gian Sagar Hospital.Also on Saturday, 23 patients were released from hospital after recovery, district health officials said.Mohali now has 571 active cases.Meanwhile, district officials said that LIC Colony in Mundi, Kharar, and Sector 115 have been declared as micro containment zones after over five cases came from these areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-records-95-new-coronavirus-cases-in-highest-spike-yet-123908
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports one death and 58 COVID-19 cases; UT's toll 24||Chandigarh reports one death and 58 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the Union Territory's death toll to 24. The city's coronavirus tally stands at 1,426. The COVID-19 death was a resident of Sector 45. The 60-year-old woman died at GMCH-32 on Friday. She was a diabetic patient and was admitted on July 5 with high-levels of blood sugar.  Now, the city has 529 active cases. So far, 872 patients have recovered from the deadly disease and discharged from the hospital in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-death-and-58-covid-19-cases-uts-toll-24-123889
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Pilot of ill-fated Air India Express plane was ‘Sword of Honour’ winner||Deepak Vasant Sathe, the captain of the ill-fated Air India Express Boeing 737 aircraft that crashed at Kozhikode on Friday, had bagged the coveted ‘Sword of Honour’ on passing out from the Air Force Academy.At present, he was part of the government’s Vande Bharat Mission, engaged in evacuating Indian nationals stranded overseas due to the COVID-19 pandemic, IAF officers known to him said.Hailing from a defence family, he was part of squadrons now flying French Mirage-2000 and Rafale fighters and his service brought him to air bases located in this part of the country. The former MiG-21 fighter pilot belonged to the 58th Course of the National Defence Academy, Kharakvasla, where he was a gold medalist. Thereafter, he proceeded to the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, and was part of the 127th Pilot’s Course, where he was awarded the ‘Sword of Honour’ for topping the course.Wing Commander Sathe had also served as a test pilot with the Air Force Systems and Testing Establishment, Bengaluru, during his stint with the Air Force. He was commissioned in June 1981 and took premature retirement in 2003 following which he entered the civil aviation sector with Air India.During the earlier days of his career, he served with No.7 Squadron, the Battle Axes, which was based in Chandigarh from 1973 to 1985, before it moved to Gwalior and was re-equipped with the Mirage 2000.Air Force sources said that he had also served with No.17 Squadron, the Golden Arrows, which has recently been re-commissioned at Ambala with the IAF’s latest acquisition, the Rafale fighter jet.According to sources, Sathe was very experienced on the Boeing 737 aircraft, which he was flying with the national flag carrier for the past about 17 years. Earlier, he had also flown the Airbus A-310.Hailing from a defence family, he leaves behind a wife and two sons, both of whom are alumni of the Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai. His father is a retired Brigadier settled at Nagpur, while his brother, Capt Vikas Sathe who died in the line of duty in Jammu and Kashmir, according to a post on social media by his relative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pilot-of-ill-fated-air-india-express-plane-was-sword-of-honour-winner-123869
08-08-2020||---||All in the mind: Diana Award for Chandigarh girl||MonaAs one reads about one suicide after another, a girl from Chandigarh is contributing in the mental health field and being recognised for it in foreign shores. A Harvard Franklin fellow, pursuing engineering from Georgia Tech in the US, Ananya 'Jane' Jain has bagged the prestigious Diana Award for FullCircle — an initiative in the mental health sphere. As Covid-19 has led to anxiety and despair, there has been an increasing thrust on mental health. And Full Circle’s videogame that promotes interaction with peers is one effort in the right direction. We catch up with her.Ananya ‘Jane’ Jain... Why ‘Jane’ in the name?As I’m pursuing engineering from Georgia Tech in the US, I noticed that people found my name difficult to pronounce. So, Jane is just an easy short-cut from my last name.How did the idea of FullCircle come about?It started in my freshman dorm at Georgia Tech back in 2017. At that time, we wanted to make an impact in the energy sector because I always disliked the electricity problems we faced in India. But then I looked around and mental health was a huge issue. When I asked some of my friends, they told me that the waiting time at counselling centres was around two-three weeks — not just in the US, but also in the UK, Switzerland, and several other countries. We ended up collecting data for our research and the idea took off. The rest, as they say, is history.What has been the feedback for FullCircle?We have got an overwhelming response from students, who want to see FullCircle at their schools and universities. We’re trying to scale up and deliver to more universities right now, especially because Covid-19 has accelerated the demand for mental health services.How does being honoured with Diana Award feel?Princess Diana was a role model for so many people. To be given an award in her memory is a huge honour. The recognition of FullCircle’s work in the mental health field by the royal family of the UK is amazing.Were you a fan of Princess Diana?Both my mum and I are huge fans of the royal family and Princess Diana in particular. We love how they support some fantastic causes like FullCircle’s work through their efforts. I think they are uniquely positioned in the world to do some great things!‘I miss Chandigarh’s chaat papri’“Chandigarh will always hold a special place in my heart. I went to Carmel Convent and passed out as the head girl. I miss my sister and teachers who taught me things that I am still using today. I also miss the chaat papri guy, nothing beats his masalas! If I can do something like this, there’s no reason why someone else from Chandigarh can’t. My start-up has given me the opportunity to travel around the world and work with some of the best minds. That’s partly because my mum was okay with me spending all of high school days doing weird science experiments in my room. Be who you are, even if that means taking business meetings in simple pyjamas. It’s important to be true to your roots, no matter how far away from home your life takes you.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-in-the-mind-diana-award-for-chandigarh-girl-123700
08-08-2020||---||Three more fatalities, Chandigarh toll 23||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7Three city residents, all above the age of 60 and infected with Covid, died in the past two days, taking the toll to 23.A 77-year-old man of Sector 45 breathed his last at the Civil Hospital, Sector 48, today. He was diagnosed with Covid on August 1. The patient had co-morbid conditions of diabetes mellitus and hypertension. According to the health authorities, he was on oxygen support. He suffered a cardiac arrest at 2:30 am today.The second fatality was of an 82-year-old man of Sector 7. He expired at the Sector 48 hospital on August 6. He was found infected with the virus on July 24. He was admitted to the GMCH-32 with complaints of chest pain and breathlessness. He was a treated case of pulmonary tuberculosis and had co-morbid condition of diabetes mellitus. He was shifted to the Sector 48 hospital on July 27.“He was kept on oxygen support. He had a cardiac arrest and could not be revived,” stated the health authorities.The third case was of a 62-year-old man of Sector 39. He was declared brought dead at the GMSH in Sector 16 yesterday. He tested positive for Covid-19 posthumously.Besides, the city also witnessed 47 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 1,374. Eleven of the new cases were detected through antigen testing. The city currently has 530 active cases.The new cases have been reported from Sector 52, 41, 20, 21, 15, 46, 55, 26, 24, 40, 37, 35, 56, 32, 16 and 17, Maloya, Burail, Mani Majra, Dhanas and Bapu Dham Colony.Among the fresh cases, five were hospital staffers, two from the GMCH-32 and three from the PGI. Seventeen of the new cases were family or workplace contacts of Covid patients. Meanwhile, 43 more patients recovered from Covid and were sent back home. The total number of recovered patients in the city stood at 820 today.30 more infected in Panchkula, eight from ITBPPanchkula: Thirty new coronavirus cases were reported on Friday, taking the tally of Panchkula district to 846. Among the fresh cases, eight are ITBP personnel, aged between 26 and 37. Five persons from Sector 20 – a 38-year-old woman, an 18-year-old boy, a 16-year-old boy, an 18-year-old boy and a three-year-old boy – contracted the virus. Three persons each from Sector 25 and Sector 10 and two each from Sector 20, Mouli village and Pinjore also tested positive. Others to have contracted the virus are a 29-year-old man from Sector 15, a 39-year-old woman from Sector 12A, a 25-year-old man from Sector 19, a 27-year-old woman from Sector 2 and a 22-year-old youth from Marranwala. The district now has 346 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-more-fatalities-chandigarh-toll-23-123598
08-08-2020||Mohali||2-yr-old Mohali boy dies of virus||A two-year-old boy became the 18th Covid fatality of the district today.The boy, a resident of Phase VIII, was admitted to the GMCH in Sector 32, Chandigarh, for some ailment and died today. He tested positive for Covid post-death.Meanwhile, Mohali saw 50 new cases of coronavirus, taking the total count to 1,169. Besides, 23 patients were discharged from the hospital.The fresh cases were reported from various areas. — TNSPatient arrested for fleeing home isolationZirakpur: A Peer Muchalla resident, who tested positive for Covid recently and was placed under home isolation, was arrested for going out of the house. The man had left the place on Thursday and reached the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, on Friday. He was re-tested and found positive for Covid. The Dhakoli health authorities informed the police, who arrested him and shifted him to Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital in Banur. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-yr-old-mohali-boy-dies-of-virus-123599
08-08-2020||Panchkula||Spat turns ugly, man shot at in Panchkula||A man was shot at on his left leg by an unidentified person after an altercation near a liquor vend at Mansa Devi Complex on the Mani Majra-Panchkula border this evening.The victim has been identified as Satpal, a building contractor and resident of Pinjore.According to the police, the incident took place around 6:40 pm when Satpal, along with his friends Satbir, Bhupender and Prince Thakur, was returning from Mohali in a car. They stopped on the Panchkula-Mani Majra border as Satpal wanted to answer the call of nature.“When he was going behind the liquor vend, an unidentified person standing near a paan shop pointed a gun at him and fired a shot,” the police said. The shooter then fled from the spot.On getting information, the police from both Panchkula and Chandigarh reached the spot. As the area falls under the jurisdiction of Mansa Devi Complex, the Panchkula police pursued the matter.The victim was rushed to the Civil Hospital. His condition is said to be out of danger.A case was registered at the Mansa Devi Complex police station. The police have launched a hunt to nab the suspect after recording the victim's statement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spat-turns-ugly-man-shot-at-in-panchkula-123600
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Odd-even for 11 Chandigarh markets from today||To contain the spread of Covid-19, the UT Administration has decided to implement the odd-even system in 11 congested markets of the city from tomorrow for the next six days.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the odd-even system would be followed in the congested markets from August 8 till August 14. “On August 8, only shops having even numbers will open. Similarly, on August 9, the shops having odd numbers will open,” he said.The odd-even system will be introduced tomorrow at Krishna Market in Sector 41, the market area near old PNB, Burail Chowk, Shastri Market in Sector 22, Patel Market in Sector 15, the Sector 8 internal market, Azad Market in Sector 20, Palace Market in Sector 20, Booth Market in Sector 21, Palika Bazar in Sector 19, Sadar Market in Sector 19 and Janata Market in Sector 27.“All booths, shops or SCOs, which are joined, will be considered as a single unit. If two numbers are joined, the lower number will be considered as relevant for closure. For example, if SCOs 1 and 2 are joined, it will be treated as single SCO and SCO 1 will be the number for implementation of the odd-even system,” said Parida.Apart from this, Parida said the scooter repair market in Sector 43 would remain closed on all Sundays and four shops in the mobile market at Sector 22 would remain closed for the next six days.The decisions would be reviewed every week, he said, adding that the SDMs would coordinate with market associations for enforcement of the orders. He said the weekend closure of Sukhna Lake would continue. During the review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed all three heads of medical institutions to take greater care of persons with comorbidities and to ensure that fatalities are kept at the minimum. He also directed the PGI to start rapid antigen testing so that a large number of persons could be covered in a short time.He said teams could visit in ambulances carrying antigen testing kits to conduct tests on the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/odd-even-for-11-chandigarh-markets-from-today-123624
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||District court Judge positive||An Additional District and Sessions Judge of the District Court, Chandigarh, has tested positive for Covid-19.Sources in the court administration said the Judge, who was living at his official residence in Sector 24, was found positive for Covid yesterday and was admitted to a hospital. The staff members who came in his contact in the past few days have been told to observe self-quarantine.The Punjab and the Haryana High Court as well as the subordinate courts in the states of Punjab and Haryana and the UT have been working in a restrictive manner to prevent the spread of the pandemic since March.All district and subdivisional courts in Punjab, Haryana and the UT were only taking up bail matters and matters requiring urgent stay/injunction. Efforts are made by judicial officers to avoid crowding of the court. Cases are heard through videoconferencing.NK Nanda, president, District Bar Association, Chandigarh, said advocates were taking every possible step and helping the court administration to prevent the spread of Covid by following all directions issued in this regard from time to time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/district-court-judge-positive-123625
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Cheat poses as banker, dupes man of Rs 95,496||The police have booked an unknown person for allegedly duping a city resident of Rs95,496 by posing as a bank official.Complainant Suraj Parkash, a resident of Sector 41, said a person called on his mobile and introduced himself as a manager of PNB. He told the complainant that his ATM card would soon be blocked and asked him to share the OTP received on his mobile to activate the card.The complainant shared the OTP and Rs95,496 were withdrawn from his account. A complaint was submitted to the cyber cell and a case registered at the Sector 39 police station on August 6. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cheat-poses-as-banker-dupes-man-of-rs-95-496-123626
08-08-2020||---||Panjab University students protest fee submission by August 10||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7Various student parties of Panjab University (PU) today held a protest against the authorities for seeking the semester fee by August 10.According to a recent decision, only those students who pay the fee by August 10 will be eligible for online classes.Students said they were not in a position to deposit the fee so soon and the authorities should also extend the last date of fee submission.However, after today’s protest, it was decided that the final call on the issue would be taken tomorrow in a meeting of the coordination committee.A special panel, headed by Navdeep Goyal, had also decided that students would not be allowed to attend online classes if they don’t enrol for the semester.The student organisations also demanded that concession be given in the fee this year.According to the PU academic calendar, the admission process for the ongoing batches began on July 27 and the online classes started on August 3.Woman constable hurtDuring the protest, a female constable of the UT police was injured. Students said the constable was injured in the melee. However, police personnel claimed that the constable was injured after someone deliberately kicked her in abdomen while she was dispersing the students, who were not paying heed to social distancing.Block VC’s passageThe ABVP blocked the passage of Vice-Chancellor’s car for three hours near the Dr Abdul Kalam Computer Centre hall. When the authorities arranged for an alternative exit, the student wing blocked that too till around 6 pm. Later, the DUI intervened and assured them that a committee would take a decision tomorrow. In a dramatic turn of events, some students put up a board of ‘On Sale’ on the VC’s vehicle stating that the money collected would be used for university funds. The students said their protest would continue tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-protest-fee-submission-by-august-10-123627
08-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Chandigarh on rocks on excise policy interpretation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7The Chandigarh Administration is apparently on the rocks over the interpretation of its excise policy.The Punjab and Haryana High Court has expressed that prima facie, the Administration’s action of permitting more than 10 liquor vends to be operated by the same person by creating separate companies was contrary to the object of the excise policy.The UT was also asked to specify whether its interpretation that the restriction was only on a single person — and there was no restriction upon same person in taking more than 10 liquor vends — would amount to “absurdity” and defeating the purpose of the restriction if accepted?The Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma called for an affidavit addressing no less than four issues framed by the court. Among other things, the affidavit was required to state whether the Administration, by failing to restrain the companies operated by same persons to participate as separate entities without verifying or noticing the credentials of the directors, had led to the violation of the restrictions imposed by Clause 13 of the excise policy?The direction, on a petition filed by Rajbir Singh through senior advocate Anand Chhibbar and Vaibhav Sahni, came almost a month after the Bench was told that one entity was allotted 15 vends in the city through two separate corporate entities. A background check of the two entities revealed that the directors in the two entities were common. Even the registered email ID was the same for both entities.The Bench added the affidavit was also required to specify whether the purport and object of imposing the restrictions stood defeated by permitting persons to establish partnership firms under different names to wriggle out of the restrictions on allotment of more than 10 vends to a single person/entity and whether it amounted to monopoly?The UT was also asked to specify whether its interpretation that the restriction was only on a single person — and there was no restriction upon same person in taking more than 10 liquor vends — would amount to “absurdity” and defeating the purpose of the restriction if accepted?It was also asked to state whether the interpretation of the clause by the Administration created artificial discrimination which had the effect of cutting into the very object sought to be achieved?“The purport and object of the restrictions is to ensure that there is no cartelisation or monopoly and if same persons are permitted to operate under the artificial barriers, the restriction as imposed in Clause 13 of the excise policy will be impossible to be implemented. Still further, if persons are permitted to participate by formulating different entities, we do not find any reason for imposing any restraint on any individual, as the same would be discriminatory in nature. The restrictions have to be made applicable across the board for everyone or none,” the Bench asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-on-rocks-on-excise-policy-interpretation-123628
08-08-2020||---||Chandigarh Education Department advertises 74 vacant EWS seats in private schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7The UT Education Department has advertised 74 vacant seats for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) in nine unaided schools under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009.The Act provides 25 per cent reservation to students from the EWS/disadvantaged group in the entry-level classes under Section 12(1)(c).Private, unaided and recognised schools in the UT have already admitted some students for the 2020-21 academic session under this category. After admission, a few seats are still lying vacant.Parents of eligible students, interested for admission to any of the schools where seats are vacant, are advised to fill online form from August 10 to 14.Forms will be accepted for nearby schools only. No form will be accepted after the due date. In case a candidate wants to apply in more than one school, then he or she has to fill a separate form.Parents will have to submit details, including distance from their house to school, where admission is being sought and income and case certificate.Further, if a school requires any other relevant document (DOB certificate, residence proof) for admission under the EWS category, the same should be submitted directly to the institution concerned.Parents may contact the school concerned from August 24 to 26 till 1 pm to check the status of admission and further details.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-advertises-74-vacant-ews-seats-in-private-schools-123629
08-08-2020||Naina Mishra||Covid registry: PGI to be mentor institute for neighbouring states||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will be the mentor institute for Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh for establishing the ‘National Clinical Registry of Covid-19’.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said: “All patients admitted to hospitals will be recorded in the registry, along with laboratory investigation, co-morbidity and clinical history. We have to record the details of patients coming to our hospitals and guide our mentees as well.”The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, ICMR, and AIIMS (New Delhi) have planned the registry for dedicated Covid-19 hospital and Covid care centers across the country.The registry will initially be started in 100 centers. The institutes with higher number of Covid -19 patients (admission rate should be a minimum of 100/month) will be preferred. The duration of the study will be one year.The detailed protocol of the study will be shared on a website after necessary approvals.dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and health centers will serve as primary sites for data collection and these will be mentored and supervised by 15 medical institutes of repute across the country, including the PGI.The registry is aimed at collecting data regarding clinical and laboratory features, treatments and outcomes of hospitalised Covid-19 patients in India and to study the frequency, clinical and laboratory features, treatments, and outcomes of Covid-related multisystem inflammatory disorder in children and adolescents by analysing the national registry.The expected outcome of the registry — to generate weekly epidemiological and clinical reports from the data — will be published on the ICMR/MOHFW website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-registry-pgi-to-be-mentor-institute-for-neighbouring-states-123630
08-08-2020||Chandigarh||Traders laud labour reforms in Chandigarh||Representatives of the industry and traders’ associations have appreciated the efforts of the Chandigarh Administration for the manner in which labour reforms were undertaken and completed on time.A meeting was held today under the chairmanship of Harjeet Singh Sandhu, Director, Industries, UT. The meeting was also attended by Varun Beniwal, Assistant Labour Commissioner, UT, with representatives of the industry and traders’ associations. Sandhu told members about the reforms undertaken by the Labour Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-laud-labour-reforms-in-chandigarh-123631
08-08-2020||---||Panchkula staff nurse alleges harassment||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 7A staff nurse, posted at a primary healthcare centre in Panchkula, has filed a police complaint alleging that she was abused and harassed by seven-eight men while she was on duty on the intervening night of August 4 and 5.The 28-year-old complainant told the police that on August 4 around 12.15 am, a young woman, who was puking, came to the centre for treatment with a few men. After examination, she called an ambulance and referred the woman to the Civil Hospital. Meanwhile, another woman and three or four men arrived at the health facility in an inebriated state.“The woman identified the patient as her sister and claimed she did not know the man accompanying her. I instructed the men to wait outside, but they started hurling abuses at me. They pressurised me to sign an undertaking that nothing would happen to the patient,” the victim said.“The suspects eventually began throwing objects and snatched an official register from me and threw it to the ground. They also manhandled a Class IV employee present at the spot and starting making a video of me on their phones. When I resisted the act, they pulled my hair and threw me to the ground. When a PCR was called to the spot, they fled,” she alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-staff-nurse-alleges-harassment-123632
08-08-2020||---||Chandigarh cops hold mock drill at Sector 17||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 7The UT police today conducted a mock drill at Sector 17 to check the preparedness for the forthcoming Independence Day.Police Control Room received information about a bomb at the Central Treasury office in Sector 17 around 11 am. Various police teams were alerted following which a bomb disposal squad, Operation Cell and cops from the Sector 17 police station reached the spot. A disaster management and medical team also reached the spot.As a part of the drill, the police teams cordoned the building and evacuated the staff from the building.Onlookers unaware about the mock drill got curious and gathered at the spot. The police then defused the bomb and completed the drill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-hold-mock-drill-at-sector-17-123633
