08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports four more cases; 73 active cases in district||Mohali reported four more cases on Wednesday, officials said---a development that takes the district’s coronavirus cases 327.A 22-year-old man from Kumbra, two people from Sector 104---a 14-year-old boy and a 42-year-old man---and 54-year-old man from Mohali’s Sector 48---all tested positive for COVID-19, officials said.Meanwhile, 11 people---10 people from Behda village and one person from Lalru---have recovered and were released from the hospital, officials said.The district now has 73 active coronavirus cases, and has six deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-four-more-cases-73-active-cases-in-district-110190
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Man held with 50-gram heroin||Results announcedChandigarh: Panjab University has announced the results of Master of Business Administration (semester I), Master of Business Administration (semester III) and Master of Engineering Information Technology (semester I). TNSHand sanitisers donatedChandigarh: VK Bakshi and Uday Bakshi from United Chemicals, Chandigarh, gave away 51 cases of hand sanitiser worth Rs1.5 lakh to UT Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar and UT Joint Commissioner Sorabh Kumar Arora to fight Covid-19. Brar appreciated the goodwill gesture and thanked VK Bakshi. TNSTwo Kalka men held for clashPanchkula: The police have arrested two persons involved in a clash at Kheda Sitaram, Kalka, on July 1. The suspects have been identified as Mohit Kumar and Gorav, both residents of Kalka. A case has been registered at the Kalka police station. TNSTwo nabbed for thrashing manPanchkula: The police have arrested two suspects for thrashing an auto driver and his family members. The suspects have been identified as Ghanshyam and Amit Ghanshyam, both residents of Mansa Devi. A case has been registered at the Mansa Devi police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-50-gram-heroin-109975
08-07-2020||---||Chandigarh again reduces staff at its offices in Secretariat||Chandigarh, July 7After a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration has again resorted to work with nearly 50 per cent employees in its offices at the Secretariat.In an order, the Department of Personnel and Training, UT, stated that in order to maintain social distancing to contain the spread of Covid-19, officials will attend the office in the UT Secretariat alternatively up to July 31. The orderIn an order, the Department of Personnel and Training, UT, stated that in order to maintain social distancing to contain the spread of Covid-19, officials will attend the office in the UT Secretariat alternatively up to July 31.The department also released a duty roster for the officers/officials to attend the office on the dates mentioned in it.The department stated that the officers or branch in-charges of various departments, including technical, education, health, local government, judicial, personnel training and establishment, vigilance, accounts finance, labour and employment, cooperation, transport and stationery, estate, etc, would be at liberty to call employees irrespective of the duty roster on any working day or holiday in view of the exigency and urgency of the work.The department stated that no employees would leave the station without a prior intimation to his or her branch in-charge.The Administration took these steps after some employees of the Education Department tested positive for Covid-19 and the office of the department had to be sealed for two days to carry out sanitisation.A senior official said the situation was still not conducive for government and private officers to work with full strength.He said the Administration was also considering putting restrictions on public dealings in government offices.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had yesterday desired that in government and private offices, only minimum staff should be called and others should be encouraged to work from home.As many as 492 persons have so far tested positive for Covid-19 in the city. At present, there are 84 active cases in the UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-again-reduces-staff-at-its-offices-in-secretariat-109952
08-07-2020||---||Progress of various schemes reviewed||Chandigarh, July 7 The Cabinet Secretary and other senior officers today reviewed the progress of various schemes of the Government of India with UT officers. During a meeting held through video-conferencing, the Cabinet Secretary expressed satisfaction over the progress made by the Administration in the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana as the Food and Supplies Department has distributed wheat and pulses among almost 93 per cent registered beneficiaries of the city for three months (April to June) in one go till date. On the One Nation One Ration Card scheme, UT Adviser Manoj Parida informed the officer that the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme was implemented in Chandigarh since 2015. “In case of outbound migration, food subsidy could be continued to be sent to beneficiaries in his/her Aadhaar-seeded bank accounts. In case of inbound migration, it is to be resolved that how the beneficiary, who is getting food grains in his home state, is to be given food subsidy via DBT,” he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/progress-of-various-schemes-reviewed-109953
08-07-2020||---||Stone for renovation of cremation ground laid||Mohali, July 7 Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone for the renovation work of a cremation ground in Sector 73 here today. Addressing the gathering, Sidhu said the renovation work would cost Rs50 lakh to the state exchequer. He also laid the foundation stone of the work to give a facelift to the Christian and Muslim graveyards in Sector 73. The project would cost Rs15 lakh. A sum of Rs15 lakh would be spent on constructing a boundary wall around the Muslim graveyard in the vicinity. Sidhu said there was no dearth of funds to ensure the all-round development of Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stone-for-renovation-of-cremation-ground-laid-109954
08-07-2020||---||Passengers checked at inter-state border||Zirakpur, July 7Inbound passengers at the Punjab borders were checked for e-registration and had to undergo medical screening before gaining entry into the state.Check posts were set up at the entry points on the Zirakpur-Chandigarh, the Panchkula-Zirakpur and the Ambala-Dera Bassi national highways to check outstation vehicles.Check postsCheck posts were set up at the entry points on the Zirakpur-Chandigarh, the Panchkula-Zirakpur and the Ambala-Dera Bassi national highways to check outstation vehicles.Passengers were asked to show COVA app or e-registration. They were also medically screened for ILI-like symptoms, said Ramesh Yadav at the Zirakpur-Chandigarh border. He was commuting from Delhi to Kurali.Though each inbound vehicle was under the scanner, the police were on a lookout for vehicles with Haryana or Delhi registration numbers.The Dera Bassi Station House Officer said: “We are keeping a strict watch on outstation vehicles as per the government orders. Checking is being done without any hassle to the commuters.”Anyone found with high temperature or flu-like symptoms was guided by medical teams stationed at the check posts, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/passengers-checked-at-inter-state-border-109955
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Railways Ambala Division ran 144 Shramik special trains||The Ambala Division of the Northern Railways ran 144 Shramik special trains, carrying over 1.90 lakh passengers till now. Ninety five per cent of these trains were bound for various destinations in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Gurinder Mohan Singh said close coordination was ensured in the operation of Shramik trains from Ambala, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. As many as 96 trains carried 1.38 lakh stranded passengers from Haryana, while 11 trains from Himachal Pradesh carried over 12,000 stranded persons.Gurinder said: “Round-the-clock monitoring was done at the nodal and divisional level to ensure that the trains were not delayed. The staff was also sensitised to ensure punctual running of these trains. Proper hygiene protocols such as social distancing and wearing of a face mask were followed by the staff and passengers.”Though meals were provided by the respective state governments to the passengers of these trains at the originating station, the IRCTC and the Railways had mobilised resources to ensure regular supply of meals and water to minimise inconvenience to the passengers.Singh said: “The Ambala division in association with the IRCTC, Chandigarh, had served 1.6 lakh meals in 131 trains passing through the division till now.”Singh said the last Shramik train was operated from the division on June 20. Now, no demand was pending to serve. “However, the division is able and ready to operate, if such demand comes from state governments,” he said.Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Hari Mohan said: “Eighty five per cent of the cost was borne by the Railways itself while the remaining by state governments to facilitate migrants to reach their home safely.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railways-ambala-division-ran-144-shramik-special-trains-109957
08-07-2020||---||Forest Dept begins drive to increase green cover in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 7To increase the green cover in the city, the Forest Department has started a drive, “Forest Department at your doorsteps”, on the occasion of Vanamahotsav-2020 during the monsoon season.Under the drive, the department will distribute saplings to general public without any formal application from July 10 to July 31. Survey reportAs per the Forest Survey of India report released last year, 51.04 per cent open forest area in rural Chandigarh consists of eucalyptus and 13.17 per cent area of the open forest in the urban area comprises mango trees.The department has designated three vehicles for free distribution of door-to-door saplings from 9 am to 6 pm.The department said a person could take up to five plants of his/her choice of species free of cost from these vehicles. The UT had a total forest area of 3,245.30 hectares.The Forest Department claimed that the total green cover of the city had increased from 41 per cent in 2017 to 46 per cent in 2019 which includes open forest, very dense forest and moderately dense forest.As per the Forest Survey of India report released last year, 51.04 per cent open forest area in rural Chandigarh consists of eucalyptus and 13.17 per cent area of the open forest in the urban area comprises mango trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/forest-dept-begins-drive-to-increase-green-cover-in-chandigarh-109958
08-07-2020||---||177 evacuees back from UAE||Mohali, July 7 An evacuation flight from the UAE, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 177 passengers landed at the Chandigarh international airport here today. The SpiceJet carrying 177 stranded Indians arrived here at 8.58 pm. All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines. A Health Department spokesperson said health officials took utmost precaution during the screening and passengers also maintained social distancing. He said no passenger was found suffering from fever, cough, cold, etc, and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus. He said all passengers were asked to take all precautions such as covering their face with a mask, using hand sanitisers, washing hands and observing social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/177-evacuees-back-from-uae-109959
08-07-2020||---||Frequent power cuts irk Sector 10 residents||Chandigarh, July 7 Residents of Sector 10 here have complained of frequent power cuts in their area. The residents said they had been facing frequent power breakdowns for the past several days. They had complained to officials concerned, but to no avail. Col (retd) Kulwinder Singh, president of the Residents Welfare Association, Sector 10, said: “There are frequent power disruptions. Power supply remains affected several times even during the day. The issue has not been resolved despite repeated complaints.” Meanwhile, officials from the Electricity Department said this disruption might be due to some technical snag. It will be fixed soon as there were no scheduled power cuts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/frequent-power-cuts-irk-sector-10-residents-109960
08-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||MC challenges contempt petition of JP Associates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has challenged the contempt petition filled by Jaiprakash Associates Ltd in a reply submitted before the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Vijay Singh.JP Associates had filed a contempt petition after the garbage processing plant at Dadu Majra was taken over by the Municipal Corporation on June 19 amidst high drama.In the petition, JP Associates alleged that the plant was taken over despite the court extending the stay order for another month against the termination of the contract by the Municipal Corporation. The petitionJP Associates had filed a contempt petition after the garbage processing plant at Dadu Majra was taken over by the Municipal Corporation on June 19 amidst high drama. In the petition, JP Associates alleged that the plant was taken over despite the court extending the stay order for another month against the termination of the contract by the Municipal Corporation.JP Associates prayed that the contempt proceeding should be initiated against the officials for the disobedience of the court’s order and restoration of the status of the plant before June 19.It claimed that after receiving the information on June 19 at 4.45 pm that the stay was extended by the court, its counsel immediately sent an email to the counsel for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation as well as the MC Commissioner at 5 pm informing them about the passing of the order by this court and advising them not to take further steps. Despite being informed about the order passed by this court, the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, through its employees and with the assistance of the police forcibly, took over the plant at 5.30 pm and locked it. They also drove out all employees present at the plant forcibly.Despite repeated attempts, the advocate, who appeared on behalf of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, could not be contacted.In the reply, the MC submitted that the present application deserves to be dismissed on the ground that the High Court had ordered that the possession as it exists on the day of the passing of the order by the High Court should be maintained till the decision on the applications under Section 17 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996, which was to be filed by the applicant.The application has now been filed before the Arbitral Tribunal. The court has no jurisdiction to entertain the present application in which the initiation of contempt petition has been sought. The scope of Section 9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act is limited to granting injunction only, not initiating contempt proceeding.The MC also claimed that the email of the counsel for JP Associates was accessed by the respondent’s counsel at 5.45 pm on June 19. Later, it was sent to the officials at 6.27 pm. The MC also attached the email sent by its advocate in which it had been stated that she received an email at 5 pm from advocate Saurabh Sharma. In the email, the MC advocate claimed that since she was sleeping, she checked the email at 5.45 pm in which it was stated that the court has extended the time for one month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-challenges-contempt-petition-of-jp-associates-109961
08-07-2020||Panchkula||Shelter home for stray dogs in Panchkula soon||City residents can get some relief from stray dog menace soon. Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta held a meeting with MC officials here and directed them to complete the work on the shelter home being constructed at Sukhdarshanpur village for stray dogs as soon as possible.The officials expressed hope that the shelter home would be made functional in the next two weeks as 70 per cent of the work had been completed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shelter-home-for-stray-dogs-in-panchkula-soon-109962
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Wettest first week of July in 6 years||The city recorded 52.4 mm of rainfall on Tuesday evening. According to the local Met Department, the rain started at 7.10 pm and continued till 8.30 pm. After that, intermittent showers were witnessed.Till July 7, the city has seen a total rainfall of 110 mm, the highest in the first week of July in the past six years. Before this, in July 2014, 117 mm of rainfall was recorded in the first week of the month.The maximum temperature in the city on Tuesday was 35.5°C, one degree above normal, while the minimum temperature was 27.7°C, three degrees above normal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wettest-first-week-of-july-in-6-years-109966
08-07-2020||Sandeep Rana---||No temperature check, use of sanitisers at Chandigarh offices||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 7 With no temperature checking and mandatory use of sanitisers, it is a free run for public at government offices, including the UT Secretariat, Municipal Corporation office, UT Police Headquarters and Education Department. Though an employee of the UT Education Department recently tested positive for Covid-19 and the department area was closed, the authorities apparently continue with their irresponsible attitude. Being public offices, a number of residents and staff visit these every day without any proper checking.  When the correspondent visited the Sector 9 UT Secretariat, there was no temperature checking at the entrance gate (public parking side). Even while entering the building where guards sit, no sanitisers were provided. Similar was the scene at the adjacent Education Department and UT Police Headquarters. Though sanitisers were kept at a few places, officials on duty were barely keeping a check on if people were using them.  At the MC office in Sector 17, temperature checking was being done at one of the buildings, but another building had no such provision. As both buildings are connected, testing at just one of them defeats the purpose.  A visitor is offered sanitiser only if he/she asks for it.  Baljinder Singh Bittu, Chairman, Federation of Sectors’ Welfare Association of Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said: “The authorities are asking people to take precautions and follow norms, but they are lazy when it comes to self-implementation. It must be ensured that each person who enters the offices should be checked. Can’t the officers keep a check on it. How do they remain unaware of it?”  “I visited the Secretariat a few days ago. There was no temperature testing or sanitisation being done by the staff at the entrance. One person can infect many. It is simply a lackadaisical attitude of the authorities,” lamented RK Garg, president of the Second Innings Association, a senior citizen’s body. Meanwhile, Manoj Parida, UT Adviser, said: “Though we have asked the staff at the offices to do temperature checking and use sanitisers, we will get it checked if it is not being followed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-temperature-check-use-of-sanitisers-at-chandigarh-offices-109946
08-07-2020||---||Human rights panel issues summons to PGI Director||Chandigarh, July 7The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued conditional summons to the Director, Health and Family Welfare, UT, and the Director, PGIMER, for appearing in person before the commission on December 29.The summons was issued on the complaint of Ashwani Munjal, union leader of the PGIMER. In the complaint to the NHRC, Munjal has alleged that bio-medical waste was scattered in and around Nehru Hospital, which has been inviting flies, insects, rodents, cats and dogs to the site leading to the spread of diseases. “The bio-medical waste was segregated to some extent, but its poor handling and disposal at the PGI has been a serious threat for healthcare workers and the environment,” read the complaint.“The PGI administration is responsible for managing the hospital waste in safe and eco-friendly manner. No efforts had been made by the authorities to prevent and control the menace,” added Munjal.Taking note of the complaint, the Commission, on November 5, 2019, had directed the Director, Health and Family Welfare, UT, and the Director, PGIMER, to file their response within four weeks.As the authorities have not submitted requisite reports till date in pursuant to the directions, the Commission issued summons to the authorities concerned under Section 13 of the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993, to appear before the commission on December 29 with requisite reports. “Should, however, the requisite reports be received by the commission on or before December 22, the personal appearance of the authorities concerned shall stand dispensed with,” ordered the Commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/human-rights-panel-issues-summons-to-pgi-director-109947
08-07-2020||---||NSUI members on hunger strike at Congress Bhawan||Chandigarh, July 7Members of the NSUI, Panjab University, today started a hunger strike at the Sector 35 Congress Bhawan against the UGC’s decision of conducting final-year classes amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Manoj Lubana, national chairman, NSUI social media, along with PUCSC Vice-President Rahul Kumar began the strike. “The NSUI stands against the government on the issue. We believe that conducting exams for the final-year students will expose them to Covid-19 and may also affect their mental health,” said Lubana. Rahul Kumar said conducting exams in the scenario would not be beneficial for the students and demanded roll-back of the decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nsui-members-on-hunger-strike-at-congress-bhawan-109949
08-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University planning final-year exams 'as per students’ convenience’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7The Panjab University (PU) authorities are working on a plan regarding the conduct of the final-year exams for various courses.Yesterday, the HRD Ministry gave the go-ahead for conducting the final-year examinations in universities by September-end.However, the PU may face several hindrances in following the directions due to various factors — increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh and neighbouring states, asking students to vacate hostels, Covid positive cases on the PU campus and hostel-turned-isolation wards on the campus.Another major concern will be asking students to show up for the exams, especially those who have gone back home to far-off places.Last month, the PU had sought details of students from various colleges for setting up examination centres in Punjab. However, there was no mention of the students living in other states.The HRD Ministry, however, stated the students unable to appear in final-year exams in September would get another chance. However, if all students opt to take exams later, it may become a dicey situation for the PU.Though officials concerned did not wish to comment on this issue, the Public Relations Department issued a statement: “The PU authorities have gone through the guidelines issued by the UGC regarding conducting of exams. The university is preparing a detailed plan for its working and implementation keeping in mind the interest and convenience of students.”An official said: “Expecting any such decision, we had prepared two plans. We have already completed the ground work. However, Covid cases reported on the campus have put us in a doubt. The process of setting up question papers, exam centres, finding the number of students and others will be completed before this month.”Last month, the PU announced some standard operative procedures (SOPs) expecting semester examinations in July. The guidelines allowed a maximum of 150 candidates at each centre in one session; two-hour duration for an exam; wearing a face mask compulsory for teachers; staff and students, one assistant superintendent deputed for every 15 students; downloading Aarogya Setu app; bringing own water bottle; sanitisation of building/ benches; thermal screening of candidates; social distancing; no candidate or examination staff from the red zone/containment zone; summary note of safety measures for all; and no person above 65 years of age expectant mothers or specially abled persons on duty.Students’ takeMeanwhile, students are of a view that the ministry should take back the decision. “Any kind of situation which involves presence of several individual at one place should be avoided during the pandemic. There will be a high risk of spread,” said Aanchal, a PU student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-planning-final-year-exams-as-per-students-convenience-109950
08-07-2020||---||Madhu Sharma head of college teachers’ union||Chandigarh, July 7High drama was witnessed at Sector 32 when the faculty of GGDSD College was not allowed to enter the premises for conducting teachers’ union elections today. After being denied entry into the college, the union completed the election process outside the college and the ballot box was kept in a car.The process of choosing the GGDSD College Teachers’ Union, a unit of Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU), was reportedly started in March. Balraj Thapar, principal of the college, was unavailable for comments.Of the total of 83 voters, 63 teachers casted their vote. Dr Madhu Sharma won at the post of president by 60 votes while her rival Navneet Batra received just one vote. Dr Diksha was elected for the post of secretary, Rinkey Priya Bali was elected the vice-president, Dr Sargam Wasu was elected the joint secretary and Dr Kapil Dev was elected the finance secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/madhu-sharma-head-of-college-teachers-union-109951
08-07-2020||---||Kharar man dies at hospital in Patiala||Mohali, July 7A 70-year-old man from Kharar, who had tested positive for Covid-19, died at Government Medical College, Patiala, today, taking the death toll due to the disease in Mohali district to six.He was earlier admitted to a private hospital in Sector 68 here with a chronic disease and was to undergo a surgery. He was later shifted to the Patiala hospital, where he died today.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said, the body had been kept at the mortuary at the Patiala hospital and the cremation would take place in Mohali tomorrow as per protocol under the supervision of health officials. He said they would collect the samples of his family members and would also trace the contacts of the deceased.Five more infected, eight dischargedMeanwhile, five more Covid cases have been reported from Mohali, taking the district count to 323. Those infected with the virus are a 40-year-old man from Zirakpur, a 48-year-old man from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi, a 38-year-old man from Nayagaon, a 50-year-old man from Baltana and a 28-year-old woman from Mundi Kharar.Dr Manjit Singh said all patients were suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI) and had been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He said the patient from Mundi Kharar was in contact with a positive case. He said health teams had been directed to take the samples of their family members tomorrow.He said eight more patients had recovered from the disease and were discharged from the hospital. He said the district had reported 323 positive cases so far. While 237 patients had recovered, there were 80 active cases. Six persons had lost the battle to the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-man-dies-at-hospital-in-patiala-109969
08-07-2020||---||80-year-old man succumbs in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 7An 80-year-old man from Sector 16 succumbed to Covid-19 at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research here this afternoon, taking the toll to seven in the city.The deceased had contracted the infection from his son, who runs a chemist shop in Sector 16-A. The man was undergoing treatment at the PGI since June 11 and had been on ventilator since his admission. He was admitted to the Covid-19 hospital with complaints of difficulty in breathing, hypertension and history of fever.Three more cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: Three more cases of Covid were reported from the district on Tuesday, raising the tally to 127. Those found infected with the virus are a six-year-old girl from Sector 18, a 60-year-old woman from Madanpur village and a 22-year-old woman from Kalka. TNSAs per a PGI statement, the cause of death was “cardio respiratory arrest, septic shock, pneumonia, hypertension and Covid-19.”Dr GD Puri of the PGI said, “The patient was at very high risk and had developed extreme complications of Covid. We retrieved him from very sick condition but he developed cardiac failure due to Covid as well as sepsis.”Dr Pankaj Malhotra of the Department of Internal Medicine said, “Patients with uncontrolled diabetes, uncontrolled blood pressure, obesity and cardiac problems are at a higher risk. Covid-19 affects organs of the body and aggravates the manifestations. This particular case was on ventilator support for a long time. In most deaths linked to Covid, patients have been on the ventilator.” Meanwhile, as many as five cases of Covid were reported from the city today, taking the tally to 492.A 35-year-old woman from Sector 40 tested positive for the virus. She is a family contact of a patient from Sector 50.A 24-year-old son of a cop posted at the police post in Sector 61 also contracted the infection. The patient is a resident of Sector 42 and has three family contacts, who are currently asymptomatic.Two family members of a GMCH doctor, who was tested positive earlier, were also found infected with the virus. They are a 49-year-old woman and a 14-year-old girl.A resident of Sector 51 resident, aged 55, was also found Covid positive.His four family members have been sampled for a Covid test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/80-year-old-man-succumbs-in-chandigarh-109971
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two booked on charge of raping woman||Two Punjab residents have been booked for allegedly raping a 29-year-old woman at a hotel in the Industrial Area, Phase I.Police sources said the victim, also a native of Punjab, arrived in the city along with her friend Baljinder, alias Lucky, a resident of Lehragaga, Sangrur, and Baljinder’s friend Mandeep, alias Monu Singla, a resident of Sunam, Sangrur.The police said they came from Patiala on July 6 and checked in at a hotel. They hired two rooms in the hotel.The woman alleged that the duo raped her and fled away after leaving her at the hotel. She informed the police and got her statement recorded following which a case under Sections 376 D (gang rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC was registered at the Industrial Area police station.Sources said the suspects switched off their mobile phones when the police tried to contact them. Both suspects are married and are absconding. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-booked-on-charge-of-raping-woman-109974
08-07-2020||---||Road mishaps claim two lives in Mohali||Mohali, July 7Two persons were killed and one was injured in two road accidents in Mohali during the past 24 hours.In the first incident, a university employee was killed after a Mahindra Bolero of the Haryana Police hit him at the Phase 3/7 traffic lights yesterday. The deceased, Baljeet Singh (38), a resident of Phase 4, was going towards the Phase 7 market from his house when the vehicle of the ADGP, Telecom Staff, coming from the Chandigarh side, hit his bike. He was shifted to a nearby private hospital by the car driver, Hanumant Singh. When his condition did not improve, he was shifted to the PGI, where he succumbed to his injuries last night. The IncidentsBaljeet Singh was an employee of Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib, said the police.The Mataur police have registered a case under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC against the car driver, who is yet to be arrested.In another incident, a sanitation worker of Municipal Bhawan, Mohali, died while his son was injured after a speeding Alto hit their Activa scooter at the Kumbra T-point near the Sector 68/69 traffic lights.The deceased, Kishan Chand (55), a resident of Kharar, was riding the Activa, while his son, Raj Kumar (33), was riding pillion when the incident took place. Kishan Chand received serious head injuries. However, his son received minor injuries. Kishan Chand was shifted to the PGI, where he died yesterday. The unidentified driver sped away from the spot.A case has been registered against the car driver under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of the IPC at the Phase 8 police station. The post-mortem examination of both deceased was conducted and the bodies were handed over to their family members today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-mishaps-claim-two-lives-in-mohali-109978
08-07-2020||---||3 Mohali residents held for running restaurant at night||Mohali, July 7The police have arrested three persons for running a restaurant during night hours in violation of the norms at Phase 5 here. Those arrested are Prateek and Sumit, both residents of Phase 7, and Vivek Sharma, a resident of Phase 11 here.According to the police, the trio had opened the restaurant, owned by Rebel Foods (an online food on-demand service) on Monday night in violation of the orders of the Mohali administration.“During patrolling at the Phase 5 market, we came to know that they were running the restaurant and were taking online orders. The trio was arrested and a case under Section 188 of the IPC registered against them,” said Inspector Manphul Singh, SHO of the Phase 1 police station. They were later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-mohali-residents-held-for-running-restaurant-at-night-109979
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Cop’s son +ve,  police post in Sector 61 shut||The Sector 61 police post was shut today after a constable’s son tested positive for Covid.The police said the matters and complaints related to the post would be dealt with at the police post in Sector 43. Both posts fall under the jurisdiction of the Sector 36 police station.The police said a 24-year-old son of a constable posted at the Sector 61 post was found positive for the virus and admitted to the GMSH-16 here today.“Since the constable’s samples have been taken for the Covid test and it will take at least two days for the report to come, the Sector 61 police post has been closed,” said a police official. The police will take a decision on reopening the post only after the constable’s report is received.“The cops, who are aged and were in contact with the constable, have been told to home-quarantine themselves till the time the constable’s Covid report is received,” said a police official.The police said the field staff would continue performing their duties, including patrolling the area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-son-ve-police-post-in-sector-61-shut-109942
08-07-2020||---||Sanitation worker commits suicide in Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, July 7 A sanitation worker of the Municipal Council reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself.  The deceased has been identified as Mangat Ram (40), a resident of Valmiki Basti. The police have registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPC and have handed over the body to his family members after a post-mortem, Investigating Officer Mewa Singh, ASI, said. The police found a suicide note in which he had stated that his last wish was that his last rites should be performed by his son.  He was reportedly distressed over a family discord as his wife and son had left him in 2005. He was living with his brother and was not keeping well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitation-worker-commits-suicide-in-dera-bassi-109943
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Explain income loss, High Court asks parents||Parents wanting to intervene in the Chandigarh school fee case have been asked by the Punjab and Haryana High Court to explain how they have suffered income loss due to Covid-19 and give complete details of their income, bank accounts, fixed deposits and earnings from rent. They have been asked to file affidavits in this regard.Told to file affidavitsThe High Court has asked the parents to explain how they have suffered income loss due to Covid-19 and give complete details of their income, bank accounts, fixed deposits and earnings from rent. They have been asked to file affidavits in this regard.The Chandigarh Administration has also been asked to furnish details of alternative arrangements for students wanting to leave private schools, following their parents’ inability to pay school fee due to Covid-19.The directions by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came on a petition by the Independent Schools’ Association, Chandigarh, and other petitioners against the UT Administration and other respondents.Representing private unaided schools, the association was seeking the quashing of an order issued in May, vide which collection of only the tuition fee on monthly basis was permitted till further orders.Taking up the matter, Justice Sangwan directed the Principal Secretary, UT Department of Education, to file an affidavit regarding alternative arrangements, if any, made by the Administration to ensure that it would get such students admitted to government schools in Chandigarh.“In the meantime, the applicants and their spouses, who want to be impleaded as party, shall also filed their respective affidavit explaining as to how they have suffered loss of income due to the Covid-19 situation and such affidavit will also explain the income as per their income tax returns for the previous years...,” Justice Sangwan added.Referring to a notification issued by the state of Haryana, Justice Sangwan asserted that the students were granted permission to leave the school and take admission in government schools after considering the fact that some parents were unable to allow their wards to study in private schools following financial hardships.It was also directed that school leaving certificate would be issued by the private schools within 15 days. There guidelines were later on modified on May 25 and it was directed that tuition fee for April and May be deposited in two equal instalments along with tuition fee for the next three months.Again, on the request of private schools as well as the parents, further instructions were issued on June 9. It was directed that the private schools would strictly comply with the earlier direction and tuition fee will be chargeable as per academic session 2019-2020.“The impugned order (by UT), however, does not give any option to the parents to withdraw their wards from private schools on account of their financial hardships and no assurance is given that such students will be given admission in the government schools in Chandigarh to ensure their right to education,” Justice Sangwan asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/explain-income-loss-high-court-asks-parents-109944
08-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panel for cess on buying vehicle, property in Chandigarh||You may have to pay a municipal cess on the purchase of a vehicle as well as on the registration of the sale deed of property in the city.A committee constituted to enhance the revenue sources of the Municipal Corporation (MC) today deliberated over imposing a municipal cess on the purchase of vehicles and the registration of the sale deeds of properties.If the levy is proposed and approved, it will increase the prices of vehicles and the fee for the registration of the property sale deeds in the city.The panel has asked MC officials to table all details regarding the cess in the next meeting, which is scheduled to be held on July 17.The corporation had recently imposed cow cess and municipal cess on power. Besides, house and commercial property tax rates were also increased.The panel also suggested imposition of green/entry tax on commercial vehicles.“We have so many vehicles coming into the city from different states. We can earn a huge revenue from green/entry tax. It will boost the sagging revenues of the civic body,” suggested a councillor.Besides, members of the committee also suggested conducting a power and water audit. A councillor privy to the development said the civic body foots a power bill of Rs9 crore every month. The major expense was of running the street lights. The monthly water bill of the MC comes to Rs2 crore.The panel also deliberated over giving community centre rooms on rent when not booked for some marriage or event. “The rooms are not booked throughout the year. By giving these on rent, we can at least recover some of the maintenance cost,” said a councillor.The panel members also suggested offering one-time settlement to defaulters with whom the civic body is fighting court cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-for-cess-on-buying-vehicle-property-in-chandigarh-109964
