08-10-2020||Chandigarh||102 new COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh; 4 more die||Four more COVID-19 fatalities in Chandigarh took the death toll to 186, while 102 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 12,922 in the union territory on Thursday, according to a medical bulletin.There are 1,392 active cases in the city as of now, it said.According to the bulletin, a total of 154 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the total number of recoveries in the union territory to 11,344.The bulletin said 84,167 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 70,726 have tested negative while reports of 119 samples were awaited. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/102-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-4-more-die-152886
08-10-2020||Naina Mishra||PGI trial: 53 participants healthy after first dose of Covid vaccine||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8The late-phase human clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which is also known as ‘Covishield’ in India, have been running smoothly at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and have not shown any adverse side-effects so far. An official statement released by the institute today reads, “The second phase of human clinical trials of Covishield, the potential vaccine developed by the Oxford University, is going well here at PGIMER. Till date, 97 volunteers have been screened. Of them, 65 volunteers have already been vaccinated since September 25 when PGIMER started administering the first dose of the vaccine to the volunteers. Among 65 volunteers given first dose, 53 have already completed seven days post vaccination without any major side effects.”However, some participants did develop mild symptoms after the dose of the coronavirus vaccine candidate, which is a mild reaction and is nothing to get alarmed about.According to clinical registry of India, occurrence of solicited local and/or systemic adverse events (AEs) was supposed to occur within seven days following each vaccination. Occurrence of unsolicited adverse events can happen 28 days after each vaccination.These candidates have been administered Covishield as 2 dose schedule on days 1 and 29 as 0.5 ml dose intramuscularly.This is a Phase 2/3, observer-blind, randomised, controlled study in healthy adults in India, for comparison of the safety of COVISHIELD with Oxford/AZ-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 and Placebo, and immunogenicity with Oxford/AZ-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 in prevention of SARS CoV-2 infection. The participants will be part of immunogenicity cohort and will be randomly assigned in a 3:1 ratio to receive either COVISHIELD or Oxford/AZ-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, respectively. The remaining participants from safety cohort will be randomly assigned in a 3:1 ratio to receive either COVISHIELD or Placebo, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-trial-53-participants-healthy-after-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-152829
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration declares 11 areas as containment zones||The Chandigarh Administration on Thursday declared 11 areas as containment zones in the city.These areas are parts of Sector 15, 22, 26 (Police Lines), 37-D, 39-B, 41-B, 44-D, Mauli Complex in Mauli Jagran, and part of Shanti Nagar Gali no 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-declares-11-areas-as-containment-zones-152824
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man held with  20 liquor boxes||Biker dies in hit-and-runChandigarh: In a hit-and-run case, a motorcyclist died after being hit by an unidentified vehicle at the Sector 20/30 light point on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as 68-year-old Neelkanth, a resident of Kharar. He was returning from Saketri when the accident took place. He owned a department store in Kharar. A case has been registered. TNSJuvenile held for murderChandigarh: A juvenile has been apprehended for the murder of a 20-year-old youth that was reported on September 16. The victim, Karan, was stabbed at Dadu Majra Colony in Sector 38 (West). A murder case was registered at the Maloya police station. The juvenile was apprehended on Tuesday. He has a tainted past and has been sentenced to three years in a murder case that was reported in 2017 in an area falling under the jurisdiction of the Sector 39 police station. TNSThree snatchers in police netChandigarh: Three youths have been arrested by the local police for allegedly snatching mobile phones. A team of the crime branch arrested Anil Kumar (23), a resident of Balongi, Mohali, and Gulshan Kumar (19) and Mohammad Irshad (18), both residents of Maloya Colony, who had snatched mobile phones on September 3 and 4 from an are falling under the Sector 26 police station. They were nabbed from Maloya. The snatched phones and the motorcycle used in the crime were recovered from them. TNSNew covid-19 testing centresMohali: With the addition of three special open-air testing centres and a drive-through testing facility, the Mohali administration has enhanced the testing facility. “Aggressive Covid-19 sampling mandates ample testing facilities. So, we have increased the testing centres. The new testing centres have been set up in grounds and stadia,” said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan. With this, the district now has 13 testing centres, along with 16 private ones and six authorised labs. “A drive-through testing facility has also been set up at the Sector 78 sports complex,” he said. TNSMan arrested with opiumChandigarh: A Mani Majra resident was nabbed by the Operations Cell of the UT police while possessing opium. The suspect, identified as Pawan Kumar, alias Bagga, a resident of Shanti Nagar, Mani Majra, was arrested from near the Bitta petrol pump in Mani Majra while possessing 200-gm opium. TNSFire engulfs house in Sec 21Chandigarh: Fire engulfed the top floor of a Sector 21 house on Wednesday. Fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the flames were doused in 15 minutes. No one was injured, but a portion of the house suffered damages. Sub-fire officers Gurmit Singh and Naresh Kumar led the charge and brought the situation under control. Though the exact cause of the fire is not known, firemen said short circuit could be the possible reason. TNSMan submits fake papers, bookedChandigarh: A man has been booked by the local police for allegedly submitting forged documents while applying for an EWS flat. The suspected submitted forged documents in the name of his wife, who had passed away in 1990. According to the police, a complaint was received from the Naib Tehsilar, Estate Office, in Sector 17, who reported that Lal Chand, a resident of Colony No. 4, had applied for the allotment of an EWS flat under the Small Flats Scheme in 2011. A case has been registered against the suspect. TNS600 apprised of housing schemeChandigarh: Nearly 600 persons were educated about the Credit Linked Subsidy Scheme (CLSS) under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna (PMAY-Urban). Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), said during the two-day camp, around 600 persons were educated by bank and CHB officials about the scheme and the benefits provided under various categories (EWS, LIG and MIG). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-20-liquor-boxes-152725
08-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||PUTA Poll: D-day today, candidates make last-ditch efforts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7A debate ensued over the university’s decision to deny voting rights to Covid-19 patients for the PUTA elections on October 8 and 9.While the returning officer for the elections maintained that they had only a handful of cases and a few resources to accommodate their right to vote, RTI activist RK Garg said there was no such provision in constitution of the Election Commission of India.“We don’t have adequate resources to ensure voting for Covid patients. We don’t have PPE kits to send anyone to their respective places and we cannot let them cast their vote over a phone call as it hampers the secrecy process,” said Vijay Nagpal, returning officer.Let the infected vote too: AAPChandigarh: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) objected to the denial of voting rights to Covid-affected voters in the PUTA elections. Party convener Prem Garg said the decision was unjustified. “If the students can take exams all over the country, why can’t the authorities allow every voter to vote,” he said. Even the Election Commission of India has not barred patients from voting. TNS“If someone is feeling unwell, we can just request them not to come. Voters will have to go through mandatory thermal screening and other process before casting their vote,” said Nagpal.Meanwhile, PU CMO Rupinder Kaur said: “As per our records, there are only three Covid cases in the PU.”Can’t deny the rightRTI activist RK Garg wrote to the Election Commission of India and the PU Vice-Chancellor to make arrangements for Covid-19 faculty members to help them exercise their right to vote. “There’s no provision in the Election Commission constitution to stop anyone from voting. The authorities should arrange adequate facilities for all voters. Polling booths are set up even for one vote in an entire area. It’s the voters’ choice if they want to vote or not,” said Garg. He said the decision might not convey a right message to the masses.Meanwhile, the presidential candidates of both contesting groups said the decision was right given the situation.“We are confident of winning the elections on the basis of the development works we carried out in the past three years. Our members will definitely appreciate our hard work and give us another chance,” Mritunjay Kumar.“People want change. We are definitely going to get good support from our faculty members. In the past three years, there has been no development,” said Mohammed Khalid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-poll-d-day-today-candidates-make-last-ditch-efforts-152649
08-10-2020|| ---||Court releases convict before completion of three-year jail term||Chandigarh, October 7 The court of Additional Sessions Judge Rajesh Kumar Sharma has ordered release of a convict, Shane Alam, before completion of three years in jail. The court took a humanitarian view after Ashok Tyagi, counsel for the convict, did not challenge the conviction, but only sought relief on the point of the three-year jail sentence awarded to the convict by the trial court. Shane Alam has already completed one year nine months and 10 days in jail since he was arrested in the case.  The counsel said he was not challenging the judgment passed by the trial court, however, he prayed to take a lenient view while considering the aspect of quantum of sentence awarded by the trial court.  The counsel argued that the appellant/convict was a poor person having a small child and old parents to look after and was the sole bread earner of the family.  The court said, “The appellant has faced agony and trauma of this criminal prosecution for such a long period. He must have lived every moment under stress. Since the convict has been in the judicial custody from the date of his arrest i.e. August 15, 2018, till date, therefore, the order of sentence deserves to be modified. Resultantly, the order of sentence dated April 6, 2019, is hereby modified to the extent that the convict is sentenced to undergo the imprisonment already undergone by him during the period from August 15, 2018, till date.”  The convict was arrested on the complaint of Priyanka of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, Chandigarh, who told the police that some unknown person entered her house and snatched away her gold chain at night. She raised an alarm, but the accused managed to escape around 3 am. The police arrested the accused on August 15, 2018, and since then he has been confined to judicial custody. After hearing the witnesses and defence, Jagmeet Singh, JMIC, held the accused guilty of the commission of offence punishable under Sections 356, 380, 457 and 411 of the IPC and sentenced him to three-year’ rigorous imprisonment in the order pronounced on April 6, 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-releases-convict-before-completion-of-three-year-jail-term-152650
08-10-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||5 held with illicit liquor, opium||The district police claimed to have arrested five smugglers and recovered 150 cartons of illicit liquor and 500-gm opium from their possession. SP (Investigation) Jagjit Singh Jallah said a campaign to nab drug smugglers was launched on the directions of SSP Amneet Kondal. He said Spinder Singh, SHO, Khamano, laid a naka after receiving a tip-off that smugglers were supplying whisky from Chandigarh to various towns of Punjab. Jagdeep Singh, resident of Chanarthal Khurd, Harjeet Singh and Gurwinder Singh, residents of Galwadi in Ludhiana, were arrested with 150 cartons of illegal liquor. In another case, the SP said the Kheri Naudh Singh police arrested Sarabjit Singh, alias Sabi, and Rajiv Kumar, alias Gandhi, residents of Dasmesh Nagar Machhiwara, and recovered 500-gm opium from them. During the interrogation, the suspects said they supply opium to their customers at high price. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-held-with-illicit-liquor-opium-152651
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Dadu Majra fire: Day after, residents complain of breathing problems||A day after a major fire erupted at the Dadu Majra dumping ground, residents complained of breathing problems and a burning sensation in their eyes as thick smoke continued to engulf the surrounding areas.The visibility on the road was reduced considerably and commuters found it difficult to cross the stretch between Dadu Majra and New Chandigarh in the afternoon.Fire tenders were in action throughout the day as flames kept erupting intermittently at different spots.Chandigarh AQIWednesday: 105 | Tuesday: 110 | Monday: 115 | Sunday: 94Various residents’ bodies were irked with the Administration and the Municipal Corporation’s failure to check recurrent fire incidents every year.Vinod Vashisht, convener of the City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO), said, “The corporation should get the plant repaired on war footing and make it run to fullest capacity so that only non-recyclable and inert waste go to the dumpsite and remaining 85-90 per cent waste is processed.”PS Bhatti, former MOH, Chandigarh, said, “As the plant’s capacity has been reduced, only 50 MT of municipal solid waste (MSW) is being processed. Rest of the 550 MT of MSW of 26 wards is directly thrown in the dumping ground. Methane gas is constantly generated in the dump, leading to frequent fires. People living in Dadu Majra, Dhanas and adjoining areas are directly affected.”Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman of the Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said, “Our federation will knock the doors of the High Court and National Green Tribunal.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dadu-majra-fire-day-after-residents-complain-of-breathing-problems-152652
08-10-2020||---||One arrested for assaulting minor girl||Panchkula, October 7 The Panchkula police have arrested a person on the charge of sexually assaulting a minor girl in Golpura village here.  The accused has been identified as Ankit, a resident of the same village. On August 30, the police had received a complaint from the victim’s grandmother alleging that her granddaughter was sexually assaulted by a person living in their neighbourhood. “I found my granddaughter missing from her cot when I woke up around 1 am. I kept searching for her until I found her in an unconscious state resting against a wall near washroom around 4 am. After she regained consciousness, she told me that Ankit had taken her to his house terrace and sexually assaulted her,” said the complainant. A case in this regard was filed at the women police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-arrested-for-assaulting-minor-girl-152653
08-10-2020||---||Six farmers booked for burning stubble||Panchkula, October 7 The Panchkula administration has lodged FIRs against six farmers for burning stubble in fields in the past few days.  While four farmers belong to the Raipur Rani block, two hail from Barwala. In the wake of stubble burning incidents, Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the district administration dissuaded farmers from resorting to the practice and made them aware of the repercussions of burning the crop residue. “In view of the ill-effects of burning crop residue as per directions of the court, a provision has been made to impose a fine on offenders. If a farmer is found burning crop residue, a fine between Rs2,500 and Rs15,000 will be imposed on him,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-farmers-booked-for-burning-stubble-152654
08-10-2020||Kharar||Man held for minor’s rape||The local police have arrested a man for allegedly raping a 17-year-old girl in Balongi. According to the police, the suspect, identified as Vikram Chaurasia, a resident of Ambedkar Colony in Balongi, allegedly raped the girl, who lives in his neighbourhood, multiple times and even threatened her with dire consequences if she disclosed the matter to anyone. The victim narrated the matter to her mother, following which the latter submitted a complaint to the police. A case has been registered against the suspect under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC and Section 4 of POCSO Act at the Balongi police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-minors-rape-152655
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Physical hearings in Dist Courts from next week||Physical hearings in the District Courts will resume from the next week after almost six months. NK Nanda, president, Chandigarh District Bar Association, Chandigarh, said the decision had been taken in a meeting held with Additional Session Judge Vijay Singh today.  Nanda said physical hearings would begin along with virtual hearings being carried out currently for urgent cases. Physical hearings will initially begin in a phased manner with fixed number of judges with all safety measures.  The decision comes a day after the Registrar General of the Punjab and Haryana High Court issued direction to all District and Sessions Judges of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to permit and increase physical hearings in criminal trials where accused are in custody, matrimonial cases and other important matters.  The HC said the permission for physical hearing would be given taking into consideration the prevailing local conditions, including the intensity of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and subject to consent being given by counsel appearing for all parties. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/physical-hearings-in-dist-courts-from-next-week-152656
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh UT imposes restrictions on spending in Q3||The UT Finance Department has imposed strict restrictions on spending of allocated expenditure in the third quarter.  A notification issued by the department stated that the quarterly expenditure plan had been fixed at 20 per cent and monthly expenditure plan of the UT Administration for October, November and December 2020 had been fixed at 8 per cent, 6 per cent and 6 per cent, respectively, of the Budget Estimates 2020-21 in the third quarter. The notification stated that there was no ceiling on expenditure on account of salary.  There will be a complete ban on the payment of LTC. However, TA/DA may be allowed on urgent official tour duty approved by the Adviser.  The notification freezed the DC rate of all outsourced employees of the UT till further orders and there will be a complete ban on purchase of vehicles. There will be no further increase in the strength of contractual appointment or outsourced employees will be initiated without the prior approval of the Finance Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-ut-imposes-restrictions-on-spending-in-q3-152657
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Department raises queries on designs||The Urban Planning Department has raised some queries with regard to the designs prepared by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) for the proposed UT Employees’ Housing Scheme.During a meeting, CHB officials gave the option of two designs to the Urban Planning Department. However, the department raised further questions on the designs and sought clarifications.A CHB official said the board had given two options — a seven-storey project and a 10-storey project. The aim was to reduce the cost of the project as less land would be required for vertical construction. He said they would file response to within a few days so that after finalising designs, they could work out the prices of the flats. The CHB had floated the special housing scheme for employees in 2008. The draw of lots was held on November 4, 2010, and over 3,900 employees were successful. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/department-raises-queries-on-designs-152658
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) to resume bus service to Uttarakhand||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will soon resume the inter-state bus service to Uttarakhand. The Uttarakhand Government has already given its approval to the UT Transport Department to operate the inter-state bus service. Uma Shankar Gupta, Director, Transport Department, UT, said the bus service to Dehradun would be resumed in a few days. The CTU had resumed the inter-state bus service to Punjab and Haryana from September 16. On restarting the bus service to Himachal Pradesh, the officer said they were yet to get consent from the state government, but were expecting it by the end of this week. The officer said the buses would reach Dehradun via Yamunanagar in the absence of approval from the Himachal Pradesh government for operating the inter-state bus service. The buses will be operated with 50 per cent occupancy to adhere to the social distancing guidelines issued by the UT Administration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-transport-undertaking-ctu-to-resume-bus-service-to-uttarakhand-152659
08-10-2020||Mohali||One death, 62 cases in Mohali||One Covid death and 62 new cases were reported from Mohali district today. At 151, the fresh recoveries exceeded the number of new cases. The district has so far reported 11,088 cases of which 1,227 are active. As many as 9,659 people have been cured. The toll has reached 202. Among the new cases, five each from Kharar, Lalru and Dera Bassi, two from Dhakoli and four from Gharuan. The maximum cases — 36 — were reported from Mohali urban. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-62-cases-in-mohali-152660
08-10-2020||---||Administration cuts Covid test rates in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 7The UT Health Department today reduced the rates of private Covid-19 testing in the city.The rates have been slashed from Rs2,000 to Rs1,200 for RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) method while for rapid antigen tests, the rates have been fixed at Rs650. Earlier, the rates were not fixed for the antigen tests.Type of test Rate per testRT-PCR  Rs1,200Rapid antigen Rs 650“After due deliberation on the matter and advice of experts, taking into account the cost of kits and consumables and consent of leading private laboratories, the UT Administration, in exercise of powers bestowed under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, directs that no private laboratory should charge any amount more than as mentioned in the table below for Covid-19 testing, inclusive of GST/taxes, if any,” said Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, UT.He said the orders would come into force with immediate effect and non-adherence might invoke penalty under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/administration-cuts-covid-test-rates-in-chandigarh-152661
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man found dead at house||A 58-year-old man was found dead at his house in Sector 37 here today. The victim was later found to be Covid positive.According to the police, Mohan Singh, who worked at Kisan Bhawan in Sector 35, used to stay alone.The victim’s son, who is in the CISF and posted in Kerala, called him up on his mobile phone, but the call went unanswered. He then informed the relatives staying in the city, who went to the victim’s house and found it bolted from inside.The police were informed about the incident. The door was broke open and the victim was found lying on the bed, the police said.The body was shifted to the mortuary at the GMSH-16, where his samples were taken for the Covid test. The test report came positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-at-house-152662
08-10-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Ramlila artistes upbeat amid Covid gloom, await nod||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7There is only one thing that keeps Ramlila artistes going: The zeal to perform better than last year.Financial constraints, squeezing out rehearsal time from the quotidian existence are part and parcel of a Ramlila artiste. Then there is committee politics to deal with to get the desired role year after year.Even recurrent wardrobe malfunctions do not deter a true-blue Ramlila artiste from giving his best. Add to it, the Covid-19 pandemic and uncertainty over the staging of Ramlila this year. ‘Ready to do it live on FacebookWith just a few days left for the Navratri fest to begin (October 15) and no signs of permission coming from the Deputy Commissioner and the Municipal Corporation, Sanyukt Ramlila Sangh secretary Parmjit Singh Pamm claimed that if they did not get the ground permission, they were prepared to do it live on Facebook and YouTube.With just a few days left for the Navratri fest to begin (October 15) and no signs of permission coming from the Deputy Commissioner and the Municipal Corporation, Sanyukt Ramlila Sangh secretary Parmjit Singh Pamm claimed that if they did not get the ground permission, they were prepared to do it live on Facebook and YouTube. Those involved in staging Ramlila for decades say it will increase the expenses considerably and this is the first such instance that they are not sure whether it will be possible or not.Trust the innovation of a Ramlila troupe to come out victorious in every situation, be it a pandemic.Rehearsals, though, are in full swing at various places.“Artistes’ enthusiasm has not dipped. They are practising in open spaces, parks and nearby community centres. I know many who have been rehearsing for the past one month in their homes,” said Sunil Kumar, who has been performing at the Sector 17 Ramlila for the past 43 years. The local legend and onstage Ravana used to be the first one to cycle his way to the blood donation camp in all his finery for years.Jyoti Sharma, a veteran who used to perform the role of Hanuman but has moved on to the role of Ravana now, said, “There are close to 25 artistes involved in staging the event each night. An equal number of people are involved in backstage preparations. Logistics are a big concern this time, but it is a new challenge.”Chandigarh Kendriya Ramleela Mahasabha president Bhagwati Prasad Gour said, “We are yet to get MC permission, but the main issue is with area police officials who have been sitting over the verification file for a month now. We have to book tent houses in advance and go from door to door for collections. What if an artiste tests Covid positive, the whole troupe would be quarantined in the middle of the 10-day event. All our preparations will come to a nought.”General secretary Luv Kishore Aggarwal said, “The expenses touch the Rs4 to 5-lakh mark for staging Ramlila for 10 days. If you take into account the cost of effigies, it comes around Rs8 lakh.”In Chandigarh, there are two mahasabhas — Chandigarh Kendriya Ramleela Mahasabha and Sanyukt Ramlila Sangh — with 25-27 committees under their wings. There are around 15 more committees, which operate independently. While most of them are optimistic of staging Ramlila this year, some of them have already given up.Theatre artistes Sanjay Kumar and Naresh Kumar of city-based Suryavanshi Rangmanch and others said the latest guidelines issued on September 30 clearly state that an assembly of 100 people (indoors) and 200 people (outdoors) for religious and cultural functions is allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ramlila-artistes-upbeat-amid-covid-gloom-await-nod-152663
08-10-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula recovery rate up, goes over 90%||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 7For the first time, Panchkula’s Covid recovery rate has improved to more than 90 per cent. With just 479 active cases (just a little over 9 per cent) of the total 6,371 reported so far, the district recovery rate stands at 90.94 per cent. Reason for this is that the number of patients to have recovered from the disease has drastically exceeded the fresh cases reported in the past two weeks.Will intensify sampling: Civil Surgeon"We can’t really say our Covid testing figures have come down. We have collected around 900 samples per day in the past three days. Yes, our testing capacity had once reached 1,400-1,500 samples per day. It is still reasonably good. We will intensify sampling in the days to come." — Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, PanchkulaFrom September 24 to October 7, as many as 1,043 fresh cases were registered in the district. However, 1,691 patients defeated the virus during the same period – registering a margin of 648 cases.Owing to fewer samples being collected over the past few days, the number of positive cases registered in the district has also gone down.  Period Sept 24-Oct 7In the first week of this month, only 5,187 samples were taken for the Covid test vis-à-vis 12,613 samples taken during the corresponding period last month. This despite a steady rise in the number of Covid-related deaths. At least 26 people have succumbed to the virus in the past two weeks.Till September 23, the district toll stood at 72. The casualty figure now stands at 98 – just two short of 100. Twelve patients have succumbed to the virus this month.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “We can’t really say our Covid testing figures have come down. We have collected around 900 samples per day in the past three days. Yes, our testing capacity had once reached 1,400-1,500 samples per day. It is still reasonably good. We will intensify sampling in the days to come.”“We will continue to urge people to come forward for testing, particularly those belonging to economically lower strata of society as they hesitate to undergo the Covid test despite developing symptoms, as they worry about their daily bread,” the Civil Surgeon said. “Our intensive care system and bed occupancy once had been under pressure, but now it has been eased due to less number of sick people. Similar is the case with the positivity rate. It has also dipped,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-recovery-rate-up-goes-over-90-152664
08-10-2020||---||Panchkula sees another death, 53 new cases||Panchkula, October 7The death of a 65-year-old man from Kalka today took the Covid toll of Panchkula to 98. He was suffering from hypertension.The district also reported 53 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 6,371.The fresh cases that were reported today include five each from Sector 6 and Sector 7, four each from the MDC, Sector 4, Rattewali and Sector 26, three each from Naggal and Sector 21, two each from Kalka, Mouli, Sector 15, Sector 16, Sector 18, Sector 19 and Sector 27, and one each from Abheypur, Bhainsa Tibba, Buddanpur, Industrial Area, Khatoli, Pinjore, Sector 11, Sector 12-A, Sector 17, Sector 25 and Sector 9.While 479 cases are still active in the district, 5,794 patients have been cured.Panchkula has so far conducted 71,790 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-another-death-53-new-cases-152665
08-10-2020||Naina Mishra||For 3 weeks in a row, Chandigarh UT sees dip in active cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 7With 1,448 active cases of Covid-19 as on Wednesday, Chandigarh appears to have stemmed the rise in the crucial statistic as it is for the first time since the start of the pandemic that the active cases in the city have seen a sustained decline for three weeks in a row.The seven-day average of the growth in new cases as on October 6 stands at 1 per cent. Since September 16, the active cases have decreased by 1,723. For the past one week, the number of people recovering from the disease has exceeded the new infections, which has led to a decline in the number of active cases. Some relief, City’s rate of transmission 0.74The reproduction number, or Rt, a key epidemiological metric that indicates how fast the disease is spreading in a population, has fallen below 1 for the first time since the pandemic began in Chandigarh in the third week of March. According to the model created by Nidhi Gupta, a Bengaluru-based senior data scientist, the city’s rate of transmission is 0.74. It stood at 1.35 on August 31.For every 100 confirmed cases in the city, 87 have recovered and 12 are currently infected.Dr Rajesh Kumar, a former head of the Department of Community Medicine, PGI, said, “This is a declining trend as the recoveries are higher than the daily new cases. The number of fatalities has also started to come down.”UT Principal Health Secretary Arun Gupta said the Administration had projected 3,600 infections on a peak day and the city crossed the peak on September 16. The active cases started declining after the city recorded 3,171 active infections.“There is no denying the fact that less number of people are testing positive in contrast to the previous trend when over 300 infections were reported on a daily basis,” said Gupta.What is more, the reproduction number, or Rt, a key epidemiological metric that indicates how fast the disease is spreading in a population, has fallen below 1 for the first time since the pandemic began in Chandigarh in the third week of March. According to the model created by Nidhi Gupta, a Bengaluru-based senior data scientist, the city’s rate of transmission is 0.74. It stood at 1.35 on August 31.According to Gupta, Rt of 1 means that the epidemic is holding steady. For every person who is infected, another one becomes infected, and as the first one either recovers or dies, the second one replaces it; the size of the total pool of infected people remains the same. At a rate below 1, the epidemic will fade out. If it is above 1, it will grow, perhaps exponentially.UT to focus more on antigen testingThe use of rapid antigen test in Chandigarh began in August. The diagnostic tool accounts for 22 per cent of the total tests for Covid. Of the 81,006 tests conducted till October 4, the antigen test comprises 18,344.As the cases started to decline after September 16, the number of tests also started falling from a daily average of 1,200 per day to 700.Gupta said, “As the cases started to decline, testing also came down as there were fewer suspected cases. We are trying to keep the minimum number of tests per day at 1,000.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/for-3-weeks-in-a-row-chandigarh-ut-sees-dip-in-active-cases-152666
08-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two die in Chandigarh, 127 test +ve||The city today recorded 127 new cases of Covid-19 and two fatalities, taking the tally to 12,820 and toll to 182.A 60-year-old woman from Sector 33, a case of SARI and type 2 diabetes mellitus, died at Ivy Hospital, Mohali. A 70-year-old man from Mani Majra, a case of acute respiratory distress syndrome and hypertension, succumbed to the virus at the GMCH-32.The city also saw 155 patients recovering, taking the number of cured patients to 11,190. As many as 83,413 tests have been conducted in the UT so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-die-in-chandigarh-127-test-ve-152667
