09-07-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 16 persons test positive in Chandigarh; total cases reach 523||As many as 16 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Chandigarh on Thursday to take the total number of cases in the city to 523.Among the new cases are an 80-year-old woman from Sector 51 and 65-year-old man from Sector 55.Four members of a family in Sector 38 also tested positive, including a 14-year-old boy. They are the family members of a previous positive case.The total number of active cases in the city is 113 while 403 patients have been cured till date.There have been seven deaths in the city due to COVID-19.A total of 10,023 samples have been collected from the city till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-16-persons-test-positive-in-chandigarh-total-cases-reach-523-110634
09-07-2020||Mohali||9 new coronavirus cases in Mohali take total tally to 340||With the surfacing of nine new cases of coronavirus, the total count of positive cases in Mohali district has gone up to 340.Five patients have also recovered from the virus taking the total number of recovered persons to 253.The persons (all males) infected with the virus include a 62-year-old resident of Sector 127, a 68-year-old of Sector 97, a 42-year-old of Sector 78, 32-year-old from Phase 9, 30-year-old of Sector 80, 52-year-old female of Phase 9, 48-year-old female of Phase 10, 32-year-old female from Zirakpur and 19-year-old girl of Dappar in Mohali district.All the patients have been admitted to the Covid Care Centre in Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that five patients have recovered and discharged from the hospital today.He said these include 59-year-old female and male both residents of Baltana, 25-year male from Phase 4 Mohali, 46-year-old male from Lalru, and 50-year-old male from Khanpur village in Mohali district.Dr Manjit Singh said as of now there were 340 total positive cases out of which 253 have been cured and active cases are 81 and six deaths have occured so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-new-coronavirus-cases-in-mohali-take-total-tally-to-340-110590
09-07-2020||---||3 suicides rock UT, Class VIII student among the victims||Chandigarh, July 8Three suicides, including that of a 16-year-old boy, have been reported from the city.The police said the boy, a Class VIII student, reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Mauli Jagran today.Sources said he had gone to play in the morning. On returning, he straightaway went to his room and hanged himself. His family saw him hanging and rushed him to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead.The victim is survived by his mother and two sisters.The police said no suicide note was found from the spot. “The reason for the suicide is yet to be established,” said a police official.The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter at the Mauli Jagran police station.In another incident, a 47-year-old carpenter reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Dhanas.The victim has been identified as Ramesh Yadav, a native of Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, who was residing at EWS Colony, Dhanas.The police received information that the victim had hanged himself following which a PCR vehicle reached the spot and rushed him to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead on Tuesday night. He was residing alone in the city.The police said the victim’s wife kept calling him on his mobile phone, but he didn’t answer following which she called his friend Budh and asked him to visit the house to check on her husband.Budh reached the house and found the door bolted from inside. Thereafter, a boy entered the house from the rear side and found the victim hanging.The police said no suicide note was found from the spot.“The victim’s family has been informed about the incident and asked to visit Chandigarh. The autopsy will be conducted on their arrival,” said a police official.The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter at the Sarangpur police station.The police said persons who used to work with the victim would be questioned to establish the reason for the suicide. Another suicide was reported from Sector 20. The victim, a woman, had reportedly taken poison on June 24 after which she was admitted to the GMSH, Sector 16, where she died yesterday.Sources said she had got married to a man in Nayagaon. However, they used to have fights following which she started staying with her parents in Sector 20 since August last year.The sources said she wanted to meet her son, who stays with her husband. However, her husband was not allowing her to meet him following which she took the extreme step. The victim’s parents have submitted a complaint at the Sector 19 police station and an investigation has been initiated into the matter. Boy had returned home after playingSources said the boy had gone to play in the morning. On returning home, he straightaway went to his room and hanged himself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-suicides-rock-ut-class-viii-student-among-the-victims-110304
09-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||Brace for hefty power bill||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 8Residents should brace to pay power bills of the past four months in one go. The bills could not be generated for these months due to the Covid-19 restrictions and issues in bill generation.Power consumers in the city have not got bills since February. Now, the UT Electricity Department has decided to issue bills for the months of March, April, May and June from July, as per the billing cycle.“We had stopped taking reading of power meters by going door-to-door due to the pandemic. Even people would have also not allowed it that time. Now, we will send the consumption charges for four months in the July bills,” said a senior official of the UT Electricity Department, wishing anonymity.Residents, on the other hand, do not find it right to charge for four months in one go. They said the consumption for the previous months should be divided into two and added to the bimonthly bills so that it does not hit people hard.“They should charge for the 50 per cent of the energy consumed during the lockdown period in the July bill and the remaining in the next bill. Even if they want to charge for the consumption of four months in a single bill, the consumer should be given an option of paying 50 per cent of the bill amount after 15 days or a month,” suggested Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation.“It should also be ensured that the basic exemption provided in a bill should exist even on the combined bill. Otherwise, people like pensioners will find it tough to pay their bills,” he added.RK Garg, president, Second Innings’ Association, said, “People are already hit due to the ongoing crisis. A combined power bill will be another blow to them. Also, the department should not issue average bills, but get door-to-door meter reading done and charge for actual consumption. In case someone is not able to pay the bill on time, his/her connection should not be snapped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/brace-for-hefty-power-bill-110305
09-07-2020||---||Two men found infected in Panchkula||Panchkula, July 8A 49-year-old man and a 46-year-old man from Sector 7 tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the district tally to 129. They are kin of an already positive person.Dr Rajeev Narwal, Covid nodal officer for the district, said, “They are receiving treatment at a private hospital in Sector 21. With this, Panchkula’s Covid tally stands at 129.” As many as 189 people have been found infected in the district so far, including 60 from outside.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-men-found-infected-in-panchkula-110306
09-07-2020||---||Mohali houses flooded||Mohali, July 8Downpour on Tuesday night caused widespread flooding of roads, streets and houses in the low-lying areas of the town.The worst-affected were houses in Phase IV and V as these were submerged under four-foot rainwater late in the night. Road cave-ins, collapsed walls, clogged drains and scattered waste were witnessed in almost every part of the town.The Phase V market and the parking area were waterlogged and had clogged drains. Residents had a harrowing time when rainwater entered their houses in Phase IV and V late at night.“The monsoon has just begun and it has laid bare the preparations of the Mohali Municipal Corporation and the district administration. It happens every year but the officials seem least bothered,” said Mukesh Sachdeva, a retired banker and a resident of Phase V.“The tiled footpath outside my house caved in when I was leaving for my office on Wednesday morning. My children were with me in the car as I had to drop them at my relatives’ house. Before I could move the car, the tiles caved in and the vehicle was stuck. I had to call a crane to pull it out. My children were shocked after the incident. No MC official has visited the place which is dotted with cave-ins at several places,” said Karanpreet Kaur, a resident of Phase III-A.Several fire tenders and super suction pumps were pressed into service late at night to drain out rainwater from houses.MC officials said rainwater flooded houses at Phase 3B-2 and IV.In Phase V, a stray cow was stuck in a pit for the entire night and was rescued by local residents in the morning.“Some houses in Phase IV and V, a low-lying area, had four feet of rainwater. For a few hours the situation was tense until it was brought under control,” said Baljeet Kaur, a former area councillor.MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg and a team of officials surveyed the affected areas in the morning and deliberated on the steps to be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-houses-flooded-110308
09-07-2020||---||Hit by police vehicle, boy dies||Mohali, July 8Five days after being reportedly hit by a police car, a 19-year-old boy died during treatment at the PGI last night. The accident had taken place on Friday. The victim has been identified as Sukhbir Singh.His bike was hit by a speeding car of the Punjab Police in Industrial Area, Phase 8-B, here. He was a resident of Indira Colony at Chappar Chiri Khurd village and was a Class X passout.The victim’s father, Sukhwinder Singh, a cart-puller, said Sukhbir was returning home on his bike after handing over the horse cart to him on Friday morning. A speeding SUV of the Punjab Police rammed into the victim’s bike. The accident took place in front of the victim’s father, who was also going behind his son on his cart.After the collision, the car driver, who was in police uniform, sped away. Sukhbir sustained severe injuries on his left thigh and was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 by a PCR vehicle. He was shifted to a private hospital in Ropar as his left thigh bone had got fractured. Two days ago, the victim felt pain in his chest following which he was referred to the PGI, where he died last night.A case was registered against the Punjab Police car driver, Amarjit Singh, under Sections 279, 304-A and 338 of the IPC at the Phase 1 police station today. The post-mortem of the victim was conducted today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-police-vehicle-boy-dies-110309
09-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Illegal detention: Chandigarh SSP, Jail Superintendent in dock||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 8UT SSP and Superintendent of Jail have virtually landed themselves in the dock. Justice Manoj Bajaj of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked them to show cause why proceedings for contempt of court should not be initiated against them in an alleged illegal detention case.The two have also been asked to file their response to justify the custody of an accused, granted bail but not released from prison. “The facts and circumstances of the case, prima facie, make out the detention of the petitioner not only illegal, but it amounts to wilful and deliberate disobedience of the order of release of the petitioner on bail,” Justice Bajaj asserted.The direction came on a petition filed by Vinay Kumar against the UT and another respondent. Appearing before Justice Bajaj’s Bench, the petitioner’s counsel contended that the accused was directed to be released on bail on June 20 by the UT Additional Sessions Judge in a cheating and criminal conspiracy case registered on September 28, 2019, under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 17 police station.However, the accused was not released from prison on the pretext that a production warrant dated February 11 stood issued against him by a Metropolitan Magistrate in Mumbai. “Once the order of bail dated June 20 has been passed in favour of the petitioner, his detention is illegal,” his counsel contended.UT Additional Public Prosecutor Gautam Dutt, on the other hand, submitted that the bail was indeed granted by the Additional Sessions Judge. However, subsequently, his application for grant of transit bail in the Mumbai case was declined vide an order dated July 2 by the Judge on the grounds that production warrant against the petitioner had already been issued.He further submitted that the petitioner could not be produced before the Mumbai court because of the Covid-19 outbreak. As such, he was kept in prison. It was further pointed out that Mumbai police officers’ team would be coming to Chandigarh to take the petitioner’s custody.Referring to the facts of the case, Justice Bajaj, among other things, added: “The order of bail dated June 20 is clear and does not contain any impediment to not releasing the petitioner, much less by observing his involvement in any other case”.Justice Bajaj added that the UT counsel’s stand was that the warrants were not executed because of the pandemic. As such, the petitioner was kept in custody despite the bail order. “The country presently continues to be in the throes of a global pandemic, Covid-19, and various state governments and UT administrations have also imposed restrictions upon certain activities, including free travel to curb the spread,” Justice Bajaj asserted, adding that his detention on the face of it would as such be illegal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-detention-chandigarh-ssp-jail-superintendent-in-dock-110310
09-07-2020||---||Applied for passport? Wait for WhatsApp video call||Chandigarh, July 8The WhatsApp interview service offered by the Regional Passport Office (RPO), Sector 34, during the Covid-19 pandemic has come as a respite for people of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, who have applied for a passport.The applicants will no longer have to appear in person at the office for the interview as the RPO has started taking it on WhatsApp.In a statement issued by the office, the RPO said, “Because of the increasing Covid-19 cases, it has been decided that a WhatsApp video call ending with ...330 will be made to the registered mobile number of the applicant.” The applicants are thereby required to download the app on their registered mobile number.Regional Passport Officer Sibash Kabiraj said a video call would be made to the applicant by a dedicated team at the time of online inquiry appointment. Applicants are expected to ensure their availability for the video call at the scheduled time.He said, “We have taken this step to ensure the safety of people. Every day, around 150 people visit the RPO, mostly from Punjab, and given the pandemic, we are trying to take steps in the direction of social distancing.”He said, “The reason for choosing WhatsApp for video calls is that it is easily accessible. Most people use it and it’s easy to operate as well.”He said the applicants, who had not been issued passports even after the processing was done at the Passport Seva Kendra usually due to discrepancies in documents, could take an online inquiry appointment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/applied-for-passport-wait-for-whatsapp-video-call-110311
09-07-2020||---||Mohali SDM among eight test positive||Mohali, July 8The Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Mohali, Jagdeep Sehgal, today tested positive for Covid-19.Confirming the same, the 29-year-old said he was currently under home quarantine at Purab Premium Apartments in Sector 88. He added that he had recently attended a meeting of PCS officers in Chandigarh and possibly came into contact with a Covid patient there.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said they were yet to get the SDM’s test report through email but had got the status confirmation on WhatsApp.The district tally today rose to 330 as apart from the SDM, six more persons tested positive for Covid. A 22-year-old youth from Kumbra village, a 14-year-old boy and a 42-year-old man from Sector 104, a 54-year-old man from Sector 48 and a 55-year-old woman and a 65-year-old man from Kurali have contracted the virus. A 52-year-old resident of Phase XI, Moahli, also tested positive.Eleven dischargedDC Girish Dayalan said 10 persons from Behra village and one from Lalru had been discharged. He said of the 331, there were 77 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sdm-among-eight-test-positive-110312
09-07-2020||---||City Covid count crosses 500 mark||Chandigarh, July 8Eighteen days after the city recorded 400 cases of Covid-19, its tally breached the 500 mark today. With 15 fresh cases, the UT Covid count reached 507.The city had reported its first case on March 18. It crossed the 500 mark in 112 days. The surge in cases is due to people returning to the city after the interstate restrictions were eased.Six of a family from Sector 49, including two females, were found infected today. A 54-year-old woman from Mani Majra too tested positive. Her 15 family contacts have been sampled for the Covid test.A 57-year-old man from Sector 19 and a 47-year-old man from Sector 44 too contracted the virus. Each of them having three family contacts, who are asymptomatic.Three family members of a patient from Sector 20 — two men, aged 59 and 44, and a 53-year-old woman — are among the new cases reported today.A 25-year-old woman, who is a workplace contact of a Covid patient from Punjab, also tested positive for the contagion. She is a resident of Sector 45.A 57-year-old woman and a 29-year-old youth from Sector 43, who work in Punjab, too have contracted the virus.The city has 98 active Covid cases spread across 34 sectors and villages. Approximately 36 per cent of the city’s active cases are from peripheral areas while the remaining are from sectors.The maximum active cases (8) are in Sector 41. Bapu Dham Colony, which was a Covid hotspot in the city earlier, has left with three active cases now. No case has been reported from the colony since June 5.Meanwhile, the UT Administrator has directed health officials to ensure that the teams going for screening should carry oximeter with them so that oxygen level of the person being tested could be checked instantly. This could help in detecting the severity of infection if any.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-covid-count-crosses-500-mark-110313
09-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Year on, varsity players await reimbursement||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 8Panjab University’s meritorious sportspersons, who participated in the last year’s 30th Summer Universiade (University) Games in Napoli (Italy), are waiting for the entitled reimbursements for the past one year.The games were held in 2019 from July 3 to 14. However, till date, sportspersons have not received a penny of their entitled reimbursements.The players’ expenses included money spent on air-travel tickets (to and fro), kits, blazers, cancellation of tickets and others. The total reimbursement amount came down to approximately Rs2 lakh per player, which was to be reimbursed after the production of bills.As many as 16 players from the PU and its affiliated colleges were selected to participate in the championship.Dr Parminder Singh, PU Director (Sports), and Rakesh Malik, Deputy Director (Sports), also accompanied the teams to Napoli as officials with different teams.“It’s been a year and we have no information about reimbursement. Not many of us come from a financially sound background. We have taken the amount on loan and have been struggling to repay it. The Covid-19 pandemic has hit us hard and the ignorance on the part of the authorities is affecting us,” said a player requesting anonymity.The players claimed that they have approached the officials many a time, but to no avail. They claim that players of other universities have not only received their reimbursement amount but also got a minimum stipend for representing the university at international level.“The officials concerned claim that the reimbursement process was in progress. The university told us that we would get the amount back after returning from Napoli. However, it’s been a year and no one is taking the matter seriously,” said another international player.PU not liable: OfficialsMeanwhile, officials maintained that different universities, such as the GNDU and Karnataka University, were given the task of selecting and sending teams for various sports events. Only the university concerned, which also served as places for trials, could initiate the reimbursement process. The PU was chosen to send a shooting team and their reimbursements have been made, claim officials. However, a shooter told The Tribune that the process for reimbursement was still under consideration.“In these games, various disciplines were chosen for different universities and the university concerned had to approve the utilisation certificate of a player so that it can be produced before the Panjab University Sports Committee (PUSC) for reimbursement. The university concerned is responsible for the delay in the reimbursement process,” said Parminder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/year-on-varsity-players-await-reimbursement-110314
09-07-2020||---||Devices to minimise health workers’ contact with patients||Chandigarh, July 8The PGI collaborated with the IIT-Ropar for developing two state-of-the art low-cost autonomous vehicles, ‘Medi-Sarathi’ and ‘Al-Powered Trolley’, for minimising the healthcare workers’ contact with infected patients and contaminated surroundings.Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics) and Head, Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care, PGI, who conceptualised the devices with researchers from the IIT, said: “We were brainstorming about multiple affordable options to ensure better safety for our healthcare team. That’s how we came up with ‘Medi-Sarathi’ and ‘Al-Powered Trolley’. These are affordable and customised solutions for our local needs and have already been rigorously tested at the PGI labs before being launched.”Dr Rohit Sharma, Associate Professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, IIT-Ropar, said: “Medi-Sarathi is an aerial system that eliminates the risk of infection to the medical staff with 100 per cent success in protection and security. Some of the features of ‘Medi-Sarathi’ include complete remote access, thermal RGB cameras for human body temperature and sanitisation capability.”“With the power of artificial intelligence (AI), the remote trolley can be deployed autonomously in the high-infection zone to deliver essential supplies. The critical feature of the trolley includes detection of obstruction,” said Sharma.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said: “With the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the ensuring safety of our frontline warriors has become more challenging. It is always our priority.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/devices-to-minimise-health-workers-contact-with-patients-110316
09-07-2020||---||Hostel facility for those in need: PEC||Chandigarh, July 8Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has decided to allow students from remote areas, who have no access to online study facility or have no computers at their home, to stay in hostels for attending online classes starting from July 27.The authorities have received requests from around 70 such students. However, the number is likely to decrease once the PEC authorities issue SOPs.“We are working on SOPs and it will be issued soon. The students coming here will not be allowed to move out for two weeks, only one student will stay in one room, no one will be allowed to go out of campus and students will be allowed to move inside the campus during the day. There are several other things we are working on. The facility will be provided to those who have no mode of online studying,” said Prof Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, PEC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hostel-facility-for-those-in-need-pec-110317
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Work from home for schoolteachers till July 31||The UT Education Department has allowed work from home for the teaching staff at schools after the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) directed the education secretaries of all states to allow teachers to continue working from home till July 31.The letter from the MHRD issued on July 6 reads: “As per the Unlock 2 guidelines, it has been directed that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31. It has been further stated that online/distance learning shall continue to be permitted and shall be encouraged. Accordingly, essential teaching/non-teaching staff or research scholars should continue to work from home and as far as possible, they should not be called to schools, colleges and institutions.”The District Education Officer has directed all heads of government and government aided schools to ensure continuous and smooth online teaching. Further, heads have been directed that they may call any teaching or non-teaching staff to school for any urgent work as per the requirement.On July 6, the UT Education Department had permitted faculty members, teachers, researchers, non-teaching staff working in government/government-aided privately managed colleges and institutions to work from home.However, principals of the colleges were asked to ensure that online admission process and other related activities are carried out without hindrance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-from-home-for-schoolteachers-till-july-31-110318
09-07-2020||---||SAD leaders booked for flouting norms during protest||Zirakpur, July 8The police have booked six leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on the charge of violating the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Act during a protest against the Congress government in which SAD chief Sukhbir Badal addressed the party workers yesterday.Tejinder Singh Teji, Preet, Nachattar Singh, Mandeep Singh, Phoolbag Singh and Malkiat Singh have been booked for gathering a crowd and flouting social distancing norms during the protest.Ravjot Grewal, SP (Rural), said: “No prior permission was taken by organisers to hold a protest. They have been booked under Section 188 of the IPC, besides other sections.”However, while addressing the workers yesterday, Badal said: “I had specifically asked the party workers to maintain social distancing. That is why I sat at a distance from the workers during the protest.”Badal led a statewide agitation against Capt Amarinder Singh government and demanded a cut in Value Added Tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel to bring down the sky-rocketing prices. Addressing his party workers yesterday, Badal launched a attack by targeting the Congress government for failing to distribute the ration provided by the Centre among the needy during this crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-leaders-booked-for-flouting-norms-during-protest-110319
09-07-2020||---||50 attend webinar on communication||Patiala, July 8The Press Information Bureau, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Punjabi University, organised a webinar on ‘Communication strategy of government and communication in the time of Covid-19’.Devpreet Singh, Additional Director General, North Region, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, talked about the role of effective communication to deal with misinformation during the pandemic. She focused on various aspects of communication during Covid-19.Ashish Goyal, Director, North West Region, ROB, gave a presentation on the role of various media units under the ministry and discussed various paradigm shifts in communication due to the emergence of the social media.Dr Happy Jeji, head, Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Punjabi University, said excessive information through the social media about Covid-19 is proving to be harmful and leading to fear, anxiety, social disharmony and unrest.The webinar was attended by 50 students of the department and research scholars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-attend-webinar-on-communication-110320
09-07-2020||---||Chandigarh Housing Board employee gets bail in cheating case||Chandigarh, July 8The District Court has granted bail to Surinder Kumar, an employee of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), who was arrested by the police for allegedly cheating a man of Rs22.25 lakh.The police arrested Surinder after registering an FIR on the complaint of Kuldeep Kumar Luthra, a resident of Modern Housing Complex (MHC), Mani Majra, on June 19, 2020.In his complaint to the police, Luthra alleged that Surinder took Rs22.25 lakh from him on the pretext of either sending his son abroad or getting him appointed at the CHB office. However, he failed to fulfil both promises even after receiving the payment over the past two years. Luthra said he had made the payment through cash and cheques.While granting bail to the accused, Ajit Atri, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, said it would be a matter of trial as to whether the transaction between the parties was with regard to some loan or for some other purpose. The transaction is said to have been done in 2015-2016, but the FIR was registered recently.The order further said there was no other case against the petitioner and counter allegations by the parties with regard to the nature of transaction should be a matter of trial. It would take some time for the investigation to complete and the trial to start and complete. The petitioner is in custody since June 19, 2020. No useful purpose would be served by keeping him behind the bars for indefinite period.In view of the above, the bail application of the petitioner is allowed. The petitioner is ordered to be released on bail on furnishing a bail bond in sum of Rs30,000 with one surety to the satisfaction of the Duty Magistrate.Luthra said Surinder came in his contact when he met him at the CHB office. He said the accused helped him in getting his house at the MHC transferred in his name.Luthra said when he was admitted to the PGI for brain tumor, the accused met him and assured him of all help. Later, he allegedly took the money on the pretext of either getting an appointment for his son at the CHB office or sending him abroad, but he failed to fulfil the promise. Luthra alleged when he demanded his money, the accused gave him cheques for different amounts, but those were dishonoured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-employee-gets-bail-in-cheating-case-110322
09-07-2020||---||Kuwait flight lands at city airport with 177 evacuees||Mohali, July 8Fourteenth evacuation flight from Kuwait, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 177 passengers landed at the Chandigarh international airport here today.The GoAir flight number G87309 arrived at the airport at 6.48 pm. All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines. Handling of passengers went smooth at the airport with joint efforts of authorities/agencies.The Health Department spokesman said health officials took precautions during screening and the passengers also maintained social distancing.He said no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold, etc, and all were asymptomatic for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kuwait-flight-lands-at-city-airport-with-177-evacuees-110323
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board yet to recover Rs7.5 cr dues from 15 societies||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is yet to recover dues worth Rs7.54 crore from 15 residential group housing societies in the city. The outstanding amount includes ground rent, interest accrued and land allotment dues.Notably, the CHB has to recover a whopping Rs7.50 crore from one society only. “A sum of Rs7.50 crore has to be recovered from Chandigarh Cooperative Housing Building Society, Sector 50. In 2014, the process for resuming the plot was initiated, but members of the society moved the court. The outstanding amount includes the land cost and rent accrued,” said a senior officer of the CHB.Also, oustees dues of nearly Rs1.90 crore from 11 allottees is yet to be recovered by the housing board. The oustees are land owners whose land has been acquired by the government in lieu of compensation. They are also allotted houses on subsidised rates. As many as 11 oustees have to pay an outstanding amount of Rs1.90 crore to the CHB. An oustee of Sector 49 has to pay Rs31.61 lakh, another oustee of Sector 61 to pay Rs28 lakh and two other oustees of Sector 63 have to pay Rs26.59 lakh each and an oustee of Sector 49 is yet to pay Rs24.11 lakh to the housing board. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-yet-to-recover-rs7-5-cr-dues-from-15-societies-110324
09-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Mobile firm told to pay Rs10,000||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, July 8The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has directed Vodafone to pay a compensation of Rs10,000 to a Mani Majra resident for not changing his mobile connection from postpaid to pre-paid despite repeated requests.The forum has directed the company to immediately change the mobile connection plan of the complainant, Chaman Lal. The company has been directed to pay Rs10,000 compensation to the complainant within 30 days from the date of receipt of its certified copy, failing which the awarded amount shall carry interest @ 9 per cent per annum from the date of the order till its actual payment.Complainant Chaman Lal had requested a Vodafone store at Mani Majra, Chandigarh, on December 27, 2018, and again on January 29, 2019, for change of his mobile connection plan from postpaid to pre-paid. He had cleared the outstanding dues of Rs1,710 as directed by the company in its legal notice dated May 17, 2019. Thereafter, on August 19, 2019, he again made a similar request at the store and also deposited Rs600 against a receipt dated August 19, 2019, as desired by the store. On August 27, 2019, he again requested the store to do the needful.Despite all this, Vodafone failed to accede to the requests. On the other hand, the company took a plea in their written statement that the complainant had failed to proceed with the requisite procedure for change of the plan. The forum observed that they did not find any weight in the submission of the opposite party (Vodafone) because the complainant had already made repeated requests for change of his plan from postpaid to pre-paid and also cleared the outstanding dues as demanded by the opposite party, but despite this, they failed to change his plan.The forum observed that even the opposite party had not mentioned in its reply which procedure was required to be followed by the complainant for change of his plan. The opposite party was thus deficient in providing the service.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mobile-firm-told-to-pay-rs10-000-110325
09-07-2020||---||Monitor patients giving wrong information, Health Secretary told||Chandigarh, July 8 Talking tough against patients giving wrong information, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today directed Principal Secretary (Health) Arun Gupta to look into such cases. During the review meeting, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, complained about patients from outside Chandigarh giving fake local addresses. Requesting patients to cooperate, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said false information was creating confusion in state-wise calculation of Covid-19 cases. Dr Jagat Ram said they were conducting Covid tests on patients coming from outside even when they carried Covid-negative certificates issued by other authorities.  He said they had tested 414 Covid samples, of which 12 were found positive. Six of the positive samples belonged to Chandigarh. Dr BS Chavan, Director Principal, GMCH, said they had tested 139 Covid samples, of which seven were found positive. Dr G Dewan, Director Health Services, said all asymptomatic patients and their primary contacts were being tested as per the ICMR’s guidelines. The Administrator also directed the Principal Secretary (Health) to ensure that all bio-medical waste, particularly PPE kits, were scientifically disposed of.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monitor-patients-giving-wrong-information-health-secretary-told-110326
09-07-2020||---||Perimeter control removed from 2 Bapu Dham pockets||Chandigarh, July 8 The UT Administration today removed perimeter control from all houses and lanes in pocket number 5 and 16 of Bapu Dham Colony. UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that perimeter control in the areas was removed on the recommendation of the Affected Areas Assessment Committee, as the houses had remained unaffected by Covid-19 for the past 28 days. However, regular screening and monitoring of the areas by medical teams will continue. Regular sanitisation of the areas by municipal authorities will be conducted and the residents will be advised to maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. To fight Covid-19 effectively, the colony was divided into 20 pockets. The affected pockets were declared containment zones while the remaining pockets were kept in buffer zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/perimeter-control-removed-from-2-bapu-dham-pockets-110327
09-07-2020||---||Youth arrested with stolen cellphones, two-wheelers||Mohali, July 8The police today arrested a youth for committing thefts and snatchings in the area.The suspect has been identified as Gurpreet Singh (25), a resident of Morinda in Fatehgarh Sahib.The police have recovered a scooter, a bike and two mobile phones from his possession.Gurpreet was produced in a local court on Wednesday, which sent him to two days in police remand.The Industrial Area police post in-charge, Avtar Singh, said, “Various cases of theft and snatching are registered against the suspect at police stations in Chandigarh, Kharar, Balongi and Morinda.”Gurpreet had allegedly snatched a mobile phone in the Phase 1 area a few days ago and was going to the Phase VII market on Wednesday to sell it. Following a tip-off, the police nabbed him, said Avtar Singh.A case was registered against him under Sections 379-B and 411 of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase 1 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-arrested-with-stolen-cellphones-two-wheelers-110328
09-07-2020||Chandigarh||Seller thrashes woman at veggie market, held||City college student shinesChandigarh: Sahil Kapil, a student of the Government College of Art, Chandigarh, is now the trainer of team India in the skill of painting and decorating. He is the first Indian student to represent the nation in the WorldSkills (Skill Olympic) in ‘painting and decorating’ category. He has earlier represented India in Worldskills Asia (2018) held in Abu Dhabi, followed by Global Skill Challenge (2019) in Australia. Kapil bagged a silver medal in India Skills (2018) and was honoured with the Satish Gujral Award in Annual Art Exhibition (2019). He was selected to represent India in Skill Olympics WorldSkills 2019 in Kazan, Russia. TNSStone of infra project laidMohali: Punjab Industries and Commerce Minister Sunder Sham Arora laid the foundation stone of an infrastructure development project at the industrial focal point with the assistance of the Punjab Small Industries Export Corporation (PSIEC). The infrastructure at the focal point, which comprises 201 plots and is spread over 136 acres, would see overall development at a cost of Rs16 crore. This includes various aspects such as land filling/levelling, including boundary walls, fencing, construction of concrete roads, water supply, rainwater harvesting, storm drainage, street lights with LED and upgrade of sewage treatment plant. TNSAnti-dengue drive in ZirakpurZirakpur: Health Department officials are set to begin the anti-dengue drive in which fogging will be done in and around the town. High-density areas, main market and housing societies will be fogged to stop breeding of mosquitoes. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seller-thrashes-woman-at-veggie-market-held-110338
