09-04-2020||Chandigarh||UT plans to screen entire population for symptoms of coronavirus||Leaving no stone unturned in fight against coronavirus, the UT Administration has decided to screen the entire population of the city for symptoms of coronavirus.“House-to-house screening is being attempted firstly in areas in which positive cases were received. Slowly, the whole population is endeavoured to be covered over a period of time,” said Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, UT.During the daily meeting, which was presided over by VP Singh Badnore, Administrator, UT, to review arrangements for COVID-19 prevention, Gupta stated that 55 teams have conducted door-to-door checking of 31,131 houses involving 54,354 persons in Sector 35, Sector 38, Dadu Majra and other areas to screen the residents and check whether any person is suffering from the symptoms of corona.On this, Badnore directed Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, to intensify the effort so that the entire population is covered in short time. He also directed that the testing should also be scaled up.So far, 18 positive cases have been reported from the city, out of which seven have already been discharged from the hospital.Fortunately, no positive cases have been reported for the past six days. A total of 203 patients have been sampled for coronavirus in the city and 172 have been tested negative.The administrator also directed that there should be no relaxation in implementing the curfew restrictions. He stated that a draft plan should be prepared for steps to be taken in the post-curfew period. He also desired that infection from neighbouring areas should be prevented by strict screening at border points and providing necessary sanitisation facilities in all public places.Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal stated that border points have been sealed. More than 2,000 vehicles have been seized for violation of curfew orders.The administrator also sought the opinion of PGIMER doctors and the doctors from GMSH, Sector 16, and GMCH, Sector 32, regarding steps to be taken in post-lockout stage, in matter of curfew relaxation.Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator, stated that the Government of India has directed all states and UTs to smoothen the procurement of crops from the farmers.He stated that necessary coordination was being made with the Food Corporation of India, so that there was no crowding in the Main Mandi.The adviser also clarified that as per Government of India’s instructions, all donations to the Prime Minister Care Fund should be made directly in the designated account.He further stated that some donors are sending cheques to the Deputy Commissioner, the Adviser and the Punjab Raj Bhawan directly, which should be avoided.Badnore directed the adviser to inform the public regarding the procedure of direct contribution to the PM Care Fund.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar stated that 54,422 cooked food packets have been distributed to the destitute and needy people in various parts of the city. He also stated that an amount of Rs 1,51,91,237 has already been received in the Red Cross Account for local operations.Finance Secretary AK Sinha stated that salary and wages of all employees have been released.KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, stated that adequate streamlining has been done in Sector 26 wholesale mandi and a sanitisation tunnel has been introduced to sanitise every person at the entrance.Efforts are being made to utilise the space available in Sector 39 to shift a few wholesalers there, so that there would be less crowd in the Main Mandi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-plans-to-screen-entire-population-for-symptoms-of-coronavirus-68900
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh UT admin to decide on April 14  whether or not to extend curfew||The Chandigarh Union Territory Administration will take a call on whether to extend the curfew or not on April 14 after consulting the Centre, a senior official said on Thursday.UT Adviser Manoj Parida also said the administration would also see if any relaxation can be given in case the curfew is extended beyond April 14.“The decision on whether to extend the curfew or not will be taken on April 14,” he told PTI.He said the administration would also take into account the number of novel coronavirus cases, their location and the spread before making any decision.“Being a Union Territory, we will consult the Centre before taking any decision. We will also watch what Punjab and Haryana governments decide,” Parida said.The administration would also consult medical experts before making any decision, he said.The UT administration had clamped curfew on March 23 till further orders to check the spread of COVID-19. Punjab, which had also clamped curfew, is also yet to decide whether to extend the curfew or not beyond April 14.Chandigarh has not witnessed any rise in coronavirus cases in the past few days and its total count stood at 18 with no death, the official said, adding that seven patients have been cured and discharged from hospital.The administration attributed the halt in number of fresh cases to the effective implementation of curfew restrictions and social distancing. Parida said the detection of cases at an early stage also helped in containing the rise in COVID-19 patients.With Mohali, located in Chandigarh’s periphery, becoming a novel coronavirus hotspot, the city administration has also decided to screen people at borders with thermal scanners to check the spread of infection.The administration will get 500 thermal scanners soon for screening, the UT adviser said.Mohali district has topped the COVID-19 tally in Punjab with 37 cases. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-ut-admin-to-decide-on-april-14%C2%A0-whether-or-not-to-extend-curfew-68897
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Group of youths in Panchkula colony misbehave with women health workers amid coronavirus lockdown||A group of youths in Haryana's Panchkula district misbehaved with women health workers on Thursday when they were conducting a survey to find COVID-19 suspects in a residential colony, police said.An attempt was made to woman constable inside a house by an accused as the youths misbehaved with her too, leaving her injured, police said.A team of accredited social health activists, accompanied by a few police personnel, was conducting a door-to-door survey in the colony. The survey was also aimed to ensure that all the residents of the colony received benefits of various government schemes.“When the team reached Indira Colony in Panchkula, a group of youths misbehaved with ASHA workers. When these youths started misbehaving with the health workers, our woman constable moved ahead to check and an attempt was made to drag her inside a house by an accused. The woman constable was also injured in the incident,” a senior official of the Panchkula Police told PTI over phone.Soon after the incident, police arrested four accused persons and efforts were underway to nab their accomplices.Two of the four arrested were identified as Javed and Azad, he said, adding that some accused persons already have a criminal record.A case has been registered under IPC sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant), and under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/group-of-youths-in-panchkula-colony-misbehave-with-women-health-workers-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-68866
09-04-2020||---||Another man tests coronavirus positive in Dera Bassi; Mohali now has 37 cases, highest in Punjab||Mohali, April 9With the surfacing of one more coronavirus positive case in Jawarpur village of the Dera Bassi block of Mohali district, the total tally in the village has gone up to 22. With this the tally of Mohali district has reached 37, highest in Punjab.The 64-year-old father of the panch has tested positive and admitted to the isolation ward of the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.  The first case in the village was reported on April 4 when a 42-year-old panch of the village tested positive. Since then 21 more people — 15 of his extended family — have tested positive for coronavirus.The health authorities had collected 118 samples from the village to check the community spread, and 11 samples tested positive on Wednesday. Four of them are from the panch’s family. As many as 80 samples were negative and the results of 75 samples are awaited.After the village became the new disease hotspot, the district administration has sealed it along with other villages, including Devigarh and Mehmudpur, deploying 75 cops with three PCR vehicles to ensure no movement.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said none of the 22 patients had a travel history. He said most of them were asymptomatic and detected only through testing and added that some Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed in the village, but left before anyone could get information about them.Dayalan said the panch came in contact with his factory workers, who had met the Tablighi Jamaat members, which led to spread of the virus. He said so far they had traced 142 contacts of the 37 positive patients in Mohali district, which would help in containing the spread of the virus. All 22 cases have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.The DC said, “Let me reiterate, this is because we have been doing extensive sampling – not just quarantine. For each positive contact we’ve been tracing, and testing 25-55 people. We are not hiding the numbers. We are fighting the invisible enemy and winning against the disease by making it visible through extensive testing. There is no need for panic but I will stress the need for taking all precautions as mandated by the government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-man-tests-coronavirus-positive-in-dera-bassi-mohali-now-has-37-cases-highest-in-punjab-68824
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||61-year-old man commits suicide||Social distancing goes for a tossChandigarh: The much-required social distancing went for a toss on Wednesday morning outside the community centre in Sector 49-C as scores of residents of EWS Colony reached there to get free ration. Incited by rumours that free ration was being distributed at the centre, residents of the colony rushed to the centre, defying social distancing norms at a time when the government is urging people to maintain social distance during the Covid-19 pandemic. They went back after officials clarified that no such free ration was being distributed at the centre. TNSHospital staff test negativeKharar: Five employees of Kurali-based hospital have tested negative for Covid-19. Kharar Civil Hospital SMO Dr Tarsem Singh said the hospital staff had come in contact with a resident of Chatamli village, who had tested Covid-19 positive. He said samples of all the five staff members, including doctors were sent for testing. At present, the staff has been home-quarantined. ocNGO donates 100 PPE kitsChandigarh:The Sewa Mission Charitable Committee, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), on Wednesday donated 100 PPE kits worth Rs 1 lakh to the United Resident Doctor’s Association (URDA), Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. Dr Sandeep Singh, president, and Dr Harsheel Gupta, general secretary, URDA, received the kits which have been manufactured by Himachal Pharmaceuticals. The NGO is working for poor patients who cannot afford the expenditure of their treatment. and is providing 10 days of ration to patients at PGI. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/61-year-old-man-commits-suicide-68664
09-04-2020||Jaspreet Singh||Hailing the heroes||While Covid-19 has brought all activity to a screeching halt, those battling the virus on the front line are in a constant war to hold the country together.My father is one of those policemen who have been on their toes ever since — not a day off after the lockdown was announced.During the initial days of the lockdown, my mother used to wait for him anxiously, now she is hanging in there — being hopeful and supportive altogether. Families of all those fighting the virus — healthcare workers, the police, the doctors — must be worried like mine.However, the sense of duty and serving humanity prevails above all.After a few days, my father did get a day off, but one phone call from a colleague and he was off to work. Several others have similar tales to tell, like the newspaper hawker for our house who has also been working without a day off, only that he has been extra cautious. The fact that people gave up on buying newspapers did affect his livelihood. He has been trying to convince people that newspaper printing is automated and they need not worry about virus transmission.While there is a sharp increase in misinformation and fake news on the social media, the print media has been an authentic source of knowledge.However, if it all goes south and newspapers are no longer available, several people will miss it — I can surely say this on behalf of a retired professor, an acquaintance, who cannot go a day without playing Sudoku in a newspaper.We must all hail the likes of our newspaper man, our milkman, my father and his fellows, and all those who are supporting our lives in every which way and all those who make us believe in the goodness of human beings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hailing-the-heroes-68663
09-04-2020||Alka Kashyap||A healing effect||The Pandemic may have shaken the world down to it’s roots, but it has engendered a totally different world. Apparently, with all human activity coming to a halt, the flora and fauna that received a breather from the cruel clutches of human beings. The beauty of adverse circumstances is that the bountiful nature, embedded with rich reserves, has come to the fore.As I hear varied birds sing in my house’s garden and see squirrels have a good time, I acknowledge the fact that sky and the towering green trees around my house never looked so enamouring.Hearing the news of a panther lurking in the city did unnerve me for a while. But when it was rescued and sent back to a jungle, my heart went aflutter. A beautiful animal with glistening coat and a powerful roar.The peacocks in my backyard have been a treat to watch. I learnt about monkeys invading the city. My tryst with them started when a naughty gang visited my neighborhood. One of them climbed on to my pomegranate tree and started plucking the flowers. I offered them a bunch of bananas to distract them. They happily lapped it up.The street dogs in my lane look forelorn. Not many cars to chase, perhaps. Although people are wary of their presence, but these canine friends seem to have mellowed down. A pack of half a dozen strays wait at my gate every day. Feeding them has become a new activity, something which I have never done before.It is strange how the fury of nature brings man and animals closer to each other. We start understanding each other’s pain. The lockdown makes me wonder how animals must be feeling in an enclosed zoo. The herd of deer spotted near the High Court must have enjoyed a great sense of freedom. For once they felt safe to venture into the human territory.With the sun blessing us at this time of the year, the neighbourhood is replete with radiant flowers.All my family members have been helping around the house. The task assigned to me is of watering the plants. It was a boring chore initially, but gradually I have started getting the hang of it. It was a pleasant surprise for me to discover that we had a plant bearing white fragrant flowers. I plan to take care of it as it fills my garden with a mesmerising essence in the evening.The new grass has filled up the lawn well. I am learning how to trim it so that I can keep the green cover intact.The lakes and rivers have become cleaner. Their water is sparkling and the marine life has got a big boost.I am humbled by the grace of nature and I thank God for giving me a glimpse of paradise in these hard times. I promise to do my bit in preserving my surroundings so that future generations can experience perfect happiness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-healing-effect-68662
09-04-2020||Dr SPS Grewal||Embrace  a mask||segregation, quarantine, social distancing, isolation, curfew and lockdown are the new routine words. SARS-CoV-2 is the name of the new virus and COVID-19 is the name of the disease that has shaken the world.For a moment, let’s consider the disease at an individual level and not for the country as a whole.How does one get infectedThe virus can spread through inhalation or touching hands on contaminated surfaces. When an infected person coughs, he/she throws out droplets and aerosol. Aerosol consists of particles less than 10 microns and these tend to directly affect the lungs of the person inhaling it. Droplets contain particles more than 20 microns that travel in space up to two meters. They stay in air for a shorter time and then gravity pulls them to the ground. They settle on all surfaces. When you touch a surface, your hands carry them from fomites to your face and then to your lungs. The virus can last on plastic surface up to 72 hours and on cardboard and metal for 24 hours.The prevention, therefore, should cut both the routes — through the air and the hands. It can be achieved by wearing mask and washing handsHow does a mask helpControls spread through infected individuals Mask traps virus particle on the inside of it, preventing spread through air.Limiting hand-to-face contact Mask puts a physical barrier between potentially contaminated hands and passages to lungs through mouth.Some studies have estimated a roughly fivefold protection versus no barrier alone. Czech Republic has made it mandatory to wear a mask in public areas from March 18, banning all movement outside of houses without having mouth and nose covered by a respirator, face mask or something similar.There is data enough to support it. In countries with high mask-wearing culture, such as South Korea and Czech Republic, the death toll has been pretty low while in those with lower number of mask-wearing public, such as Italy, Taiwan, USA, the death count is surging by the day.The shortage of masks or the cost of mask should not deter you. A handkerchief is an excellent substitute. Even wrapping a ‘dupatta’ around the face serves the purpose. A handkerchief may even be better than a mask as it covers a larger part of the face and restricts access for hands. Mask covers much smaller area and people repeatedly tend to touch it. Washing the handkerchief or clothe used every day with soap and water disinfects it.So, don’t go out of the house without a mask. That will be just enough to save your life and others’ too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/embrace-a-mask-68661
09-04-2020||Our CorrespondentKharar||NRI volunteers to perform last rites of Covid victims||Sucha Singh Somal, a Canada-based businessman, has come forward to perform and arrange the last rites of Covid-19 victims in the district.Somal was born in Daun Majra village and is currently settled in Canada. He said it’s disheartening to see that the family members of Covid-19 victims are hesitating from performing the last rites. It’s very sad that family members of the deceased dont show up to perform the last ritual, he rued.He also expressed his willingness to provide monetary assistance in the cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nri-volunteers-to-perform-last-rites-of-covid-victims-68659
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Class XII student prepares sanitiser at home||Ganeemat Kaur, a Class XII student of Strawberry Fields High School, is making sanitiser at home and distributing in slums. “We bought a carton of isopropyl rubbing alcohol from our local chemist. Then I took 15 cases of 250 ml water bottles. I emptied more than half of each water bottle in a bucket and added the alcohol to the solution to the water bottles, she explained.She added, "Once these sanitisers were made, I contacted an NGO and their people came home the next day to collect these cases and distributed them in slums of Nayagaon, Jagatpura and a few other local slums." — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/class-xii-student-prepares-sanitiser-at-home-68658
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Railways Ambala division starts video-consultation facility||The Ambala division of Northern Railways is ensuring supply of essential goods through its freight operations and running of special parcel trains.The S&T and Medical Department has come up with video consultation facility, which will enable Covid-19 quarantined patients to directly consult with doctors at Divisional Railway Hospital, Ambala.This has been achieved by installing android emulator on windows-based system available on laptops and personal computer of doctors who will be available at Divisional Railway Hospital.WhatsApp account createdWhatsApp Account for Covid-19 helpline number 97295-39520 has been created. Now, any person who seeks to consult a doctor can make a video call on the helpline number.Five parcel trains, 70 tripsTo provide logistics support during the 21-day national lockdown, five parcel express trains are running a total of 70 trips between New Delhi and Guwahati, Amritsar and Howrah, Delhi and JammuTawi, Kalka and Ambala and Dehradun and Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railways-ambala-division-starts-video-consultation-facility-68657
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||State Bank officials donate 600 food packets||The State Bank of India Officers’ Association (SBIOA), Panchkula Module, donated over 600 food packets to Municipal Commissioner and Labour Commissioner, Panchkula. The food packets will be distributed among the poor and daily wagers, who now could not afford food due to the lockdown due to Covid-19 outbreak, living in slum area in Saketri and Panchkula. In the past also, SBIOA, an officer organization have have actively participated in welfare activities. Harvinder Singh, Gaurav Sharma , Sudesh Vashist, Prem Pawar, Deepak Sehgal and other office bearer of the association were present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/state-bank-officials-donate-600-food-packets-68655
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab's biggest isolation  facility established at CU||Chandigarh University (CU) in association with District Administration, Mohali, has established Punjab's largest Covid-19 isolation facility under its CU-AID initiative near its campus in Gharuan. Giving details, Chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu said, "We have prepared CU-Isolation facility under the guidance of Punjab Government. It comprises of 1,000-bed quarantine facility, 200-bed medical centre, OPD for patients, protection kits including face masks patients".He said, "The facility has round-the-clock medical team comprising doctors, 50 paramedical staff and 24x7 ambulance facility to shift the patients. It has all the basic medical facilities, oxygen cylinders and other biomedical equipment. The quarantine facility can be further scaled up for 5,000 patients within a few days in case of emergency and if the requirement of administration increases".Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, the CU-isolation facility is part of the government's contingency plan to prepare isolation facilities well in advance so that in case the number of infected cases rises, the administration can take care to isolate them with quickest response time.Himanshu Jain, SDM, Kharar, inspected the isolation facility along with his team and had a look at the preparations made by the university. "We have inspected the CU-Isolation facility at Gharuan and found that every emergency facility required for the Covid-19 patients is in place which includes ICU units, medicines, PPE kits for the medical team and ambulance facility to shift the patients" said Himanshu Jain, SDM, Kharar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabs-biggest-isolation-facility-established-at-cu-68654
09-04-2020||Shashi Pal JainKharar||Migrant workers post fake video on police website||A video posted by around 30 migrant labourers of Kharar on the website of the Punjab Police turned out to be fake when a police party went to their place to serve cooked meal to them today.According to information, there are around 30 migrant labourers residing in Shivjot Enclave, Kharar. They posted a video on the website of the DGP, Punjab, that they were hungry for the past 15 days. The police officers then directed the Kharar City Police SHO Bhagwant Singh to visit these migrant laborers and arrange food for them.The SHO and other officers requested a gurdwara committee and went to the residence of these labourers and served them langar. When they looked into the rooms where they were residing, rice, flour, oil, tomatoes, etc, were lying in sufficient quantity. The police even asked them why they had posted a fake video. The laborers could not give any satisfactory reply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/migrant-workers-post-fake-video-on-police-website-68653
09-04-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib DC, SSP take stock of situation||To motivate and boost the morale of the police and civil employees working round-the-clock to enforce the curfew restrictions and providing health facilities in remote rural areas in the wake of the Covid-19 threat, Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill and SSP Amneet Kondal are jointly touring villages, especially the sealed ones, which were visited by two Jamaati women who were found positive.The DC and the SSP inspected the entry and exit check points set up by the villagers to keep off outsiders. They also interacted with the police personnel and health workers. They appreciated the police personnel, who are working round-the-clock not only to maintain strict curfew, but also keep a close watch on the unknown people entering the villages keeping in view the Jamaatis presence and helping the rural people in providing essential commodities and ration.They said they were visiting the villages to get information about the problems being faced by people and the police and civil employees. They said it had been ordered to seal all entry and exit points of all villages falling in the district to control the spread of Covid. “No one will be allowed to enter and move out of the village, except in specific situation,” they said.The administration has divided the district into sectors and a nodal officer has been appointed in every sector in rural and urban areas. In each ward of the town, three volunteers have been deputed to ensure the supply of essential commodities and medicines on the doorstep.They appealed to people to follow the guidelines of the government and maintain social distancing and remain at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-dc-ssp-take-stock-of-situation-68651
09-04-2020||Mohali||Youth held with 30-gm heroin||The STF unit of the Mohali police yesterday arrested a youth for possessing 30 gram of heroin. The suspect has been identified as Rohit Kumar (30), a resident of Pinjore, Haryana. The suspect works at HMT, Pinjore. Following a tip-off, the police set up laid a naka at the traffic lights of Aerocity near Barri village.The accused was found possessing 30-gram heroin when frisked by cops. “The suspect used to purchase the drug from a Nigerian in Dwarka, Delhi, and sell it to his customers in various parts of the district. Investigating officer Avtar Singh said a case has been registered against the accused under Sections 21, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-with-30-gm-heroin-68649
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Frontline health workers to get relief in case of mishap||The UT Administration will give compensation to the health workers in case of any unfortunate incident while dealing with the corornavirus in the city.During the daily review meeting, Finance Secretary AK Sinha stated that necessary arrangements are in place for payment of amount in case of any unfortunate incident to the frontline workers in the city.The Centre had approved insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per person for frontline health workers under the PMGK insurance scheme.Ensure virus doesn’t enter city, says GovernorPunjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, expressed his concern about the spurt in the Covid-19 positive cases from Dera Bassi. He advised officers to strictly ensure their contact tracing and quarantine so that it does not spread to the city.Presiding over the meeting, Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, expressed his concern about the spurt in the Covid-19 positive cases from Dera Bassi. He advised officers to strictly ensure their contact tracing and quarantine so that it does not spread to the city. Mohali Deputy Commissioner was also advised to be in touch and start joint containment operations.Adviser Manoj Parida stated that the officials were taking extra care to ensure that the visitors from outside do not spread infection in Chandigarh. He also stated that the Administration was preparing a detailed plan for post-lockdown stage for the city.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, stated that an integrated plan based on the guidelines issued by the Government of India was being prepared in consultation with Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services; Dr BS Chavan, Director Principal, GMCH and Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER. The Administrator complimented the Administration, which had already made contingency health management plan on similar terms, even before the Central Government finalised the guidelines.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said 54,793 cooked food packets have been distributed among the needy in different parts of the city. The Administrator advised the Deputy Commissioner to take the help of NGOs and other charitable organisations. He thanked Masjid Management Committee, Sector 45, for their contribution towards free food distribution.Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal stated that curfew was being strictly implemented in the city. The people are being warned by the police officials to wear masks in public places.Badnore appealed the people to develop the habit of wearing mask in public places and maintaining social distancing. He stated that Mumbai has followed this practice of making wearing of mask mandatory in public places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/frontline-health-workers-to-get-relief-in-case-of-mishap-68648
09-04-2020||---||50 more samples sent for testing||Panchkula, April 8Samples of 50 more persons were sent to the PGI, Chandigarh, for Covid-19 testing, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said on Wednesday.As many as 238 samples have been collected so far. Of these, 77 results are awaited. Around 280 persons have completed their quarantine period of 28 days. A total of 71 persons have been kept at isolation ward in Civil Hospital, Sector 6, and four at Command Hospital.A total of 55 people have quarantined at Nada Sahib Gurudwara and 27 at Gujjar Bhawan.410 unit-level committees formedAs many as 410 unit level committees have been formed to combat the exigency arising out of the spread of Covid-19.The committees will prepare a list of all the households in its assigning area. The needy and poor households will be identified separately and their requirement of dry ration, cooked food will be determined.The five member district committee included Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja; Municipal Corporation Commissioner Sumedha Kataria; Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa; MS Yadav, CEO, Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board and Savita Agarwal, Secretary, District Red Cross Society Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-more-samples-sent-for-testing-68647
09-04-2020||Mohali||Punjab Health Minister launches sanitisation drive in Mohali||Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu kickstarted a sanitisation drive at Phase 7, Mohali, today.The minister said the Punjab Government has taken necessary measures to curb the spread of the Covid-19. He said the district administration was taking effective steps to stop the spread of the virus ensuring to keep up the momentum.While calling the staff engaged in the sanitisation work as the “ambassadors of hygiene”, Sidhu assured that their needs regarding the safety equipment concerning masks, gloves and sanitisers, besides ensuring their regular medical checkup, would also be taken care of.Sidhu said spray machines, fire tenders, hand spray pumps are being used for carrying out the disinfection. Villages, besides the slum areas are being disinfected on priority basis, he added.Pays surprise visit toCivil Hospital, Phase VIIn view of the rising Covid-19 cases, Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today paid a surprise visit to the Civil Hospital, Phase - 6 here today to assess the ground situation.The minister took stock of the treatment being provided to the patients found positive for coronavirus, besides making an assessment of the various types of equipment and medicines and the sanitation arrangements.He also interacted with the doctors and other medical staff and ascertained their needs. He assured them that all necessary equipment and paraphernalia would be provided to them in order to enable them to continue their work with missionary zeal.Exhorting them to not panic, Sidhu while appreciating their selfless services said that their hard work and dedication has paid off and many patients have been cured and gone home. He also said that we need to stand together in this war against corona virus and we would defeat it.Meanwhile, an NGO Property Consultants Association, Chandigarh distributed 50 PPE Kits, 1,000 triple layer masks, 100 N95 masks apart from two thermometer guns to the Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-health-minister-launches-sanitisation-drive-in-mohali-68646
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University gets Rs 25 lakh for tech centre||The Panjab University has been selected by the Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi, as one of the nodal centres in the region for establishing the Technology Enabling Centre (TEC) at the campus.An amount of Rs 3.26 crore has been awarded for a period of five years, out of which an amount of Rs 25 lakhs has been released towards the creation of capital assets head for the purchase of equipment’s under TEC grant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-gets-rs-25-lakh-for-tech-centre-68645
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Durga Das Foundation donates Rs10L||The Durga Das Foundation has donated Rs 10 lakh to the PM Cares Fund to tackle Covid-19. The cheque was handed over to Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore. The amount includes one-day salary of all teachers and management of its Strawberry Fields Schools.Atul Khanna, director, Durga Das Foundation, said, “This is a voluntary effort which expresses solidarity to the cause, especially to strengthen efforts to feed the needy and protect salary of daily wage workers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/durga-das-foundation-donates-rs10l-68644
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mulls crisis management plan||The UT Administration is mulling over a crisis management plan in case the coronavirus (Covid-19 )cases increase in the city.As per the plan, an emergency procedure is being prepared which has to be followed by various authorities. A three-level facility for housing the patients was under consideration.Hotel Parkview, Panchayat Bhawan and other bhawans could be used for stay of patients with symptoms of the coronavirus.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed the Administration to prepare the plan in view of increase of number of coronavirus cases across the country.Health Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said medical experts were preparing a management plan for dealing with a spurt in Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mulls-crisis-management-plan-68643
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||382 rounded up for curfew violations||A total of 382 persons were rounded up by the Chandigarh Police for violating curfew orders today.The cops detained 120 vehicles and impounded 483 vehicles in different parts of the city.From March 23, a total 9,857 persons have been rounded up, 5,256 vehicles have been detained and 2,469 vehicles have been impounded. The police have booked 132 persons under Section 188 of the IPC to date. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/382-rounded-up-for-curfew-violations-68642
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Man found dead||A 62-year-old man was found unconscious at Daira and rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where he was declared brought dead.The victim has been identified as Ram Sagar, who had arrived in city from Bihar on March 20.The police said they rushed to the spot after getting information that a person was lying unconscious.The victim was rushed to the hospital and froth was coming from his mouth.A dairy owner told the cops that victim suddenly fell on the road while walking. No injury marks were visible on the body. The police have ruled out any foul play. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-68641
09-04-2020||Dera Bassi||Congress  gen secy lends a helping hand||As Covid cases in the state are on the rise, politicians across the region have come to the rescue of daily wage earners, slum-dwellers and the destitute by distributing food and other essential commodities amid the ongoing lockdown.Deepinder Singh Dhillon, general secretary, PPCC, has announced a community kitchen running from his house to feed the poor around his home. Besides, he distributed ration among around 100 families in various villages at Dera Bassi.Dhillon said, “Most of these families rely on daily wages and are lacking access to essentials since the lockdown was announced. We are providing them with items such as food, sanitisers and masks.”“The police are cooperating with us. We take all precautions to ensure social distancing so that we do not put our volunteers as well as those we are trying to help at risk,” he added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-gen-secy-lends-a-helping-hand-68640
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Hotels, liquor vends asked to pay licence fee for 45 days||The Excise and Taxation Department has asked the owners of the hotels, restaurants, clubs and liquor vends to deposit licence fee for the excise policy extended from April 1 to May 15. However, all such establishments in the city remained closed since the curfew was imposed on March 24 to prevent the spread of Covid.On March 27, the UT Administration had decided to extend all provisions of the policy for 2019-2020 for another 45 days, till May 15.Vendors were given the option to get their licences renewed for the period of 45 days from April 1 to May 15. The licence fee was payable within seven days from the date of renewal and extension of the licence.On March 6, the UT Administration had announced the new excise policy for 2020-21, which was to come into effect from April 1. But as the curfew was imposed in the city, the Administration had decided to extend the current excise policy till May 15. The Administration had also cancelled the auction of liquor shops to be held on March 23.The owner of a hotel said he received written communication from the department to pay the fee, but how could he pay the fee when the hotel was closed during the curfew. The department should waive the fee in view of the present conditions, he said and added that even other businessmen were not in a condition to pay the fee in the absence of any business activities.A senior officer of the department said they would not issue notices or impose penalties in case licence fee was not paid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hotels-liquor-vends-asked-to-pay-licence-fee-for-45-days-68639
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Deadline for submission of  thesis extended||The Advisory and Task force Committees constituted by Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University, to cope with Covid-19 scare is looking into various issues affecting students.Prof Karamjeet, Registrar, PU, said it has been decided that irrespective of the date of enrollment/ registration, all PhD scholars will be allowed to submit their PhD thesis upto June 30.The committee decided that no fine for delayed payment for mess/canteen bills of March will be taken till May 7.Hostel residents facing shortage of money can demand canteen contractor for some daily usage items aggregating to a maximum of Rs 500. Such expenditure will be taken back in canteen bills of April.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deadline-for-submission-of-thesis-extended-68638
09-04-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Now, accommodation for Panjab University security personnel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8Four days after harrowed security guards of Panjab University (PU) voiced their concerns in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, demanding basic accommodation and food from the university through Chandigarh Tribune, a much-awaited sigh of relief has come their way.In an official statement, the PU informed that it will be making suitable temporary accommodation, like hostel or guest house with food arrangement, for security personnel.Anguished by the restriction on inter-district movement, many security guards who hailed from villages near Chandigarh had made a stopgap stay-over arrangement at departments they were deployed. They had started collecting ration to make food, claiming that there weren’t any functional shops or messes on the campus. Most of them had not been allowed to enter their villages on the pretext that they might be the suspected carriers of Covid-19.“We welcome the university’s decision. I hope, we’ll soon be given a place to stay,” said a guard, on hearing the news.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-accommodation-for-panjab-university-security-personnel-68637
09-04-2020||Mohali||Show-cause notices issued to 3 schools for demanding fee||The Education Department today issued show-cause notices to three more private schools in Mohali district for demanding fee during the 21-day lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla had stated of taking stern action against schools defying orders of the government.Singla informed that Doon International School, Mohali; ATS Valley School, Dera Bassi; and Lawrence Senior Secondary School, Mohali; have been issued show-cause notices today.Earlier, The Gurukul World School, Zirakpur and Mohali; Shishu Niketan School, Mohali; Sesame Street School, Sector 114, Mohali; and Dikshant International School, Zirakpur; were served notices for demanding fee.The minister said schools should also not charge transportation fee and book expenses from students for the next academic session till the lockdown gets over.He said the Education Department had issued an order on March 23 in which all private schools in the state were asked to reschedule their admissions for 2020-21. He said schools were directed to provide window period of atleast 30 days for submission of fee after the situation gets normalised.Singla said schools have also been directed not to charge any late fee during this period.“Show-cause notices have already been issued to violators and they have been given a seven-day period to file their reply. If they fail to give satisfactory reply, we are going to cancel their affiliation or no-objection certificate (NOC),” said Singla.The minister said due to Covid-19 pandemic, parents have not been able to pay fee.He said Covid-19 outbreak has brought all businesses to a standstill and private schools should follow guidelines of the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/show-cause-notices-issued-to-3-schools-for-demanding-fee-68636
09-04-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Combating pandemic from close quarters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 8Door-to-door garbage collectors can be seen digging their bare hands into bags loaded with trash and scrounging for resalable goods at a garbage collection point near SD College, Sector-32.At noon, Surinder Kagda, president of Chandigarh’s Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Union, comes with sky-blue coloured single-sheet masks with elastic bands attached to their corners. In the other hand, he holds pink gloves made of polythene-like material—the ones used for dying hair. “This is what the Municipal Corporation has spared for us. This is how we will guard ourselves against Covid-19. There are more than 4,000 garbage collectors in the city. We still don’t have a sanitiser; the officials at Health Department ask us why do we need sanitisers? ‘Woh toh bade logo ko chahiye hotay hai (only influential ones need them) as they receive many visitors’. We are not humans for them,” Kagda says.“I have knocked numerous times at the authorities’ door. No one cares. And here we are, not backing down, picking up the waste, every day,” he adds.For now, some garbage collectors have bought their own gloves. “Our work is such—the gloves wear off and cannot be used the second time around; this I am talking about surgical gloves. So, we buy them. A folded piece of cloth around the mouth and nose is far more protective than this paper-cloth mask!” Kagda shares.He’s also sceptical of the government giving them polythene gloves, especially when polythene is banned. He lets both suspicion and anger wane. It’s the community’s health that grips his concern.“We have asked workers to keep off houses with green boards—the quarantined ones. But, we don’t know who is next. Someone whose house we go to could be tested positive; if not now, 10 days later,” he says.“Most collectors are slum-dwellers and every pandemic has a ripple effect, you can imagine the stakes here,” he explains.On an average, a garbage collector barely makes about Rs 10,000 a month. Yet, they take your waste. Their only ask: surgical gloves, sanitisers and masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/combating-pandemic-from-close-quarters-68635
09-04-2020||SD SharmaChandigarh||Classical dance maestro loves spending time with plants||Maintaining her tradition of excellence as an acclaimed classical dance maestro, an avid performer, teacher, author and art administrator, kathak guru Dr Shobha Koser (75) has completed six decades of her dignified and eventful life. Married at 17 to ML Koser, she came to Chandigarh 58 years ago when it was indeed the “City Beautiful”.Koser, who is currently the registrar of Pracheen Kala Kendra, an institute founded by her late dancer husband ML Koser, who promoted Indian classical arts with over 3,700 accredited centres in India and abroad, shared, “My passion for dance had kept me awfully busy. Now, I am concerned about the Covid pandemic, which has shattered my routine and creativity pursuits, forcing us all to confine ourselves to the four walls of our house. But since it is in national interest, we must follow the requisite rules formulated to control the deadly virus,” she observed. Koser said, “Now, instead of going for a morning walk, I spend time with my plants and take care of them. It’s really rejuvenating to be close to nature.”“As classical dance has the elements of drama, poetry, literature and visual art, I devote some time to study all these aspects of aesthetic significance. I keep reviewing and rewriting the manuscript of my new book “Abhigyan Part (II)” on classical dances for postgraduate classes. Besides, I am in the process of evolving new dance compositions. The best part is the family dance practice session in the evening.”“My heart goes out to those facing the fury of the deadly disease. I am constantly in touch with my disciples in the region and abroad to extend help to the needy, console and inspire them to display courage to fight out,” she said.“I am inspired by my young granddaughter, Dr Chahat Puri, who is taking pride in treating Covid patients in the US while working 12 hours a day. She calls me up almost every day and keeps me updated on Covid,” Koser said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/classical-dance-maestro-loves-spending-time-with-plants-68633
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Have masks aplenty, say Chandigarh chemists||There is no shortage of masks in the city.The UT Administration had yesterday made it mandatory for people to wear a mask or cover the face with a piece of cloth in public places to check the spread of Covid.Amarjit Singh, president of the Chemists’ Association, said, “The Administration brought into our notice that masks have been made compulsory at public places. We were asked to report the shortage of masks, if any. We have plenty of masks available with us and also with the suppliers.”Pardeep Chaudhary, a city resident, had raised a concern with UT Adviser Manoj Parida on Twitter. He wrote, “If possible, kindly issue directions for distribution of masks to the people of Chandigarh at viable rates through Sampark centres or any other authority.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/have-masks-aplenty-say-chandigarh-chemists-68632
09-04-2020||---||Chargesheet filed against woman’s friend||Chandigarh, April 8The UT police today filed a chargesheet against Maninder Singh, who is accused of murdering his female friend at a hotel in the Industrial Area, Phase II.The police said the charges were framed under Sections 302, 303, 420, 468 and 471 of the IPC. The chargesheet runs into nearly 2,000 pages with 50 witnesses and 100 statements.The police have also added Section 303 (punishment for murder by life convict — whoever, being under sentence of imprisonment for life, commits murder, shall be punished with death) of the IPC.Sarabjit Kaur, a resident of Kakra village in Sangrur, had checked into Hotel Sky with Maninder Singh on December 30. She was found murdered in room number 301 on the afternoon of January 1. On January 14, Maninder reached the office of a news channel and confessed on camera that he had murdered his friend since she was cheating on him. He said he wanted to marry Sarabjit and her brothers were against the inter-caste marriage following which they had decided to go for a court marriage. On the day of the incident, the duo reportedly had an altercation following which the suspect first strangled her and later slit her neck with a knife. Maninder is already a murder convict and was out on bail.He had stabbed a girl with whom he was in a relationship at Karna Lake in Karnal in 2010.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chargesheet-filed-against-womans-friend-68631
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Sanitisation tunnel opened at Sec 26  mandi||A sanitisation tunnel, along with handwash stations and drier, was today set up at the vegetable and fruit market in Sector 26. UT Adviser Manoj Parida inaugurated the tunnel. He was accompanied by MC Commissioner KK Yadav and Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar.Similar tunnels will be set up in other crowded places, including the GMCH-32 and the GMSH- 16.It is a comprehensive “Fight Covid station” having facilities of thermal screening by taking temperature, pedestal operated handwash and soap dispenser, mist spray of sodium hypochlorite solution and hand drier. Everybody visiting the mandi will have to pass through the tunnel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitisation-tunnel-opened-at-sec-26-mandi-68630
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two posing as scribes held with 100-gm heroin||Two youths impersonating as reporters were nabbed during checking at the Chandigarh-Zirakpur barrier with 100 gm of heroin.Sub-Inspector Gurjivan Singh was on duty when a Tata Tiago car was stopped at the barrier. The two youths, Monu, alias Munna, and Uttam, residents of Sector 52 and both aged 19, claimed that they were journalists working with a news channel.They produced ID cards of the channel and claimed that they were returning from Sector 9, Panchkula, after dropping their friend, who was sick.The police said the ID cards were found to be fake. The police then conducted a search and seized 50 gm of heroin from each of them.The police said the suspects had procured fake ID cards to move around the city during the lockdown. The suspects revealed that the car was owned by Uttam’s brother and they had gone to Ambala to purchase heroin.“Vikram, a resident of Sector 52, gave them reference of a drug peddler in Ambala, who met them near the bus stand,” said a police official. On verifying their antecedents, the police found that two cases — one of dacoity and the other under the Excise Act — were registered against Monu at the Sector 36 police station. Monu is a labourer, while Uttam works with a catering firm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-posing-as-scribes-held-with-100-gm-heroin-68629
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh warns of HCQ side effects||The UT Health Department has issued an advisory warning the city residents about the side effects of consuming hydroxychloroquine (HCQ).The warning, which comes after the demand for the drug soared in the city, reads, “It is brought out for information of all that it is not recommended to consume HCQ drug by public for prevention of coronavirus infection. HCQ is a derivative of anti-malarial drug.”The department has clarified that the drug had no role in prevention of Covid infection.The department stated, “If at all it has any role, it is in Covid patients where it may enhance the response to supportive treatment though there is no sufficient evidence to substantiate it. In fact the drug has serious side effects on the heart. At the moment, the drug cannot be recommended to be consumed by public for prevention of Covid infection.”The PGI Director, Dr Jagat Ram, said if people started hoarding HCQ at their homes, it would create a shortage of the malaria drug required for Covid patients with mild disease and frontline health workers.A senior doctor, wishing anonymity, said, “The drug is not given to children below 15 years of age. The drug can create problems for elderly. It has also bad effect on eyes.” At present, the department had 1 lakh HCQ tablets in its stock.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-warns-of-hcq-side-effects-68628
09-04-2020||Chandigarh||Virus can transmit into city post-lockdown: Experts||As Chandigarh completed 14 days of lockdown on Tuesday, there has been a decline in the progression rate of Covid cases in the city.Currently, there are 11 Covid patients getting treatment at the PGI and seven have been discharged after recovery.Borders should not be opened: PGI headThe borders should not be opened as cases in the adjoining states are on the rise. This calls for strict border restrictions, except for emergency services, even after April 14 when the lockdown ends.— Dr Jagat Ram, PGI DirectorEven as the lockdown period is going to be over after April 14, questions are being raised whether the curfew should be extended or not. Experts fear transmission of the virus in Chandigarh from adjoining districts post-lockdown due to the free movement of people in the tricity.Seven new Covid cases were reported from Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi in Mohali district on Tuesday and four cases surfaced today. It has now become the new hotspot for Covid, taking the count in the district to 30.The PGI Director, Dr Jagat Ram, said, “The borders should not be opened as cases in the adjoining states are on the rise. This calls for strict border restrictions, except for emergency services, even after April 14 when the lockdown ends.”Prof JS Thakur of the Community Medicine of School of Public Health said, “The situation is still tense in adjoining districts of Mohali and Panchkula. Chandigarh cannot work in isolation as there is a lot of movement from Panchkula and Mohali to Chandigarh. Next five days will play a crucial role in arriving at a decision.”Curfew was clamped in the city on March 23 when it had already seen seven Covid cases. These cases were reported between March 18 and 23, which was the pre-lockdown period.The city reported its first case on March 18, followed by four more cases on March 19. The sixth case was reported on March 21 and the seventh on March 22. Just when the city started heaving a sigh of relief as no cases were reported for three days, the eighth case was reported on March 26. Seven more cases were reported on March 30, followed by a case each on April 1 and 2. Meanwhile, over 90 per cent of the samples tested have negative in the UT. There has been no new case reported after April 2 in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virus-can-transmit-into-city-post-lockdown-experts-68627
09-04-2020||A CorrespondentMohali||Four more from Dera Bassi village test +ve, district count 30||The district reported four more Covid positive cases today, all from Jawaharpur village near Dera Bassi, which earlier had 11 patients.With the new cases, the total number of positive cases in the district has reached 30. Half of the cases are from Jawaharpur, which has already been declared a Covid hotspot in the district.All new patients are above the age of 50 and include another panch of the village. All of them were admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, today. They were already isolated in their houses after the Health Department sealed the entire village after declaring it a containment area.The Civil Surgeon said 138 samples were taken yesterday, of which, 118 were collected from Jawaharpur. The reports of 84 samples taken from Jawaharpur were received today. While four of the samples tested positive 80 were found negative for the virus.The reports of 75 samples taken from various parts of the district are awaited.Meanwhile, a 24-year-old woman, who was admitted to the Civil Hospital on March 18, completely recovered from the deadly Covid and was discharged from the hospital today. The woman is the fifth patient in the district to have recovered from the disease so far.She was admitted to the hospital after she had developed some symptoms of the disease as she had come in contact with the first patient of the tricity, a resident of Sector 21 in Chandigarh who had returned from the UK.Dr Rajindra Bhooshan, who headed the team treating the patient, said she was responding to the treatment well and remained in high spirits and never showed fear, stress or panic. Bhooshan added that she had been advised to remain indoors for 14 days at her house. Before leaving the hospital, the woman thanked doctors, nurses and other staff. She said they took good care of her and always encouraged her.Others discharged from the district are two elderly sisters living in Phase 3A, an old woman from Sector 68 and a 42-year-old man.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-from-dera-bassi-village-test-ve-district-count-30-68569
09-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||With 30 cases, Mohali worst hit in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 8With four fresh cases today, Mohali tops the list of Covid-affected districts in the state with as many as 30 reporting positive till Wednesday evening. The first case was reported on March 21.Till date, as many as 626 samples from the district have been sent for tests of which 30 have turned out to be positive. Test reports of 75 samples are awaited. As many as 15 cases have been reported from Jawaharpur village in Dera Bassi block of the district.Till date, one person, a resident of Nayagaon village in Kharar subdivision, has died at the PGI, Chandigarh. As his family is under isolation, no relative or family friends in the village had come forward to perform his last rites. He was cremated by officials of the district administration.The Tablighi Jamaat incident is the main factor behind the spread of Covid in the village as a foreman working in a factory had come in contact with the 43-year-old panch of the village. The foreman, who had attended the congregation in Delhi, had met five to six labourers working at the tent house owned by the panch. Three more members of the Jammat had visited the congregation in Delhi and two of them had tested positive. Later, the son of one of the members had also tested positive.Two sisters, aged 74 years and 69 years, who were en route to Kartarpur Sahib for pilgrimage from London, had also tested positive. Till date, five persons have been cured of the disease and discharged from various hospitals.As only two ventilators were available at the Civil Hospital, Mohali, the health authorities have allied with private hospitals, including Fortis and Max, for setting up isolation wards. At present, 50 ventilators are available in the district.The district administration had set up a special isolation ward with 300 beds. The administration, in association with Chandigarh University, has also set up 1,000-bed isolation facility at the university complex as part of the state government’s contingency plan to prepare isolation facilities well in advance so that in case the number of infected cases rises, the administration can quarantine them quickly.Jamaat factorThe Tablighi Jamaat incident is the main factor behind the spread of Covid in Jawaharpur village as a foreman working in a factory had come in contact with a 43-year-old panch of the village. The foreman, who had attended the congregation in Delhi, had met five to six labourers working at the tent house owned by the panch. Three more members of the Jammat had attended the congregation in Delhi and two of them had tested positive.Five dischargedTill date, five persons have been cured and discharged from various hospitals in Mohali district. As only two ventilators are available at the Civil Hospital, Mohali, the health authorities have allied with private hospitals, including Fortis and Max, for setting up isolation wards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/with-30-cases-mohali-worst-hit-in-punjab-68497
