09-08-2020||---||Dry toilet taps for 16 hours, COVID patient shoots video to highlight apathy||Panchkula, August 9A video shot by a Panchkula COVID-19 patient showing an acute water crisis at the toilet of COVID Care Centre at Sector-6 Civil Hospital was widely shared on social media.The patient, who identified himself as SK Diwan, alleged that 25 patients admitted with him couldn’t use the toilet at the COVID ward owing to no water for 16 hours.The footage begins with the patient showing dry washbasin and bathroom taps.He also alleged the toilets were not clean and are in bad condition.In another selfie video, the patient claimed they had appraised the ward in-charge of the matter, who told him they had raised the issue with higher authorities, but to no avail.He said he had submitted a complaint with Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta but nothing had been done.“We (patients) can neither use the toilet due to the prevailing condition nor we can step outside. Hence, I appeal administration to look into the matter,” added the patient in a desperate voice.When contacted, CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur said the matter had been resolved.The Tribune had earlier highlighted negligence of patients admitted at BRS Dental College in Barwala, a dedicated COVID Care Centre in Panchkula, who had been forced to clean wards due to inadequate housekeeping staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dry-toilet-taps-for-16-hours-covid-patient-shoots-video-to-highlight-apathy-124302
09-08-2020||---||45 fresh Covid-19 cases surface in Mohali district||Mohali, August 9The Covid-19 tally crossed the 1,300-mark with the surfacing of 45 fresh cases in Mohali district on Sunday.With this, 320 cases (around 25 pc) out of the total 1,309 cases have surfaced during the last five days.The persons infected with the virus included 72-year-old male of Sector 91, 60-year-old male, 60-year-old female of Mullanpur, 28-year-old female of Mubarikpur, two females aged 5, 3 and two males aged 32, 16, of Sector 127; 47-year-old female of Kurali, 44-year-old female of Banur, 63-year-old female and two males aged 63, 42 of Zirakpur, 20-year-old female of Baltana, 62-year-old female of Chandiala, three males aged 40, 33, 39 of Sector 71; 52-year-old male and 29-year-old female of Mohali, 45-year-old male of Sector 79; 39-year-old male of Sector 68; 51-year-old female of Bajheri, 45-year-old male of Kumbra, two males aged 32, 31 and female aged 18 of Kharar, 64-year-old male of Phase 2; 27-year-old male of Phase 7; 62-year-old male of Desumajra; 21-year-old male of Banmajra, 38-year-old male of Mirpur, 52-year-old male of Saidpur, 26-year-old male of Balongi, two males aged 64, 54 of Phase 1; 63-year-old female of Sector 63, three males aged 35, 53, 25 of Nayagaon, 11-year-old male and 35-year-old female of Sector 65; 37-year-old male of Phase 4; 31-year-old male of Tangori and 40-year-old male of SBP Homes, Mohali.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all the patients have been isolated and teams have been deputed to take the samples of the family members and to trace the contacts. He said 20 positive patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital.As of now, there are 1309 positive cases out of which 694 have been discharged. There are 596 active aces with three deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/45-fresh-covid-19-cases-surface-in-mohali-district-124301
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||In biggest single day spike, Chandigarh sees 89 new COVID-19 cases; total rises to 1,515||Chandigarh on Sunday recorded its biggest single day spike of 89 cases taking the total tally to 1,515 and reported one death due to COVID-19.A 32-year-old woman, resident of Sector 32, passed away at her house on August 7. She was a known case of heart disease and was suffering from jaundice and ascites also. She was sampled after her demise for COVID-19 and has been reported as positive.The total number of active cases in the city is 585 while 904 patients have been cured till date.As many as 32 patients were discharged after recovery from the coronavirus on Sunday.The death toll in the city has risen to 25. The total number of samples tested in the city is 18,434.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-biggest-single-day-spike-chandigarh-sees-89-new-covid-19-cases-total-rises-to-1-515-124290
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Principal Secy to Chandigarh Administrator tests positive for coronavirus||The Principal Secretary to Chandigarh Administrator tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. He has been home quarantined.After JM Balamurugan tested positive, a Government Multi Specialty Hospital-16 (GMSH-16) tested staff at Punjab Bhawan for the contagion.The Punjab Governor and Administrator, UT, Chandigarh V.P. Singh Badnore has tested negative.According to the official spokesperson of Punjab Raj Bhawan, a two-day Covid testing exercise with Rapid Antigen Test was carried out at Raj Bhawan in which total 336 persons including security personnel, officers and staff members were tested for Covid-19. Besides Balamurugan, four others were found to be asymptomatic positive.All precautions, including sanitisation of the entire Raj Bhawan and safeguarding the official premises, have been taken as per the health advisories, protocol and doctors' advice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/principal-secy-to-chandigarh-administrator-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-124220
09-08-2020||---||Dhabas in Mohali district under Excise Dept lens||Tribune News Service   Mohali, August 8 In order to keep a close vigil over pilferage of spirit/ENA from tankers, the Excise Department has initiated a drive to stop such illegal activities in the district. Joint teams of the Excise and Police Departments are making surprise checks at dhabas in Banur, Zirakpur and Dera Bassi.  The Mohali Deputy Commissioner (DC), Girish Dayalan said, “‘Manufacturing illicit liquor or ‘lahan’ is not the main problem in the district, but smuggling and pilferage of illicit spirit and extra neutral alcohol (ENA), the primary raw material for making alcoholic beverages, is a menace that needs to be curbed.” “We held a meeting with owners of distilleries and bottling plants and have directed them to follow excise laws, failing which stern action will be taken against them,” the DC added. “The teams have managed to recover large quantity of ENA and succeeded in arresting some major players in the past,” the DC informed. “As many as 117 cases have been registered under the Excise Act and 131 accused arrested in seven months. Illicit spirit/ENA to the tune of 72,700 litres has been seized in less than 12 months,” the DC added. Pertinently, the Excise Department detected a big cache of 5,500 litres of spirit/ENA at Devi Nagar village in Dera Bassi in July. In this case, Rajesh Kumar, alias Bobby, along with his two accomplices was nabbed for possessing large quantity of spirit/ENA without any licence. In May, a history-sheeter liquor smuggler was caught and more than 50,000 litres of ENA was seized from his two tankers parked in Zirakpur. Lead came from Kumar Vaishnu Dhaba and recovery was made at Guru Nanak Dharam Kanda in Zirakpur. Similarly, 15 drums of ENA (3,000 litres) were seized from Apna Dhaba in April. Seventy one drums of the ENA (14,200 litres) were confiscated, whose lead came from Patiala Dhaba, Green Vaishnu Dhaba and Jhilmil Dhaba in Banur in August last year. Also, in a joint raid conducted by the Excise and Police Departments at a house in Kheri village in July, Dera Bassi tehsil, 119 bottles of country liquor for sale in Haryana, 95 empty plastic bottles, 31,000 duplicate holograms, 900 caps of Royal Stag, 800 caps of PML, 415 labels of Chadha Sugars, Kiri Afgana, and one pressure pump were seized and FIR registered in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhabas-in-mohali-district-under-excise-dept-lens-124053
09-08-2020||---||Daily wagers in Pipliwala town containment zone seek relief||Chandigarh, August 8Tenants of three houses at the Pipliwala town containment zone in Mani Majra have sought relief from the UT Administration. In a letter to the Adviser, they stated nearly 40 to 50 families were residing in house numbers 320, 321and 327, out of which 95 per cent were daily wagers, who helplessly depend on their daily wages to feed their families.A positive case was diagnosed and confirmed last week in the area, they added. During a period of time the rest of the four members of the family also contracted the virus, they said, while adding that due to those five positive cases the lane was declared containment zone on Monday and they were confined to their respective houses.Before the announcement of the containment zone, they were assured help and support from the authorities, which turned out to be mere empty words without action, they alleged.“We are asked to purchase essentials with our own money. If we don’t work then how can we think of purchasing our household items? Moreover, most of us live on rent. We have already suffered a lot during the last three months of the lockdown. Many of us have lost work. We got relief last month and started working again. Unfortunately, we have been hit by such crisis as this that we are paying for someone’s mistake,” they said.They requested the authorities concerned to shift the affected family to any nearby quarantine centre and provide relief to them by letting them go out and earn their daily bread and butter so that they do not suffer and starve.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/daily-wagers-in-pipliwala-town-containment-zone-seek-relief-124055
09-08-2020||
||New cattle pound at Raipur Kalan to take 3 months for completion||Chandigarh, August 8 While the construction work of the animal birth-control (ABC) centre, which will house a cattle pound and a dog care shelter in Raipur Kalan, will take about three more months, but city’s ‘gaushalas’ and cattle pounds are already packed to capacity. The Municipal Corporation (MC) catches around 150 to 200 stray animals every month and sends them to ‘gaushalas’ and cattle pounds. All cattle pounds are overcrowded. Some house cattle double to their capacity. “We are not sending stray animals to the Sector 45 ‘gaushala’ as it already has accommodated cattle double its capacity. We are now sending cattle to Maloya ‘gaushala’. Though it is also full, we have to adjust cattle as there is no other option. Things will improve once our new cattle pound is ready,” said a senior official concerned. The Raipur Kalan catte pound will have an initial capacity to accommodate 1,000 stray cattle, which can be raised in future. “After the facility comes up, we will be able to form a chain as more cattle will go there and many will also attain their age with time,” the official added. According to the MC, the Sector 45 ‘gaushala’ has 1,000 cows against its capacity of 500 to 600. Two cattle pounds in Industrial Area, Phase 1, too, have 1,200 cattle, which is double their capacity. The Maloya ‘gaushala’, which can accommodate 500 to 550 stray animals, house 600 heads of cattle. Even the Sector 25 ‘gaushala’ has 400 heads of cattle, which is also more than what it can actually handle. “Stray cattle is a serious problem in the tricity. After cows stop giving milk, most owners abandon them. Owners are not able to rear such cow, which costs Rs 100 per day,” said officials concerned.  “Most cows stray on roads leading to accidents. Oxen are also abandoned. It poses a challenge for the Corporation to manage stray animals,” officials added. Municipal Commissioner KK Yadav said, “The new cattle pound will be ready in two to three months. Such issues will be taken care of.” In October last year, UT Adviser Manoj Parida had laid the foundation stone of the new cattle pound project. It will also have hospital, laboratory, kitchen, parking area and a dormitory for workers. The deadline for the completion of this project is one year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-cattle-pound-at-raipur-kalan-to-take-3-months-for-completion-124056
09-08-2020||
||Maj Shankla remembered||Chandigarh, August 8 Tributes were paid to Major Sandeep Shankla of 18 Dogra to mark his 29th martyrdom day at his memorial in Panckhula today. He was decorated posthumously with the highest peacetime gallantry award, the Ashok Chakra. Keeping in view the Covid-19 protocols, a small group comprising Maj Shankla’s family members, including his father Lt-Col JS Kanwar (retd), and a few ex-servicemen assembled at the memorial in his remembrance. An officer from the Dogra Regiment and an officer from the Rajya Sainik Board were also present on the occasion. On August 8, 1991, during a counter-terrorist operation in Jafarkhani village in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir, Maj Shankla had made the supreme sacrifice while leading a daring raid that had resulted in the elimination of nine terrorists and the apprehension of 22 others. The sector 1-2-5-6 roundabout in Panchkula, where the memorial is located, has recently been named by the local administration as the Major Sandeep Shankla Chowk in his honour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maj-shankla-remembered-124057
09-08-2020||Panchkula||Deputy Commissioner reviews arrangements for I-Day in Panchkula||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will hoist the National Flag at the Parade Ground in Sector 5 here with Covid-19 safety measures in place. The Panchkula Deputy Commissioner, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, presided over a meeting to review arrangements for the Independence Day function.“Only five platoons will participate in the event. It will be mandatory for every participant to wear mask and follow social distancing rules,” Ahuja said.Ahuja instructed officials concerned to ensure hygiene and sanitation in and around the venue. “The rehearsal for the main event of the Independence Day will be held on August 10 and 12. Final rehearsal will be conducted on August 13. Other facilities like security, parking and live telecast of the event will also be ensured,” Ahuja told officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deputy-commissioner-reviews-arrangements-for-i-day-in-panchkula-124059
09-08-2020||
||MUN begins at Strawberry Fields High School||Chandigarh, August 8  The two-day annual Model United Nations (MUN) Conference began at Strawberry Fields High School today.  The MUN is being attended by around 200 delegates from schools across India, including Sanskriti and Shri Ram from Delhi, Cathedral and John Cannon, Mumbai, La Martiniere College, Lucknow and the Indian High School, Dubai, among several others.  Gen VP Malik (retd) delivered the keynote address. He said, “The youth must understand that courage requires doing the right thing and taking hard decisions without fear of adverse consequences.”  General Malik participated in an interactive question and answer session with delegates. Dr Ranjana Malik also shared her own experiences of being a doctor and an Army man’s wife.  Sufi singer Sonam Kalra will perform during the closing ceremony tomorrow.  Atul Khanna, director, Durga Das Foundation, and chief mentor of the school, appreciated enthusiasm of the participants, students, teachers’ and invitees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mun-begins-at-strawberry-fields-high-school-124060
09-08-2020||
||Juvenile Home inmates clear exams||Chandigarh, August 8 As many as 24 inmates of Juvenile Home have cleared their Class X and XII examinations. The superintendent, Juvenile Home, said seven students, who appeared for their Class XII examinations through National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS), had passed. Of the seven students, five secured a first division. Seventeen students, who appeared for their Class X examination through the NIOS, had passed, the superintendent added. Of these 17 students, 11 students obtained first division and six second division, the superintendent said. Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court-cum-Chairman, Juvenile Justice Monitoring Committee, said he was satisfied with students’ performance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/juvenile-home-inmates-clear-exams-124061
09-08-2020||Mohali||Fraudster booked for duping NRI of Rs 25 lakh||The NRI wing of the Punjab Police has booked a fraudster for duping a Kuwait-based NRI of Rs 25 lakh on the pretext of selling a plot to him.The suspect, Kamaljeet Singh, was allegedly duping people through his firm, RKM Housing Ltd, in Sector 112, Kharar. He is already behind bars in other cheating cases.The victim, Gurmeet Singh of Phase 1, Mohali, who lives in Kuwait, approached the Punjab Against Corruption, Mohali, mentioning that the firm has defrauded him of Rs25 lakh.A complaint was submitted with the ADGP (NRI Wing). The complainant stated that he bought a 200-yard plot from the firm for Rs14 lakh in 2010. The company demanded Rs3 lakh more for registering the plot in his name, taking the total to Rs17 lakh. Company officials took more money from him citing various reasons.The complainant repeatedly asked the firm to register the plot, but to no avail. The company kept on changing his plot number and did not register it. Gurmeet then approached Satnam Daun, president of the Punjab Against Corruption. A case was registered against the suspect under Sections 406 and 420, IPC, at the NRI police station here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fraudster-booked-for-duping-nri-of-rs-25-lakh-124062
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Syndicate panel likely to meet tomorrow||The co-ordination committee formed by Panjab University (PU) Syndicate is likely to meet on Monday to take decision on students’ demand for reimbursement of fee for online classes and postponing the last date of submission of fee.Earlier, the meeting was expected to be held today. However, due to Covid-19 restrictions members from Punjab were unable to come at such a short notice, said sources.Meanwhile, continuing their protest, student leaders of ABVP burnt an effigy of the PU Vice Chancellor (VC). Interestingly, students are also opposing fee hike for this session, despite the fact that the Syndicate has rejected the proposal of five per cent increase earlier this year.“The Syndicate has already refused any kind of fee hike earlier this year. Those protesting are either unaware or doing it with some motive. Otherwise, the decision is approved by the Senate and the Syndicate. It’s not in the hands of any co-ordination committee,” said Navdeep Goyal, chairman, co-ordination committee.“The matter has been given a political angle ahead of the upcoming Senate elections,” the sources added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/syndicate-panel-likely-to-meet-tomorrow-124063
09-08-2020||---||Two arrested for firing near liquor vend in Panchkula||Panchkula, August 8The local police have arrested two persons in connection with a firing incident that took place near a liquor vend in the Mansa Devi Complex (MDC) area yesterday, leaving a Pinjore resident injured. A 29-year-old youth of Abullapur in Pinjore, identified as Satpal, had sustained bullet injuries on his left leg in the incident.The suspects have been identified as Subhash, a resident of Sonepat, and Kishan Kumar, a resident of Mani Majra, Chandigarh. They were produced in a local court today, which sent them to 14-day judicial custody.According to the police, the incident took place around 6:40 pm on Friday when Satpal, along with his friends Satbir, Bhupender and Prince Thakur, was returning from Mohali in a car. They stopped on the Panchkula-Mani Majra border as Satpal wanted to answer the call of nature.“When he was going behind the liquor vend, an unidentified person standing near a paan shop pointed a gun at him and fired a shot,” the police said. The shooter then fled from the spot.A case under Section 307 of the IPC and Section 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-for-firing-near-liquor-vend-in-panchkula-124064
09-08-2020||---||Hit by rashly driven car, 4 migrant workers injured||Mohali, August 8Four migrant labourers suffered serious injuries after being hit by a rashly driven car on the Airport road here late on Saturday evening.The police said the incident took place at 10.30 pm when a Delhi resident, who was under the influence of liquor, was escaping after hitting a vehicle on the Airport road. Later, he rammed his vehicle into four migrant labourers who were crossing the road.However, passers-by intercepted the vehicle on the road dividing the Industrial Area and Phase VIII.The suspect had been handed over to the police. He was taken to the Balongi police station where he had been detained. The identity of the migrants was yet to be ascertained, the police said.The police said the injured persons were shifted to the Civil Hospital in Phase V here. They were referred to the GMCH in Sector 32, Chandigarh. The car driver would be booked after recording the statements of the migrant labourers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-rashly-driven-car-4-migrant-workers-injured-124065
09-08-2020||---||J&K youth’s WhatsApp status lands him in jail||Panchkula, August 8The local police arrested a youth from Jammu and Kashmir for allegedly using a video of a Pakistani leader as his WhatsApp status and ‘disrespecting’ Indian Army.The suspect has been identified as Mohammad Kajjafi (26), a resident of Dildar village in North Kashmir’s Kupwara district. He works as a security guard at a hotel on the Morni road.He was produced in a local court today, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody.The complainant in the case, Sukhdeep Singh, a resident of Nada village, stated that the suspect allegedly posted a video of a Pakistani leader advocating Kashmir’s ‘independence’ and praising slain militant Burhan Wani.“Such acts promote enmity in the society and risk national sovereignty and integrity,” the complainant alleged.A case under Section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jk-youths-whatsapp-status-lands-him-in-jail-124068
09-08-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali gets two labs for testing Covid-19 samples||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 8Punjab Medical Education Minister Om Parkash Soni and Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu will inaugurate two laboratories set up in the district to ramp up Covid-19 testing on Monday.Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) Vice-Chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said after getting approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research, Covid testing labs were set up at Punjab Biotechnology Incubator (PBI) and Punjab Forensic Science Laboratory (PFSL). He said both labs had started functioning. The PBI and the PFSL were given 25 and 33 samples, respectively, for testing today.It is pertinent to mention here that the BFUHS has been entrusted the task of setting up Covid testing labs in Mohali as well as at Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, and Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana.Dr Raj Bahadur said each lab was set up on over 1,000 sq ft and constructed by the Punjab Engineering Department. The cost of the paraphernalia of each laboratory was more than Rs1 crore.He said each laboratory was expected to test 1,000 samples a day. He said at present, sample testing was being done at three government medical colleges located in Amritsar, Patiala and Faridkot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-gets-two-labs-for-testing-covid-19-samples-124070
09-08-2020||---||New quarantine protocol for PGI healthcare staff||Chandigarh, August 8The PGI has revised the protocol of quarantine policy for healthcare workers at the institute.As per the new protocol, healthcare workers who have symptoms such as fever, cough, breathlessness or sore throat will report at screening OPD for Covid testing and will self-isolate themselves until the test report comes.The protocol says in case the test result comes positive, workers will be isolated at the Nehru Hospital Extension or at home for 14 days. However, healthcare workers with high index of suspicion will be tested again after 72 hours.Healthcare workers, who are exposed to positive patients, will be categorised as high or low risk. While low-risk workers can continue work with normal precautions and self-monitor their symptoms and get themselves tested on the fifth day of the exposure, high-risk workers warrant quarantine with testing on the fifth and seventh day.The protocol also suggests that all healthcare workers should at least wear a surgical mask with a visor and gloves during patient care. They should have their meal and tea only in isolation during duty hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-quarantine-protocol-for-pgi-healthcare-staff-124071
09-08-2020||---||Sector 45 woman dies, 52 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 8A 60-year-old woman of Sector 45 died of Covid at the GMCH-32 on Friday, taking the UT toll to 24.The victim, who was a patient of diabetes, was admitted to the GMCH-32 on July 5 with high-levels of blood sugar.The city also witnessed 52 fresh cases of coronavirus today, raising the infection count to 1,426.The new cases have been reported from Sector 2, 3, 15, 18, 19, 21, 22, 24, 26, 27, 28, 30, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 49 and 51, Hallo Majra, Mauli Jagran, Maloya, Mani Majra, Burail, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, the PGI, and the GMCH-32.Among the new 52 cases is an employee of the Mini-Secretariat, Punjab, and four health care workers.So far, 872 patients have recovered from the deadly disease in the city. There are 529 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-45-woman-dies-52-new-cases-in-chandigarh-124073
09-08-2020||Chandigarh||Two snatchers in police net||Met forecasts rain for 3 daysChandigarh: The local branch of the Meteorological Department has issued a forecast of rain for the next three days. The maximum temperature is expected to remain between 32°C and 34°C. TNSDrug peddler arrestedChandigarh: The UT police arrested a drug peddler on Friday. The suspect has been identified as Sanjeet Kumar (34), a resident of Bihar. A police party saw a person coming on foot and carrying a white plastic bag in the Mauli Jagran police station area. He tried to run away on seeing the cops, but was apprehended. During checking, 10 kg of a banned drug and 100 gm of ganja were recovered from him. TNs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-snatchers-in-police-net-124077
09-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali sees tricity’s biggest single-day spike, 95 test +ve||Covid-19 claimed yet another life in the district today, raising the toll to 19.The victim, a 62-year-old man of Sector 68, was suffering from diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur some days ago. His condition had been critical and he was put on a ventilator on Friday night. The man succumbed to the virus this morning.Meanwhile, the district witnessed a highest spike of 95 cases of coronavirus today. The number of infections has now jumped to 1,264.This is the highest single-day spike in the tricity till date. Panchkula reported its biggest single-day spike of 62 cases today while Chandigarh had reported it on August 5 when 64 cases had surfaced in the city. Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said LIC Colony in Mundi Kharar and Sector 115 were declared micro-containment zones as more than five cases each surfaced from these areas.He said most cases reported today surfaced in Mohali city, Kharar, Dera Bassi, Zirakpur, Nayagaon and Lalru.He said all new patients were contacts of Covid patients. Zirakpur reported 24 new cases today, Mohali city 20 and Kharar and Dera Bassi 12 each. Ten cases were reported from Kurali, four from Lalru and one each from Sultanpur, Banur, Dappar, Manana, Saneta, Nayagaon, Daun, Saidpura, Bhagwanpura, Bhagomajra, Sohana and Mataur villages.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said considering the continuous surge in Covid cases in the district, the Mohali administration has put ‘Covid Spike Management Plan’ into action. “Learning from the worldwide pandemic spread, we expected the cases to surge at any given point of time. So, we prepared a spike management plan and made it operative now,” he added.As many as 26 patients recovered from the disease and were discharged from the hospital today. The number of recoveries rose to 674 today while there are 571 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-tricitys-biggest-single-day-spike-95-test-ve-124078
09-08-2020||---||Kharar youth held with banned pills||Mohali, August 8Sleuths of the Special Task Force (STF) unit of the Mohali police arrested a youth with 2,400 tablets of Lomotil on Friday.The suspect has been identified as Lakhvir Singh (24), a resident of SBP Homes, Kurali road, Kharar. He was produced in a local court today, which sent him to three-day police custody.Lakhvir was nabbed at a naka near SBP Homes while he was riding a Bullet motorcycle. On checking, the police recovered 60 packages containing 2,400 tablets from him. The suspect was arrested on the spot and the bike was impounded.Sub-Inspector Avtar Singh said, “The quantity of tablets recovered falls under commercial category. We will interrogate him to find the source of these tablets. The investigation has started.”A case has been registered against Lakhvir Singh under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the STF police station in Phase 4 here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-youth-held-with-banned-pills-124079
09-08-2020||Naina Mishra||Now, PGI to assess antibody response of Oxford vaccine||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 8The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has been officially communicated to assess the immunogenicity of Covishield, the potential vaccine developed by Oxford University, along with its safety in the clinical trials that will begin soon.Immunogenicity of the vaccine is checked in two ways – T-cell response and antibody response provoked in the human body after administering the vaccine.Antibodies play an important role in immune response to viruses. This study will assess both quantity and quality of antibodies found in blood samples of participants. The quality of antibodies is its ability to neutralise virus so that it cannot infect cells when initially contracted. T cells play an important role in the immune response to viral infections. Some T cells are responsible for killing viruses inside the infected cells.Dr Madhu Gupta, Professor, School of Public Health, PGI, said: “We have been asked to check the formation of antibodies along with safety. We are going to check whether the participant will be best suited for a safety trial group or immunogenicity group. The ICMR will communicate us the number of participants to be enrolled each for two different groups.”Dr Gupta said: “Antibody levels of the volunteer will be checked before administering the vaccine and increase of the antibodies thereafter. Increase in antibodies should be up to the mark. The desired level of antibodies found in the volunteer will be an indicator that sufficient protection against the virus is there in the body.”“Protection against the virus is also through cell-mediated antibody (T cell). We will assess the same in the trial as well,” said Gupta.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, confirmed that out of 1,600 volunteers across 17 sites, 1,200 will be listed in the safety group and 400 in the immunogenicity group. “A communication to begin immunogenicity and the safety of the vaccine was received two days ago," he said.Earlier, the PGI had given consent to the Drugs Controller General of India for conducting trials at the institute. The PGI is among the 17 trial sites for conducting the second and third phases of human clinical trials of Covishield.Immunogenicity check Immunogenicity of thevaccine is checked in two ways — T-cell response and antibody response provoked in the human body after the vaccine is administered||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-pgi-to-assess-antibody-response-of-oxford-vaccine-124081
09-08-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Hostel at Sports Complex in Sector 42 now quarantine centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 8The UT Administration has converted the hostel at the Sector 42 Sports Complex into a Covid-19 quarantine centre.Trainees of the state-run football, hockey and cricket residential academies reside at the hostel. However, due to closure of these academies, the hostel was lying vacant.The hostel has nearly 24 rooms and six persons can be accommodated in each room. The hostel houses a hi-tech gymnasium hall for players and general public, which will remain shut as a precautionary measure till further orders.Trainees of certain sports currently practise at different coaching centres running from the complex. They have been advised against going close to the centre.Sources said over 100 people had already been quarantined at the centre.“It is just a quarantine centre. No one is allowed to enter or leave without permission. No one at this centre is Covid positive or even asymptomatic or under recovery. These people are those who don’t have a facility to isolate themselves after coming into contact with a suspected or a confirmed case. Tests are conducted regularly and there is nothing to worry about,” said Satish Jain, SDM (South).Meanwhile, the UT Sports Department has issued a circular wherein coaches and players have been asked to avoid going near the hostel. “We have to fight the pandemic collectively. The department is under the UT Administration and we are abiding by its orders. The only facility at the hostel, the gymnasium hall, will be shut for all till further orders. There are only a few coaching centres being run these days. Players can easily avoid going there,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, UT.A sports official said persons quarantined here use the facilities, including bedding, which were for players below 15 years of age. “The academies are not open yet. But if trainees come to know about it, they will surely hesitate to come here,” said the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hostel-at-sports-complex-in-sector-42-now-quarantine-centre-124082
09-08-2020||---||62 fresh cases, Panchkula’s highest one-day jump||Panchkula, August 8Sixty-two persons, including 17 ITBP personnel, tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district tally to 907.The infected ITBP personnel are aged between 25 and 35. Eight men and a woman from Pinjore were also diagnosed with Covid-19.Eight persons each from Sector 20 and Raipur Rani and two each from Abhaypur, Sector 12-A, Sector 15 and Sector 25 were found infected.One each from Sector 2; Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 4; Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5; Sector 8; Kalka; Sector 16; Saketri; Sector 4; Khangesara; Hangola; Rajiv Colony in Sector 17; and Sector 20 contracted the infection.Seven persons from outside the district also tested positive for coronavirus. However, they won’t be added to Panchkula tally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/62-fresh-cases-panchkulas-highest-one-day-jump-124083
