09-06-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Despite lockdown, Ambala division of railways earns more revenue in April, May||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 6Despite lockdown, the revenue earned by the Ambala division of Northern Railways jumped by 19.46 per cent in April and May this year when compared to the same period in 2019 — primarily because of a 76.91 per cent rise in freight earnings.While revenue in the two months was Rs 414.55 crore in 2019, the figure is 495.21 crore this year.Cashing in on possibilitiesWhen the division’s passenger earnings plummeted in May, it cashed in on freight. Last May, the division earned a total revenue of Rs 203.46 crore, while this year in May, it earned Rs 245.08 crore, showing a 20 per cent rise.The halt on passenger services during the lockdown accounted for 84 per cent fall in the division’s revenue generated through passenger trains. While this year, in May, Ambala division earned Rs 9.74 crore through passenger services, its last year’s passenger earnings during the same month were Rs 61.14 crore.By revving up its goods services, mainly to transport and maintain the supply of essential items across the country during lockdown, the division saw a rise of 80.5 per cent in freight revenue this year in May as compared to the freight earnings of the same period last year.The goods trains brought in revenue worth Rs 235.23 crore in May this year, while last year, in the same month, it earned Rs 130.3 crore. The division’s sundry earnings rose by 100 per cent with it making Rs 5.94 crore this year in May.“Since lockdown, the Ambala division is at the forefront in supplying the food grains to states,” stated the division’s official spokesperson.Its other coaching earnings decreased from Rs 6 crore to 11 lakh this month, in comparison with the same period last year. The division could not make sundry earnings in the May this year at all. Last year, its sundry earnings stood at Rs 5.94 crore in May.Earnings this financial yearIn the first two months of financial year 2020-21, which is April and May, the division earned Rs 488.86 crore through freight. Last year, during the same period, it had earned Rs 276 crore. The passenger earnings of the division during this period fell by 95 per cent, with it earning Rs 4.8 crore this year in April and May, while the sum of the two months last year was Rs 118.1 crore.DRM GM Singh said, “The division has been working round the clock to ensure unloading and loading at terminals, despite the shortage of labour, trucks and restriction on movements by making close liaison with state authorities and concerned parties engaged in loading and unloading.”From Rs 12.1 crore, the other coach earnings of the division during April and May decreased to Rs 26 lakh this year, while the sundry earning dipped by 83.6 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-lockdown-ambala-division-of-railways-earns-more-revenue-in-april-may-96795
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Indian Air Force inducts indigenous airborne rescue pod for critical and COVID-19 patients||The Indian Air Force has inducted an indigenously developed Airborne Rescue Pod for Isolated Transportation (ARPIT) that can be utilised for the evacuation of critical patients with infectious diseases including, COVID-19 from high altitude areas and remote places.The requirement of an air evacuation system with the facility to prevent the spread of infectious aerosol from a COVID-19 patient during air travel was felt by the IAF when COVID-19 was declared as a pandemic.The prototype was fabricated at IAF’s No.3 Base Repair Depot at Chandigarh and has undergone various modifications to make it operationally suitable.Only indigenous materials have been used to fabricate this pod, keeping in mind the government’s efforts to promote self-reliance.The indigenous system has been developed at a cost of only Rs 60,000 whereas imported systems cost up to Rs 60 lakh. The IAF is inducting a total of seven ARPITs as of now, according to a statement.It can be used in both, helicopters as well as fixed-wing aircraft.It has been developed as a lightweight isolation system from aviation certified material.It has a transparent and durable perspex chamber for enhanced patient visibility, which is larger, higher, and wider than the existing models in use.The isolation system caters to a suitable number of air exchanges, integration of medical monitoring instruments, and ventilation to an intubated patient.In addition, it generates a high and constant negative pressure within the isolation chamber to mitigate the risk of infection to aircrew, ground crew, and health care workers involved in air transportation.The ARPIT utilises High-Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) H-13 class filters and supports invasive ventilation using a transport ventilator.The design integrates life support and monitoring instruments like defibrillator with the multi-para monitor, pulse oximeter, Infusion pumps, etc, and long arm gloves for health care professionals and power pack with high endurance.Design requirements have been evolved and are based on the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers, and Centre for Disease Control, USA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/indian-air-force-inducts-indigenous-airborne-rescue-pod-for-critical-and-covid-19-patients-96736
09-06-2020||---||3 of Sector 21 family among 9 tested coronavirus positive in Panchkula||Panchkula, June 9Nine new cases of coronavirus positive surfaced in Panchkula district on Tuesday taking the tally to 44.According to authorities, two cases were reported on Monday night, while nine cases were confirmed on Tuesday morning.Four cases have been reported from Kalka, one each from Sector 17 and Sector 6, while three cases from a family were reported from Sector 21.The wife of the lawyer, a resident of Army society in Sector 20, who had tested positive after returning from Delhi, has also tested positive.Sector 12-A’s 46-year-old resident had come in contact with a coronavirus-affected person from Dhakoli in Zirakpur.All of them have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. Their family members have been home-quarantined.Health teams have started tracing the contacts of the affected people.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja announced Sector 20’s Army society, Friends Colony in Kalka and Abdulpur as containment zones while the adjoining areas have been declared buffer zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-of-sector-21-family-among-9-tested-coronavirus-positive-in-panchkula-96691
09-06-2020||---||4-yr-old son of CISF constable also tests coronavirus positive; 36 active cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 9The four-year-old son of the CISF constable was also found coronavirus positive on Tuesday.Earlier, the constable and his wife had tested positive.The family lives at Daria village here.A 28-year-old man from Manimajra was also found coronavirus positive on Tuesday. A 42-year-old man from Sector 18 also tested coronavirus positive. A 43-year-man from Sector 21 also tested positive for nCoV.A 56-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, and a 35-year-old man from Sector 16 have also reported to be positive for nCov.With this the total number of infected people in the UT till now has reached 326. As many as 285 of them have recovered. There have been five deaths.There are 36 active cases at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-yr-old-son-of-cisf-constable-also-tests-coronavirus-positive-36-active-cases-in-chandigarh-96655
09-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali mall sees thin footfall||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 8Around 3,000 persons visited the VR Punjab mall, which opened today after two and a half months due to the lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19.The VR Punjab mall, one of the biggest malls in the Kharar area of Mohali, can allow 12,500 visitors daily as per the new guidelines of the Central and the state governments. The mall has a total area of 10 lakh square yards.People visiting the mall expressed their displeasure as more than 50 per cent shops remained closed today.Surinder Singh, a resident of Phase IV, said he, along with his wife and son, went to the mall to purchase clothes for his son. Shops of some branded clothes were closed. So, they had to return after purchasing a few items.Vikas, a resident of Phase VII, who, along with his son, had visited the mall, said they were disappointed as only 50 per cent of the shops were open. They had to return without purchasing anything. Now, they had decided to visit the mall again after a week as the rest of the shops would open by then.Rishab Mehrotra, Centre Head, VR Punjab mall, said, said of the 140 shops, only 65 were open today. Other shop owners said they would open their establishments later. They can allow 12,500 visitors as per the government guidelines, but only 3,000 people visited the mall till 6 pm today. He hoped that more people would visit the mall in the coming days.Sanitiser dispensers were installed at several places. Visitors underwent thermal scanning at the entrance to the mall. They also had to show COVA and Aarogya Setu apps on their cell phones to the staff before entering the mall. The entry was based on token system, but there was no time limit for visitors’ stay in the mall. Even shopkeepers were not allowing more than 5 customers in their shops to maintain social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mall-sees-thin-footfall-96361
09-06-2020||Ambala||3 held for duping man of Rs8.15 lakh||The CIA-2 unit of Ambala has arrested three men for allegedly duping a Punjab resident of Rs 8.15 lakh on the pretext of doubling his money.The suspects have been identified as Jatinder Kumar, a resident of Ambala City, Ajay Kumar, a resident of Punjab, and Kashmir Singh, a resident of Karnal. Kashmir Singh was presently living in Ambala City.Complainant Dinesh Kumar, a truck driver, said he came in contact with Jangshir Singh, a resident of Punjab, who informed that Kashmir doubles currency notes through a dye.The complainant said he and Jangshir reached Ambala City and met Kashmir on May 29. Kashmir and his two accomplices took Rs 5.65 lakh and told that the dye was not working and asked to come back on June 1, said Dinesh. He came on June 1. This time, Kashmir took Rs 2.50 lakh and asked to come on June 6. A case was registered under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC.Sandeep Singh, in-charge, CIA-2, said: “Three persons have been arrested. They were produced before a court. Kashmir, who is the mastermind in this case, has been sent to two-day police remand, while Ajay and Jatinder have been sent to 14-day judicial custody. Their previous records are being checked and recovery will be made during the remand.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-held-for-duping-man-of-rs8-15-lakh-96362
09-06-2020||Satinder Pal Singh||12-hour power cut leaves Zirakpur residents fuming||Zirakpur, June 8Residents of several localities and housing societies here today were forced to spend around 12 hours without electricity supply. The residents alleged that the power tripped around 9 am and could only be restored around 8:45 pm today.The residents complained that the outage affected the water supply in their locality. Inverters installed in houses and shops also stopped working. People were left with no other option but to wait for the resumption of power supply.Power complaint centre was also flooded with inquiry calls by consumers. People alleged that they did not get proper response from the complaint centre. Despite making numerous calls to the complaint centre, they failed to get a satisfactory reply.K Kapoor, a former bank employee, said the power cut threw normal life out of gear. No work could be done for the entire day.Ankur Grover, a resident, said: “With rising temperature, it turned out to be a nightmare for us as standby arrangements like inverters also gave up. People had to bear the scorching heat throughout the day. Evening water supply was also disrupted.”A housewife said: “It was a bad start to the day with neither power nor water in the house. Power outage affected the household work badly. Water taps also went dry.”Raman, a shopkeeper, said: “Business was affected due to the power outage. Our business runs mainly on computer, but batteries did not last after 2 pm.”Some residents said on other days too, unscheduled power cuts continued to make their lives miserable.Kulwinder Singh, XEN, Zirakpur, said the work on double circuit transmission lines for 66kV station was in progress. The board had intimated consumers about the power cut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-hour-power-cut-leaves-zirakpur-residents-fuming-96363
09-06-2020||Aditi Tandon||Varsity Chancellor offers body for Covid research||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 8The Indian Council of Medical Research, India’s apex health research body, has received a rare request in these times of a raging Covid-19 pandemic.Chandigarh-based Zora Singh, 62, has sent a legal undertaking to the council offering his body for any kind of experiment to find a cure or prophylaxis for SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes Covid-19 disease.Zora Singh, a medical doctor and Chancellor of Desh Bhagat University, Punjab, says he has weighed all risks involved in offering his live body for Covid-19 research and has legally undertaken to volunteer in any drug development or vaccine effort.Singh has volunteered for Covid-19 research not just at home but also in the UK where he spent some years as a doctor before returning to Punjab to practice medicine in Shri Muktsar Sahib. While Singh has heard back from the UK authorities regarding his offer, he is yet to get reply from the ICMR.“Covid-19 is a new disease and needs a lot of research. There is no clarity anywhere about the behaviour of the virus, which is fast involving various organs of the body. Being a medical doctor, I understand the urgency of research in times of a pandemic, which is exploding. I simply want to be of use for advancement of science towards the good of humankind. Of course it is up to the ICMR and researchers to see if I fit as a research subject,” Singh told The Tribune today.An ICMR taskforce member on clinical research, meanwhile, said Singh’s request was praiseworthy considering it’s a challenge to recruit subjects for drug and vaccine trials and get informed consents from each participant.“Healthy individuals can also be a part of trials to determine the efficacy of vaccines and study why some people are more prone to the contagion than others. Recruitment of subjects normally happens through investigators of drug and vaccine projects. The offer of Zora Singh will need examination by the ethical committee to see if he fits into any vaccine trial or immunology study,” said an ICMR drug development and vaccine research taskforce member.As for Singh, he said he consulted his family about the offer and they disagreed until he put his foot down. “My mind is made up,” he says, citing Sikhism’s basic teaching, “Sarbat da bhala” (advancement of all).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/varsity-chancellor-offers-body-for-covid-research-96364
09-06-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Novel initiative by temple in Lohgarh||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, June 8On the first day of the opening of religious places after the two-month lockdown, Sanatan Dharam Mandir in Lohgarh here took a novel initiative of distributing homeopathic immunity booster medicines as prasad.The temple priest had kept a bagful of medicines in small plastic containers in front of the idol. As the devotees thronged the temple and paid their obeisance, he handed over a dose of medicine to the devotees followed with a wave of hand, lending a pious touch to the entire affair.Some of the devotees opened up the bottles and swallowed the medicine then and there while others kept it in their pockets and moved on.“The medicines have been provided to the temple by the Dera Bassi MLA,” said the temple priest.Vivek Sharma, a devotee at the temple, said, “I visited the temple for darshan almost after two-and-a-half months. I felt calm and re-energised after the visit. The prasad too is a good initiative. I think it is hygienic and people will like it too.”There was a steady stream of devotees in the temples in the area with most of the people preferring early morning and evening time for darshan at Kali Mata temple in Panchsheel Enclave and Shiv Mandir near Lohgarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/novel-initiative-by-temple-in-lohgarh-96366
09-06-2020||---||Minister seeks inquiry into chlorine leak at Balongi||Mohali, June 8The Health and Family Welfare Minister, Balbir Singh Sidhu, wants a departmental inquiry into the chlorine gas leak in which around fifty persons complained of breathlessness and were admitted to the Civil Hospital, Phase VI, last night.Sidhu visited a colony near the water works in Balongi village and inquired about the health of affected people. An inquiry would be held into the matter to fix responsibility for lapses, he said. The minister also directed the Water and Sanitation Department to keep the area clean.Water works was handled by the village panchayat, he added. After the elections, new sarpanch never visited the village or took care of the water works, he said.“I was informed about an outdated chlorine cylinder lying in the complex since 2002. The bottom of the cylinder had gathered rust, which caused the leak. It is a relief that all people affected with the chlorine gas leak have recovered and discharged from the hospital,” he added.Four dozen people were admitted to the Civil Hospital due to the chlorine gas leak at Balongi water works in Mohali district on Sunday night. Panic spread after the gas leak as all residents living around water works complained of breathlessness and vomiting.Two fire brigade employees, who reached the spot, were also rushed to the Civil Hospital. Later, officials of the Fire Department dug up the ground and buried the cylinder, but gas continued to leak.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said those admitted to the hospital were mostly women, children and elderly persons. Around 45 persons came to the hospital and all of them were discharged after their condition was found stable, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-seeks-inquiry-into-chlorine-leak-at-balongi-96367
09-06-2020||Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi villagers take on mining mafia||High drama was witnessed near Bhankarpur village here on Saturday night when some local residents of the village stopped tippers loaded with sand and handed over these to the police. However, tipper drivers managed to flee from the spot.The residents alleged that mining activities suddenly increased manifold in the past few days. All mining operations near the Ghaggar are carried out at night.They complained that illegal mining was being carried out in their area and tippers and tractor-trailers found using the village link road for transporting the material illegally to be sold out of the city without any check.The villagers alleged that they had complained to authorities several times, but to no avail. It is assumed by the residents that using vehicles without registration numbers was the modus operandi of the mining mafia.They alleged that the motive of the mining mafia was to escape check posts without getting the identity of the vehicle owners revealed to the police. There are incidents when these vehicles go unchecked and cops do not take necessary action against the violators.Residents of the village rued that at the most, drivers of tippers and other machinery were fined in the name of action against the mining mafia while the big fish remained untouched.Police officials said villagers were called to lodge a complaint on Sunday, but nobody turned up. They registered an FIR on the complaint of the Mining Department after two poclain machines were seized from the spot.MLA NK Sharma has also been maintaining that illegal mining is rampant in his area despite the issue being taken up at various levels, reflecting the involvement of local officials. He sought immediate action against the guilty persons. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-villagers-take-on-mining-mafia-96368
09-06-2020||---||Punjab seeks recalling of school fee order||Chandigarh, June 8Just over a fortnight after the Punjab and Haryana High Court made it clear that 70 per cent of the total school fee would be charged during the lockdown, the Punjab Government today sought recalling and modification of the order.“There is particularly no question of financial hardship since non-applicants (schools) who are imparting online classes can continue to charge fee in respect of such classes. The only restriction is on charging miscellaneous expenses such as meal charges, transportation charges etc. This also be seen in the context of the fact that schools more than often outsource their transportation services to private contractors under a contract renewable from time to time, and thus would not directly be affected…,” the application filed by the state government read.Punjab Advocate-General Atul Nanda, during the course of hearing, was asked by the Bench to intervene for resolving the issue. Justice Ritu Bahri observed it would be in the best interests of all parties if the matter could be resolved before the next date of hearing on June 12.In a communication to the parties concerned, Nanda asserted: “In due deference to the observation made by the Hon’ble Judge, I am desirous of holding a meeting between all the stakeholders on June 9 at 10 am in AG Camp Office in order to try and resolve the issue.”Some of the parents had earlier filed applications for intervention in the matter pending before Single Bench. Among other things, the parents were claiming that the schools were not allowing the students to attend online classes in the absence of payment of fee.In one of the applications filed through counsel Charanpal Singh Bagri, it was stated that the applicants had already send representation to the Punjab Government to amend its notification to the extent that the private unaided schools may only be permitted to charge tuition fee in accordance with actual lectures delivered per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-seeks-recalling-of-school-fee-order-96369
09-06-2020||Sandeep Rana---||Market corridors encroached upon||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 8 Under the garb of social distancing, shopowners in different parts of the city have encroached upon corridors. In a random check, it was found that encroachment was rampant in Sector 15, 18, 19, 20, 22, 32, 34, 44, 46, 38 and others. At some places, ropes have been tied to maintain social distancing, but the entire corridor is filled with goods. Some food joints have kept chairs and tables in corridors leaving a little for visitors. “Encroachment is always a burning issue. Even during the times of Covid-19, shopkeepers are resorting to occupy corridors,” said Rohit Kumar, a resident of Sector 15. “Social distancing is not being practised in the city. In the name of maintaining gap, shop owners are storing their goods in corridors. Have they been given an open hand during the pandemic?” questioned RK Garg, president, Second Innings Association. Charajiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, and a nominated councillor in the MC, “It is not in our knowledge. If this is happening, we will appeal traders to refrain from it.” Though civic body officials have been challaning the erring shop owners, but in the absence of stringent action, anti-encroachment drives remain a mere formality. Contrary to the bylaws under the Street Vendors Act, shopkeepers are issued a nominal fine of Rs2,000. The MC is also releasing their seized items after paying fine.  However, in the case of unregistered vendors, a hefty penalty of Rs10,000 is imposed with no goods return policy. Earlier, Commissioner KK Yadav had stated that Rs2,000 fine for shopkeepers was approved by the MC House and they too had a representation from the traders body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/market-corridors-encroached-upon-96371
09-06-2020||---||Student collects Rs60K for the needy||Chandigarh, June 8 Tejeshwar Singh Dugal, a student of Vivek High School, Sector 38, launched my crowdfunding campaign on Fueladream.com and collected Rs60,301 to help the needy during the Covid-19 outbreak.  Around 2,400 people would get assistance, said Dugal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/student-collects-rs60k-for-the-needy-96372
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Construction work resumes at WTC site||Real estate projects in the region are among the worst hit during the lockdown. Though economic activity is slowly restarting, but shortage of labour is a major challenge for these projects.World Trade Centre (WTC), Chandigarh, is amongst a few projects wherein construction activity has resumed in full swing. Col Arun Kotwal, Advisor, WTC, said, “Even with the limited workforce, our teams have been working diligently.” The Punjab Government has issued guidelines to carry the construction activity in the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/construction-work-resumes-at-wtc-site-96373
09-06-2020||Panchkula||7-day faculty development event begins||A seven-day online international faculty development programme ‘Let’s Relearn: Tools for Higher Education Teachers,’ organised by Government Postgraduate College, Sector 1, Panchkula, and Grand Academic Portal (GAP) in association with Global Academic Assessment Consortium (GAAC), began today. Principal Archana Mishra inaugurated the event, which saw more than 200 participants.  The event is being held to sharpen skills of teachers. It will cover themes related to issues, policies, and implementation of teaching-learning, research, student assessment and remedial measures for weak students along with the measures for the well-being of higher education stakeholders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-day-faculty-development-event-begins-96374
09-06-2020||Amit Sharma||Suspect, shot put player, owns Range Rover, Ford Mustang||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 8Amit Kumar, alias Sabhi (37), who owns a Range Rover Sport and Ford Mustang, is believed to have earned several crores by allegedly getting “ghost vehicles” registered on fake papers and later getting insurance claims for these by lodging complaints of vehicle theft.Police sources said investigation into the unaccounted wealth earned by Amit revealed that he used to prepare fake documents, including sale papers with fake engine and chassis numbers, and get a registration certificate (RC) made from the registration authorities in Haryana.“He used to then affix the fake number plate and engine and chassis numbers on one of the stolen vehicles to get the vehicle insured,” the sources said.After the vehicle was insured, the suspect used to change the engine and chassis numbers and further sell it to a customer. “After a few months, the suspect used to lodge a complaint of vehicle theft with the police and get an untraced report of the vehicle, which never existed, to get the insurance claim,” said the sources.They said in some cases, he used to get an RC of high-end luxury vehicle made and then hire a self-driven vehicle of the same model. “On fake papers and after changing the registration plate, he used to get the insurance done. Late, he used to return the vehicle. After a few months, he used to file a theft complaint and get the insurance claim,” the sources said.The modus operandi helped him earn huge money through insurance claims.A source in the STF wing of the Haryana Police revealed that Amit drove a Range Rover Sport worth around Rs1.15 crore and a Ford Mustang worth around Rs75 lakh.A police official said Amit, a shot put player, hailed from a well-off family. Both his parents are retired teachers and his family has a few doctors as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspect-shot-put-player-owns-range-rover-ford-mustang-96375
09-06-2020||Panchkula||Street vendor dies in hit-&-run||A street vendor was killed after allegedly being hit by a rashly driven car in the Industrial Area, Phase 2, last evening. The deceased has been identified as Mahender Singh, a resident of Buddanpur village.In his complaint to the police, Ranjit Singh, the victim’s son, stated that a car hit his father’s cart, flinging the victim into the air. “I witnessed the incident from some 200 metres. I couldn’t see the car’s number plate due to darkness. The car driver fled the spot,” the complainant stated.The victim was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where he was declared brought dead.A case under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC was registered at the Sector 20 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/street-vendor-dies-in-hit-run-96376
09-06-2020||---||Dhanas colony in UT no more containment zone||Chandigarh, June 8On the basis of a report submitted by the Affected Area Committee, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today gave the nod to end the Containment Zone limitations at Kachi Colony, Dhanas.During a review meeting, the Administrator also approved the removal of perimeter control from six pockets of Bapu Dham Colony, which do not have any active Covid cases. The earlier restrictions imposed on entry and exit will stand relaxed in these six pockets.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said Kachi Colony, Dhanas, and six pockets of Bapu Dham Colony — pocket number 1, 6, 8, 10, 11 and 12 — had been removed from the containment zone with the stipulation that regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue.To prevent further spread of Covid, the UT had declared six Covid-19 hotspots – part of Sector 52, part of Sector 38, part of Sector 30-B, Shashtri Nagar in Mani Majra, Kachi Colony and Bapu Dham Colony— as containment zones on May 2. Except a part of Bapu Dham Colony, all other areas have been rid of the containment zone tag in the city.Parida said as directed by the Administrator, the matter regarding exemption in water and electricity charges of areas which were under the containment zone was being examined. He clarified that all symptomatic patients in Bapu Dham Colony have been medically treated. There should be no hesitation in accepting them back in their jobs.The Administrator appealed to residents not to stigmatise residents of Bapu Dham Colony. He directed the Labour Department to take up the matter with private employers so that their pending wages could be paid and job opportunities increased.A resident of pocket 8 in Bapu Dham Colony said their area was sealed on April 29 and he was now feeling like a free bird after being virtually caged for nearly 40 days.Non-serious cases coming to PGIDuring a review meeting, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said despite repeated requests, non-serious cases were coming from neighbouring states, which even included a few Covid patients. On this, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed Adviser Manoj Parida to take up the matter with neighbouring states so that such patients, who could be locally treated, were not referred to the PGI.Over 50,000 sent back to native placesFinance Secretary AK Sinha said nearly 50,000 migrants and stranded persons had been sent to their native places through special Shramik trains and specially arranged buses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhanas-colony-in-ut-no-more-containment-zone-96377
09-06-2020||Naina Mishra||Returnees add to city’s Covid worry||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 8In just over a week, three of the cases reported from the city are of those who had returned from Delhi.The recent case is of a 25-year-old man from Sector 41, who returned from Delhi on June 2 and tested positive for Covid today. He works in Delhi. The man has three family contacts living in the sector and all of them are asymptomatic.A 40-year-old man from Khuda Ali Sher, who had travelled to Delhi and stayed there for about two days before returning, had tested positive for Covid on May 31. A 25-year-old youth, who works at Patel Nagar in Delhi, had come to the city on May 22 to meet his mother in Sector 21. He was found infected on June 3.Medical experts say the trend was worrisome as it can lead to quick spread of the infection in the city.A senior epidemiologist at the PGI said, "Most Covid cases in the city were being reported from Bapu Dham. Of late, people coming from Delhi and nearby areas are also being found infected. To check the community spread of the virus, those crossing over to the city should be placed under quarantine. If that is not possible, then returnees should take universal precautions and not go in crowded places.""So far, these cases were symptomatic and hence detected. One can imagine what an asymptomatic carrier of virus can do to the community," added the epidemiologist.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, "There are people who are coming by air and trains too. The border restrictions are being removed across the country."Meanwhile, five more persons from the city, apart from the Sector 41 man, tested positive for Covid today. Three women from Bapu Dham, aged 65, 36 and 25, have been found infected. The wife of a Covid positive CISF constable has contracted the virus too. The wife of a Mani Majra businessman has tested positive for Covid. The man was found infected yesterday but his case was not counted in the UT tally. Their son, however, has tested negative for Covid. The six fresh cases today raised the UT Covid tally to 320.2 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The 26-year-old wife of a lawyer, who was found infected on Sunday, and a 46-year-old man from Sector 12, who came in contact with a positive person from Dhakoli, are the new Covid patients in Panchkula. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/returnees-add-to-citys-covid-worry-96378
09-06-2020||---||Few turn up to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Nada Sahib in Panchkula||Panchkula, June 8As the government allowed places of worship to open, a limited number of devotees turned up to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Nada Sahib today.Gurdwara Nada Sahib manager Jagir Singh said, “We can’t tell how many devotees visited gurdwara today. People in small numbers were coming and going after offering prayers. We strictly followed standard operating procedures (SOPs) of the Government of India.”“Unlike old times, we have stopped the practice of keeping ‘patka’ (casual head wraps) at the entrance. We have also installed automatic hand sanitisation dispensers for devotees. We appeal to everybody through loudspeakers to maintain social distance to prevent the spread of Covid,” he added.“Langar is served to devotees while keeping a safe distance among them,” he said.“Though gurdwara has never been closed during the lockdown, sangat did not come due to restrictions. All rituals are performed without any break. Since the imposition of the lockdown food is cooked for the needy at our community kitchen every day,” he added.Shopkeepers in gurdwara vicinity, who have been badly hit by the lockdown measures, hope their business will revive with the arrival of devotees. According to the Haryana Government SOPs, social distancing and wearing face masks by workers and visitors is must at religious places.The situation was similar at various religious places across the district, including temples.400 visit Mansa Devi templeMata Mansa Devi Temple re-opened on rehearsal basis today. Around 400 devotees, who took prior appointment, paid obeisance to the Goddess at the shrine.MS Yadav, chief executive officer of the shrine board, said, “We started online registration last evening. We opened temple gates at 2 pm and could only facilitate around 400 devotees for the day.”Similarly, around 150 persons offered prayers at Kali Mata Temple in Kalka.Temple to open from todayMata Mansa Devi Temple will open from Tuesday with a slew of restrictions suggested in SOPs by the Government of India. Until 8:30 pm, around 1,550 people had taken appointment for darshan tomorrow at Mansa Devi Temple, Yadav added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/few-turn-up-to-pay-obeisance-at-gurdwara-nada-sahib-in-panchkula-96379
09-06-2020||---||Panchkula society partial containment zone||Panchkula, June 8Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Monday declared a block in a Sector 20 group housing society and particular areas in Friends Colony in Kalka and Abdulpur in Pinjore as containment zone and their surrounding areas as buffer zone.HSVP Estate Officer (Panchkula) Mamta Sharma has been notified as the overall in-charge, who will ensure the supply of essential commodities to the residents of the containment zone in the Sector 20 society. SDO HSVP (Survey) MP Sharma will assist her.A 28-year-old lawyer with a travel history to Delhi was tested positive for Covid on Sunday. He is admitted to an isolation ward in Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-society-partial-containment-zone-96382
09-06-2020||---||Two SUV thieves in net, 18 vehicles recovered||Chandigarh, June 8Eighteen SUVs, including eight Toyota Fortuners, have been recovered by the Chandigarh Police with the arrest of two members of an inter-state gang of vehicle thieves, which was involved in selling vehicles to gullible people after preparing RCs on forged documents.The police said eight Fortuners, three Innovas, five Hyundai Cretas and two Maruti Brezzas, worth around Rs3 crore, had been recovered.A team, led by Inspector Rajdeep Singh, SHO of the Sector 31 police station, nabbed Ramesh (39), a resident of Sisar Khas village in Rohtak district in Haryana, from near the Kali Bari light point on June 4 while riding a stolen Hyundai Creta. On verification, it was found that the vehicle had fake and engine and chassis numbers affixed on it and it was stolen from Delhi.The police said Ramesh’s interrogation led to the arrest of the second suspect, Amit Kumar, alias Sabhi (37), also a resident of Rohtak district.The police said the SUVs were stolen from various parts of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi by the Uttar Pradesh (UP)-based accomplices of the suspects.Amit and Ramesh used to get stolen vehicles registered in Haryana on the basis of fake documents and further sell these to buyers at competitive prices. Eighteen SUVs were recovered, of which 17 were recovered from people who had purchased these from the suspects.With the arrest of the duo, employees of the vehicle registration authorities in different parts of Haryana have also come under the police scanner as the stolen vehicles were being registered on the basis of fake documents.“Based on the RCs issued by the registration authorities, the SUVs were sold to people in Haryana, Punjab and Delhi,” said a police official. Both suspects have a criminal past. The police claimed that more recoveries were expected based on the information provided by them.Vehicles worth Rs 3 cr recoveredThe police said eight Fortuners, three Innovas, five Hyundai Cretas and two Maruti Brezzas, worth around Rs3 crore, had been recovered.Gangsters used SUVs to commit crimePolice sources said it was suspected the SUVs were also used by the gangsters for committing crimes and smuggling liquor.Registration staff’s role under scannerThe role of employees of various vehicle registration authorities in Haryana has also come under the scanner as the suspects used to get the vehicles registered on fake documents, engine and chassis numbers before further selling these.Haryana cops had also got a tip-offSources said the STF wing of the Haryana Police had got a tip-off regarding the suspects and it was also after the gang. However, the Chandigarh Police managed to nab them before it could.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-suv-thieves-in-net-18-vehicles-recovered-96384
09-06-2020||Anushka Nitin Vichare||Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula||KBDAV-7, ChandigarhMore than 1,100 students took part in a series of online events, including face painting, poster-making competition, poetry recitation and speech contest on the occasion of World Environment Day. Students from Class VIII to Class X participated in an online quiz competition organised by Environmental Information System, Chandigarh. The Additional District and Sessions Judge, Mahavir Singh Ahlawat, held an interactive session with the students of Class XI and teachers.DAV, SurajpurDAV School, Surajpur, conducted online Sukriti workshop 2020-21. The workshop comprised of different events, including taste ride, musical voyagers, DAV manch, dance champions and best out of waste.AKSIPS-123, Greater MohaliOn the occasion of World Environment Day, Anjali Singh, Principal, AKSIPS-123, planted a mango and a lemon sapling on the campus for a green future.New India, PanchkulaStudents raised awareness through online activities on World Environment Day. Schoolchildren participated in slogan writing, bookmark and poster-making contest. Students also planted saplings at their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhavan-vidyalaya-panchkula-96385
09-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Elante reopens to low footfall||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 8Over two months after malls and restaurants in the city opened, there were more worried faces than happy.As reported earlier in these columns, only 50 per cent of the restaurants in the city reopened today. Restaurant owners had already expressed unhappiness over the limited opening hours and prohibition on serving of alcohol.At the Elante mall, the food court remained shut. While most other outlets at the mall were opened, the low footfall remained a cause of worry. The owners maintained that they opened their outlets as a "goodwill gesture" and the coming days were going to be hard for them. “We are not expecting any growth in the business. The shop was opened today as a goodwill gesture. Most shop owners are concerned about the future,” said the owner of a make-up outlet.The owner of a popular brand franchisee said, “All shopkeepers are in the same boat. We have to cut our operational costs. We are also demanding relaxation in rentals. This month is crucial as far as public response is concerned.”A stand-off between the mall management and the restaurant owners continued over the issue of paying past and future rent. A meeting was held today, but there was no outcome.“We have asked the mall owners to let us work on the condition of paying a minimal amount for the coming months as we cannot pay fixed rentals. This pandemic has hit all of us equally. The mall owners are adamant on collecting rent. We are paying salaries to our staff and most of us have outlets in other cities too. If they continue to remain adamant, we will shut our business,” said a restaurant owner at Elante.Air conditioners not workingA few shopkeepers alleged that the mall owners did not switch on the ACs on Monday. However, the latter maintained that the temperature was controlled between 26°C and 30°C as per the MHA guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elante-reopens-to-low-footfall-96386
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two held for snatching||Woman’s body found hangingZirakpur: The body of a woman was found hanging from a tree near the forest area behind the Chhatbir zoo here on Monday morning, a police official said. The police are suspecting it to be a case of suicide. The deceased appeared to be in her mid-30s and was yet to be indentified, the police said. The woman was found hanging with a dupatta. No suicide note was found from the spot. The incident came to light when a forest guard came in the morning for duty and saw the body hanging and informed the police. The body has been kept at a mortuary for a postmortem. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-snatching-96387
09-06-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court notice to Centre on plea by Independent Schools’ Association||Chandigarh, June 8The Punjab and Haryana High Court (HC) today issued notice of motion to the Centre and other respondents on a petition filed by the Independent Schools’ Association challenging directions to unaided private schools to upload balance sheets on their websites and for the constitution of Fee Regulatory Authority.The notice for June 16 came on the petition filed against the Union of India and four other respondents from the Bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma after senior advocates Rajiv Atma Ram and Puneet Bali, along with counsel Aashish Chopra, appeared through video-conferencing.Comprising 78 unaided privately managed schools, the association and two other schools were seeking directions to the respondents for quashing orders, memos and correspondence whereby the respondents directed private unaided schools to upload income and expenditure account and balance sheets on their respective websites.Counsel Aashish Chopra submitted that the direction was issued despite the availability of account statements with the authorities concerned.Going into the background of the matter, Chopra submitted that the UT district education officer recently started issuing memos and reminders to private unaided schools and that too in quick succession, asking the latter to upload income and expenditure account and balance sheet on their respective websites.Chopra asserted that the direction was in blatant disregard to their inherent autonomy. Schools had been threatened with action in case they failed to comply with the directions, he added.Chopra submitted they were also challenging the composition of the regulatory body and penalties imposed.“The petitioners are now under legitimate apprehension that the respondents may adopt coercive measures against them, which would prove harsh in the current milieu, where schools are already reeling under the effect of Covid-19 pandemic and that too with limited manpower and resources. The petitioners are, thus, left with no other option but to seek redressal through the present petition from the High Court,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-notice-to-centre-on-plea-by-independent-schools-association-96389
09-06-2020||Chandigarh||No summer vacation at CAT||Due to closure of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) during the lockdown period, the summer vacation of the Chandigarh Bench has been cancelled.In line with notification issued by the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the summer vacation of the CAT from June 1 to June 26 stands cancelled. The Bench will continue to accept cases online and hear through video conferencing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-summer-vacation-at-cat-96390
09-06-2020||---||‘Complete ongoing road work before monsoon’||Chandigarh, June 8The road committee of the Municipal Corporation (MC) today asked officials to complete the ongoing road recarpeting work before the onset of monsoon. However, major roads will be recarpeted after monsoon as declared in the last MC House meeting.The meeting, held under the aegis of councillor Shakti Parkash Devshali and members, directed officials concerned to start the pending works of roads and complete it before the monsoon season.Deputy Mayor Jagtar Singh Jagga said, “Members have decided that works to be done under the ward development fund should also be started at the earliest. Pending civil work at the cremation ground and Hallo Majra should be completed before this monsoon season.”Councillors Gurpreet Singh Dhillon, Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, Devinder Singh Babla, Bharat Kumar and Arun Sood along with Shailender Singh, Chief Engineer, and officials concerned of the MC were also present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/complete-ongoing-road-work-before-monsoon-96395
09-06-2020||Mohali||5 more contract virus in Mohali||Five more persons have tested positive for Covid in the district, taking the tally to 136. Among those found infected are the mother, an uncle and two friends of the cop who had tested positive on June 6.The 42-year-old mother and a 39-year-old uncle of the cop posted at QRT, Security Department, Kharar Court Complex, have been found infected. They are residents of Kurali. The other two are the cop’s friends, aged 25 and 28, both residents of Neolka village in Kharar. A 34-year-old man, who is a resident of Sector 66, has also tested positive for Covid. Some of his friends, who came from Mumbai, had stayed with him.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said they were shifted to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-contract-virus-in-mohali-96396
09-06-2020||---||Panjab University issues guidelines for exams, change in pattern||Chandigarh, June 8Panjab University today issued a revised set of general guidelines for conducting semester examinations, which are likely to be held in July, informed the Dean of University Instructions (DUI). The guidelines have been uploaded at the university’s website along with reference sample paper, which categorically mentions the questions to be attempted and other details.DUI Prof RK Singla ensured that the authorities are working on conducting examinations with minimum movement of the students. “The semester examinations for the last batches (undergraduate and postgraduate) will be conducted in the first phase, after the reassessment of situation by the authorities. Reasonable and sufficient notice of examination will be given to all the candidates. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in this regard have been issued and uploaded on the university website (examination notice board),” said Singla.Entrance exam from July 27Singla further informed that students of final semesters are advised to prepare for their examination. “A set of revised general guidelines for the semester examinations, in July 2020, have been uploaded on the university website. The PUCET (PG) will be conducted on July 27 and 28. Details of all other entrance examinations are available on university website. Parents and students are advised to follow only the guidelines/instructions with regard to examination and admissions uploaded on the university website notice board of examination portal and remain vigilant as some mischievous elements are spreading fake news,” said Singla.More choices for studentsProf Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examination, informed that the pattern of paper has been changed. Students will be given more choices keeping in mind that full syllabus was not covered. “There is no unit in question paper and all questions will carry equal marks,” said Singh.As per the new guidelines, the exams duration will remain of 2 hours and no units will be followed. For all classes, including, BA, BSc, BCom, BCA and all other undergraduate courses and Hons courses, professional courses (laws, MCom Hons, MBAs, Engineering, Hotel Management, BFA/MFA, Home Science, Library Science, Pharmacy), Postgraduate course (MA, MSc, MCom) and Education, any four questions to be attempted, including the compulsory questions, and all questions will carry equal marks. For Hindi Elective (BA), any three questions out of first four questions (question number 5th and 6th will be compulsory).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-issues-guidelines-for-exams-change-in-pattern-96400
