09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 2 more COVID-19 deaths, 63 new cases||Two more fatalities due to COVID-19 in Chandigarh raised the toll to 188 while 63 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 12,985 on Friday, according to a medical bulletin.The Union Territory has 1,292 active cases of the novel coronavirus, as of now, the bulletin said.Another 161 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 11,505, it said.A total of 85,187 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing and 71,678 of them have tested negative while reports of 102 are awaited, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-2-more-covid-19-deaths-63-new-cases-153360
09-10-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports one coronavirus death, 76 new cases||Mohali reported one death and 76 new coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, district officials said on Friday.The development takes Mohali’s total cases to 11,228, of which 1,075 cases are still active. Mohali’s death toll stands at 207.Mohali urban reported 41 of 76 new cases. Banur (1), Dera Bassi (7), Dhakoli  (2), Kharar (8), Kurali (3) and Lalru (14) made up the rest of the count.Mohali reported 128 recoveries.Where Mohali standsTotal cases: 11228Deaths: 207Active cases: 1075||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-one-coronavirus-death-76-new-cases-153328
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers block Chandigarh-Ambala National Highway; cops divert traffic||The Chandigarh-Ambala National Highway at Lahru was blocked on Friday afternoon as farmers and workers of political parties, including Congress, SAD and AAP, protested against the three ordinances recently passed by the Parliament.The traffic coming in from Ambala side on Jharmari-Naraingarh road, and traffic from the Chandigarh side on Lalru-Handesra road was diverted by the police to avoid any inconvenience to the commuters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmers-block-chandigarh-ambala-national-highway-cops-divert-traffic-153291
09-10-2020||---||53 volunteers doing fine after first dose of Covid vaccine||Chandigarh, October 8The late-phase human clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, Covishield, are running smoothly at the PGI and those administered the dose have not shown any side effects so far.Also read: Covaxin trials on track, 2nd dose given to volunteers at Rohtak PGIMSAn official statement released by the institute today reads, “The second phase of human clinical trials of Covishield, a potential vaccine developed by Oxford University, is going well at the PGI. Till date, 97 volunteers have been screened. Of them, 65 have already been vaccinated since September 25 when the PGI started administering the first dose of the vaccine to the volunteers. Among the 65 volunteers given the first dose, 53 have already completed seven days post-vaccination without any major side effects.”What the PGI saysThe second phase of human clinical trials of Covishield, a potential vaccine developed by Oxford University, is going well at the PGI. Till date, 97 volunteers have been screened. Of them, 65 have already been vaccinated since September 25 when the PGI started administering the first dose of the vaccine to the volunteers. Among the 65 volunteers given the first dose, 53 have already completed seven days post-vaccination without any major side effects. — PGIHowever, some participants did develop mild symptoms after the dose of the coronavirus vaccine candidate, which was a mild reaction and nothing to get alarmed about.According to the Clinical Trials Registry of India, the occurrence of solicited local and/or systemic adverse events (AEs) is supposed to occur within seven days following each vaccination. The occurrence of unsolicited adverse events can happen 28 days after each vaccination.These candidates have been administered Covishield under a two-dose schedule (on day 1 and 29) — 0.5 ml dose intramuscularly.This is a phase 2/3, observer-blind, randomised, controlled study in healthy adults in India for comparison of the safety of Covishield with Oxford/AZ-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 and Placebo, and immunogenicity with Oxford/AZ-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 in the prevention of the SARS CoV-2 infection.The participants will be part of immunogenicity cohort and will be randomly assigned in a 3:1 ratio to receive either Covishield or Oxford/AZ-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, respectively. The remaining participants from safety cohort will be randomly assigned in a 3:1 ratio to receive either Covishield or Placebo, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/53-volunteers-doing-fine-after-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-153082
09-10-2020||---||Get building plan approved online, UT launches service||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8People will no longer need to stand in long queues to submit application for obtaining approval of a building plan. To minimise manual intervention, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today launched the online building plan approval system (OBPAS) for residents of the city.Benefits of systemMC Commissioner KK Yadav said the online system was one of the major services under the project pertaining to the implementation of e-governance services in the city.He said the OBPAS was one of the key reforms’ agendas under the government missions like AMRUT with focus on improving the ‘ease of doing business’.Under the system, registration form will be provided to architects on the MC and Chandigarh Smart City Limited web portals (http://mcchandigarh.gov.in and https://www.chandigarhsmartcity.in). Registration form shall be approved by the Department of Urban Planning (Architecture Wing). Username and password will be shared with the architects through email.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-building-plan-approved-online-ut-launches-service-153083
09-10-2020||---||Dog bites off girl’s ear, owner booked||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 8The police have booked the owner of a pet dog that bit an ear of a girl in the Phase 9 market this morning.The victim, identified as Harshita, a resident of Phase 9, was walking from her house towards a bank in the market when a car entered the market and a woman came out of the car with her pet, a Boxer.The dog attacked the girl who was passing by and bit off her ear. The girl was admitted to a private hospital for treatment.Harshita informed her father Gurbir Singh on phone, who arrived at the spot and called up the police. A PCR vehicle reached there. The victim’s father asked the cops to register a case against the dog owner. The investigating officer said further action would be taken after recording the statements of both the parties.Rajnish Choudhary, SHO, Phase 8 police station, said a case was registered against the pet dog owner, Preeti Singh of Phase 11, under Sections 289 and 338 of the IPC.It is pertinent to mention here that dog-bite cases are on the increase in Mohali. The town has witnessed 2,690 dog-bite cases in the past eight months. The stray dog menace has grown out of proportion, making residents scared of stepping out of home.According to rough estimates, there has been an increase of 1,000 stray dogs in the past one year. In June last year, the number was around 9,000, which has now grown to nearly 10,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dog-bites-off-girls-ear-owner-booked-153085
09-10-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Chandigarh MC snaps sewer line of Hotel Shivalikview||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8A sewer line of Hotel Shivalikview, which is run by the UT Administration, has been cut by the Municipal Corporation over a leakage into storm water drain, which is a violation of the court orders.It has been two days since one of the two sewer lines of the three-star hotel was cut after it was found that the sewage water was flowing into storm water drain and entering the choe. The connection would remain disconnected till the leakage was plugged by the hotel management, said officials.MC Chief Engineer Shailender Singh said, “It is a violation of the court orders. Once they repair it, the line will be restored.”“There has been an issue with one of the sewer lines, therefore, the connection was cut two days ago. It was found that their sewer line was leaking and the discharge was flowing into storm water drain and entering the choe,” said an MC official present at the spot.Officials said the hotel’s sewer line looked old and it needed an immediate repair. Courts had been frowning upon the sewage water into natural water resources as it potentially led to environmental health hazards.The Sector 17 hotel is one of the prime properties of the UT Administration in the heart of the city. Recently, the Administration was mulling the move to privatise the property or outsource the hotel’s management and functioning to generate more revenue. The plan, however, has been put on the back burner for now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-snaps-sewer-line-of-hotel-shivalikview-153086
09-10-2020||---||4 die in Chandigarh, 102 new cases||Chandigarh, October 8The city today recorded 102 new cases of Covid-19 and four fatalities, taking the tally to 12,922 and toll to 186.Four test +ve after death in Mohali64 fresh cases surface in district Mohali: Four more Covid fatalities were reported from the district on Thursday, taking the toll to 206. The victims, who had comorbidities, tested positive after death. Meanwhile, 64 fresh cases surfaced in the district. The tally now stands at 11,152. The district also reported 159 recoveries today. Among the fresh cases, 41 were from Mohali (urban), 14 from Dera Bassi and five from Dhakoli. Of the 11,152 positive cases reported from the district so far, 9,818 patients had been cured and discharged from the hospital. There are 1,128 active cases.An 81-year-old man from Sector 33, who was suffering from cardiovascular disease and parkinsonism, succumbed to the virus at Mayo Hospital, Mohali. A 52-year-old man from Dhanas, who was suffering from diabetes, died at the GMSH-16. A 58-year-old man from Sector 37 was declared brought dead at the GMSH-16 and tested positive for Covid posthumously. A 56-year-old man from Sector 19 lost battle to the virus at Fortis Hospital, Mohali.At least 154 patients defeated the virus in the past 24 hours, according to the daily bulletin. While 11,344 persons have been cured of the virus so far, the UT has 1,392 active cases. Chandigarh has conducted 84,167 Covid tests till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-die-in-chandigarh-102-new-cases-153089
09-10-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula 5th in Haryana to reach 100 mark||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 8With two fresh deaths reported today, Panchkula became the fifth district in Haryana to reach the grim milestone of 100 Covid-19 deaths after Faridabad, Gurugram, Ambala and Karnal.Young casualties n A 34-year-old man from Rattewali, who was suffering from diabetes, died of the disease on October 4Despite witnessing more coronavirus cases than Panchkula, three districts — Sonepat, Panipat and Hisar — have relatively seen fewer deaths. While 66 Covid deaths were seen in September, 18 fatalities were recorded in August. Two passed away in July. As many as 14 deaths have been registered this month so far.Mortality rate still above 1.6%Even though the average daily cases have come down, the mortality rate is still hovering above 1.60 per cent. The mortality rate of the district was 1.75 in September when Covid reportedly reached its peak in the district. The overall recovery rate stands at 1.55.95 deaths with comorbiditiesOf the 100 deaths reported so far, only five did not have comorbid conditions.Age and genderThe highest number of fatalities, 60, was of people aged above 60, while 25 victims were in the age group of 50 to 60, followed by 15 under the age of 50. More male patients died of Covid than women in the district. Men constituted around 58 per cent of the Covid deaths.Of the 100 deaths reported from the district till Thursday, 42 were of women.Area-wiseFifty-two of the 100 Covid fatalities in the district reported till Thursday were reported from Panchkula city. While the towns of Kalka and Pinjore registered 19 deaths, villages accounted for 29 casualties.Health Dept hopefulThe CMO, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said they were hopeful of a decline in the death rate in the coming weeks. “We are witnessing a dip in severe cases. Hence, the pressure on critical illness care has been released,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-5th-in-haryana-to-reach-100-mark-153093
09-10-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 2 more fatalities||The district today reported two Covid deaths, taking the toll to 100.A 68-year-old man from Kalka, who was suffering from hypertension and diabetes, and an 82-year-old man from Devinagar, who was suffering from hypertension and tuberculosis, succumbed to the disease.The district also witnessed 80 fresh cases, pushing the Covid count to 6,451.The fresh cases include six from Pinjore, five each from Barwala, the ITBP, Kalka and Sector 15, four each from Sector 10, Sector 21, Sector 26,  Sector 27 and Sector 7, three each from Alipur, the MDC, Sector 5 and Sector 6, two each from Raipur Rani, Sector 12, Sector 12-A, Sector 14, Sector 16, Sector 17, Sector 20, Sector 25, and Sector 9, and one each from Amravati Enclave, the CRPF, Old Panchkula, Power Colony, Sector 18, Sector 4 and Sector 8. While 486 cases are still active, 5,865 patients have been cured.Panchkula has so far conducted 72,744 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-2-more-fatalities-153097
09-10-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali recovery rate jumps to 88%||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 8The district witnessed more than 12.52 per cent increase in the Covid-19 recovery rate in the past two weeks, pushing the total recovery rate to 88 per cent today.A total of 11,152 Covid cases have been reported from the district till date and 9,818 of these have been cured. On September 24, a total of 9,108 cases were reported and of these, 6,966 had defeated the virus, showing a recovery rate of 76.48 per cent.The highest 307 fresh cases were reported on September 12, which had brought down the recovery rate considerably.A senior official of the Health Department said with a high percentage of asymptomatic cases in the district, around 75 per cent patients were under home isolation. He said to ensure their speedy recovery, the department fixed area-wise duties to doctors in the district so as to provide regular medical assistance to those under home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-recovery-rate-jumps-to-88-153098
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Curbs imposed in 11 more areas in Chandigarh||To break the chain of Covid transmission, the UT Administration today declared 11 more micro-containment zones.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said a committee examined the Covid-19 outbreak and recommended that the affected areas be declared micro-containment zones. The new micro-containment zones are parts of Sector 15, 22, 26 (Police Lines), 37-D, 39-B, 41-B, 44-D, Mauli Complex and street number 11 of Shanti Nagar.Earlier, 20 affected areas were declared micro-containment zones on October 1.Parida said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue and frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted.Residents were advised to maintain social distancing, and wear a mask, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-imposed-in-11-more-areas-in-chandigarh-153101
09-10-2020||Mohali||23-year-old gym trainer found dead in Mohali||A 23-year-old youth was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his house in Sector 68 here today.The victim, Kuldeep Singh of Dhuri in Sangrur, was a gym trainer and putting up in a rented accommodation here.The youth's mother Binder Kaur said he had consumed a poisonous substance by mistake which might have proved fatal for him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-year-old-gym-trainer-found-dead-in-mohali-153105
09-10-2020||---||PUTA poll: 80% voter turnout on Day 1||Chandigarh, October 8Around 396 voters, out of 500 registered for the Day 1 of the PUTA elections, came to cast their vote at Panjab University here today.The voting at both the English auditorium and evening auditorium started at 8.30 am and ended at 5 pm.The auditoriums were later sealed by the returning officer. They will open tomorrow again for the second phase of voting. The results will also be announced tomorrow at 3.30 pm.A total of 627 faculty members are listed to cast their votes. “We have received a good response from faculty members. Around 80 per cent voters turned out to cast their vote. All SOPs were followed and the second phase of voting will start at 9 am on Friday,” said Vijay Nagpal, returning officer.The second phase of voting will have 127 faculty members casting their vote. “The percentage is likely to go up tomorrow. We are expecting all 127 members to turn up to vote. The results will be announced by 3.30 pm,” said Nagpal.No second chanceNagpal maintained that those faculty members who failed to turn up today will not be given any other chance to cast their vote. “I have received around 10 requests and only these faculty members will be allowed to cast their vote on Friday. Those who informed us in time will be allowed to vote after taking consent from both contesting groups,” said Nagpal.Social distancing goes for a tossWhile canvassing outside the polling booths, members of both groups paid no heed to the social distancing norms.All SOPs, including wearing masks, thermal screening, recording contact details and others were followed inside the polling booth.PU starts declaring blended-mode exam results||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-poll-80-voter-turnout-on-day-1-153116
09-10-2020||---||Parida to discuss medical college proposal with MCI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed the Education Secretary to hold talks with the parents regarding school attendance of students of higher classes. However, a decision would be taken after consulting the Centre, he said.In the Unlock.5 guidelines, the UT has been given the flexibility to take a decision on re-opening of schools after October 15 in a graded manner. The decision needs to be taken in consultation with schools and a written consent of parents.During a review meeting, the Administrator expressed happiness over the declining number of Covid cases. However, he directed the officials to increase testing. He said the vendors coming from the Sector 26 market should be tested regularly.To improve healthcare in the city, the Administrator directed that the proposal for a second medical college with at least 50 MBBS seats needed to be expedited.Adviser Manoj Parida said he would take up the matter with the Medical Council of India (MCI) at the earliest.The proposed medical college will have two branches — one at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 (GMSH-16) and another at Sarangpur. It would be the second medical college to come up in the city after the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. As per the proposal, the medical infrastructure of the GMSH-16 will be utilised to run the college and other facilities.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said they were conducting the trial of a vaccine and so far, 65 volunteers have already been vaccinated on an experimental basis. Meanwhile, PGIMER doctors appealed to the citizens with Covid symptoms not to take steroids too early without medical prescription.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parida-to-discuss-medical-college-proposal-with-mci-153117
09-10-2020||---||Women, farmers protest, demand loan waiver||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 8The Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation during a protest organised at PUDA ground today demanded loans waiver for small farmers, women and labourers.Carrying red flags of the CPI (ML) Liberation, hundreds of women participated in the ‘Aurat karja mukti rally’.Gurmeet Singh Bakhtpur, state secretary of the party, said the government was giving away India’s public sector offices into private hands.Bhagwant Singh Samaon said the Punjab Government should waive loans taken by women from private finance companies. He said, “The government should also direct police officials to not disturb and harass women by visiting their homes for recovery of loans.”Ruldu Singh Mansa, state president of the Punjab Kisan Union, said people had raised questions against the government’s newly implemented farm laws. “Farmers, labourers and other people have raised protest against such laws of the Central Government”, he added.The party leaders also announced support to Punjab bandh call given by various organisations on October 10 in relation to the alleged post-metric scholarship scam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/women-farmers-protest-demand-loan-waiver-153119
09-10-2020||---||PEC management to discuss students’ issues today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8The management of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) will meet student representatives tomorrow for discussing the issues regarding conducting practical and end-terms exams on the campus.Earlier, the institute officials had decided to conduct physical exams for BTech (semester III, semester V, semester VII) from November 2 to December 5. However, after students objected to the decision, the management decided to meet their representatives. “Students have expressed their concerns and we are ready to address those. We are meeting on Friday to take a decision,” said Prof Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, PEC.“Students living in other countries have already been informed that their exams will be taken care of. We had earlier decided to call students living in India to the college for exams, but they have their own reasons. We have to wait for the meeting’s outcome before finalising anything,” added Sanghi.It was decided to call students to the campus in small batches in different time slots. “We have to find a solution acceptable to all. There are certain places where the Covid-19 situation is still bad. The management should understand accordingly,” said one of the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-management-to-discuss-students-issues-today-153120
09-10-2020||Patiala||Punjabi University profs raise concerns over farm laws||Punjabi University professors have come out in support of farmers and raised concerns over the three new farm laws.The professors said, “Both text and context of the bills go vehemently against the vital interests of the farm sector and farming community. These should be repealed.”Jaswinder Singh Brar, convener, Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), said the entry of private corporate purchasers in the market for purchase of the produce would result in a dual market system for farm produce, which would weaken the assured minimum support price and government purchase system.He said, “Private players will be in a position to dictate terms of trade. According to the new laws, the unfolding of policy package will jeopardise the farm economy of Punjab with consequential impact on all sections of society.”The teachers said the decision would also affect the circulation of funds to farmers, labourers and others associated with farm produce. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-university-profs-raise-concerns-over-farm-laws-153138
09-10-2020||---||Experts discuss growing veggies, herbs at home||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8The Medicinal Plants Board, UT, under the Department of Forests and Wildlife, in collaboration with NGO Yuvsatta, organised a training programme for eco-club teachers at Botanical Garden, Sarangpur, today. The programme was to mark the end of the ongoing Wildlife Week.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, said with the initiatives of the board, herbal gardens had been set up in almost all prominent schools of the city. “We now plan to start ‘grow your own herbs and food campaign’ with active participation of eco clubs in schools and colleges,” he said.Senior resource persons — Dr Madan Gulati, MD, Ayurveda, and Dr Navtej Singh of Punjab Agricultural University — talked about herbs, fruits and vegetables that could be easily grown at homes.Dr Gulati stressed that herbs are among the easiest plants to grow. “Most herbs love the sun, so all you need to get started is a nice, sunny place in your house,” he said.Approximately, teachers from around 70 eco clubs of the city participated in the programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experts-discuss-growing-veggies-herbs-at-home-153144
09-10-2020||Ravneet Singh||Billboards dot Patiala, civic body turns blind eye||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 8The Municipal Corporation (MC) is yet to remove the billboards, which were affixed by political parties in view of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s visit to the city as part of ‘Kheti Bachao Yatra’.The billboards put up at various places, including outside the Chief Minister’s residence and Fountain Chowk, have not been removed. Also, the MC is undecided over the affixation of advertisement material put up at light points by the police department, which is prohibited under the outdoor advertisement policy.Joint Commissioner Avikesh Gupta said, “We will remove billboards and challans will also be issued.”Nearly 10 billboards and standees were put up on the roadside near the CM’s residence in violation of the municipal outdoor advertisement policy.Residents questioned if the rules were supposed to be implemented for them only. A passer-by said, “The MC takes action against private organisations and businesses only and not against the billboards carrying photographs of political leaders.”The MC has also not acted over an LED display affixed at Leela Bhawan Chowk light point by the district traffic police to educate commuters regarding Covid-19. The outdoor advertisement policy states that an advertisement device may be considered a traffic hazard if it interferes with the effectiveness of a traffic control device, a traffic light stop or give way sign. It also states that large format advertisements fixed on billboards, advertising devices, including LED and LCD screens, are not permitted within 10 metres of any traffic red light erected for regulation of traffic.While MC officials said they had not provided any permission to the police to do the same, Joint Commissioner Avikesh Gupta said, “We are checking the policy on the above issue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/billboards-dot-patiala-civic-body-turns-blind-eye-153150
09-10-2020||---||Cleanliness drive by Chandigarh MC||Chandigarh, October 8A cleanliness drive was carried out in the Industrial Area Phase I by various departments of the Municipal Corporation here today.Ward No 20 councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali was also present. Employees of various departments took prompt action on all problems related to cleaning, pruning of trees, cleaning of pavement, cleaning of debris, harvesting of grass in vacant places, street lights, road gully and sewerage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cleanliness-drive-by-chandigarh-mc-153151
09-10-2020||---||8 critically endangered vultures released into wild||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 8After years of grit and determination, eight critically endangered white-rumped vultures, six of them captive-bred, were reintroduced into the wild for the first time in India from the vulture conservation and breeding centre near here today.Landmark occasionFor biologists, the release of the vultures is a landmark occasion after January 2007 when the first white-rumped chick was born in captivity at the vulture conservation and breeding centre .About released vulturesNepal was the first country in Asia to release eight captive-bred white-rumped vultures in November 2017, but this release was the first in India and a major step. -  Vibhu Prakash, Principal Scientist, BNHSThe centre was set up in the lower Shivaliks in September 2001. For biologists, the release of the vultures is a landmark occasion after January 2007 when the first white-rumped chick was born in captivity at the centre.“The release of vultures is a great occasion for the biologists across the globe. The next crucial step is ensuring the safety of the environment in vulture safe zone, said Vibhu Prakash, Principal Scientist, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) and centre head, said.The released vultures, comprising six captive-bred and two rescued ones from the wild, are seven to eight years old.Each of them had been attached to a 30-gram device for satellite transmitter, which monitors their movement and survival, Prakash said.He said Nepal was the first country in Asia to release eight captive-bred white-rumped vultures in November 2017, but this release was the first in India and a major step.Not far from the bustling Chandigarh lies Asia’s largest breeding centre for vultures — the Jatayu Conservation Breeding Centre. The centre is located on the edge of the Bir Shikargaha Wildlife Sanctuary in Morni hills, where the eight vultures were released.It is a joint project of Haryana and the BNHS, which has had major support from the UK’s Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB), the Rufford Foundation and the British government’s Darwin Initiative for the Survival of Species Fund — to establish the centre and investigate the catastrophic declines of three critically endangered Gyps species of vultures in India.The Bir Shikargaha sanctuary has been declared a vulture safe zone. The sanctuary extends transboundary into Himachal Pradesh where the wildlife awareness among the villagers is quite high.“We will monitor the behaviour of vultures in the wild through satellite transmitters. If any of the released vultures dies or gets injured, we can quickly recover them and determine what happened. The satellite telemetry will be the key for us to know the cause of death and prevent other vultures dying from that cause,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-critically-endangered-vultures-released-into-wild-153152
09-10-2020||---||Ad hoc panel okayed for District Bar Assn||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana today approved an ad hoc committee for the District Bar Association, Chandigarh, in place of the present executive committee to look after the affairs of Bar members of the District Courts, Sector 43. The membersVinod K Verma, one of the members of the newly formed ad hoc committee, said a majority of the members discarded the previous executive, whose term got over in April, 2020, in the General House meeting held on Wednesday. The ad hock committee comprises convener Vinod K Chodha, co-convener Ravinder Singh Bassi and members Vinod K Verma, Ravinder Sharma, Karandeep Singh Khullar, Sunil Kumar, Sarabjit Kaur, Kapil Mittal and Raghav Sharma.While NK Nanda, former president of the Bar Association, termed the decision illegal, Karanjit Singh, chairman of the Bar Council, in an approval letter to the chairman of the ad hoc committee, said the panel would function to look after day-to-day affairs of the Bar Associationtill the elections wereconducted.Karanjit said the Bar Council had received the resolution passed by the General House of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh, in its meeting held on October 7, 2020, in which the ad hoc committee has been constituted in place of the old executive committee whose term expired in April, 2020.“The Bar Council expects that the ad hoc committee will work for the welfare of Bar members and comply with the directive issued by the High Court, the District and Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, and the Bar Council,” says the letter of the chairman.Vinod K Verma, one of the members of the newly formed ad hoc committee, said a majority of the members discarded the previous executive, whose term got over in April, 2020, in the General House meeting held on Wednesday. The ad hock committee comprises convener Vinod K Chodha, co-convener Ravinder Singh Bassi and members Vinod K Verma, Ravinder Sharma, Karandeep Singh Khullar, Sunil Kumar, Sarabjit Kaur, Kapil Mittal and Raghav Sharma.NK Nanda said the General House meeting was against the constitution of the Bar Association. Only a few members were present in the meeting, while the strength of half of the total members was required for such a meeting. The approval to such a committee was also given in haste without giving them an opportunity to be heard. He would move the court if the decision was not revoked.Nanda said he was not against the ad hoc committee, but the way it was formed was wrong.Karanjit Singh, chairman of the Bar Council, said the approval to the ad hoc committee had been given as per the rules of the council.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ad-hoc-panel-okayed-for-district-bar-assn-153153
09-10-2020||---||Mani Majra resident duped of Rs2.50 lakh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8A Mani Majra resident fell prey to online fraud after some swindler posing as the complainant’s brother made him transfer a sum of Rs2.50 lakh. Modus operandiThe fraudster stated that he needed money for his friend and convinced the complainant to transfer Rs2.50 lakh to an HDFC Bank account in the name of some Bhavesh Mehta. After receiving the money, the fraudster again asked the complainant to transfer Rs2.50 lakh, following which he got suspicious.According to the police, complainant Vikas Gandhi reported that an unknown person sent him a WhatsApp message on July 23, posing as his younger brother, who is residing in the USA.The fraudster stated that he needed money for his friend and convinced the complainant to transfer Rs2.50 lakh to an HDFC Bank account in the name of some Bhavesh Mehta. After receiving the money, the fraudster again asked the complainant to transfer Rs2.50 lakh following which he got suspicious.The complainant later contacted his brother and realised that he had been duped.He submitted a police complaint, which was further investigated by the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell of the UT police. Following this, a case of cheating was registered at the Mani Majra police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mani-majra-resident-duped-of-rs2-50-lakh-153155
09-10-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Pendency of cases can’t be a basis to refuse bail, says court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 8While saying that allegations of grave and serious offence and pendency of several criminal cases against an accused cannot be a basis to refuse bail, the Court of Rajesh Sharma Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, granted bail to two suspects who were arrested on the charges of snatching.In the bail application filed through counsel Ashok Tyagi, both suspects - Anil and Hari Parkash - claimed that they were innocent and had been falsely implicated in the case.The public prosecutor vehemently opposed the bail by saying that the suspects had actively participated in this offence and they were involved in two other cases of similar nature as well.The suspects were arrested on the complaint of a woman, a resident of Sector 15. She had alleged two persons pulled a gold chain from her neck when she had gone for a morning walk on June 26, 2020. The duo fled from the spot on a motorcycle. After registering a case, the police arrested the duo. They were in judicial custody since July 8.The court said the Supreme Court, in its recent decision rendered in Prabhakar Tewari v/s State of UP, has held that allegation of grave and serious offence and pendency of several criminal cases against an accused cannot be a basis to refuse bail plea. Consequently, keeping in view the facts and circumstances, the bail application of the suspects was allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pendency-of-cases-cant-be-a-basis-to-refuse-bail-says-court-153158
09-10-2020||Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi building collapse: 2 weeks on, inquiry report not submitted||Though two weeks have passed, the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) is yet to submit a report in connection with the collapse of a double-storey under-construction building at Meera Milli Mohalla near Ramlila Ground here.On September 24, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan had ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident and asked the SDM concerned to submit a report in 10 days. Four persons, including the building owner, died in the incident.SDM Kuldeep Bawa said, “We are looking into the matter and the report will be submitted in sometime.”The probe was ordered after prima facie several anomalies came to light on the day of the mishap. The preliminary inquiry had found that old material was being used to construct the building and that too without concrete pillars. Brick pillars were being constructed by the building owner to save money. Even faulty sanitary fittings were blamed for the incident, though the owner had got the building plan sanctioned from the authorities.In this particular case, inquiry has not been completed so far, but if we look back, the picture is not rosy. Magisterial probes were ordered and FIRs were registered against builders and promoters in two building collapse incidents in Mohali, but no action has been taken against them so far.On February 8 this year, a triple-storey building with a basement at Sante Majra village on the Kharar-Landran road had collapsed. A JCB operator, who was digging the basement, died. The inquiry report of the SDM, Kharar, had indicted the builder and the contractor equally responsible for the mishap.On April 12, 2018, a three-storey housing society building, Imperial Garden, nearing completion had collapsed in the Peer Muchalla area of Zirakpur. No casualty was reported in the incident. In both incidents, inquiry reports had indicted the builder and the contractor and cases were registered against them. However, no action has been taken in both cases as these are now sub-judice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-building-collapse-2-weeks-on-inquiry-report-not-submitted-153159
09-10-2020||Amit Bathla||Work on NMT corridor yet to begin in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 8Four months have passed since the foundation stone of non-motorised traffic (NMT) corridor or bell corridor was laid by Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, but the work on the much-awaited corridor is yet to begin.The work, which was expected to be completed in three months, was delayed due to non-submission of bank guarantee by the contractor for the project, officials said and added that they could not issue work orders due to the said reason.MC’s executive engineer Ankit Lohan said since everything had been resolved, the work on the project would start soon and it was expected to be completed in six months, he said.Gupta, who had recently expressed displeasure over the slow pace of development works in the city during a meeting with civic body officials, said MC Commissioner Mahavir Singh had assured him that the work would start soon.The project||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-on-nmt-corridor-yet-to-begin-in-panchkula-153171
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||Govt staff to protest at Chandigarh DC office on Oct 12||The coordination committee of the Government and MC Employees and Workers, UT, has strongly condemned the decision of the Chandigarh Administration to not revise the salary of outsourced workers.A meeting of the committee held under Satinder Singh, president of the coordination committee, decided unanimously to hold a protest at the DC office on October 12 against the Administration for its non-seriousness towards the issues of UT employees.Rakesh Kumar, general secretary of the coordination committee, said more than 12,000 outsourced workers working under the UT Administration and the MC were continuously exploited by contractors of the GeM portal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/govt-staff-to-protest-at-chandigarh-dc-office-on-oct-12-153175
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||1 booked for taking loan on fake papers||The UT police have booked an unknown person for taking a loan of Rs3.61 lakh to purchase electronic goods by submitting fake documents.According to the police, the complainant, Suraj Ram a resident of Nayagaon, reported that an unknown person took a loan of Rs3.61 lakh from IDFC Bank, Sector 26, on his name. The suspect purchased electronic items from an electronics store in Mani Majra.The complainant later came to know about the incident after the bank sent him a message in December 2019 to pay loan instalments.The complainant informed the bank in February this year that he had not taken any loan. He also lodged a police complaint. After investigation, a case has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-booked-for-taking-loan-on-fake-papers-153178
09-10-2020||Chandigarh||1 held for giving phone to prisoner||Biker succumbs to injuries at PGIChandigarh: A motorcyclist was killed after being hit by a speeding car on the road separating Sector 9 and 10. According to the police, complainant Avinash Kumar, a resident of Nayagaon, reported that the motorcycle, being ridden by his father Videsh Pal, was hit by a Verna car near the small chowk on the road on October 6. He was seriously injured and admitted to the PGI, where he later succumbed to his injuries. The car was being driven by Lovely, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26. The police have registered a case against the car driver at the Sector 3 police station. TNS2 days on, fire put out at dadu majraChandigarh: After two days of firefighting, the MC on Thursday succeeded in putting out the fire at the dumping ground. Residents of Dadu Majra, Sector 38 (West) and Sector 25 complained of breathing problems and a burning sensation in their eyes as thick smoke engulfed the surrounding areas. TNSSociety donates wheelchairChandigarh: The Cerebral Palsy Sports Society of Punjab, affiliated to the Cerebral Palsy Sports Federation of India (CPSFI), presented a wheelchair to a 16-year-old girl, Aanchal, who is suffering from cerebral palsy since childhood. The 16-year- old is a resident of Ram Darbar. Ajit Singh, former Director Sports Authority of India, started the initiative to find such children and help them. TNSDevelopment programmeChandigarh: The Department of Computer Science and Applications and Human Resource Development Centre, PU, are organising a seven-day faculty development programme (FDP) on ‘Artificial Intelligence in Human Life’. Prof RK Singla, Dean University Instructions, talked about the theme of the programme. Prof Sikander Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Himachal Pradesh University, was the chief guest for the inaugural session. TNSLecture on floral diversityChandigarh: MCM DAV College for Women organised a Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA)-sponsored online awareness lecture on ‘Floral Diversity and Plant Conservation Strategies’. TNSWinners of video contestChandigarh: Mehak Aggarwal, an MCA student at the DCSA, Tanya Ahuja pursuing BA Hons at the ISSER and Jhanvi Sabharwal pursuing BSc from SD College claimed the joint first position in a video-making competition organised by the Panjab University Alumni Association and the Interdisciplinary Department of Swami Vivekananda Studies. TNSScholars air grievancesChandigarh: Panjab University Research Scholars Association (PURSA) representatives met both DSWs of the PU and highlighted the problems being faced by them. "The authorities accepted a few demands. It was decided that scholars not staying in hostels need not pay HRA to the hostels. Instead, they will submit an application with a rent slip with signature of the owner in the hostel office or DSW office. The official notice will be released soon," said a representative. TNSHonour for actor, cop, PhilanthropistChandigarh: Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, philanthropist Karan Gilhotra and UT police Inspector Narinder Patial were felicitated by the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Thursday to recognise their contribution towards children’s education by donating smart phones. Sonu Sood was not present on the occasion. They were awarded certificates of appreciation for their generous contribution towards child rights. Inspector Narinder, SHO of the Sector 26 police station, also donated 100 pair of shoes for children on the occasion. TNSFake social media account, 1 bookedChandigarh: An unknown person has been booked for creating a fake Instagram account of a minor girl and posting objectionable comments on the profile. Sources said the suspect created the Instagram account of a 14-year-old girl residing in Sector 51. Her elder sister submitted a police complaint, following which a case has been registered at the Sector 49 police station. TNSWoman hangs herself to deathChandigarh: A 38-year-old woman reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself at her house in Sector 46 on Thursday. The victim has been identified as Jasbir Kaur. Her kin found her hanging after which they rushed her to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where she was declared brought dead. The police said no suicide note was found from the spot. Inquest proceedings have been initiated by the police at the Sector 34 police station. TNSMan held with 1-kg cannabisPanchkula: The Panchkula police have arrested a man with 1 kg of cannabis. The suspect has been identified as Krishan Kumar, a native of Moradabad district. At present, he is residing in Chandimandir on a rented accommodation. He was produced before a court, which sent him to judicial custody. TNSImplementation of scheme reviewedChandigarh: Sorabh Arora, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, reviewed the progress of awareness programme and proper implementation of the PM SVANidhi scheme in Chandigarh on Thursday. During a meeting, he directed the enforcement staff and vendor cell officials to take a strong follow-up with street vendors registered with the MC and create awareness among them regarding Rs500 waived off per month in the monthly vending fee to the beneficiary who will avail of the loan benefit under the PM SVANidhi scheme. TNSYouth elopes with minor girl, bookedZirakpur: A youth was booked for allegedly eloping with a minor girl on the promise of marrying her. According to information, the girl’s father told the police that Sachin eloped with his 15-year-old girl on October 6. While leaving the house, she also took away her Aadhaar card and Rs35,000. They kept on looking for her, but to no avail. The girl later called them and informed that she had run away with Sachin. She also told her family members to not to search for them. The police have registered a case against the youth. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-held-for-giving-phone-to-prisoner-153184
