09-11-2020||Chandigarh||115 fresh COVID-19 cases take Chandigarh’s tally to 15,249||Chandigarh on Monday recorded 115 fresh COVID-19 infections, taking its case count to 15,249, while three more fatalities pushed the death toll to 237, a medical bulletin said.There are 902 active cases in the city, it said.Eighty-six patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of those cured to 14,110, according to the bulletin.A total of 1,16,839 samples have been taken for testing so far. Of these, 1,00,898 samples have tested negative, while reports of 122 are awaited, the bulletin said. —  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/115-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-chandigarhs-tally-to-15-249-168408
09-11-2020||---||Mohali reports 88 COVID-19 cases, 2 deaths||Mohali, November 9Mohali on Monday reported 88 new COVID-19, taking the district count to 12,985.Meanwhile, two fatalities recorded during the past 24 hours took the total number of deaths to 248.As many as 35 patients were also cured and discharged from various hospitals across the district.The number of recovered patients in Mohali now stands at 11,990 while the active cases are 747.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-88-covid-19-cases-2-deaths-168366
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||PGI-Chandigarh warns of spike in COVID-19 cases||With the rise in coronavirus cases again, the PGI-Chandigarh on Monday said with the prevailing low humidity promotes evaporation of viral particles and aerosol formations that can increase the airborne spread of the disease.“With the Covid positive numbers consistently rising for the past one week, it is high time that we guard up and follow Covid protocols without any lackadaisical approach,” Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research Director Jagat Ram said.“There are chances of a spike in cases again in view of the onset of festival season, upcoming winters and fast-increasing pollution levels,” he cautioned.“On the basis of studies on other respiratory viruses like SARS, influenza, etc, which show seasonal variance with cases spiking in winters, there is a possibility that the coronavirus infections might also rise in the coming months.“Furthermore, low humidity promotes evaporation of viral particles and aerosol formations, which can increase the airborne spread of disease.”About how the high levels of pollution might factor in the surging numbers, Ram explained pollution levels rise in winters as the cold air is dense and moves sluggishly.Further, particulate matter is lethal for respiratory health as it enters the alveoli of lungs and damages them, compromising the respiratory health.“Under these circumstances, if one contracts Covid, it’s likely to be more severe,” the director said.“With the festival of lights just being a few days away, people are already in the festive spirit and are far less vigilant. With mask use down and mobility up, we are definitely contributing to accelerate the rise in cases,” he warned.“Till the time, the vaccine arrives, wearing a proper mask, following hand hygiene and social distancing is the mainstay to prevent COVID-19 infection,” he added. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chandigarh-warns-of-spike-in-covid-19-cases-168357
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Triple-riding, speeding kills biker||A 23-year-old youth was killed while two others were injured after the motorcycle they were triple-riding met with a mishap near the Hallo Majra light point last night. The victims were returning after a party and were not wearing helmets.‘Victim didn’t have a driving licence’ All three were returning from a party and were not wearing helmets at the time of the mishap. The bike was recently purchased by a friend of the victim. “The victim didn’t have a driving licence,” sources said. The deceased has been identified as Vikesh, a resident of Raipur Khurd, while his friends, Neeraj, also a Raipur Khurd resident, and Ravinder Singh, a resident of Sector 17, Panchkula, were injured.The police said the victims were heading towards Zirakpur when the accident took place. “According to one of the injured, Vikesh was riding and he suddenly accelerated following which the front wheel of the motorcycle lifted after which he lost control, leading to the accident,” said a police official.The police were informed and the injured shifted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where Vikesh was declared brought dead.The police said it appeared that the motorcycle was being ridden at a high speed, which led to the accident. “The victim didn’t have a driving licence,” sources said. The victim worked with a private company at Zirakpur.Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Sector 31 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/triple-riding-speeding-kills-biker-168185
09-11-2020||---||Passports made on forged papers, three cops nabbed||Zirakpur, November 8The Mohali police have arrested three cops for allegedly preparing fake documents, including Aadhaar card and voter ID, used to make 41 passports. Two of the suspects have been dismissed from the service.Two of them sackedThose arrested are Constable Rajinder Singh, Havildar Sukhwant Singh and Raman Kumar. The former two have been dismissed from the service.A case was registered against the suspects, Rajinder Singh, Sukhwant Singh and Raman Kumar, under Sections 420, 421, 466, 467, 468, 471, 167 and 120-B of the IPC, Section 12 of the Passport Act and Sections 7, 8 and 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act at the Zirakpur police station on October 28.Rajinder Singh and Sukhwant Singh have been sacked. During an investigation, it was found that the passports were issued on the basis of fake voter ID and certificates with false names. The passports were issued by passport verification Constable Rajinder Singh, who was assisted by Havildar Sukhwant Singh, posted at the Zirakpur police station.It was also found that Raj Kumar, a resident of Purani Basaudi village in Sonepat, who is a fugitive and notorious gangster involved in many cases in Haryana, had also got his passport issued through them.SSP Satinder Singh said, “The case is under investigation. More arrests are likely in this case.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/passports-made-on-forged-papers-three-cops-nabbed-168186
09-11-2020||---||Sans basics, residents of Zirakpur hit streets||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, November 8Representatives of close to a dozen resident welfare associations (RWAs) of housing societies here held a protest against the Zirakpur Municipal Council for not providing the basic amenities.The protesters took a round of the town in four-wheelers, venting their ire on the ‘apathetic’ officials of the civic body.The protest began from Bollywood Heights-1 at Peer Muchalla and passed through MS Enclave, the K Area, the Baltana chowk, the Patiala chowk, the Singhpura chowk, VIP Road, the Savitri Heights chowk, the Patiala road and culminated at the Zirakpur bus stand.Sukhdev Chaudhary, a protester, said, “The council is levying several taxes. Despite this, sewer lines are overflowing. Street lights are non-existent. There is no provision for rainwater harvesting. Stray cattle menace is yet to be reined in and the condition of roads is too bad.”The residents were dissatisfied with MC officials and want a higher official from the district administration to meet them and redress their grievances twice a month.Addressing the protesters, advocate Vinay Kumar alleged that due to ‘corrupt’ officials of the council, builders had made a mockery of the master plan.The residents also sought a transparent mechanism to know the status of the development works being carried out by the civic body.Ashish of Motia Royal City said, “Builders are making flats in the space reserved for parks and the council is not taking any action.”Residents of Bollywood Heights, Panchkula Heights, Hillview Enclave, Srishyam Residency, Opera Garden, Shubh Homes, Friends Enclave, Bollywood Heights-2, Trishala Homes, Victoria Heights and Swami Enclave, Hillview Society, Royal Mansion, Bollywood Heights and Holland Park took part in the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sans-basics-residents-of-zirakpur-hit-streets-168188
09-11-2020||Mohali||Snatchers’ gang busted, 5 held||The police have busted a gang of snatchers with the arrest of five of its members. The gang was active in Balongi and Airport Road for the past sometime. The police also recovered three knives, iron rods, an auto-rickshaw and a motorbike used in the crime.The suspects, Chandan Paswan, Nikhil, Sandeep, Rahul and Manoj, are in the age group of 18 to 25 and hail from UP and Bihar. They were produced in a court, which sent them to four-day police remand. Chandan and Nikhil have already been booked under Sections 302 and 307 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatchers-gang-busted-5-held-168189
09-11-2020||---||Girl duped of Rs13 K in garb of providing house||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Two persons have been booked for allegedly cheating a 26-year-old girl of Rs13,500 on the pretext of providing a house on rent.Complainant Mamta Rani, a resident of Ferozepur, who is a student and resides in Sector 51, reported that she was planning to change her house following which she started looking for an accommodation on rent on OLX and she uploaded her mobile number on the website.On May 4, she received a call from a person who offered a house on rent. Asked by the caller, the complainant transferred Rs2,000 through Google Pay. Later, another person, who introduced himself as Paramjit, visited her house and took Rs8,000 from her. The complainant reported that Paramjit stopped taking her calls.She then again started looking for a house on rent and on May 9, she received a call from a person, Karanvir, who asked her to deposit Rs3,500 in his account. The complainant later realised that she had been duped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girl-duped-of-rs13-k-in-garb-of-providing-house-168195
09-11-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Twists & turns that deprived city of IIT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Not many would be aware that the Central Government in 1965 had decided to build an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Chandigarh to replace Punjab Engineering College (PEC).However, unlucky twists and turns deprived the city of an IIT.As PEC marks its 99th Foundation Day on November 9, its Director, Prof Dheeraj Sanghi, shared some unforgettable and yet untold stories about the institution. “A large number of people have told me parts of the story and it is possible that some parts are not authentic. It’s fascinating anyway,” he said.“Since IITs were to be at a level higher than any other engineering college, foreign help was sought and received. The three new IITs would be set up with the help of the US, Germany and Russia,” said Professor Sanghi. “The United Kingdom later offered its help for any other engineering institute. While the Indian Government welcomed the offer, it was thinking of two options: Starting a new college which will not be an IIT or converting an old college into an IIT,” he added.Ex-principal’s connection with Nehru family“A small college in Chandigarh had a great visionary in its principal, Prof RN Dogra. The family was rather close to the Nehru family. This college (PEC) which was the oldest college, East of Thomson College, in undivided India, and had a great reputation, sent a letter to the government asking that it be made the 5th IIT of India. However, the government had other pressures. There was to be one IIT and two RECs in Northern India. The Central Government was keen to convert the Delhi College of Engineering into REC, Delhi, but people in Delhi protested. So the second REC of the North was planned for Srinagar. Eventually, it was decided to establish an engineering college in Hauz Khas with the help of the United Kingdom. And for the Chandigarh College, there was a slip between the cup and the lip.”Another chance in 1963At IIT-Delhi, the initial architecture, planning and hostel names borrowed a lot from PEC. “The government finally agreed. The date was decided. The IIT-Chandigarh was to take admissions from 1963. But in 1962, the China war happened. The finances which were already stressed became worse and the date for conversion was postponed to 1964,” said Professor Sanghi.Punjab’s role“A new condition was added for the conversion that Punjab must continue to fund this IIT to the same extent as the funds it provided to PEC at that time. Pratap Singh Kairon helped in getting 146 acres of prime land in the upcoming city of Chandigarh for relocating PEC. Later in 1964, Gopi Chand Bhargava, who was state Chief Minister just for two weeks, approved that the government would pay the same amount that they granted to PEC that year for eternity. While it was too late for July 1964 admissions, the Central Government decided that IIT-Chandigarh would come into being in 1965. At the 3rd Inter-IIT Sports Meet at IIT-Madras in 1964, Brig Sisir Kumar Bose had announced that from the next year, there would be six teams participating and the sixth one would be from Chandigarh. However, no one realised that with the death of Nehru, Chandigarh had lost its biggest supporter in Delhi. No notification of IIT-Chandigarh came.”The government decided to wait till the picture of division of Punjab was clear. The Punjab Reorganization Act was implemented on November 1, 1966. The PEC was no longer in the state of Punjab, and therefore, there was no question of government promising any financial support to PEC (or IIT Chandigarh), he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/twists-turns-that-deprived-city-of-iit-168209
09-11-2020||---||Bicycle-sharing project likely to start this month||Chandigarh, November 8People will be able to use bicycles and e-bikes from docking stations on an hourly rental basis after November 15.Under the bicycle sharing project, Chandigarh Cycles4Change Challenge is being organised. It is a trial before lunching all 5,000 bicycle/e-bikes at 617 docking stations. Initially, 100 bikes will be made available at 10 stations. Later, it will be doubled in another 10 days.Meanwhile, NP Sharma of Chandigarh Smart City Limited said: “The project is expected to take off at the end of the second week of this month. In seven to 10 days, 100 cycles will be ready with 10 docking stations for the launch. Of these, 60 per cent will be e-bikes.”The delayed project will have docking stations at railway station, bus stands, markets, Panjab University, the PGI, the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Sukhna Lake, Rock Garden and other prominent public places.A maximum of 14 docking sites have been earmarked in various parts of Sector 17. In almost all major points of the city, there will be docking points.Officials said this work earlier got delayed due to Covid as the agency doing the job faced difficulties in getting the logistics and work force.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bicycle-sharing-project-likely-to-start-this-month-168214
09-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC moves to set up night shelters for the homeless||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8With the winter setting in, the local Municipal Corporation has started the process of setting up temporary waterproof night shelters for the homeless in different parts of the city.MC invites bids by November 17The civic body has floated a tender and has asked interested bidders to send their entries by November 17. The bids will be opened the same day to allot the work of setting up night shelters to the lowest bidder.The shelters will be set up at an estimated cost of Rs 1.18 crore for three months. Though the estimated cost is a little less than the amount spent last year (Rs 1.37 crore), eyebrows are still being raised over the “huge cost” being spent by the cash-starved corporation.The civic body has floated a tender and has asked interested bidders to send their entries by November 17. The bids will be opened the same day to allot the work of setting up the shelters to the lowest bidder.Last year, even after mid-December, the corporation had not set up the night shelters. Chandigarh Tribune had highlighted the delay. This year, however, the MC has started the process early.The shelters will be set up in several areas, including near the GMCH, Sector 32, the GMSH, Sector 16, the PGI, the ISBT, Sector 17, the ISBT, Sector 43, Sector 20, 22, 29 and 9, and some markets. These will have quilts, mattresses, pillows, drinking water and lights. The temporary night shelters are put up every winter to provide relief to the homeless, who sleep at public places.The homeless can be seen sleeping in market corridors and other open spaces even during the harsh winter.Hitesh Puri, chairman of the Chandigarh Residents’ Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), said the civic body should ensure that the tendering process and setting up of the shelters was expedited. “It should be ensured that the shelters are in place well before the harsh winter sets in,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-moves-to-set-up-night-shelters-for-the-homeless-168224
09-11-2020||---||ABVP condemns political interference at PU||Chandigarh, November 8Panjab University ABVP president Paras Ratan has opposed involvement of Congress leaders in yesterday’s protest held on the campus over the PU Senate poll issue.Ratan said the PU senate/syndicate was an educational administrative body and there should be nomination or election of educationists instead of politicians.“The New Education Policy has given institutions such as the PU an opportunity to undergo a major reform for their welfare. While the policy is being implemented, it’s unfortunate that the Chandigarh Congress president came to the Vice Chancellor’s office with his entire party. The Congress leaders, who are demanding the Senate elections just to see their leaders in power, have forgotten that the Punjab Government, headed by their party, has even banned student union elections,” said Ratan.Hrishika Raj, PU ABVP secretary, said: “The ABVP will organise seminars, run signature campaigns and will try to arrange meetings of university teachers and students with the Chancellor in support of the administrative reforms in the PU.”Syndics’ plea to facultyFormer syndics today urged members of the PU faculty to join a protest rally on the campus on Monday. The Joint Students Action Committee has decided to hold a protest at the UT Advisor’s office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abvp-condemns-political-interference-at-pu-168225
09-11-2020||Naina Mishra||Cases up 44% this week in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8In August, the city had reported between 100 and 150 cases of Covid every day. The number steadily rose to over 300 cases per day in September. For the most of October, the daily average of the number of cases fell to 50. In the last week, however, the cases have again gained momentum with at least 100 cases being reported each day.City sees 109 cases, 2 deathsChandigarh: The city reported 109 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 15,134. The city also saw two deaths due to the virus, taking the toll to 234. An 82-year-old man from Sector 49 died at the GMCH-32. He was suffering from diabetes mellitus and myocardial infarction. A 73-year-old woman from Sector 22 died at the GMSH-16. She was suffering from SARI, hypertension and chronic kidney disease. As many as 46 patients defeated the virus on Sunday. The total number of cured patients in the city stands at 14,024.There has been a rise in the cases by 44 per cent as compared with the week ending October 31. While 380 cases surfaced in the city from October 25 to 31, 549 cases were recorded from November 1 to 7.The positivity rate has increased to 8 per cent this week. It was 6 per cent in the preceding week.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “For the past one week, the daily case count is on the rise. The number of patients requiring hospitalisation is also going up. When the cases were on the decline, there used to be 65 patients in the Covid ward. However, the number of admissions has now crossed 100 in the ward.”“Cold weather and air pollution are the two evils that will worsen the situation. People must not lower the guard and wear a mask, use a sanitiser and maintain social distancing,” said Dr Ram.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “The surge is due to an increased mobility during the festival season. Days after Dasehra, the city started witnessing a spike in the number of Covid cases. We encourage residents to participate in mobile testing and self-monitoring of symptoms.”“Residents must take all necessary precautions as the air quality is deteriorating and it could worsen the symptoms of Covid patients. The next few days will experience dry weather without air movement due to which the pollutants will remain in the atmosphere, thus making it difficult for people with respiratory diseases to breathe. The UT decision to ban bursting of crackers in the city is a welcome step,” said Dr Kang.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cases-up-44-this-week-in-chandigarh-168226
09-11-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Demand to replace vehicle due to defect in part rejected||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8Rejecting the demand of a city resident to replace the car or refund the cost of the vehicle due to a defect in one of the parts, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed Modern Automobiles, Industrial Area, Phase I, Chandigarh, to replace the defective part free of cost with one year warranty in addition to free washing and cleaning.In a complaint filed before the commission, city resident Mandeep Kumar Garg submitted that he purchased a Maruti Suzuki Swift VXI car from Modern Automobiles, Industrial Area, Phase I, Chandigarh, for Rs6,05,000 on March 31, 2018.The complainant said when he visited the dealer to get his car serviced for the first time on May 12, 2018, he was told by an official of the dealer that the manufacturer informed them that there was a manufacturing defect in the car. Therefore, the official asked the complainant to leave the vehicle for necessary repairs.Mandeep said when he checked the particulars of his car on the manufacturer’s website, he found that his vehicle was having some manufacturing defect i.e. brake vacuum hose.After getting information, he requested the dealer to replace the car, but to no avail. Though the dealer admitted that there was manufacturing defect in the car, it did not replace the vehicle nor refunded the money.The dealer denied all allegations and said the service adviser had requested the complainant to leave the vehicle at the service station so that the part could be replaced free of cost, but he refused to do so and took his car without service.After hearing the arguments, the commission noted that on the basis of some complaints regarding the brake system of Swift and Baleno cars manufactured and sold in years 2017 and 2018, a circular was issued by the manufacturer to inspect the cars of these make of the said period and replace the brake part/brake vacuum hose free of cost.“We are of the considered opinion that the action taken by the company is genuine one. It does not recall for any replacement of the car as a whole as the defective part can be replaced without affecting the performance of the vehicle respect of its engine etc.,” read the order.The complaint is partly allowed with direction to the dealer to replace the necessary part of the car free of cost in addition to free washing and cleaning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/demand-to-replace-vehicle-due-to-defect-in-part-rejected-168227
09-11-2020||Panchkula||66 fresh cases in Panchkula||The district today reported 66 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 7,509.No Covid death has been witnessed in the district in the past three days. Among the fresh cases, 10 each were reported from Pinjore and Sector 20, seven from Sector 20 and five each from Kalka, Sector 12-A and Sector 9.While 7,032 patients have defeated the virus so far, 360 cases are still active. The recovery rate of the district stands at 93.64 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/66-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-168228
09-11-2020||Mohali||1 more succumbs to virus in Mohali||The district witnessed a death due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 246. Meanwhile, 75 fresh cases were reported from the district, while 61 patients were cured and discharged from the hospital. Of the 75 fresh cases, 53 were from Mohali (urban), seven from Dera Bassi, four from Dhakoli, one from Kharar, two from Kurali and eight from Lalru. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-more-succumbs-to-virus-in-mohali-168229
09-11-2020||Mohali||Mohali cops nab two on extortion charge||The police have arrested two persons in a case of extortion and recovered a .32 bore revolver, six live rounds of ammunition, a car and a ransom amount of Rs10,000 from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Mandeep Singh, a resident of Jagatpura, and Harpreet Singh, a resident of Kandala. A case was registered against them under Sections 384, 386 and 34 of the IPC and under the Arms Act at the Phase XI police station on November 7.The suspects were today produced before a court, which remanded them in two-day police custody.SHO Jagdeep Singh Brar said Mandeep, Harpreet and three other unidentified accomplices had threatened to kill a businessman, Rajinder Singh, by showing revolvers. The suspects were demanding a weekly ransom from him for plying buses from Mohali to a place in Uttar Pradesh.“The suspects were interrogated for threatening people and demanding ransom. Three other accomplices will be arrested soon,” he said.The police said Harpreet had already been booked under Sections 323, 384, 148, 149, 506, 364-A and 120-B of the IPC at the Phase XI police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-cops-nab-two-on-extortion-charge-168230
09-11-2020||---||Delhi to Srinagar flight makes emergency landing at Chandigarh airport||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 8A GoAir flight from Delhi to Srinagar made an emergency landing at the Chandigarh International Airport here yesterday after a passenger developed some health problem.According to information, the GoAir flight, which took off from Delhi at 11:30 am, had to make an emergency landing at the Chandigarh airport at 12:15 pm on Saturday.A passenger, aged around 45, developed some heart problem as his blood pressure dropped drastically. After getting treatment at a hospital here, he boarded the flight to Srinagar today.An airport official said the pilot of the GoAir flight made a SOS call to the air traffic controller, Chandigarh, demanding permission to make an emergency landing after the passenger developed complications.An ambulance was summed at the tarmac in which the passenger, along with his wife, was sent to a hospital in Mohali. After undergoing treatment at the hospital, the passenger boarded the GoAir flight to Srinagar on Sunday, said the official.Ajay Bhardwaj, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh International Airport Limited, said they provided an ambulance to the passenger. He was taken to a hospital. They helped him board a flight to Srinagar at 3 pm today.He said tenders for an airport medical inspection room had been floated. They had started receiving bids to manage and operate the room as well as to provide 24-hour ambulance service. At present, doctors of the Civil Hospital, Mohali, were on duty and an ambulance from a private hospital was made available in case of an emergency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delhi-to-srinagar-flight-makes-emergency-landing-at-chandigarh-airport-168231
09-11-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula civic body to begin online booking for Diwali stalls today||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 8The Panchkula Municipal Corporation will begin online booking for Diwali stalls in the market areas from 11 am tomorrow amid lack of clarity among shopkeepers. For this, the MC has issued terms and conditions on a dedicated portal - stallbooking.online.Shopkeepers said though the MC had decided to go ahead with booking for Diwali stalls, there was confusion over the entire process.A shopkeeper said: “In the past few days, the MC has altered terms and conditions for at least three times. Still, there is no clarity. I want to ask the MC authorities if any shopkeeper decides not to book a space in front of his shop, they will allot that particular space to anyone else (other than shopkeeper) or not.”Senior officials of the corporation said this was the first-of-its-kind exercise in the city, adding they were trying to keep all troubles at bay to ensure a smooth process.Panchkula MC Commissioner RK Singh said shopkeepers and vendors could book these stalls by paying a certain amount depending upon the space.He said spaces in front of SCOs, SCFs, DSSs, bays and booths could only be booked by the owner/lessee/tenant of the shop. In case the booking was made by persons other than owner/lessee/tenant of the shop, it would be rejected and the amount would be forfeited.“A shopkeeper will utilise the booked space only. In case, any material is found out of the booked area, it will be seized by the Encroachment Wing of the Panchkula MC and the amount twice the standard rates will be charged as penalty,” he said.As per the conditions, it is mandatory for vendor/shopkeeper to display the booking receipt in front of their shops. “Vendors/shopkeepers/stall holders and their employees will wear the mask, use hand sanitisers frequently and maintain social distancing for customer also as per the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government. The shopkeeper will ensure that the surrounding area is kept neat and clean,” the guidelines said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-civic-body-to-begin-online-booking-for-diwali-stalls-today-168232
09-11-2020||---||Relaxation on cracker ban unlikely in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 8The UT Administration is unlikely to relax the ban on crackers in the city on Diwali.After representations regarding relaxations, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said: “I am not in the favour of three-hour relaxation as lives and health of senior citizens and patients are more important than fun of children.”The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal today sent a representation to the UT Administrator to review the ban on firecrackers immediately as traders would suffer huge losses.AAP president Prem Garg also wrote to the Administrator mentioning that Punjab had not banned the sale and use of crackers and Haryana has also given a two-hour relaxation for selling and bursting crackers. On the similar lines, the UT should also allow limited sale and bursting of firecrackers for two hours from 8 pm to 10 pm so that vendors don’t suffer any losses and children are also not deprived of some fun in these depressing days of staying at home for so long.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/relaxation-on-cracker-ban-unlikely-in-chandigarh-168233
09-11-2020||How to improve condition of tricity roads & ensure a smooth ride? ||Cut expenses, shun piecemeal approach & repair roads||Check load on approach roadsGenerally roads are carpeted after monsoon, but this year the repair is being carried out till date. Mohali and Kharar roads are being repaired by respective civic bodies in a selected manner due to the upcoming elections. The government has allowed big builders to construct housing and commercial structures around the Chandigarh periphery without checking load on approach roads. The quality and period of road carpeting needs to be rechecked for providing hassle and accident free ride to commuters. Also officials concerned and contractors should be accountable for poor quality repair of roads.Wg Cmdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliConcrete roads only answer(The Chandigarh Administration has no money constraint for the 2020-21 fiscal. The problem lies in its utilisation by councillors, who always want more and more facilities for themselves.) Roads maintenance should get priority. Concrete roads are the solution as they do not require regular maintenance. The bitumen mix is compromised by contractors leading to a short life span of roads. There is no focus on quality and as a result roads get damaged before deadline. There should be third party external audit of road recarpeting work. The key is to do the repair work guided by a trained team and follow maintenance schedule thereafter. Else, public money will be wasted by the MC.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurRegular repair need of the hourThe poor condition of Chandigarh roads have made lives of commuters a hell. The authorities concerned seemed to be least concerned regarding recarpeting or patch work of roads. During rain, drivers can’t gauge potholes, which causes mishaps and damages vehicles. We used to take pride in City Beautiful. Some of my relatives, who came from Punjab recently, were making fun of roads in the UT. Roads in the industrial area are no better than in other parts of the city. The authorities concerned must repair and maintain roads at regular intervals.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliUtilise funds on repairs impartiallyThe UT Municipal Corporation is cash starved due to its bad planning. Road are repaired by the MC on the basis of location and not necessity. As a result roads in northern sectors are good. This is done at the cost of neglecting roads in southern sectors of the city. Worst sufferers are commuters in Kishangarh Dariya and Mani Majra where driving is nightmarish particularly during monsoon As vehicle owners pay road tax irrespective of their residential location funds should be utilised impartially for road repairs.SC LUTHRA, ChandigarhCut facilities given to councillorsRecarpeting of roads should be priority of the MC. Potholed roads force drivers to drive in a zigzag manner. Situation gets worse during monsoon as potholes gets filled with rainwater and are difficult to see by commuters leading to accidents. The MC need to cut down its lavish expenditure on events, tea parties etc. Facilities and study tours of councillors must be withdrawn.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliBring more funds from CentreSeveral roads in the tricity and surrounding areas are teeming with potholes and need urgent repairs. The Airport Road is worst of all and is in the news for wrong reasons. The MCs always cite fund crunch for non-maintenance of roads. Even though the elected MP is from the ruling party, she has failed to bring adequate funds from the Centre for necessary public works.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhTaxpayers deserve better roadsProviding good roads to citizens to commute is one of the primary duties of the Chandigarh Administration. No doubt people pay hefty taxes for getting their vehicles registered. So, they deserve better roads, which will not only prevent accidents, but also enhance life of vehicles. Potholed road are dangerous especially for two-wheeler drivers. There is a dire need to carry out repair works at the earliest.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhNothing is precious than human lifePotholed roads in Mohali are a concern for commuters. They are always at risk while driving on damaged roads in the city. Similar situation is faced by residents of Chandigarh and Panchkula. Human lives cannot be put in danger because of paucity of funds. Repairing and recarpeting of roads must be a priority of the authorities concerned.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliProvide adequate funds to MCIt’s pity to see deplorable condition of roads in the tricity. Potholed roads cause fatal accidents. Neck and spine injury during routine commuting is another issue faced by riders in the tricity. More emphasis is needed on quality of recarpeting roads. Adequate funds must be provided for this purpose to the MC. An emergency team should be formed to fill potholes and repair cracks on roads in each sector and enhance public safety. Warning signals must be displayed on roads, which need urgent repairs. The MC staff must be encouraged to repair broken roads immediately.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliNo excuse for not doing repair workPathetic conditions of roads in the tricity is due to lax attitude of officials concerned. Earlier the excuse was curfew/lockdown and now its money crunch. Heavy taxes are levied on residents. When the question of providing facilities arises, officials have no answer. Concerned MP/MLA should intervene to sort out the issue and arrange more funds for the repair/recarpeting work. The authorities should start repair of roads immediately. Many precious lives will be saved.MR Bhateja, ChandigarhCentral govt should enhance annual fundsThe condition of roads in the tricity has gone from bad to worse. It is a fact that lots of funds, genuine desire, hardwork and time bound efforts are required to bring back roads into pristine condition. The MC should approach the UT Administrator for funds to repair roads. The Centre Government should enhance annual budgetary allocation for the UT Municipal Corporation to improve city infrastructure, including roads.Anita Tandon, KhararLow quality material used for repairsUneven road surface can make driver lose control of his/her vehicle leading to accident. Almost 50% accidents are caused due to bad roads. Contractors use low quality material to recarpet/repair roads to get more profit in their business. It damages roads before the deadline. The MC should pay attention towards quality control. Good roads contribute in development of the country.Akshar Kumar SinglaCreate Special account for road repairsMost roads in Chandigarh are potholed. The MC is also not taking notice on this serious issue. The civic body should immediately recarpet roads teeming with potholes on priority basis. The MC should demand special budget from the Centre for road repairs and cut unnecessary expenditure. The UT Municipal Corporation can start a special account in which people can voluntary contribute for road repairs.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhTap industry for fundsTricity roads need constant monitoring to avoid deterioration. This is important due to increased vehicular traffic. Recarpeting/repair should be done on need basis. The UT MC is as usual starved of much needed funds particularly for road maintenance. Industrial houses can be tapped for funds under the CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility). Let companies fund repair/recarpeting and in turn give them display rights along specified roads.Dr Rajeev Kumar, ChandigarhStepmotherly treatment for cityBroken roads are a blot on UT’s face. Not only motorists, but pedestrian can also get hurt anytime on potholed roads. Since the BJP came to power City Beautiful is getting a stepmotherly treatment. Madam Kiran Kher should impress on the MC to repair city’s potholed roads. If the Administration cannot maintain Chandigarh’s status then it should be handed over to Punjab, but don’t ruin it.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhCivic bodies lack responsibilityThe pitiable condition of roads show that MCs in the tricity lack responsibility. They don’t realise that motorists driving on potholed roads are inconvenienced and their lives are at stake. The MC is formed for undertaking welfare and necessary works in the city. First preference for the utilisation of funds available with the MC should be road maintenance and safety of residents.Balbir Singh Batra, Mohali‘Chalta hai’ scenario must changeRoads are an index of development. The root cause and culprit for poor roads is lax quality control during construction. Wearing of roads over time is a normal. But, surely something is amiss where there is premature erosion and emergence of potholes. Civic bodies need to take a cue from the NHAI vis-a-vis techniques and procedures for road maintenance. Properly documented third party inspection of repair/recarpeting work can help. It’s time to fix responsibility and liability for broken roads. Contracts can have a two-year warranty clause and part payment for the work undertaken can be withheld. The ‘chalta hai’ scenario must change.Lalit Bharadwaj,PanchkulaCorruption is the root causeCorruption is main cause of pitiable condition of roads in the tricity. Contractors use sub-standard material in road construction. The quality of material should be checked in labs. Officials concerned should supervise construction work from beginning to end. They should be held responsible for omissions in road repair, recarpeting or construction. Public money should be spent on their welfare only. Useless tours of councillors should be banned.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliBreak nexus between officials, politiciansThere is a need to create favorable conditions for domestic and foreign investment to improve basic infrastructure in the tricity and beyond. The Metro Project has been scrapped. So, the traffic load on roads, which are in shambles, has increased much to the inconvenience of commuters. The official-politician nexus, which is the reason for the poor condition of roads in the tricity, has to be broken. The respective administrations in the tricity should recognise the importance of good roads and provide adequate funds for recarpeting/repair.Col Balbir singh Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhMC, leaders have neglected ZirakpurSocieties and houses have mushroomed in Zirakpur over the years, but the condition of roads here did not improve. There is not a single road where big potholes can not be spotted in the city. Broken roads damage vehicles and cause accidents. Recarpeting work is not done in a planned manner by the Municipal Committee because of rampant corruption. The problem aggravates when potholes on roads get filled with water from over flowing sewer. Residents opine that Zirakpur has been neglected by the Municipal Committee and local politicians.SC Dhall, ZirakpurPublic work officials’ responsibilitySmooth ride on roads is the right of citizens. While taking up any essential work a man is always short of money. When necessity is absolute he somehow arranges money needed for the work. If houses and vehicles of government officials, which are disproportionate to their means, are in perfect order, then why road repair/recarpeting carried out by them is not good? Officials concerned should take public works, including road maintenance, as their personal responsibility. Let government funds be used exclusively for the job in hand. Commuters’ safety is government’s responsibility.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliUse polymer modified bitumenThe MC should follow safety approach with respect to road design, engineering and construction. Use of high quality material must be ensured in constructing roads for heavy traffic. Technology can be used to monitor the road condition, speed of vehicles and traffic volume. There should be regular maintenance and accountability of officials and contractors in construction/repair of roads. Use of polymer modified bitumen can increase longevity of roads and is an environment friendly solution. A repair machine using Jetpatcher Technology can fix roads in a few minutes.Komal Singh, ChandigarhEnsure tax realisation from residentsPandemic and consequent lockdown has hit MCs financially in the tricity. Besides, callous approach of officials concerned has aggravated the issue of broken roads. Perhaps they don’t consider danger to lives of motorists. Main source of MC’s income is property and other taxes. The MC should ensure tax realisation from residents to increase its income. At least potholes on roads should be filled if carpeting is not possible due to fund crunch.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaKeep new projects pending, repair roadsThe MCC and its counterparts in the surrounding areas are short of funds required for the maintenance of roads. The number of vehicles getting damaged due to potholed roads is rising in the tricity. All authorities concerned should ask for special onetime allocation of funds for restoring the pristine glory of roads. The Centre, Punjab and Haryana governments should sanction funds for road repair/recarpeting. New projects, which eat away funds, should be kept pending and road repair should be given priority.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhCreate Separate head for road taxIt will be better if a separate head for tax collected from owners during registration of vehicles is created. Funds collected under the head can be exclusively used for the maintenance of roads in the city. Ours is the City Beautiful and its upkeep is the responsibility of the MC and the Administration.Tarlok Singh, ChandigarhCheck material used in recarpeting roadsEveryday, many people get injured or killed in road accidents, which mainly occur because of pitiable condition of roads. Road tax and toll are being charged and increased regularly, but repair and recarpeting is not done regularly. Besides, the quality check is poor during construction of roads. Good roads reduce accidents and traffic snarls. Potholes on roads increase accidents. So, these should be filled immediately. Special teams must be formed to keep a check on material used in road repair/recarpeting. The MC should ensure road repair on priority basis and not compromise with the quality of work.Dr Shruti K Chawla, ChandigarhDriving on city roads nightmarishMuch has been written and spoken about the poor condition of roads in Chandigarh, which give commuters goosebumps while driving. Deaf dispensation does not care for the proper upkeep of roads in UT. Roads in low-lying pockets of the city are reduced to slush with slightest downpour during monsoon. The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) needs to shun piecemeal measures to address the problem of broken roads and come out with a lasting solution. The civic body needs to jettison parroting financial crunch as the plausible reason for poor maintenance of roads and cut its overhead expenses, including those splurged on councillors’ tours and other wasteful extravaganza. Regular repairs of roads should be carried out to streamline the flow of traffic.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhRepair schedule hardly followedResidents of the City Beautiful are inconvenienced by the poor condition of city roads. Broken roads cause daily accidents, besides damaging vehicles. Though the authorities concerned frame schedule to recarpet/repair roads, yet it is hardly adhered to. Work to repair roads is assigned to contractors, who do not provide quality. Road repair/recarpeting should be undertaken by the department concerned.SK Khosla, ChandigarhQUESTIONA second wave of Covid-19 is feared in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula. Air pollution can further worsen the pandemic situation in the tricity. What should the authorities and residents do to prevent a second outbreak of the virus?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cut-expenses-shun-piecemeal-approach-repair-roads-168234
09-11-2020||---||Stray cattle have commuters worried in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 8With the nights getting longer, stray cattle roaming on roads have commuters worried. Wary of accidents involving cattle that occur due to low visibility, residents say the civic body should find a proper solution to the menace. MC Joint Commissioner Lal Vishwas said they would begin a drive in this regard.A number of accidents have occurred in the city due to the stray cattle menace. The local Municipal Corporation had taken some steps, including catching and transporting animals left by owners on the road. The MC also adopted bylaws of the Local Government Department regarding control of stray animals and compensation to victims of animal attack.Recalling an accident that occurred on the Patiala-Nabha road last year, Vinod Kumar, who lives near Majithia Enclave, said, “Road accidents due to stray animals are a cause of worry and pose a danger to the lives of commuters. The Animal Husbandry Department and the MC should ensure that animals are not left on roads.”Sources in the MC said some stray animals were left to fend for themselves on roads even by those running cow sheds. “They leave them on the road in the day and take them when they have to be milked,” the sources said.A cyclist riding near the Polo Ground said, “Two bulls entered into a fight while I was riding on the road early this morning. They were even tagged and could have caused an accident, but fortunately no one else was there.”The MC Joint Commissioner said, “We have recently hired a team to catch cattle and will start a drive soon. A number of activists have joined us for the cause. We will begin the drive along with the Animal Husbandry Department soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stray-cattle-have-commuters-worried-in-patiala-168235
09-11-2020||---||Attendance in govt schools dips further after teachers test +ve||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 8After teachers tested positive for the coronavirus, students’ attendance has dipped further in government schools. In fact, the attendance sunk from 30 to 1 per cent when schools reopened on October 19. The fear of coronavirus prompted some principals to close their schools for the entire week.The Government Senior Secondary Schools in Todarpur and Laut remained shut during last week after their staff tested Covid positive.Sources in the Education Department said schools in the rural areas were the most hit. In some schools, not even a single student turned up.The district education officer (DEO), Harinder Kaur, said the decision to open school rested with the principal if its staff members test positive for the virus. “It is up to the principal to take a decision on whether to open school or not,” she added.“Students are not coming to school due to fear of coronavirus. The attendance is between 10 and 15 per cent. It has declined in the past few days,” she said.Meanwhile, schoolteachers attributed the low turnout at schools to the mandatory decision of not marking attendance. Teacher unions said online education was not a successful method.The Democratic Teachers Front (DMF) member, Vikram Dev, said, “Online education is not effective as it has little or no penetration. Students do not remember what we taught them online. Still we are not making compulsory for them to attend school. This is a big loss for them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/attendance-in-govt-schools-dips-further-after-teachers-test-ve-168237
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||PU students’ start-up||Workshop on cow dung bricksChandigarh: Social Substance and Ecologic Corporation have joined hands to educate people about the optimum utilisation of traditional resources. Sweeping the dung into sewage is choking sewage treatment plants and polluting water bodies. Puneet Arora from the corporation has come forward to educate himself and then make the masses aware of the issues. He, along with Dr Arun Bansal, from Social Substance, has started a series of workshops on bio-bricks|cow dung bricks. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-students-start-up-168240
09-11-2020||Chandigarh||Man held with 40 boxes of liquor||Khelo India centre at MinervaChandigarh: The Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports has accredited Minerva Academy under the Khelo India Talent Identification and Development programme as Khelo India State Centre of Excellence. The Sports Authority of India (SAI) and Minerva Academy FC have signed a memorandum of understanding for a period of four years. The outstanding athletes identified under the Khelo India programme will have access to the academy's infrastructure. TNSHunar wins Jr. golf trophyChandigarh: Local golfer Hunar Mittal has won the gross junior golf trophy with a score of 72 in the 4moles.com Golf Rendezvous'20 at ITC Classic Golf Resort, Gurgaon. She shot three birdies, 12 pars and three bogies in the one-day golf tournament. A student of Gurukul Global School, she is training under Coach Jesse Gerewal. TNS99 arrested for disturbing peacePanchkula: The Panchkula police have arrested 99 persons for disturbing public peace in August, September and October, according to a press note of the district police released on Sunday. While August saw 21 arrests, September and October witnessed 78 arrests by the Panchkula police. TNSLate Panna Lal Memorial LeagueDera Bassi: The 2nd edition of Late Panna Lal Memorial U-21 League-cum-Knockout Basis (40-over-a- side meet) Cricket Tournament will be played from November 10 to 20 at the IVCA cricket academy ground, Derabassi. TNSEarring stolen from shopChandigarh: Two unknown women reportedly stole an earring from a jewellery shop in Badheri village. According to the police, complainant Jagdish Rohila reported that two women visited his shop on the pretext of purchasing jewellery. The complainant showed jewellery items to the women, who managed to steal an earring. The theft came to light when the complainant found an earring missing. The women were seen stealing the earring in the footage of CCTV cameras installed at the shop. The police have registered a case at the Sector 39 police station and initiated investigations into the matter. TNSThree booked for cheatingChandigarh: Three Pinjore residents have been booked by the Chandigarh Police for allegedly giving cheques at a marble shop, which were dishonoured as the signatures did not match. According to the police, complainant Pawan Kumar Bansal, owner of Bhagwati Marble Store, Dhanas, reported that Raju Rawat, Ajit Sharma and Satish Sharma purchased marble and tiles and cheated him by giving him three cheques for a total of Rs1.13 lakh on August 5. The complainant presented the cheques in the bank and found that the signatures on these did not match. A case of cheating has been registered. TNSThree trains cancelledChandigarh: Three passenger trains of the Ambala division plying at Chandigarh have been cancelled till November 9 because of the farmers’ agitation. The trains that have been cancelled are Chandigarh-Patliputra SF Pooja Special Train, Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi and Chandigarh-Lucknow Special Train. TNSCrackers stored sans licence seizedFatehgarh Sahib: The police have recovered a huge quantity of crackers from warehouses at Sirhind city and town following a tip-off. Fatehgarh Sahib SHO Rajnish Sood said the police had been conducting regular raids to check the illegal sale and stocking of crackers. He said a police team raided two godowns at Sirhind city and town belonging to cracker wholesalers and recovered a huge quantity of crackers stored without getting permission from the administration. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-with-40-boxes-of-liquor-168241
