09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab's Chhatbir zoo to reopen from Thursday||The famous Chhatbir zoo in Punjab will reopen for the public from Thursday after being closed for nearly eight months due to the COVID-19 pandemic, officials said.The zoo will remain open six days a week and a maximum of 2,700 visitors will be allowed on a single day, according to a government release.Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park or Chhatbir Zoo will reopen on Thursday, Field Director M Sudhagar said, adding that the administration has worked out a standard operating procedure (SOP).A limited number of tickets will be available in different slots to ensure staggered entry and social distancing, and all visitors will have to compulsorily wear face masks.People above 65 years and children below 5 years of age are requested not to visit the zoo, the government statement said.All visitors shall compulsorily pass over the medicated foot-mat at the entrance of the zoo. Only cashless and online booking will be allowed for buying entry tickets, it said.Touch-free sensor-based hand wash facilities have been provided at the entry of the zoo and other strategic points. Apart from these, touch-free sanitiser dispensers have also been installed at the zoo premises.The visitors will get an opportunity to see tiger cubs Amar, Arjun and Dilnoor and Indian fox with her newborn pups for the first time, it said.However, the reptile house, nocturnal house and wildlife safari (lion safari and deer safari) will remain closed initially.Based on the experience and feedback of the initial month, the facilities may be considered to be opened for the public in a phased manner. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabs-chhatbir-zoo-to-reopen-from-thursday-182031
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 83 fresh cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported 83 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 18,322, while one more death pushed the toll to 297.The city has 897 active COVID-19 cases, according to a medical bulletin.A total of 147 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 17,128, the bulletin said.As many as 1,55,643 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,36,480 tested negative while reports of 156 samples were awaited, as per the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-83-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh-182023
09-12-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Only 2 inspectors to check building violations in Zirakpur||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, December 8There are only two building inspectors to check violations in the entire Zirakpur Municipal Council area. MC officials said it was a huge task to keep an eye on each and every under-construction site in the area.As many as four incidents of under-construction buildings collapsing due to various reasons have been reported from the Zirakpur-Dera Bassi real estate hub in the past two years.Real estate experts say it is a result of flagrant violations and no check by officials of the building branch. On December 7, a two-storeyed building collapsed after its base was exposed due to extensive digging of the basement in the adjacent plot. The owners had reportedly got the plan approved by the MC for a residential building, but were digging a basement in a vacant plot.Zirakpur Eexecutive Officer Sandeep Tewari said, “The Zirakpur MC has a large area under it; it is not possible to check violations done four days ago. The MC has sent a notice to the owner. It will also be probed why a basement was being dug.”Building bylaws state that a minimum of 3-foot gap is required to be kept from the foundation of the nearby structure. However, in this case, the rules were flouted. MC building branch officials failed to check the violation in time.“Once the building plan is approved by the MC, it is primarily in the hand of the owner to follow it. The contractor has to see to it that the quality of construction and the material used is good. Since it is his own building, why would a person allow a construction that is likely to collapse soon,” said a Zirakpur-based realtor.Zirakpur SHO Rajpal Singh Gill said, “The plot owner, Jyoti Sadana, has been booked under Sections 288 and 427 of the IPC and Section 21 of the Mining Act.Buildings that came down like a pack of cardsApril 12, 2018: Multi-storey building Imperial Garden collapsed in Peer Muchalla; three MC employees suspended; 17 booked under Sections 420, 336, 337, 288 and 120-BOctober 5, 2019: Three-storeyed under-construction showroom collapsed in Peer Muchalla; contractor bookedFebruary 8, 2020: Building collapsed in Kharar; one person died; inquiry by SDM pendingSeptember 24, 2020: Building collapse in Dera Bassi; three dead, SDM report nails owner for technical lapse||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-2-inspectors-to-check-building-violations-in-zirakpur-181708
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cop accused of extortion suspended||Head Constable Pawan Kumar of the crime branch, who has been accused of extorting money from a liquor contractor, has been suspended and sent to the Police Lines, Sector 26. SP (Crime) Manoj Kumar said Pawan had been suspended on the basis of a report received from the investigating officer (IO) and the SSP. “Pawan has been directed to report to the Police Lines during the period of suspension,” he said. Meanwhile, no action has been taken against the other cop whose name had also cropped up in the incident. A police official said the action was taken on the basis of a report sent by the IO. “The report mentioned only Pawan’s name following which he was suspended,” the official said. The liquor contractor, in his complaint, had alleged that the cops used to extort money on a monthly basis. He gave Rs96,000 a month to the cops. A case of extortion and under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at the Sector 39 police station. The complainant had provided CCTV footage based on which the two cops were identified. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-accused-of-extortion-suspended-181712
09-12-2020||---||Bharat bandh call evokes mixed response in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 8High drama was witnessed when the police resorted to a lathicharge to quell protesters who tried to lock the local BJP office in Sector 33 here today.Protesting against the new farm laws, members of various youth organisations clashed with the police when they were stopped from marching towards the BJP office. The police used water cannons and resorted to a lathicharge to disperse the protesters, who tried to break the police barricades. Some protesters also tried to damage a water cannon vehicle. Several protesters received minor injuries when the police used force to disperse them.Gopal Singh Sidhu, president of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar), Chandigarh, said the protesters had started marching from a gurdwara in Sector 34 towards the Sector 33/34 light point. “We wanted to stage a peaceful protest by burning an effigy of the Prime Minister.Various trader unions, opposition parties and other organisations extended support to the bandh and protests were reported from various parts of the city.Members of various trade unions, including the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), the All India Trade Union Congress, the All India Central Council of Trade Unions and the Central Trader Union, Punjab, staged a protest at the Sector 17 Plaza against the Centre.Naseeb Jhakhar, state president, INTUC, Chandigarh, and other leaders, including Rajkumar, Kawaljeet Singh and Inderjit Grewal, demanded immediate repealing of the three farm laws.Members of the CTU Workers Union staged a dharna at the ISBT-17 from noon to 2 pm.Thin traffic on roadsBelow normal traffic was witnessed in the city. People were not sure if the markets would be open and preferred to stay home. Maninder Singh of Mani Majra said he had to go to Sector 17 with a cousin, who had arrived from Nalagarh, for shopping, but had to delay it for a day assuming the market would be closed due to the protest.AAP stages protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bharat-bandh-call-evokes-mixed-response-in-chandigarh-181714
09-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||Come January, pay more for waste collection||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 8With the local Municipal Corporation set to receive all 390 two-bin waste-lifting vehicles by December 31, commercial and residential users will have to pay the revised user charges from January in their water bills.“We are getting all 390 vehicles by December 31 and waste segregation and collection using these is being started simultaneously. Full-fledged work will start in January. The already approved charges will be implemented from January,” said MC Commissioner KK Yadav.He said they had already started the process of hiring existing collectors as drivers or helpers for the new vehicles. The MC had also invited objections from the collectors and some of them had already filed their objections. These were being examined, he said.Until now, the collectors have been operating independently. For the past three years, the MC has been unsuccessfully trying to take them on board. However, with the waste-lifting vehicles coming its way, the civic body will find it easy to implement its old plan to streamline the waste collection system.The civic body received the first lot of 19 two-bin vehicles on Monday. There are 2.50 lakh households and 35,000 commercial users. By incorporating villages, there will be a total of 3.50 lakh users. The corporation is expecting to earn Rs42 crore per annum as collection charges.After the increased water tariff, local residents should now brace for paying the revised door-to-door waste collection charges. Several commercial places, which were not paying earlier, will also have to shell out the amount now.Whether they give waste to door-to-door garbage collectors or not, the amount will be added to their water bills.Approved monthly charges||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/come-january-pay-more-for-waste-collection-181716
09-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Coaching institutes seek undertaking from parents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 8Before resuming classes for doubts sessions, a few coaching institutes here have sought an undertaking from parents disclosing that none in their family tested positive for Covid in the past one month.An undertaking form (a copy with The Tribune) of Allen Institute, reads the child shall be personally responsible if there is any untoward incident such as Covid infection and that the parents shall not blame anybody for such incidents.The parents will also undertake that their wards will follow all guidelines, maintain social distancing and hygiene to ensure their safety and health. The parents have also been asked to send their children with masks and hand sanitiser.Besides, the institute has also asked the parents to disclose whether anybody in their family has been diagnosed with Covid in the past one month or whether they have travelled in the past 15 days. The parents have been asked to mention if they had come in contact with any Covid-positive person in the past 20 days.Hitesh Panwar from Sri Chaitanya said the institute had asked for parents’ consent for students coming to attend doubts sessions. He said: “We are taking online classes but a few students want to clear their doubts as well. Taking parents’ consent is very important considering the Covid scenario. It is difficult to track the source of transmission and parents need to be aware of the risk.”The consent form of Sri Chaitanya reads: “As a parent, I want to clarify that none in the family has been infected with Covid-19 for the past one month. I have educated my ward about all necessary precautions to be followed and yes, I assure that my ward will follow all instructions laid down by the institution.”SOPs coaching centres must adhere to||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coaching-institutes-seek-undertaking-from-parents-181720
09-12-2020||---||Two former officials of Punjab Labour Welfare Board nabbed||Mohali, December 8The Punjab Vigilance Bureau (VB) has arrested two former officials of the Punjab Labour Welfare Board for misappropriation of government funds worth crores. The two employees posted at the Mohali office had been booked by the VB at the Kharar police station.A spokesperson for the VB said on the basis of an inquiry, Sucha Singh Bandi, former deputy welfare commissioner, Labour Welfare Board; and Jagdeep Singh Saini, former deputy controller finance and Accounts (DCFA), had been arrested for embezzlement and causing huge loss to the state exchequer.The VB spokesman said Hina, accounts assistant of this board, was arrested earlier in this case. He said Hina, in connivance with the two officials, had misappropriated about Rs 1.57 crore through Internet banking.Hina, a resident of Manav Enclave, Kharar, had embezzled the amount through 172 transactions to multiple bank accounts. During the probe, it came to light that Bandi and Saini never cross-checked the cash book with the bank transactions. Therefore, it has been established that these two officials were involved in the misappropriation of government funds.The VB had already registered a case against them under Sections 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, and 120-B of the IPC at the Kharar police station.Cash book not cross-checkedHina, a resident of Manav Enclave, Kharar, had embezzled the amount through 172 transactions to multiple bank accounts. Sucha Singh Bandi, former deputy welfare commissioner, Labour Welfare Board; and Jagdeep Singh Saini, former deputy controller finance and Accounts (DCFA), never cross-checked the cash book with the bank transactions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-former-officials-of-punjab-labour-welfare-board-nabbed-181721
09-12-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Appointment of DSO soon: Director of Sports||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 8Functioning in the absence of two important officers, Joint Director Sports (JDS) and District Sports Officer (DSO), the UT Sports Department has now started the process of appointing the DSO at the earliest.While the appointment of the JDS, the post which has been lying vacant for almost a year, is likely to take more time, as the administration has approached the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC), the process of appointing the DSO is likely to get completed within a week.The post has been lying vacant since November 30 after the retirement of former DSO Ravinder Singh, who served for more than 33 years in the department. “The process to appoint the DSO will be completed soon. The file is under process and as per seniority list and eligibility criteria, the competent authority will appoint one of our coaches,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director Sports, UT. The Secretary Sports, UT, is the competent authority to promote an eligible coach to the ranks of DSO. While talking about the appointment of JDS, Saini said the process was pending with the UPSC. “Since the process involves the UPSC, we have to wait before clearing all doubts. The dealing department is in regular touch with its counterparts in New Delhi. However, we have to wait before getting any clearance for appointing the JDS,” said Saini.Appointment of new coachesAsked about retaining senior coaches in the UT Sports Council who have attained the age 65 years, Sports Director Tejdeep Singh Saini said the department surely needed their experience. “The competent authority will decide on that. However, such coaches, who have trained many international players, played a vital role in overall growth of players. We have been on the verge of recruiting more young coaches against vacancies. Hopefully, we will get a good group to contribute to the growth of the department for three decades,” said Saini.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/appointment-of-dso-soon-director-of-sports-181723
09-12-2020||
||ASC celebrates 260th Corps Day at Chandimandir||Chandigarh, December 8 Army Service Corps (ASC) celebrated its 260th Corps Day at he Headquarters, Western Command, in Chandimandir today. The occasion was marked by a solemn wreath-laying ceremony at the Veer Smriti war memorial. Major-General Harsh Chhibber, head of the ASC branch at Command Headquarters, paid floral tributes to the martyrs. The event was attended by officers, junior commissioned officers and jawans of the corps.  Lieutenant-General RP Singh, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, extended his greetings to all ranks, civilian employees and their families as well as veterans of the corps on this day. He commended the ASC personnel for their invaluable logistics support all through the pandemic.   In its long and cherished history, the Army Service Corps, tasked with the provision of rations, transport and fuel to Army formations, has displayed exceptional versatility, indomitable spirit and commendable ability to keep pace with the changing operational scenarios.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asc-celebrates-260th-corps-day-at-chandimandir-181724
09-12-2020||
||Hult Prize: 3  ideas selected||Patiala, December 8 The Hult Prize, an on-campus programme of the TIET conducted in collaboration with the United Nations, has selected three innovative ideas from various fields as part of its event held on the Patiala campus. The organisers said the finalist would be given a prize of $1 million for a start-up idea by the UN. The initiative to generate new ideas this year was held on the topic, “Food for Good”, on December 6. Three team ideas were selected on the campus of which, the organisers said, the winner would move into the finals. The competition was followed by a panel discussion with 11 important personalities in the industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hult-prize-3-ideas-selected-181725
09-12-2020||
||IMA protests nod to allow surgery by Ayurveda PGs||Patiala, December 8 The local unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) today staged a protest against the Centre Government’s notification wherein ayurvedic doctors are allowed to perform surgeries.  In the notification issued on November 20, the government has listed 58 types of surgeries that Ayurveda practitioners can perform.  Questioning the competency, the IMA said ayurvedic passed-out medicos were not competent enough to carry out these surgeries. The association called it “mixo-pathy” and an attempt of the government to mix modern medicine with Ayurveda. Allopathy and Ayurveda were two different disciplines and mixing both would have detrimental effects on patients.    The IMA has demanded immediate withdrawal of the notification for the sake of patients. Meanwhile, the IMA has given a strike call for December 11. Its members also met the Patiala Deputy Commissioner and aired their grievances. Dr Ajata Shatru Kapoor, president of Patiala IMA; Dr Bhagwant Singh, vice-president of Punjab IMA; Dr Jatinder Kansal, former president of Punjab IMA; and Dr Harsimran Singh, secretary, participated  in the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ima-protests-nod-to-allow-surgery-by-ayurveda-pgs-181726
09-12-2020||
||PUTA writes to Chancellor, accuses VC of corruption||Chandigarh, December 8   The executive of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has written to M Venkaiah Naidu, Chancellor of Panjab University (PU) and Vice-President of India, and levelled allegations of corruption against the PU Vice-Chancellor (VC).  The association has alleged that the VC allotted house extension to Dr Devinder Dhawan, former CMO, BK Health Centre, PU.   “As per the PU Calendar, nobody, including the VC, has the power to allow retention of campus accommodation to anyone after retirement. No doctor or former CMO had ever been allowed to retain his house and the hurry with which the VC indulged in this illegal and corrupt action proves his mala fide intention. Dhawan had been given re-employment only for six months. Another doctor, Dr Rakesh Khullar, was made to pay penalty for overstaying in the accommodation after attaining the age of 62 years,” stated the PUTA’s representation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-writes-to-chancellor-accuses-vc-of-corruption-181727
09-12-2020||---||Protest enters 19th day||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protest-enters-19th-day-181728
09-12-2020||---||Year on, no headway in scribe molestation case||Chandigarh, December 8Even a year after a woman journalist was molested during a morning walk at Panjab University’s Botanical Garden, the UT police have failed to make any headway in the case.Last year, on December 9, the complainant, a resident of the PU campus, had gone for a walk at Botanical Garden when an unknown person came from the rear side and molested her. She fought back and gave a tough fight to the middle-aged perpetrator, who later fled from the spot.The UT police had registered a case in this regard at the Sector 11 police station.Inspector Rajiv Kumar, SHO of the Sector 11 police station, said efforts were made, but the suspect could not be traced.During the investigation, a sketch of the suspect was made and several teams were constituted to trace the molester. The teams visited nearby areas, including Sarangpur, Khuda Lahora, Dadu Majra Colony, Sector 25 Colony and Dhanas. However, the exercise failed to yield the desired results.The staff on the PU campus, including Class IV employees, 198 security guards and mess canteen workers were also verified by the police.The police also collected the dump of mobile towers to scrutinise information about the cell phones which were active in that area, but the investigators did not find any lead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/year-on-no-headway-in-scribe-molestation-case-181729
09-12-2020||
||Patrolling intensified on PU campus, says security chief||Chandigarh, December 8 Prof Ashwani Kaul, chief of PU security, has maintained that patrolling by security personnel has been intensified on both campuses (Sector 14 and Sector 25). “We have intensified security on the PU campus, especially after this incident. We are taking proper care to safeguard everyone here,” said Kaul.  After the incident, a six-member committee was constituted by the Vice-Chancellor for making the campus a safe place for students, faculties and visitors. It recommended a time-bound safety audit as also a ‘Safety Action Plan’.  However, nothing was put on record and little action was taken on the recommendations of the committee. Sources also maintained that the committee members had not held any meeting in recent times.  Meanwhile, a boundary wall has been built at the botanical garden in order to provide little relief to visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patrolling-intensified-on-pu-campus-says-security-chief-181730
09-12-2020||
||Proclaimed offender held after 5 years||Panchkula, December 8 The detective staff of the Panchkula police have nabbed a proclaimed offender accused of defrauding a Jind resident of Rs16 lakh on the pretext of selling a plot in 2015. The accused has been identified as Rohtash, a resident of Bhadana village in Jind district. Ram Mehar, a resident of Jind, told the police that Rohtash and another accused Amarjit, a resident of village Khokhri, had promised to sell him 16 flats for Rs64 lakh. He said they took him to the Housing Board office in Panchkula where Amarjit showed him the list of successful BPL applicants who had signed an agreement with Amarjit for selling their flats. The victim gave them Rs16 lakh and received a receipt for the amount paid. Ram Meher said when the time came for getting the flats transferred in his name, Amarjit started making excuses. Later he came to know that they had cheated him as the flats were reserved for the BPL category and could not be transferred to him. He said the accused had also cheated the allottees of the flats by not paying any amount to them after signing the agreements with them. A case under Section 406, 420, 506, 120B of the IPC had been registered against the accused at the Kalka police station on April 13, 2016. Since then, Rohtash had been absconding and the court had declared him a proclaimed offender.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/proclaimed-offender-held-after-5-years-181731
09-12-2020||---||Panchkula cops divert traffic; no untoward incident||Panchkula, December 8The bandh call evoked a mixed response in Panhckula city as a few shops remained closed till 1.30 pm while a complete bandh was observed in the rural areas of Raipur Rani, Barwala and Kalka blocks of the district.Commuters had to face problems at Majri Chowk and Raipur Rani due to heavy jam. Later, the police managed to clear the traffic by diverting vehicles on alternative routes. However, the bandh was peaceful and no untoward incident was reported from the district.The Congress, led by former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan and senior leaders, organised a march. Later, they staged a dharna near the DC Complex and demanded the revocation of the three farm bills.Addressing the protesters, Chander Mohan said the government was running away from its responsibility towards the farmers.Congress spokesperson Ranjeeta Mehta said the farm laws were draconian and farmers would become labourers on their own land.Haryana Women Congress president Sudha Bhardwaj said the government should accept the demands of the farmers without further delay and revoke the farm laws.Former Mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia said the BJP was not concerned about the plight of the farmers.Cong misleading farmers, says MPPanchkula: The Congress was trying to regain power in the country by misleading the farming community, said BJP MP from Kurukshetra Naib Saini. He said the Congress was continuing the politics of dividing people and weakening the country by provoking farmers. He said terrorism had been under control during PM Modi’s regime. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-cops-divert-traffic-no-untoward-incident-181732
09-12-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali stands in solidarity with farmers||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 8Commercial establishments in Mohali city and Kharar remained shut today in view of the nationwide bandh call by farmers’ unions and social organisations.Expressing solidarity with the farmers protesting against the farm laws, business establishments, barring banks and medical stores, remained closed in the area. However, there were barely any visitors to banks.Farmers, supported by various organisations, including sanitation workers and SGPC workers, had gathered in Kharar and held a rally on the main road. Almost all roads leading to various sectors and phases in Mohali city were blocked. A large number of schoolchildren also sat on a dharna at various protest sites in the city. They raised slogans against the Centre.Roads in the city wore a deserted look as people preferred not to move out of their houses. However, there was no effect on the supply of essentials, including milk and vegetables. Petrol pumps also remained closed in the district.As farmers and social organisations were staging a dharna, a massive traffic jam was witnessed in Kharar. The police had to divert the traffic on alternative routes. However, protesters made way for people with medical emergencies. Though they were not allowing private vehicles to enter the city, they did let some people going for a wedding cross the blockades from the Sunny Enclave side to the Airport Road. A large number of police personnel were deployed at strategic points in the city. The police said the situation was peaceful and tight security was in place to ensure law and order.Exceptions madeProtesters made way for people with medical emergencies. Even though they were not allowing private vehicles to enter the city, they did let some people going for a wedding cross the blockade from the Sunny Enclave side to Airport Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-stands-in-solidarity-with-farmers-181733
09-12-2020||---||Zirakpur wears a deserted look; no barricades||Zirakpur, December 8Roads in Zirakpur wore a deserted look as only a few people came out of their houses during the bandh.The traffic on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway and the Zirakpur-Patiala road was minimal. Till 1 pm, there were no reports of any untoward incident.A group of farmers gathered near a gurdwara on the Patiala road and took out a march in support of their demands on tractor-trailers. A few policemen followed them on motorcycles. No barricades were put up by the police in Zirakpur and nearby areas. Tow-away vehicles were stationed on the Patiala chowk. However, in Pabhat, roads were blocked by tractor-trailers.Rahul Thakur, a Zirakpur resident, said: “We support the farmers’ call. It was a peaceful protest. There were travel restrictions and some residents may have faced inconvenience, but people were informed about the bandh beforehand.”Dera Bassi witnessed a complete bandh as shops, traffic and banks were closed with farmers barricading the national highway as well as other roads till 3 pm.“No violence was reported from any other part of the city. The bandh was peaceful,” said the Dera Bassi police.Some of the protesting farmers on the Zirakpur- Delhi highway had pasted rotis on placards with slogans such as 'No farmers, no rotis’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-wears-a-deserted-look-no-barricades-181734
09-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Battling pandemic through prayers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 8More than 60 per cent Covid patients admitted to the PGI used prayers as one of the ways to cope with the disease and the isolation period, reveals a study published in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry.The study has been authored by PGI doctors — Dr Swapnajeet Sahoo, Dr Aseem Mehra, Dr Devakshi Dua, Dr Sandeep Grover from the Department of Psychiatry, Dr Vikas Suri and Dr Pankaj Malhotra from Internal Medicine, Dr Lakshmi Narayana Yaddanapudi and Dr GD Puri from the Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care Unit. The study sample comprised 50 patients.On mechanism for coping with the disease and negative emotions, about two-third (more than 60 per cent) of the patients said ‘remembering God’ and ‘praying to God’ helped them to a large extent. One-third (34 per cent) of the patients reported ‘listening to religious discourses’ to be quite helpful during their stay at the hospital for overcoming negative emotional states.According to the PGI study, people in India usually turn to God at the time of crisis and possibly, externalising the responsibility to a higher power leads to a reduction in anxiety and distress. The study suggested that clinicians involved in managing people with Covid should carefully evaluate the religious beliefs and practices of persons, and may also encourage patients to have faith in God.On a change in perspective towards life, several participants (48%) reported an ‘increase in faith in God’ and about one-fourth reported a ‘reduced faith in power of money’.Vulnerable to depressionThe PGI findings also suggested that despite being provided with psychological support, about two-fifth (38 per cent) patient screen positive for anxiety disorder or depression nearing the time of discharge. “This suggests that despite psychological support, many patients develop psychological morbidity. There is a need for follow-up consultations for such patients,” the study said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/battling-pandemic-through-prayers-181737
09-12-2020||---||Protesters brave lathis, water cannons||Chandigarh, December 8High drama was witnessed when the police resorted to a lathicharge to quell protesters who tried to lock the local BJP office in Sector 33 here today.Protesting against the new farm laws, members of various youth organisations clashed with the police when they were stopped from marching towards the BJP office. The police used water cannons and resorted to a lathicharge to disperse the protesters, who tried to break the police barricades. Some protesters also tried to damage a water cannon vehicle. Several protesters received minor injuries when the police used force to disperse them.SHO among 8 hurtHowever, the police didn’t let us move ahead and they lathicharged the protesters. The police didn’t even spare women and children, who were left injured,” Sidhu added.Ravinder Singh, a resident of Kharar, said cops hit him on the head with sticks. “This is the award given to me by the government for honestly and peacefully asking for the laws to be revoked,” he said.Manjeet Kaur, aged above 60, said, “I was hit on my shoulder and my hip. First, they used water cannons and then sticks. My father was a war veteran and a farmer too. I am here to ask for revocation of the draconian farm laws.” Manjeet is the president of Samuhik Stri Satsang.Deputy Superintendent of Police Charanjit Singh Virk, a spokesperson for the UT police, said around 600 protesters, including members of the Yuva Kisan Ekta, had gathered near the gurdwara in Sector 34 and wanted to lay a siege to the BJP office in Sector 33, following which they were stopped. “During the protest, some members of the Yuva Kisan Ekta tried to cross the barricades following which the police resorted to the use of force and water cannons,” he said.The DSP said the crowd also pelted cops with stones and broke the barricades, due to which eight police personnel, including the SHO of the Sector 34 police station, were injured. He said a case under Sections 186, 147, 148, 149, 332, 353 and 188 of the IPC and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act had been registered against the protesters.When contacted on WhatsApp, SP City Vineet Kumar replied: “We tried to stop the protesters because they had no permission and were violating Covid norms. An FIR has been registered. We used minimum force to disperse the unlawful assembly.”Cong blocks highwaySome shops in the wards represented by Congress councillors were closed for some time. The Leader of the Opposition in the MC House, Devinder Singh Babla, along with other Congress leaders, took a round of these markets in the morning. Congress councillor Gurbax Rawat said in her ward in Sector 40, shops were closed for some time, but started opening later. Residents even held a protest in the market.In BJP wards, almost all shops were open. BJP councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali claimed that the bandh call had no effect in the city. Those shops, which were got closed by Congress councillors, opened after some time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesters-brave-lathis-water-cannons-181739
09-12-2020||Chandigarh||Exam forms: PU extends last date||Panjab varsity declares ResultsChandigarh: Panjab University has declared results of BSc (Microbial and Food Technology) 2nd semester, Master of Arts (Social Work) 2nd semester, Master of Science (Microbial Biotechnology) 2nd semester and Master of Arts (Social Work) 4th semester. TNSExpect light rain on December 11Chandigarh: The local Met Department has predicted light rain in the city on Friday. According to the department, the city was likely to witness generally cloudy conditions with likely thundery development/light rain on December 11. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/exam-forms-pu-extends-last-date-181740
09-12-2020||Panchkula||56 test positive in Panchkula||The district today reported 56 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally to 9,236.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said a case each was reported from Sectors 6, 7, 12, 19, and 25, two cases each from Sector 14, four cases each from the MDC-5, Sector 4, 20 and 21, five cases from Sector 16, six cases each from Sectors 8 and12-A and eight cases surfaced in Sector 15.With no new death, the district toll remained 135. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/56-test-positive-in-panchkula-181742
09-12-2020||Mohali||5 fatalities, 69 cases in Mohali||Five more fatalities were witnessed due to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 299. Besides, 69 fresh cases surfaced till Tuesday evening while 113 patients were cured.As many as 59 new cases were reported from Mohali (urban), five from Lalru, four from Dera Bassi and one from Dhakoli.So far, the district has seen 16,542 cases and 14,015 patients have been cured of the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-fatalities-69-cases-in-mohali-181744
09-12-2020||---||3 deaths, 126 cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 8The city on Tuesday reported three deaths and 126 new cases, taking the toll to 296 and the case tally to 18,239. An 84-year-old man from Sector 37, a 66-year-old woman from Sector 50 and 75-year-old man from Sector 38 (West) succumbed to the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-deaths-126-cases-in-chandigarh-181745
