10-07-2020||Tribune News Servcie||ISC class 12: Chandigarh girl tops tricity with 99.2 pc||Chandigarh, July 10The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, New Delhi declared the results of The Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) class 10, Indian School Certificate (ISC) class 12 exams on Friday.More than 1,000 students appeared in classes X and XII exams in Chandigarh.Eighteen-year-old Muskaan Saxena has topped the tricity by scoring 99.25 per cent in Non-Medical Stream.Muskaan, who is a resident of PGI campus, aspires to pursue Data Science and Economics from Delhi University. She has passed class XII from Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26.Muskaan shared that she is quite relieved after the declaration of results as covid-19 pandemic had dashed their hopes. “I was very anxious because of Covid-19 situation and worried over my score,” she said.Sharing her exam preparation strategy, Saxena said, “I prioritised my academics and studied regularly. Make hand written notes of chapters that are difficult. This technique helps in understanding the subject when you write in your own words.”She adds, “But, I would say that don’t just focus on studies but also engage in extra-curricular activities. I was actively involved in projects like menstrual hygiene and was into public speaking.”Her parents Dr Akshay Kumar Saxena and Dr Babita Ghai are both doctors at PGIMER.From Humanities stream, 18-year-old Jasnoor Kaur from Yadavindra Public School, Mohali, topped by scoring 98.5 per cent. She said she was a regular student to school and studied for six to seven hours.Kaur, a resident of Phase 7, Mohali, wants to pursue BA honours in Psychology. She emphasised on the importance of being actively involved in sports and other activities. Her mother Gurdeep Kaur is an educator and father Sumanpreet Singh works at CII.The tricity has two toppers for the Medical stream – Pavit Kaur Sidhu and Tanveer Singh Mangat, both from Yadavindra Public School, Mohali – each scoring at 97.5 per cent.According to Sidhu, her clear focus on the studies without getting distracted from gadgets helped her sail through. Her father is a farmer and mother a homemaker.As for Mangat, paying attention in class and clearing all doubts with teacher helped her score high in final exams. Her mother is an assistant professor at Punjabi University and father an IT executive.With 96.25 per cent in Commerce stream, Sehajpreet Kaur (18), who is a farmer’s daughter, has topped the tricity from Yadavindra Public School, Mohali.A resident of Ludhiana, she aspired to be a hospitality manager. While talking about her success strategy, she said, “Don’t take studies as a burden, rather divide it into small tasks and strive to perform each task with zest.”Her favourite past-time was comedy shows on TV besides getting fresh air in park. She also loves to cook and dance during her free time. She said she would often bake cakes when she was bored from studies.She has taken inspiration from her mother, who is a homemaker. “She toils all day at home and that’s what really inspires me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/isc-class-12-chandigarh-girl-tops-tricity-with-99-2-pc-111105
10-07-2020||---||ICSE Class X result: Naman, Viha top tricity with 99.2 pc||Panchkula, July 10Naman Bhardwaj of Little Flower Convent School and Viha Singla of Saupin’s School here have shared the first position in the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) Class X examinations in the tricity, the results of which were declared on Friday. The joint toppers scored 99.20 per cent each.Naman, who has opted for the non-medical stream in Class XI, says regular studies hold the key to success. His father works for a software company, while his mother is an accountant.“I studied regularly and teachers’ advice helped me a lot. I synchronised my Class X preparations with the NTSE syllabus. I kept myself away from the social media throughout. It’s a big distraction,” he says.Outdoor activities are his best stress buster. He aspires to be a software engineer.Viha Singla says with focus and determination, one can achieve goals.“I used to devote five hours daily to study. Playing basketball and painting would act as stress busters. It also helped me sharpen my focus,” says Viha, who wants to be an engineer.Her father is a retired Army officer, while her mother is a homemaker.She has opted for the non-medical stream in Class XI.Karan Garg secured the second position with 98.80 marks, while Saanvi bagged the third position with 98.60 marks. Both of them are from Little Flower Convent School.Karan says, “Regular interaction with friends helped me keep stress at bay throughout. Though I used social media, but only within a limit. I studied for three hours each day, apart from school hours and coaching.”“It was a bit difficult, but I didn’t allow stress to take over,” says Saanvi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/icse-class-x-result-naman-viha-top-tricity-with-99-2-pc-111099
10-07-2020||---||22 fresh Covid cases reported in Mohali district||Mohali, July 10The district witnessed another big single day jump of 22 coronavirus cases on Friday taking the total number to 361 besides one death and three being discharged from the hospital.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the persons affected with the virus include three females of the age of 42, 12 and 20 years from Sunny Enclave, Kharar, two men aged 32 and 35 from Sector 116 and Phase 4, respectively, 45-year-old woman and 22-year-old man from Gillco Valley, three males aged 18, 38, 25 from Majat village, 18-year-old man, 19-year-man, 50-year-old man and 23-year-old woman from Jawaharpur village, 19-year-old man and 50-year-old woman from Nayagaon village, 30-year-old man, 57-year-old man from Dera Bassi, two males aged 19 and 73 from Baltana and 52-year-old man from Banur.Dr Manjit Singh said three patients who were discharged from the hospital include two females aged 19 and 35 year from Behda village and 39-year-old woman from Zirakpur. He said 52-year-old man from Dhakoli died of the virus today.He said as of now there are 361 cases with 256 persons discharged from the hospital while there were 98 active cases with 7 deaths reported in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/22-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-mohali-district-111058
10-07-2020||---||13 new COVID-19 cases take Chandigarh count to 536; five more discharged||Chandigarh, July 10Chandigarh reported 13 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the caseload in the Union Territory to 536 while five patients were also cured and discharged today.With the addition of new cases, the active cases in the city have climbed to 121.The cases reported today include a 58-year-old woman from PGIMER and a 76-year-old man from Sector-21.Two cases are that of a 60-year-old man and 30-year-old man from Manimajra, who are contacts of already positive patients.A 24-year-old man from Khuda Lahora, and 52-year-old woman from Sector-45 are family contacts already positive cases of Khuda Lahora and Sector-45, respectively.Four cases are contacts of already positive patient from Sector-55 — 64-year-old woman, 82-year-old woman, one-month girl and 29-year-old woman.A 34-year-old man from Ramdarbar was also found positive. He has four family members and all are asymptomatic.An 18-year-old woman from Sector-41 is a community contact of a positive case from Sector-55.The remaining case is of a 61-year-old man from Manimajra. He has seven family members. All are asymptomatic.Meanwhile, the five patients discharged today include a 60-year-old woman from Sector-29, 36-year-old man from Manimajra and three patients from Sector-23 — 39-year-old man, 36-year-old woman, 65-year-old woman.With the five discharged patients, the total number of people cured in the Union Territory stands at 408, with seven deaths reported so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-new-covid-19-cases-take-chandigarh-count-to-536-five-more-discharged-111049
10-07-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports two new coronavirus cases, tally rises to 135||Panchkula on Friday reported two new cases of coronavirus, taking the district's case tally to 135.A 34-year-old man from Sector 25 and a 64-year-old man from Marranwala in Kalka tested positive for the deadly disease, health officials said.They were receiving treatment at Civil Hospital in Sector 6.More details are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-two-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-rises-to-135-111037
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Get PAN or shell out 20% tax, Residents Welfare Associations told in Chandigarh||The local Municipal Corporation (MC) has asked Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) maintaining neighbourhood parks and public toilets to get PAN (Permanent Account Number) or else be ready to shell out 20 per cent tax on the maintenance cost.1,809 neighbourhood parks in cityThere are 1,809 neighbourhood parks in Chandigarh. Of these, 760 are being maintained by 60 RWAs. They are paid Rs2.48 per sq metre.According to the MC, it is mandatory for the RWAs to get PAN to pay the TDS. If they get PAN, they have to pay 2 per cent on the maintenance cost, which is provided by the corporation. If they do not get it, they will be considered as individuals and will be liable to pay 20 per cent tax.“We have directed the RWAs to do the needful and many have got PAN. If they do not obtain it, they will have to pay 20 per cent tax on the maintenance cost as per the norms,” Krishan Pal Singh, Superintending Engineer (Horticulture and Electrical), told Chandigarh Tribune.There are 1,809 neighbourhood parks in Chandigarh. Of these, 760 are being maintained by 60 RWAs. They are paid Rs2.48 per sq metre.Though many RWAs have got PAN, some are not forthcoming on the move. “Introducing the TDS will make things complicated for the RWAs. Their payment will also reduce. The RWAs should be treated as contractors; this is only the reimbursement for the maintenance cost,” Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation.Kuldeep Singh Gill, president, Bright RWA, Sector 21-B, said, “Once we start paying the TDS, we will also have to file returns, and in case there are objections, we will have to hire a lawyer as well. It is going to be too much of a hassle for just maintenance. The RWAs will surrender the parks if the TDS is imposed on us.”He said the corporation was not paying them the full amount at the rate of Rs2.48 per sq metre on frivolous grounds such as “hegdes not put up”.“I maintain 12 parks. The maintenance cost comes out to Rs49, 000 a month, but the corporation pays only Rs40,000. It comes out to Rs2 per sq metre. When there is a toe wall, where is the need for hedges,” he asked.The Resident Welafre Associations have been demanding a raise in the maintenance cost, but the civic body maintains that it is on a par with what is being paid in Mohali and Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-pan-or-shell-out-20-tax-residents-welfare-associations-told-in-chandigarh-110708
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||16 more test +ve in Chandigarh||An eight-month-old baby girl and an 80-year-old woman are among 16 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 in the city today. The UT Covid tally today rose to 523 with 113 active cases.Among those found infected are two men from Sector 55, aged 65 and 31, and three women, aged 30, 40 and 59, along with a 14-year-old boy from Sector 38. An 80-year-old woman from Sector 51 has also been found positive for Covid. A 31-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman from Sector 45 are among the new cases. An 11-year-old girl from Sector 40 too tested positive for the virus.Besides, three persons, including an eight-month-old girl, from Mani Majra were found infected.A 32-year-old man from Sector 52 too contracted the virus.Two men from Sector 27 and 19 were also found infected. Meanwhile, the family members and workplace contacts of the new patients have been quarantined.4 nursing officers quarantinedFour nursing officers of the PGI were quarantined today after a patient was found positive for Covid.According to the PGI, a patient, Pritpal (70) from Shekhpur, Ropar, was admitted to the ATC OPD on July 7 for some neurosurgical ailment. The patient was later shifted to the Emergency and tested positive for Covid today. He has been shifted to the NHE ICU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-more-test-ve-in-chandigarh-110742
10-07-2020||Panchkula||Staffer infected, Panchkula Shiksha Sadan shut||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/staffer-infected-panchkula-shiksha-sadan-shut-110743
10-07-2020||Mohali||9 new cases in Mohali, 5 cured||With the surfacing of nine fresh cases of Covid-19, the district count has gone up to 340. Five more patients have recovered from the disease. With this, the total number of cured persons has risen to 253.Those infected with the virus are a 62-year-old man from Sector 127, a 68-year-old man from Sector 97, a 42-year-old man from Sector 78, a 32-year-old man from Phase 9, a 30-year-old man from Sector 80, a 52-year-old woman from Phase 9, a 48-year-old woman from Phase 10, a 32-year-old man from Zirakpur and a 19-year-old boy from Dappar in Mohali district.The patients have been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said five patients had recovered and were discharged from the hospital today. He said those discharged were a 59-year-old woman and a man, both residents of Baltana, a 25-year-old man from Phase 4, Mohali, a 46-year-old man from Lalru and a 50-year-old man from Khanpur village in Mohali district.Dr Manjit Singh said the district had so far recorded 340 positive cases. While 253 patients had been cured, there were 81 active cases. Six persons had died of the disease.Meanwhile, Mohali SDM Jagdeep Sehgal, who had tested positive for the virus, has been isolated at Purab Premium Apartments in Sector 88, Mohali.Dr Harmandeep Kaur, nodal officer, said the SDM’s condition was fine. She said teams had been deputed to trace the contacts of the PCS officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-new-cases-in-mohali-5-cured-110744
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Youth held for vehicle thefts in Chandigarh||A 23-year-old youth has been arrested by the local police for vehicle thefts. Six stolen two-wheelers have been recovered from him.According to the police, Shivu Ahmad, a resident of Phase I, Mohali, had reported that his scooter was stolen from the parking lot of the Sector 42 lake. A case was registered in this regard at the Sector 36 police station.The police said the suspect, Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Moga, was arrested from the Sector 35/36 chowk while riding the stolen Activa.The police said his interrogation led to the recovery of a motorcycle, which was stolen from Sector 35 earlier this year. The police said his disclosure led to the recovery of four more two-wheelers, which were stolen from Mohali.The police said the suspect worked as a helper at a spare parts shop in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-for-vehicle-thefts-in-chandigarh-110745
10-07-2020||Mohali||Vendors attack car, driver fires into air in Mohali||High drama was witnessed at the Phase 7/8 traffic light point after two roadside vendors allegedly attacked a car here on Wednesday night. The car driver reportedly fired into the air in self-defence.Vendor-Duo heldMataur SHO Inspector Rajiv Kumar said they had arrested the two vendors. The suspects, who were migrants, used to deal in scrap. The car driver’s statement had been recorded.The Mataur police today arrested the vendors, Sunil and Kaka. The incident took place when the victim, Arun Chaudhary, a resident of Sector 71, was returning home from Phase 8 here.The police said the vendors were fighting among themselves. In the meantime, they saw Arun’s car moving towards them. They started throwing stones at the vehicle fearing that the car driver might have been sent by their “common enemy”.When the duo started throwing stones at the car, Arun came out of the vehicle and fired two rounds into the air with his licensed .32 revolver. Later, the duo fled from the spot. The police reached the spot and shifted the injured driver to the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, here. The police also recovered two cartridges from the spot.Inspector Rajiv Kumar, SHO of the Mataur police station, said: “We have arrested both vendors. The suspects, who are migrants, used to deal in scrap. The car driver’s statement has been recorded. Investigations into the case are on.”A case has been registered against the duo under Sections 323, 341, 506 and 427 of the IPC at the Mataur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vendors-attack-car-driver-fires-into-air-in-mohali-110764
10-07-2020||---||Suspended inspector seeks anticipatory bail in graft case||Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI Court, Chandigarh, has issued a notice to the CBI on the anticipatory bail application filed by Inspector Jaswinder Kaur of the Chandigarh Police under Section 438 of the CrPC.In the bail application, Jaswinder Kaur claimed that she was falsely implicated in the case and an FIR was registered on the whims of some police officialsThe bail application has been listed for hearing on July 10, which will involve filing of a reply by the CBI and arguments on the bail application through video-conferencing. Public prosecutor KP Singh has accepted the notice for the argument.Former Station House Officer at Mani Majra, Jaswinder Kaur, was booked on June 30 by the CBI for allegedly demanding Rs5 lakh bribe from a Mani Majra resident Gurdeep Singh in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him. A criminal complaint was pending against Gurdeep Singh for duping one Randhir Singh of Rs28 lakh.Gurdeep Singh alleged in his complaint to the CBI that Jaswinder Kaur, through Bhagwan Singh, had demanded a bribe of Rs5 lakh from him for not pursuing the complaint against him.A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC was registered by the CBI. The CBI had later arrested conduit Bhagwan Singh while accepting Rs1 lakh as part of the bribe amount on June 29. The Chandigarh Police also suspended Jaswinder Kaur for remaining absent and not reporting at Police Lines.In the bail application, Jaswinder Kaur claimed that she was falsely implicated in the case and an FIR was registered on the whims of some police officials. She claimed that she was present when the CBI raided her house and the police station.She said because of pressure and the media reports, she might be arrested now without any fault of hers. She said there was no proof which established that she demanded the bribe amount.She stated that a compromise was reached on the intervention of Bhagwan Singh and it was agreed among the parties that Gurdeep Singh and wife would return Rs28 lakh in installments to Randhir Singh. She said Gurdeep Singh had given Rs2 lakh in cash to Randhir Singh on June 21, 2020, and it was further agreed that Rs3 lakh would be paid by Gurdeep Singh on July 1 and for the remaining amount, four post-dated cheques were to be handed over to the opposite party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspended-inspector-seeks-anticipatory-bail-in-graft-case-110775
10-07-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula DC for  speeding up testing, tracing||Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja today urged the Health Department to speed up testing, tracing and focused clinical management to effectively combat the spread of Covid-19.He said more testing in containment zones was needed to bring down the positivity rate. He was speaking after presiding over a district-level meeting on the management of Covid-19 at the Mini-Secretariat in Sector 1.“Apart from this, antigen testing and public awareness activities should also be increased,” the DC said. He said constant proactive strategy should be worked out to prevent and effectively combat the spread of the pandemic.He directed 80 per cent contact tracing be done on the same day. He said the “Covid-19 safe mechanism” should be ensured and followed in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-dc-for-speeding-up-testing-tracing-110776
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Lab at Panjab University raises eyebrows||A science laboratory set up at the Sophisticated Analytical Instrumentation Facility (SAIF)/ CIL Building at Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Computer Centre in Panjab University (PU) has raised eyebrows.Advertisement by PUThe PU had issued an advertisement on March 5 for a post regarding a research project titled “Design and development of new vaccine adjuvants”, which had sparked the controversy.The decision has not gone well with the staff as they believe that it’s a virology/vaccine laboratory and may put their lives at risk. They allege the laboratory was set up to conduct vaccine trials under a tie-up with an Australian biotechnology company.However, the authorities maintained that it’s a normal science laboratory.In a representation, the staff of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Computer Centre, DCSA, SAIF and CIL stated: “A virology/ vaccine laboratory is set up on the first floor of CIL/Computer Department building, which is contradicting to the bio-safety norms. As per the WHO guidelines, the labs involved in the research of viruses, bacterium and other pathogens must be established in a separate building or a building having sufficient space for isolation of labs from other labs, classrooms and staff in the building.”They further submitted: “If the lab is allowed to operate from the present site, it will pose threat to hundreds of staff members and students. We fear that this type of unsafe setup may lead to repeat of Wuhan (China) tragedy in which the spread of Covid-19 claimed lakhs of lives throughout the world.”Meanwhile, Sukhwinder Singh, Director of the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Computer Centre, denied having such lab in the arena. RK Singla, Dean University Instructions (DUI), PU, said: “It’s a normal lab and the matter has been already resolved. It’s not vaccine testing lab. The complainants and other staff members were called today and they were informed about it,” said Singla.“The university should clear its stand in this matter and the doubts of the staff members should be resolved. A representation has also submitted by us,” said Deepak Kaushik, president, Panjab University Staff (non-teaching) Association.Definitely a vaccine laboratory: StaffSome staff members, requesting anonymity, alleged that the lab has been set up by the Department of Chemistry for carrying vaccine trials of TLR7. It’s a collaboration of Vaxine Pty. Ltd (College of Medicine University and Public Health), Flinders University, Adelaide (Australia), and the National Interdisciplinary Centre of Vaccine, Immunotherapeutics and Antimicrobials, PU. “We have no objections in setting up of any kind of lab but the authorities should confirm that it follows all bio-safety norms. The waste of the lab is being thrown in open and the assistants are coming in contact with others without proper sanitisation. There are many more flaws and we have informed the authorities about it,” said one of the complainants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lab-at-panjab-university-raises-eyebrows-110777
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Advocates demand entry of clerks, clients to chamber||A large numbers of lawyers today protested near the District Courts Complex in Sector 43 demanding the permission for the entry of clients and clerks to the lawyers’ chambers.Advocate Vinod Kumar Verma, former vice-president of the District Bar Association, said clients and clerks had to stand on roads which was a harassment. Verma said the lawyers’ chamber complex was constructed out of the fund collected by advocates. “The entry to the lawyers’ chambers is separate. When the government can allow shops, hotels and restaurants to open and function, why the lawyers can’t be allowed to work from their chambers and meet their clients?” he said.Verma said the advocates would take all precautionary steps as per the guidelines if the chambers were opened to clients and clerks. He said lawyers were at the receiving end. Advocates also raised slogans in support of their demands.Advocate Karan Khullar, vice-president of the association, said the district court had around 3,500 lawyers and all were facing these problems. Former president of the District Bar Association, Ravinder Singh Bassi, said it had been more than three months since the advocates were facing problems. He said a majority of the advocates were operating from the chambers and their functioning had been affected. They had to stand on roads, which was unjustified, he said. He said unlike Chandigarh, the advocates of Panchkula and Mohali had been operating completely from their chambers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/advocates-demand-entry-of-clerks-clients-to-chamber-110778
10-07-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Channi lays foundation stone of Rs 14-cr projects in Fatehgarh Sahib||Charanjit Singh Channi, Minister for Tourism, Punjab, laid the foundation stone of various development works worth Rs14 crore here today.The amount has been sanctioned by the Chief Minister on the demand of MLA Kuljit Singh for the beautification of the region.Channi said the CM wanted to beautify Chamkaur Sahib and Fatehgarh Sahib. He said the Tourism Department would spend Rs10 crore for renovation and beautification of Aam Khas Bagh and some amount will be spent on Sanghol Museum.He told the media that: “The Congress had no role to play in the emergence of the new Akali Dal led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and joined by the Taksali leaders. Rather, Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia are responsible for it. The SAD(B) is a party of the Badal family.”He said the Floating Restaurant, Sirhind, which was inaugurated by the then CM Giani Zail Singh will be renovated and restarted.Kuljit Singh thanked the CM for sanctioning the development projects for Fatehgarh Sahib. He said projects worth Rs400 crore were in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/channi-lays-foundation-stone-of-rs-14-cr-projects-in-fatehgarh-sahib-110780
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Tender to up water storage floated for Chandigarh||Residents can hope to get a respite from frequent water supply breakdowns as the Municipal Corporation today floated a tender for doubling the city’s water storage capacity.Tender bids will be opened in a week and a suitable firm will be finalised. The process of awarding the work to a company will be completed in a month. Following this, the work will start with a two-month deadline.The water storage capacity will be upgraded from the present 45 million gallons per day (MGD) to 90 MGD at the Sector 39 waterworks reservoir. It receives supply from the Kajauli waterworks.At present, the waterworks has only half-day underground water storage capacity. Its capacity is inadequate and the water stored in the morning is supplied in the evening, while the evening storage is supplied in the morning.It has caused frequent “low or no water supply” in the city. Thus, during any leakage in the pipeline from Kajauli to Chandigarh, the city witnesses severe water crisis as the Sector 39 reservoir runs out of water. Normally, there is a demand of 90-95 MGD of water per day. In summer, it rises to 120-125 MGD. Chandigarh has a water availability of 120 MGD.In February, the MC House had okayed Rs37 crore to upgrade the water storage capacity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tender-to-up-water-storage-floated-for-chandigarh-110781
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Provide domestic help, tenant info to police: Chandigarh||To keep a check on anti-social elements, the UT Administration has ordered that the landlords or house owners will have to provide information about their tenant or domestic servant to the nearest police station. Any breach of the order will invite action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.DM’s orderDistrict Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar ordered that no landlord or owner of residential or commercial establishment should rent out or sub-let any accommodation to any person unless and until he or she had furnished the particulars of the said tenants or paying guests to the local police station.In the order, the District Magistrate, Mandip Singh Brar, stated that there was an apprehension that anti-social elements might make their hideouts clandestinely in residential or commercial areas of the city.“If suitable measures to prevent the same are not taken, the unlawful activities of these persons can cause breach of peace and disturbance of public tranquility, besides posing grave danger to human life and safety to public property,” he said.He said a check on landlords or owners of residential or commercial establishments was necessary so that anti-social elements in the guise of ordinary tenants, domestic help and paying guests might not cause harm to the citizens and immediate action was necessary for prevention of the same.He ordered that no landlord or owner of residential or commercial establishment should rent out or sub-let any accommodation to any person unless and until he or she had furnished the particulars of the said tenants or paying guests to the local police station. Also, no landlord or owner would employ any servant unless and until he or she furnished the particulars of the said servant to the local police station.He said all persons, who intended to offer accommodation on rent or employ any servant, were required to inform in writing the particulars of tenants, paying guests and servants to the station house officer of the police station concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/provide-domestic-help-tenant-info-to-police-chandigarh-110784
10-07-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib district reports second Covid fatality, seven new cases||The district witnessed the second Covid death today after a 56-year-old woman from Bhambhri village in the Khamano sub-division died due to the disease at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.Earlier, a 53-year-old man from Mandi Gobindgarh had died due to Covid at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. His wife and two close contacts had also tested positive for the virus.19 active casesTill Thursday, the department has collected 11,659 samples. Of these, 10,985 tested negative and 139 positive. As 118 patients have been cured, there are now 19 active cases in the district.Meanwhile, seven new cases surfaced in the district today. A data entry operator and a technician at the Civil Surgeon’s Office were found infected. The Civil Surgeon, Dr NK Aggarwal, and three doctors of the Civil Hospital, who were in touch with these employees, gave their samples for testing and quarantined themselves in their houses.Sources said the Deputy Commissioner had also quarantined herself as she had not been attending the office for the past two days. The District Administrative Complex was sanitised today as some of the infected employees attended video-conferences held at the complex.According to the Health Department, seven positives were cured and discharged from Gian Sagar hospital, Banur. Till today, the department has collected 11,659 samples, of these 10985 tested negative and 139 positive. As 118 patients have been cured, there are now 19 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-district-reports-second-covid-fatality-seven-new-cases-110785
10-07-2020||Panchkula||Squatters occupy vacant plots in Panchkula||Illegal slums in Sector 21 have become a nuisance for the residents.Sanjeev Bansal, a resident of Sector 21, said, “Key plots in our residential colony is a frequent target of squatters. We can’t step out for a morning walk as they burn old tires and polythene. We had raised the issue of illegal jhuggis with the HSVP officials, but to no avail. The issue is not confined to just our sector as almost every sector developed by the HSVP has been encroached upon by shanties.”“As slum-dwellers defecate in open, sanitisation and cleanliness are also a concern. Even our children can’t find a place to play in parks. They have made the area unsafe for living,” another resident rued.“We regularly conduct drives to remove encroachments in the city. We will look into the matter,” a HSVP official said.Mamta Sharma, Estate Officer, HSVP, Panchkula, could not be contacted for comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/squatters-occupy-vacant-plots-in-panchkula-110787
10-07-2020||Panchkula||Soon, ‘janata marshals’ to regulate traffic in Panchkula||The Panchkula police have decided to deploy ‘janata marshals’ to regulate traffic in the district.The police will rope in ex-servicemen to play the role of ‘janata marshals’. They will work with the police shoulder to shoulder and regulate the vehicular flow. This was decided at a meeting presided over by Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta with Panchkula police officials at Haryana Assembly Secretariat, Chandigarh.It was decided that a detailed plan regarding police training programmes, installation of CCTVs, removal of encroachments, drug trafficking and illegal mining was chalked out.Gupta said a large number of ex-servicemen were staying in the city, who voluntarily wanted to cooperate in improving the traffic system. He asked the police officers to formulate a plan in which the skills of these ex-servicemen could be used.During the meeting, the Haryana Speaker said the problem of illegal encroachment was increasing at many places in the city. He directed the police officers that the problem should be controlled in a timely manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-janata-marshals-to-regulate-traffic-in-panchkula-110788
10-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali acts against quarantine violators||The district administration has been acting tough against people who are jumping quarantine and putting lives of others at risk during the Covid-19 pandemic.Stating this here today, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said from June 22 to July 7, the administration, with the assistance of the police, had registered four FIRs under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC against those jumping quarantine, while warning had been issued to 26 persons.Explaining the mechanism, Dayalan said: “People undergoing quarantine have to download COVA app on their cell phones and they are tracked by its admin portal. A warning is issued to a person is he/she jumps the quarantine for the first time. An FIR is registered against the violator, if he/she repeats the offence for the second time”.Dayalan exhorted the people, especially those undergoing the quarantine, to follow all safety protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-acts-against-quarantine-violators-110789
10-07-2020||Mohali||Posters to spread Covid awareness||Various schools, colleges and youth clubs are rendering service to make Mission Fateh a success. A youth services club, Daar’, based in Phase-3B1, Mohali, has undertaken an initiative in the form of designing posters sensitising people to follow the Health Department protocols such as wearing masks, washing hands with soap for 20 seconds, using hand sanitisers and maintaining social distance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/posters-to-spread-covid-awareness-110790
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh invites tenders for GMCH’s new emergency-cum-trauma centre||To give a boost to patient care, the UT Administration has started the process for the construction of a new emergency-cum-trauma centre at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.The Administration has invited tenders for the construction of the centre at a cost of Rs36.93 crore till July 20. The funds for the project had already been approved at a meetingof the UT’s Standing Finance Committee.A senior officer said after the allotment of the work, it would take two years to complete the project. Of the total amount, civil work would cost Rs33.59 crore, public health services Rs1.22 crore and electrical work would cost Rs2.11 crore, he added. The centre would be constructed in front of Block A of the GMCH-32.Once complete, the GMCH will be able to provide better trauma facilities to the patients. Earlier, there was a plan to make a separate trauma centre in Sector 53. However, it was dropped after it was suggested that it was not possible to run a trauma centre without other facilities. Later, it was decided to merge the emergency and trauma facilities in a centre.Since its inception in 1996-97, the GMCH-32 caters to patients from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and other states.The 280-bedded centre will have five normal and one minor operation theatre. A 24-bedded state-of-the-art intensive care unit (ICU), a 64-bedded ward for stable patients, two isolation wards having the total capacity of 33 beds and a 47-bedded ambulatory care ward.The new emergency-cum-trauma centre will replace the older emergency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-invites-tenders-for-gmchs-new-emergency-cum-trauma-centre-110791
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Online campaign to revive art in Chandigarh||Hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic, “The Narrators”, a city-based performing arts group, has initiated a unique online campaign - “Save The Art & The Artiste”.Nisha Luthra, cofounder of the group, said: “Covid-19 has resulted in a situation of utmost distress for us. We cannot showcase our art forms in front of the audience as congregations are not allowed. This has hit our primary source of income hard.”Nisha said: “In an endeavour to bring back theatre, folk artistes and visual artists, we have initiated this online campaign with the collaboration of other art and theatre organisations of the tricity. We apprised various cultural and government departments of the plight of the artistes, but in vain.”“We have been helping the needy artistes with nominal amount for groceries and basic needs. Since government bodies are not coming forward with any kind of help, we have turned to digital platforms where we are entertaining the audience in these extraordinarily difficult times,” she said.Nisha urged the audience to watch online concerts and contribute to reviving the art industry. She also made a fervent appeal to government bodies to come forward and help the artistes in the tricity who are only dependent on their creative skills to make a living.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-campaign-to-revive-art-in-chandigarh-110792
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||4 Bawariya gang members held for snatchings in Chandigarh||The crime branch of the UT police claimed to have solved four snatching cases with the arrest of four persons, allegedly members of Bawariya gang.The police said they had a tip-off that members of the gang, who were involved in several snatching cases in Delhi, were active in the city.On the basis of the information, crime branch sleuths laid a trap at Ram Darbar and nabbed two persons, identified as Anil and Hari Parkash, both residents of Shamli district in UP. The police said their arrest led to information about two other gang members, who were involved in snatching incidents in the city.A police official said they laid a naka near the Sector 11 underbridge and nabbed the other two gang members, identified as Ajay Kumar from Ludhiana and Rajiv, alias Raju from Shamli district. The police said the duo was riding a stolen motorcycle with a fake number affixed to it. It was found that the bike was stolen from Delhi and a case about the theft was already registered there.A police official said with the arrest of the four persons, four cases of gold chain snatching in the city had been solved. Two stolen motorcycles, which were used to commit snatchings, had been recovered from them. The suspects are in four-day police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-bawariya-gang-members-held-for-snatchings-in-chandigarh-110793
10-07-2020||Mohali||148 evacuees return home from Ukraine||Fifteenth evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 148 passengers from Borispol, Ukraine, arrived at Chandigarh international airport here today.The Air India flight number AI1928 landed at the airport at 4.29 am. All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines.Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport with joint efforts of all authorities/agencies.The Health Department spokesman said health officials took precautions during screening and the passengers also maintained social distancing. He said no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold, etc, and all were asymptomatic for Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/148-evacuees-return-home-from-ukraine-110795
10-07-2020||Mohali||Seven arrested for gambling in Mohali||Demand to put Bill on holdPatiala: Eleven states and a Union Territory opposed several clauses of the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill-2020 during a power ministers’ meet and demanded to put it on hold, said VK Gupta, spokesperson for the All-India Power Engineers’ Federation. tnsEntrance exams date extendedChandigarh: The PU extended PU-CET (UG) and BA/BCom, LLB (Hons) (5 years) Integrated Course exam to October 4, PU-CET (PG) to October 10 and 11. PUTHAT will take place on October 16, followed by PUMEET and PULEET on October 18, PU-LLB (3 years) on October 22, MBA (Executive) for USOL on September 30 and MPhil, PhD, on November 7. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-arrested-for-gambling-in-mohali-110796
