10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 80 new COVID-19 cases; total tally rises to 1,595||Chandigarh on Monday recorded 80 new COVID-19 cases bringing the total tally to 1,595.The number of active cases in the UT stands at 565.As many as 1,004 patients have been cured till date while 25 patients have died in the city so far.One hundred new patients were discharged after recovery from COVID-19 on Monday.The total number of patients tested so far is 17,928.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-80-new-covid-19-cases-total-tally-rises-to-1-595-124742
10-08-2020||---||Two more fatalities in Mohali due to Covid; 76 new cases||Mohali, August 10Mohali district witnessed two fatalities due to the coronavirus, taking the total fatalities in the district to 21.The deceased have been identified as 38-year-old male of Mubarikpur who was suffering from multiple co-morbidities. The other person has been identified as 70-year-old male of Dera Bassi who died in Panchkula and was also suffering from multiple co-morbidities.Meanwhile, the district witnessed 76 fresh cases of coronavirus the total count to 1,385. 21 positive patients have recovered and were discharged from the hospital on Saturday.Dr Manjit Singh said that most of the cases have surfaced from Mohali city and Kharar, Dera Bassi, Zirakpur, Nayagaon and Lalru towns in the district. He said all the patients area the earlier contacts of the have been admitted to the Covid care centre in Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He said all the patients were responding well to the treatment.As of now there are 1,385 positive cases and out of these 715 positive patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital while there are 649 active cases with 21 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-fatalities-in-mohali-due-to-covid-76-new-cases-124705
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Girl’s mobile phone snatched||Rs 5 lakh, tools stolen from plotChandigarh: Tools and Rs 5 lakh were stolen from a plot in the Industrial Area, Phase II, here. Complainant Shiv Kumar said Rs 5 lakh, two grinders, a drill machine, a portable welding machine and some copper items were stolen from plot number 1,043/A on August 7 night. A case has been registered. TNS20 nabbed for gamblingChandigarh: Twenty persons have been nabbed while gambling at a farmhouse in Khuda Ali Sher. The police seized Rs2.52 lakh from them. According to the police, Hemant, Mukesh, Gurjeet, Harinder Singh, Parwinder Singh and Vinod, all residents of Kishangarh, Mohamad Sanju, a resident of Nada Sahib, Panchkula, Manoj, a resident of New Indra Colony, Mani Majra, Rattan Lal, a resident of Sector 1, Panchkula, Jitender and Somesh Kumar, residents of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, Lucky and Puneet, residents of Baddi, Jai Bhagwan, a resident of Surajpur, Panchkula, Jasbir, a resident of Nada village, Mohali, Anand, a resident of Sonepat, Haryana, Suresh Kumar, a resident of Nawa Nagar village, Panchkula, Munish Kumar of Khuda Lahora village and Shine and Akash, residents of Panchkula, were found gambling on August 8. A case has been registered. TNSOfficial visits Shram BureauChandigarh: Senior Labour and Employment Adviser, DPS Negi, who is holding the additional charge of the Director General, Labour Bureau, Sector 17, Chandigarh, and Sibani Swain, additional secretary and financial adviser, Ministry of Labour and Employment, visited the newly constructed building of the Labour Bureau (Shram Bureau Bhawan) in Sector 38 (West) here on Saturday. They reviewed the work of the bureau and held discussions with officers of the organisation. They planted sapling of Mangifera Indica (Amrapali) on the premises of the newly constructed building. TNSCouncillors slam MayorChandigarh: Congress councillors have slammed BJP Mayor Raj Bala Malik over her work in eight months. “No work is being done by the Municipal Corporation and whatever works were going on, they have also been stopped. Roads are broken and drinking water is being supplied only for four hours, garbage is not being cleared and people have deposited the property tax, but are still getting notices,” said leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla. TNS‘No transmission via breast milk’Mohali: Covid did not transmit through breast milk, said Dr Sunil Kumar Agrawal, consultant, neonatology, Fortis Hospital. He said: “The WHO and UNICEF recommend breastfeeding within the first hour of the birth even by Covid-19 positive mothers. In case the mother is sick and/or unable to breastfeed directly, a healthy caregiver can feed expressed breast milk to the baby with a clean cup and/or spoon. Options such as donor human milk, relactation (restarting breastfeeding after a gap), wet nursing (another woman breastfeeding or caring for your child), or appropriate breast milk substitute should be explored.” TNSWorkers seek compensationChandigarh: The Naujawan Bharat Sabha organised a protest at Hallo Majra to demand compensation for the workers and youths who have suffered due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Manavjot, convenor of Naujawan Bharat Sabha, said the Central Government imposed a draconian lockdown on the citizens. “Now, after four months, people have started realising that lockdown caused more harm than Covid. The government had promised that none of the needy will be deprived of ration items during the lockdown, but the reality is different. In Hallo Majra, ration by the government reached people weeks after the beginning of the lockdown,” said Manavjot. TNSPower cut in Zirakpur todayZirakpur: Most parts of the town faced power outages for close to eight hours from Saturday afternoon to Sunday morning. VIP Road, Baltana, Babhat, Jarnail Enclave Phase II, Swastik Vihar, Dashmesh Nagar, Silver City and Shivalik Vihar are some of the areas which have endured power cuts for last two days. Officials of the PSPCL say there was a problem with the feeder line due to which the supply was disrupted. Residents will have to endure more power cuts on August 10 from 9 am to 5.30 pm as all feeders from the Babhat grid will be switched off. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girls-mobile-phone-snatched-124616
10-08-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula may have 20 MC wards||The Panchkula Municipal Corporation is likely to have 20 wards in accordance with the population figure of 3,17,476. The de-limitation committee headed by Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has prepared a rough draft, which will be sent to the state government for approval. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-may-have-20-mc-wards-124612
10-08-2020||Mohali||Woman among 4 held for attacking relative||The police have arrested four persons, including a woman, for allegedly attacking their relative with sharp weapons over a property dispute at Balongi village here.The suspects, Harvinder Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Simranjit Singh and Rupinder Kaur, residents of Balongi village, were today produced before a court, which sent them to three-day police remand. According to the police, the suspects had a dispute with the family of the victim, Inderjit Singh, over the possession of a plot in the village.The victim was at the disputed plot on Friday morning. Meanwhile, the suspects reached there and allegedly attacked him with knife, shovels and sticks. Inderjit was taken to the Civil Hospital, Kharar, where his condition was stated to be critical.On the complaint of the victim’s father, Jaspal Singh, a case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 307, 341, 324 and 506 of the IPC at the Balongi police station.Inspector Amardeep Singh said: “The incident was an outcome of a dispute over a plot, which falls on the Balongi panchayat land. We have initiated investigations.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-among-4-held-for-attacking-relative-124609
10-08-2020||---||Employees against privatisation of firms in Haryana||Panchkula, August 9A demonstration was held today at Major Sandeep Sankhla Memorial in Sector 2 here on a call given by trade unions and numerous independent federations of employees.They were protesting against “the privatisation of state-owned firms, bid to weaken labour laws, retrenchment of employees and deduction in allowances”.The protest was organised under the banner of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and Haryana Sarv Karamchari Sangh. Even ASHA workers took part in the protest demanding 50 per cent incentives during the prevailing situation of Covid-19.Savita Malik of the Haryana Sarva Karamchari Sangh and CITU state secretary Virendra Singh alleged the present government’s policies were against the rights of employees, labourers, farmers and even the general public.“Public departments are being privatised, labour laws are being weakened to benefit capitalists, farmers are under distress, prices of petrol and diesel have skyrocketed, employees’ allowances are being deducted,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/employees-against-privatisation-of-firms-in-haryana-124608
10-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Fatehgarh Sahib reports 41 new cases||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 9Forty-one persons tested positive for Covid in Fatehgarh Sahib today.The cases include 12 from Mandi Gobindgarh town and five from the Amloh SDM office, taking the district tally to 506.Civil Surgeon Surinder Singh said 19,779 samples had been collected so far of which 506 had tested positive for Covid-19.He said 365 had been cured and discharged from the hospital and there were 136 active cases.He said two areas in the district have been declared micro-containment zones — Surjit Mohalla of Mandi Gobindgarh and Amloh SDM office area.He said all activities in the areas marked as micro-containment zones had been stopped and house-to-house survey was being conducted and samples of residents were being taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-reports-41-new-cases-124607
10-08-2020||---||Drunk driver arrested in Airport road mishap||Mohali, August 9The police today arrested the driver of the rashly driven car who injured three vendors on the Airport road here late last evening.The car driver has been identified as Shiv Charan, a resident of Rohtak in Haryana. At present, he was putting up at Mauli Baidwan village here.The victims have been identified as Ram Babu (35), Dharminder (35) and Om Beer (50), residents of Bariyali village near Balongi. They hail from Uttar Pradesh and are working here as fruit and vegetable vendors.“The incident took place at 10.30 pm when Shiv Charan, who was under the influence of liquor, was going towards Kharar from Mohali in his car. The victims were also going towards Kharar with their carts when the rashly driven car hit them from the rear. The trio suffered serious injuries in the mishap,” said Investigation Officer ASI Kewal Singh.The injured persons were shifted to the Civil Hospital in Phase VI here, from where they were referred to the GMCH-32 in Chandigarh. Om Beer was later shifted to the PGI, Chandigarh, where his condition was stated to be critical. The condition of Ram Babu was also critical, said the police.On the statement of Dharminder, the police today registered a case against the car driver under Sections 279, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC.Inspector Amardeep Singh said: “Medical examination confirmed that the car driver was under the influence of liquor”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drunk-driver-arrested-in-airport-road-mishap-124606
10-08-2020||Make sure beggars do not roam freely||Safety comes first, don’t give alms at light points||It is a menaceIt’s worrisome to see mushrooming of beggars in view of the current pandemic in the tricity as it can spread the disease exponentially. If more and more people pledge not to give a single penny to any beggar, irrespective of his/her need, begging will stop. Sanjay Chopra, MohaliThey are a nuisance, cops turn a blind eyeBeggars at traffic light points and in markets are a nuisance. They forcibly insist to pay them alms. They do not wear masks nor do they maintain social distance.The Chandigarh Police does not bother to remove them even when officials say,“begging is a crime”.The traffic police is busy issuing challans near roundabouts and nothing else. RK Kapoor, ChandigarhBring them into mainstreamIn this Covid pandemic beggars, particularly at traffic junctions, have become a problem as they can spread the virus.The UT Administration has to prepare a road map to tackle begging. An assessment has to be made about number of child beggars and accommodation required for them and their parents. We need to think of more rehabilitation centres. Thereafter, a plan should be made to bring such children into the mainstream and provide them education. Adopt a therapeutic approach rather than philanthropic or a legal to minimize begging in the UT. Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala Cantt QUESTIONThere has been a spurt in snatching incidents in the tricity with women becoming easy targets. Do you think the pandemic-induced unemployment is one of the factors behind youngsters taking to such crime? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse @tribunemail.com Authorities should rehabilitate themIt's shameful that poor people beg for alms at traffic points and streets in our City Beautiful. The authorities should round up beggars and shift them to rehabilitation centres with support of social and charitable institutions. Beggars should be given training in skill development so that they can earn their living rather than begging at traffic points and in streets, which paints a poor picture, leads to accidents at times and could possibly spread the virus. Col TBS Bedi(retd), MohaliNeed for adopting a humane approachBeggary is a slur on the face of City Beautiful. Due to steep rise in joblessness during the Covid crisis, the number of beggars has increased at light points in the city. Considering them as virus carriers,the public has been advised not to give them alms.Beggars need public sympathy not scorn.Many socially conscious volunteers distribute face masks among the poor people, including beggars. SC Luthra, ChandigarhStop giving almsThe problem of beggars in the tricity has continued for a long time as the system lies dysfunctional. It has been seen in the past that despite shifting to rehabilitation centres, they escape and resort to their old activities. It is best that people refrain from giving them alms as in the ongoing pandemic they carry the risk of spreading the disease. Sikander Singh, ChandigarhTell them to workAlms seekers pose a threat to us all. The authorities should remove them from light points and if not possible take steps to ensure that they do not loiter at all. They should be made to sit at some fixed spots in markets and near bus stops. In fact, only those should be allowed to seek alms, who are physically handicapped and unable to move around. Others should be asked to work. NPS Sohal, ChandigarhShift them to shelter homesBegging is a social evil.The UT Administration should lodge all beggars in shelter homes. There is a mafia behind beggars. This practice brings a bad name for the country. It also poses a threat of spreading virus during the pandemic.The eradication social evils should not be left to the judiciary, which is running on outdated laws and work culture of the British Era. KC Rana, ChandigarhPenalise people who give almsBegging is a challenge not for the tricity but for the whole country. It is a full time profession. In the Covid-19 pandemic begging can spread infection. The Administration should make arrangements of open jails for beggars in each sector.NGOs should provide free food to them as their main contention is that they don’t have anything to eat. Also, beggars should be tested for the virus.The Administration can send back beggars to their native places.Impose fine on the people, who feed them or give them money. Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhChange orthodox mindset of citizensBegging has of late assumed alarming proposition in the tricity. Beggars perform no useful social function.Hence, their existence is parasitical. Superstitions and orthodox mindset of our citizens has to be first changed. The solution is to have penal labour colonies, where psychiatrist treatment, skill enhancement, basic education, medical facilities, recreation and nutritious food may be provided to beggars. A total ban on begging at railway stations and bus stands should be enforced. The menace of begging at traffic light points will see a downtrend if such steps are taken. Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurOnus of their safety lies on AdministrationAre unfortunate beggars not residents of the tricity?Onus of their safety lies on the Administration.It is apathetic to be oblivious to their plight, which compels them against staying home despite the Covid-19 scare.Why not test them all and arrange treatment where necessary? In our free and welfare state empty stomach should have the first right to public purse and resources.Begging strikes at dignity and psyche of an individual.Beggars must not be expected to buy facemasks, but in public interest they need to get these free.This investment would pay rich dividends. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaNGOs must come forward to helpFirstly, begging is a crime.So, the Chandigarh Administration should not allow beggars to seek alms. Secondly, we as responsible citizens should not give alms to beggars thereby encouraging them to do so in the future too. The Chandigarh Police should show zero tolerance towards beggars, who have the potential of spreading Covid-19. NGOs should also come forward to help beggars to support themselves during this period of crisis. Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhGovt should Employ able-bodied beggarsThe population of beggars has abruptly increased in the tricity. The pity is that most of them are physically fit. Some must be involved in crimes.Most suffer from infectious diseases such as leprosy, TB and maybe Covid-19.The virus can easily spread when beggars come in contact with people. The government should employ able-bodied beggars. The traffic police should not allow them to wander near traffic light signals. The Administration should arrange shelters for handicapped and aged beggars. People should also not give money or food to beggars. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliBan practice temporarilyThe Chandigarh Administration has always neglected squatters in the city giving them opportunity to flourish. Now, it’s time to go for their Covid check and shift them to home shelters. Residents too don’t lag behind and buy items from them at traffic lights posing a threat to the masses. People should realise the gravity of the situation,follow protocols and avoid beggars.The Administration should ban begging for the time being. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliSend them to schools for skill upgradeThe Administration should make arrangements to send small children to special schools where they can learn skill to earn livelihood instead of begging.Physically challenged beggars should be taken care of.Beggars are involved in petty crimes.Involve traffic marshalls to solve the issue. The Chandigarh traffic police is always seen issuing challans to traffic violators, but never bothers to stop illegal activities.The Administration is not willing to take any initiative to end begging.What can one expect from a common man on this issue? Gurpreet Malhotra, ChandigarhFulfil their basic requirementsThe lives of beggars and those of the people they beg from are at risk as Covid cases are rising in the tricity. Covid can be avoided by staying safe and alert. Provide masks and sanitisers to beggars.They should be apprised of maintaining social distance. Also, provide them tents for living. Encourage them to learn skills so that they can earn their bread with dignity. Anita Tandon, KhararPrevention is best way to contain virusEvery one approaching you is a Covid carrier.Taking precautions should be the mantra for containing the spread of virus. If someone approaches any vehicle for seeking alms the occupants should not open the windows. Residents should not give alms in market places or traffic light points. While going out mask should be strictly worn and instructions issued from time to time by the authorities should be followed. Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhEnsure education for themThose seeking alms at traffic light points and in markets are a nuisance to commuters and shoppers.Authorities should pay attention to those having the potential of spreading Covid-19. Traffic police personnel should be posted at all vulnerable points. All alms-seekers should immediately be hauled up and tested for coronavirus infection. However, as a long-term solution befitting the imperative and postulates of a welfare state, the government ought to ensure their education and vocational training to enable them earn a dignified livelihood. DR SS Bhatti, ChandigarhStay focused, keep windowpanes upBegging is a curse due to poverty, but these days it is an easy source of income. Beggars are not only abominable, but threat to traffic on roads. Their unhygienic living itself is prone to diseases compounded more due to Covid-19.This warrants not only absolute hygiene but observance of other social obligations too. At traffic light points their persistent presence is loathsome. Should drivers pay attention to traffic signals or pay alms to them?Car owners should keep window panes up and remain focused on traffic lights. We should not give them alms in any case. The traffic police deployed at light points should ensure that the area is beggar free. Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliPrudent to take strict actionIt is true that traffic points and markets see blatant violation of safety norms by beggars. While it is mandatory to wear mask at public place, but beggars apparently pay no heed to this and take no precaution. Violations are taking place right under the nose of the police. In a bid to provide a relief to motorists and others and reduce the impact of coronavirus it is prudent to take strict action against violators. The authorities should enhance surveillance of areas thronged by beggars. Daily and periodically checking can also be helpful. For residents this is a time to save themselves. Do not open windowpanes of vehicles and stop giving money to beggars. Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaCrack the whip on those who give almsThere is no denying that so much has been said and written about beggars, but to no avail. The dispensation needs to walk the extra mile to effectively deal with the burgeoning menace, especially in the new normal situation, triggered by the ongoing battle against the pandemic. The Administration needs to crack the whip on those giving alms to beggars, especially at light points. Police patrolling has to be enhanced during the peak hours. NGOs, sector bodies and residents can play a pivotal role in at least minimising the menace. The public must be apprised of the disastrous outcome of the killer Covid-19 and precautions to be taken. The Administration also needs to take stringent measures way keeping in view the scary situation triggered by the killer virus. Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhDeploy security where necessaryThere is hardly any doubt that begging is a frequent practice in our country. Somehow, poverty and hunger is one of the considerable reasons behind this social menace. Simultaneously, vital part of this community has become accustomed to it for no solid reasons and disguise as hard-nosed thus make use of the generous persons. Keeping eye on spread of the virus, public should either avoid offering them alms or take utmost care and precautions. On the other hand, the Administration should deploy police personnel wherever it is necessary to keep the threat at bay. Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliMake them earn their livelihoodNowadays, those seeking alms can spread Covid-19 as you never know whose carrying the deadly virus. Begging should be banned completely. Strict rules must be enforced to prevent begging. Awareness sessions should be held and steps initiated to rehabilitate beggars. Small shelters have to be constructed for them. They need to be imparted skills, which would help them land jobs. They should be made to earn their livelihood by working and not begging. Physically handicapped beggars should be taken care at rehabilitation centres. Dr Shruti K. Chawla, ChandigarhCombined efforts of society, ut neededBeggars are at risk of contracting Covid due to lack of knowledge, sanitisers and masks. The problem of begging is not static. It can be solved by providing them skill training, mental and physical health treatment, drug rehabilitation, education and work. Source of livelihood and social intervention seems to be best solution to stop begging. These poor people are in need of help in the time of contingency. Combined efforts by society and the Administration could help in them rehabilitate.  Charu Malhotra, Mohali||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/safety-comes-first-dont-give-alms-at-light-points-124604
10-08-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Higher water tariff to be prominant factor in Mohali MC poll||Tribune News ServiceMohali, August 9The higher water tariff in sectors under GMADA will be one of the primary issues during the coming Mohali Municipal Corporation (MC) elections likely to be held in the first or second week of October.The residents of Sectors 66 to 69 and 76 to 81 were presently paying five times the water bills than other sectors under the MC for the past two and a half years. The water and sewerage maintenance of these sectors are yet to be transferred to the MC.Even though the MC House had passed a resolution and forwarded the same to the Director Local Bodies almost a year ago, the authorities have not approved it yet.Residents of these sectors, led by the councillor of ward No. 23, had organised several protests, but in vain.Surinder Singh, a resident of Sector 69, claimed that as most of the new sectors were led by SAD councillors in the MC, their pleas were not being accepted by the government despite the fact the MC House had passed a resolution in this regard in 2019. He said residents had decided to oppose the candidates of the ruling party in the coming MC poll.Satvir Singh Dhanoa, councilor of ward No. 23, said residents had been paying Rs5.25 per kilolitre for drinking water, whereas residents living in sectors governed by the MC paid Rs1.8 per kilolitre. He said it was an injustice to the residents of these sectors.Dhanoa said residents had also filed an appeal in the Permanent Lok Adalat for issuing directions to GMADA to hand over the water supply system to the MC and the petitioners also sought a refund of excess water tariff paid to GMADA from 2017 onwards. The Permanent Lok Adalat has put the Municipal Commissioner, Local Bodies Director and GMADA Chief Administrator on notice regarding disparity in the water tariff in different areas of the city and sought a response by August 28.Former Deputy Mayor and SAD leader Manjit Singh Sethi said the MC House had passed a resolution for transferring the water supply system to the MC and forwarded the same for approval to the Local Bodies Department. He said nothing had been done in this regard. He said they had also sought nod for issuing tenders for 200 projects, but the tenders were allegedly issued on a selective basis. He said elections were approaching and the people would give a befitting reply by casting their votes in favour of the Opposition party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/higher-water-tariff-to-be-prominant-factor-in-mohali-mc-poll-124603
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Allotment of GMADA plot to resident restored||The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, New Delhi, has dismissed a review petition by the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) against the order of the Consumer Commission Chandigarh for quashing the authority’s decision to cancel the allotment of a plot to a resident of Chandigarh.GMADA quashed the allotment of a plot to a resident on the ground that the applicant failed to qualify the conditions laid down in the scheme. The case According to the qualification criteria, the applicant must be a resident of Punjab or Chandigarh or residing in Punjab for the past 5 years. Regular employees of the Punjab Government or its undertakings and Punjab and Haryana High Court are eligible. Ad hoc, contractual, temporary or reemployed staff cannot apply under this category.Deepshikha, a resident of Chandigarh, had applied for the allotment of a plot under category ‘A’ (general category). She also won draw of lots held on November 28, 2011.However, the allotment was later cancelled on the ground that she was not a resident of Punjab/Chandigarh which was an essential eligibility condition. She had then approached the district forum, which had restored the allotment vide order dated September 25, 2012. The authority was directed to pay Rs50,000 compensation and Rs5,000 litigation cost. GMADA approached the state commission concerned, which also dismissed its appeal.After that, GMADA filed a revision petition before the national commission, which noted that the applicant had submitted a residence certificate as well as service certificate from the Punjab and Haryana High Court. There is nothing in the certificate to suggest even remotely that the complainant was an ad hoc, contractual, temporary or reemployed employee of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The commission stated: “Though the certificate does not specifically refer to the complainant as a regular employee, in the absence of Punjab and Haryana High Court qualifying her as an ad hoc, contractual, temporary or reemployed employee, the certificate should have been construed to mean that the complainant was a regular employee of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In any case, nothing prevented the petitioner from writing a letter to the Punjab and Haryana High Court to obtain a clarification as to whether the complainant was a regular employee or an ad hoc, contractual, temporary or reemployed employee.”“The petitioner, being a statutory authority, was expected to act fairly and reasonably instead of rushing to cancel the allotment without appropriate verification. No letter was sent to the complainant specifically asking her to obtain a certificate from the Punjab and Haryana High Court to the effect that she was a regular employee of the said High Court,” added the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allotment-of-gmada-plot-to-resident-restored-124602
10-08-2020||Naina Mishra||At 4.6%, Chandigarh’s growth rate higher than Delhi, Maharashtra||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 9At 4.6 per cent, Chandigarh’s average growth rate of Covid cases has now surpassed the current growth rate of two states – Delhi (0.8 per cent) and Maharashtra (2.4 per cent) — that account for high caseload of Covid-19 in the country.“Delhi and Maharashtra may have crossed the peak and that’s why the Covid-19 curve has started to show a downward trend. Chandigarh has now started progressing towards the peak and hence, the growth rate is on the higher side,” explains Dr Rajesh Kumar, former Head of the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER.Dr Kumar added: “The pace of epidemic may vary from place to place. The epidemic is in the growing stage at the moment in Chandigarh. The nature of the virus is such that it grows rapidly as it is communicable. Downward and upward trends depend on the containment measures taken by the authorities.”According to Dr Rijo M John, a consultant economist and public health analyst based in Kerala, said: “Delhi has clearly reached the Covid peak, at least for now. Chandigarh is still in the early phase of it.”Earlier, the UT had estimated 3,300 infections as peak infections in the contingency plan. However, the data was not subjected to any evidence. Chandigarh has already crossed half of the Covid peak numbers (1,515) estimated by the UT.Increase testingHotspot Bapu Dham Colony is an example of a downward trend in the growth rate of Covid cases. Bapu Dham reported its first case on April 24 and in no time, a total of 250 cases (40% of the total cases of Chandigarh) were reported by July 6.The epidemic curve of Bapu Dham showed a gradual increase in the cases with two peaks at an interval of 15 days since the reporting of the first case. The gradual decrease and a plateau in the curve was achieved starting from May 16. Since June 16, sporadic cases are being reported in the area.“Chandigarh was able to achieve a descending trend in Bapu Dham Colony with measures such as increased testing and isolating the high-risk contacts. A similar aggressive approach is needed for the whole city as this is the only way to check the spread of virus,” said Dr Kumar.“All those with mild diseases should be tested and their contacts should be traced timely. Antigen facility may be made available in the dispensaries so that more people can get themselves tested and may quickly be isolated,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-4-6-chandigarhs-growth-rate-higher-than-delhi-maharashtra-124601
10-08-2020||Mohali||Raid bares sale of items after expiry date||Officials of the district Health Department raided the market at Kumbran village situated at Sector 68 and 69 in Mohali today and seized expired eatables being sold there.The officials destroyed expired cold drink bottles, chocolates and snacks.Suresh Kumar, District Health Officer (DHO), said the raids were conducted following complaints of eatables being sold even after the expiry of the "best before date". He said, “With a view to ensuring that consumers do not get expired eatables, shops in Kumbran village were raided and we found many shopkeepers had stored and were selling eatables even after the expiry date, which were destroyed." He said the shopkeepers had been warned to destroy all items stored in their shops after the expiry date. The public had also been advised to check the expiry date or best before use date before buying a product, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/raid-bares-sale-of-items-after-expiry-date-124567
10-08-2020||Panchkula||Toilet sans water for 16 hrs, video of Panchkula hospital viral||A video shot by a Panchkula Covid-19 patient showing an acute water crisis at the toilet of a Covid care ward at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, was widely shared on the social media.The patient, who identified himself as SK Diwan, alleged that 25 patients admitted with him could not use the toilet at the Covid ward as there was no water for 16 hours. The footage begins with the patient showing a dry washbasin and bathroom taps.He alleged that the toilets were not clean and were in a bad condition. In another selfie video, the patient claimed that they had apprised the ward in-charge of the matter, who told him that the issue had been raised with the higher authorities, but to no avail.He said he had submitted a complaint to the Haryana Speaker and local MLA, Gian Chand Gupta, but nothing had been done.“We (patients) can’t use the toilet due to the prevailing condition; neither can we step outside. Hence, I appeal to the administration to look into the matter,” added the patient in a desperate voice.The CMO, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said the matter had been resolved.Chandigarh Tribune had earlier highlighted the plight of patients admitted to BRS Dental College in Barwala, a dedicated Covid care facility in Panchkula, who had been forced to clean wards due to inadequate housekeeping staff. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/toilet-sans-water-for-16-hrs-video-of-panchkula-hospital-viral-124565
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Dog sterilisation drive to restart in Chandigarh soon||After over a year, dog sterilisation will be restarted in the city as five agencies have been cleared in the technical bid. One of these is expected to be assigned the work in a week.As a stopgap arrangement, the MC House had recently asked officials to carry out a drive through its own staff as the corporation could not find any takers for its sterilisation drive. However, the House had also conveyed that before starting the work, one last attempt should be made to hire an agency to carry out the sterilisation work.According to the MC Medical Officer of Health, Dr Amrit Warring, five companies have shown interest in the tendring process and work will soon be allotted to one of these. The contract of an agency, which was earlier doing the job, had expired last year. After that, the corporation floated tenders several times, but remained unsuccessful.Local residents, meanwhile, are fed up of the stray dog menace. "Stray dogs keep chasing vehicles in our locality. There have also been cases of dog bite here," said Karam Singh, a resident of Sector 44.According to the MC, 14,500 dogs have been sterilised since 2015 when the drive was started. The two dedicated dispensaries in Sector 19 and 38 get about 300 dog-bite cases per month. Patients from other states also come here for treatment. Many other patients receive treatment at other government and private hospitals in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dog-sterilisation-drive-to-restart-in-chandigarh-soon-124564
10-08-2020||---||Chandigarh cops take to handycam to nail traffic violators who argue||Chandigarh, August 9To deal with traffic violators who often argue with cops over violations, especially red-light jumping, the UT traffic police have now started recording violations on their handycam. Later, they send a TVIS challan to the violators based on the recording.There are 20 handycams with the traffic police. Traffic cops stationed at accident-prone intersections have been given handycams to capture traffic violations.DSP Charanjit Singh Virk, spokesperson for the Chandigarh Police, said traffic motorists argue with cops that they had not violated any traffic rule.“To deal with the issue, we have told the traffic cops equipped with handycams to keep recording while on duty,” the DSP said.He said: “After returning to the Traffic Lines, the cop hands over the recording to the staff along with the information on violations recorded on the handycam. Based on the recording a TVIS (traffic violation information slip), challan is issued to the violator”.The police official said: “At a time when social distancing was recommended to prevent the spread of Covid-19, stopping vehicles for violations also involves risk for violator as well as the cop. Recording the violation and sending a TVIS challan also ensures their safety”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-take-to-handycam-to-nail-traffic-violators-who-argue-124563
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Family at quarantine centre, house burgled||In yet another theft incident, the house of a family quarantined at a centre in Raipur Kalan was burgled at Ram Darbar. This is the second incident of a theft at the house of a quarantined family reported from Ram Darbar in less than 10 days.Sunny, a resident of house number 23, Ram Darbar, Phase II, reported that his father had tested positive for Covid on August 2 after which tests of the entire family were done on August 3 and everyone tested negative. "We stayed at our house for a few days. However, later the Administration decided to shift us to a quarantine centre," Sunny said. He said their neighbour called to inform about the theft at the house. "The locks of the ground and first floor were broken and the house was ransacked," he said.After taking permission, Sunny returned home and found Rs60,000 and gold jewellery stolen from the house. "The police and the UT Administration failed to secure our house," he said. The police were informed. An investigation has been initiated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/family-at-quarantine-centre-house-burgled-124562
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid patient escaped from Chandigarh,  arrested in Roorkee||A Covid-19 patient, who was quarantined at Sood Dharamsala, Sector 22, a Covid care centre, managed to escape from there on August 8 to see his child, who was sick and admitted to a hospital in Roorkee.Wanted to see sick child The police said Mohammad Arif, a native of Haridwar, had come to Chandigarh for his wife's check-up as she was not feeling well. Doctors did her Covid test and found her positive. Her husband's sample was also taken and he also tested positive following which he was kept at Sood Dharamshala.The police said Arif's wife later tested negative following which she returned home. However, their child fell sick due to which he was admitted to a hospital at Roorkee in Uttarakhand.Arif wanted to see his hospitalised child, but was not allowed to leave. On August 8, he escaped from the Covid care centre. The staff at the centre later came to know that one patient was missing following which the police were informed. Shreya, nodal officer at Sood Dharamshala, submitted a complaint. The police have registered a case under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC against the Covid patient at the Sector 17 police station.A police team went to Roorkee and arrested Arif. He was produced in the court there and was released on bail. "He has been quarantined at Roorkee," said a police official. The incident has once again raised questions over the security arrangements at the Covid care centre. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-patient-escaped-from-chandigarh-arrested-in-roorkee-124544
10-08-2020||Panchkula||44 fresh cases in Panchkula, 34 recoveries||Forty-four new Covid-19 cases were reported today, taking the tally of Panchkula district to 939. For now, only 32 have been added to the district count. Reason: Five infected persons are yet to be traced, while seven are from outside the district.Four cases each cropped up at Khera Sita Ram village and Kalka. The fresh cases also include three each from Sector 10 and Pinjore and two from Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 6.One case each was reported from Sector 17, 18, 11, 14, 4, 19, 12A, 8, Kethkurali village, Sector 15, Amravati Enclave, Bansolan village and Tapran village. A 54-year-old CRPF man was among those found infected. Panchkula has 405 active cases, while the number of persons cured and discharged reached 531 with 34 new recoveries today. At least 23,183 samples have taken for Covid so far. Of these, 21,594 have tested negative. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/44-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-34-recoveries-124543
10-08-2020||Mohali||45 new virus cases take Mohali tally past 1,300||The Covid count of the district crossed the 1,300 mark with 45 more cases surfacing today. Of the total infections, 320 cases (around 25 per cent) were reported from the district in the past five days. The fresh cases surfaced from Sector 91, Mullanpur, Mubarikpur, Sector 127, Kurali, Banur, Zirakpur, Baltana, Chandiala, Sector 71, Mohali, Sector 79, Sector 68, Bajheri, Kumbra, Kharar, Phase II, Phase VII, Desu Majra, Ban Majra, Mirpur, Saidpur, Balongi, Phase I, Sector 63, Nayagaon, Sector 65, Phase IV, Tangori and SBP Homes, Mohali.Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said 20 patients were discharged after being cured. The district has so far witnessed 1,309 positive cases. While 694 patients have been cured and discharged, there are now 596 active cases. Nineteen Covid deaths have been reported from the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/45-new-virus-cases-take-mohali-tally-past-1-300-124542
10-08-2020||Chandigarh||VP Singh Badnore tests –ve, Principal Secy, 4 others +ve||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vp-singh-badnore-tests-%E2%80%93ve-principal-secy-4-others-ve-124541
10-08-2020||---||Fresh surge, Chandigarh count 1,515||Chandigarh, August 9The UT infection tally crossed the 1,500 mark with the highest single-day spike of 89 cases taking the total number of infections to 1,515. Besides, the city reported one more death due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 25.A 32-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 32, died at her house on August 7. The health authorities stated that the woman was a known case of heart disease and was suffering from jaundice and ascites also. She was sampled post-death and tested positive for Covid.Twenty-nine persons tested positive for Covid-19 in rapid-antigen tests. Their details have not been mentioned in the media bulletin. How cases progressedFirst case March 18500 mark July 8 (112 days)1,000 mark July 30 (22 days)1,500 mark Aug 9 (10 days)Six healthcare workers from the GMCH-32, a staffer each from the PGI and the Civil Hospital, Sector 45, were also among those found infected today. The other cases were reported from Sector 43, 32, 47, 63, 31, 30, 49, 38, 39, 45, 38 (West), 52, 28, 35, 56, 46, 33, 41, 56, 34, 40, 16, Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Ram Darbar, Burail, Dhanas, Sarangpur, PGI, Khuda Ali Sher, Mani Majra, Daria and Mauli Jagran.The UT Covid tally crossed the 500 mark after 112 days of the first case that was reported on March 18. It took 22 days more to cross another 500 mark. The city witnessed another 500 cases in only 10 days, crossing the 1,500 mark. In the past few days, 16 healthcare workers have contracted the infection at the GMCH-32.Dr BS Chavan, Director, GMCH-32, said: “Our healthcare workers are contracting infection from emergency patients. They have less time for Covid testing and attending patients is the utmost priority.” Meanwhile, 32 patients were discharged after being cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fresh-surge-chandigarh-count-1-515-124540
