10-01-2021||Chandigarh||44 new coronavirus cases recorded in Chandigarh||A total of 44 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Chandigarh on Sunday, taking the infection count to 20,295 according to a medical bulletin.No death was reported on Sunday. The death toll stands at 327, as per bulletin.There are currently 241 active cases, it said.A total of 31 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the overall recoveries to 19,727, as per bulletin.A total of 1,92,376 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,71,141 have tested negative while reports of 52 samples were awaited, it added. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/44-new-coronavirus-cases-recorded-in-chandigarh-196587
10-01-2021||New Delhi||NGT directs housing project in Mohali to stop construction activity for lack of EC||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed a housing project in Punjab’s Mohali to stop construction activity noting that it lacked the requisite environmental clearance (EC). The green panel said commencement of a project without EC has detrimental effect on the environment.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel noted that the EC granted by the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA), Punjab for ‘Super Mega Mixed Use Integrated Industrial Park’ at Sector 82, 83 and 66A, SAS Nagar, Mohali, does not cover the Falcon View Project.“Contention to the contrary is against the facts on record and has to be rejected. In spite of repeated directions of SEIAA and initiation of prosecution, the appellant has continued the constructions in utter disregard and defiance of the statutory norms and directions,” the bench said.The NGT said in the plea that a writ petition filed against the order of SEIAA cannot in any manner justify continuing illegal constructions in violation of law for which there is no sanction in any of the orders of the High Court.“The appellant is trying to create irreversible situation by completing the constructions and creating third party rights which is not congenial to the enforcement of rule of law and protection of environment and public health,” it said.The tribunal said there is no merit in the contention that the EC issue being within the purview of SEIAA, the state pollution control board cannot go into such question.The NGT observed that apart from initiating prosecution, stopping illegal construction activities, undertaking mitigation/restoration measures and other steps for enforcement of rule of law, it may be necessary to assess the extent of damage to the environment and to recover compensation on ‘Polluter Pays’ principle, following due process of law.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Janta Land Promoters Ltd against order passed by the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) directing stopping of construction activity of the appellants. It was held that the appellant did not have the requisite EC under the EIA Notification and the Consent To Establish (CTE) under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 and the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 (Air and Water Acts). — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ngt-directs-housing-project-in-mohali-to-stop-construction-activity-for-lack-of-ec-196542
10-01-2021||Chandigarh||30 years after Army officer's death, his ailing widow waits for pension despite court, govt orders||Kanta Katoch, the wife of late Major KC Katoach, continues to wait for the defence account department to release her pensionary benefits even after 30 years of her husband's death, despite the court orders in her favour.Kanta was refused Special Family Pension when her husband died in 1989 while he was still in service.Her petition for the grant of the pension was finally approved in 2018 when the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT) directed the central government to release her the requisite pension.The Government of India, thereafter, implemented the decision and directed the office of Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (PCDA) at Allahabad to issue the Pension Payment Order (PPO), and release her the entitled amount.However, the PPO was incorrectly sent to the Punjab National Bank, Ludhiana, by the PCDA instead of the Defence Pension Disbursing Officer (DPDO) at Chandigarh—which was the designated pension disbursing authority for the widow.The bank refused to acknowledge the receipt of the PPO. Only, after a contempt petition was filed, the bank lept into motion and co-ordinated with the PCDA to send the PPO to the DPDO at Chandigarh.The DPDO—despite receiving the PPO—did not release the pension, and claimed that the PCA had sent a wrong photocopy of the same, and not the original.After multiple visits by the widow's family, the DPDO admitted receiving the PPO, but still did not release the pension.When contacted, the counsel of the widow said, that this was another case of extreme harassment of pensioners by various authorities, and ever since the death of her husband in 1989, the lady has been making rounds of courts, banks, and offices, while the system remained unresponsive.“In case the pension is not released by the end of this month, drastic measures by way of appropriate legal proceedings would have to be initiated by name against the concerned officers,” he added.Legal experts said, that there are many instances where military pensioners, disabled soldiers, and widows, are not provided with their benefits even after court orders, and in several cases, the beneficiaries have died before the implementation of orders in their favour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-years-after-army-officers-death-his-ailing-widow-waits-for-pension-despite-court-govt-orders-196520
10-01-2021||New Delhi||Cold wave conditions in Northwest on January 12, 13||Due to the prevalence of dry winds over most parts of Northwest India, minimum temperature is expected to fall gradually by 3-4°C during the next 3-4 days.This may cause isolated cold wave conditions over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and north Rajasthan on January 12 and 13, the IMD has said.Strong surface winds (speed 15-25 kmph) are also very likely over the plains of Northwest India during the next three days, the IMD added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cold-wave-conditions-in-northwest-on-january-12-13-196508
10-01-2021||Chandigarh||Cold conditions continue in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions continued to sweep most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday, while a thick blanket of fog enveloped many places in the region, reducing visibility.    Chandigarh, the common capital of both states, recorded a low of 9.4 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, an official of the India Meteorological Department said.In Haryana, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal experienced their minimums at 7.5, 7 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively.The minimum temperature of Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa settled at 5.4, 7.2, 8.6 and 7.1 degrees Celsius respectively.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded their respective minimums at 8.6, 8 and 8.5 degrees Celsius, up to five degrees above normal, the official said.The minimum temperatures of Pathankot, Adampur, Halwara, Bathinda, Faridkot and Gurdaspur were 10.6, 9, 8.5, 9.3, 5.4 and 8 degrees Celsius respectively.A thick blanket of fog enveloped several parts including Chandigarh, Ambala, Hisar, Faridkot and Karnal in the morning, reducing visibility, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cold-conditions-continue-in-punjab-haryana-196490
10-01-2021||---||Chandigarh logs lowest weekly positivity rate at 4.8%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9In the first week of January, Chandigarh recorded a positivity rate of 4.8 per cent as against the positivity rate of 5.6 per cent witnessed in the last week of December.For the first time since the pandemic scaled up in the city, the positivity rate has reached 5 per cent. According to the World Health Organization’s advisory in May, a positivity rate of less than 5 per cent for two weeks indicates that an epidemic is under control.A total of 399 cases have been recorded in the first week of January, whereas 439 cases were recorded in the preceding week. The number of infected cases has dipped by 9 per cent, while positivity rate has dipped by 0.8 per cent.In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.3 per cent every day. The number of active cases has dipped to 1.2 per cent, implying that for every 100 confirmed cases, only one is currently infected.The recovery rate of Chandigarh has shot up to 97.2 per cent. As many as eight Covid patients with comorbidities died this week.For every 10 lakh people in Chandigarh, 1, 61,625 samples were tested and 17,134 out of every 10 lakh people in Chandigarh have tested positive for the virus.The statsIn the past one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.3 per cent every day. The number of active cases has dipped to 1.2 per cent, implying that for every 100 confirmed cases, only one is currently infected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-lowest-weekly-positivity-rate-at-4-8-196222
10-01-2021||
||Vaccination preparedness reviewed||Chandigarh, January 9 The UT Health Department is prepared for the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination programme at eight session sites from January 16. The dry runs or mock drills have been conducted at all sites where vaccination is to be carried out in the city. Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary of Health, along with MC Commissioner KK Yadav, and Deputy Commissioner, Mandeep Brar, visited the GMSH-16 to review the preparedness in regards to operational aspects. The Director of Health Services apprised the Principal Secretary of Health of the vaccination teams, Co-Win digital portal, cold chain points, and micro plans for the launch of the vaccine programme. The officers took a round of the Covid-19 vaccination centre, and appreciated the efforts made by the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccination-preparedness-reviewed-196223
10-01-2021||---||PU Governance reforms: Venkaiah Naidu’s office writes to Punjab Government||Chandigarh, January 9The office of PU Chancellor M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Vice-President of India, has reportedly written to the Punjab Government ensuring its involvement in the introduction of the governance reforms, if initiated.The letter was written in reply to the Punjab Government’s submission against not conducting the elections of the PU Senate. At present, the PU is functioning under the Vice-Chancellor in the absence of any governing body. A copy of this letter is believed to have been submitted to the Vice-Chancellor office. “We are unaware if any such letter has been addressed to the PU. It can be confirmed once the registrar’s office opens on a working day,” said a PU’s spokesperson.Meanwhile, sources confirmed that PU authorities have already started the process of bringing governance reforms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-governance-reforms-venkaiah-naidus-office-writes-to-punjab-government-196224
10-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh BJP panel to review results of mayoral poll||City BJP president Arun Sood today formed a three-member committee to review the results of the elections for the post of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation.Surendra Bagha, state vice-president, will be the convener of the committee, while state general secretaries Chander Shekhar and Rambir Bhatti will be the members of the committee. The committee will evaluate all facts of the Mayoral elections and submit its report to Sood.Significantly, two votes were declared invalid in the elections held yesterday. This committee was formed to examine it objectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-panel-to-review-results-of-mayoral-poll-196225
10-01-2021||Chandigarh||Congress leaders write to ECI over ‘irregularities’||Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra and MC councillors Devinder Singh Babla, Gurbax Rawat, Sheela Phool Singh and Satish Kainth wrote to the Election Commission of India regarding the alleged irregularities and flouting of norms during the Chandigarh MC mayoral poll.The Congress leaders said smartphones with cameras were carried into the assembly hall by the councillors. Even the secrecy of the ballot was not maintained as the voting ballot area was not concealed properly as per the norms and rules, they alleged.“All this happened due to the political pressure by the ruling party and alleged connivance of officials with the powers that be. It all started when the nomination of one of the mayoral candidates was rejected arbitrarily on flimsy grounds by the officials concerned,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leaders-write-to-eci-over-irregularities-196226
10-01-2021||Mohali||YAD activists burn effigies of PM Modi, Capt Amarinder||Youth Akali Dal (YAD) activists, led by its president Parmbans Singh Romana, burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh here today.Protests were today held at all district headquarters as per a call given by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). The activists held a protest in front of Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan, Sohana, here. They burnt the effigies of both leaders and raised slogans.Addressing the protesters, Parmbans Singh Romana alleged that on one hand, Punjab Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu admitted in his press conference that the farm laws had been implemented in the state by the government, while on the other Capt Amarinder Singh was trying to befool farmers and the common man with his malicious, false and misleading statements.Romana said on the directions of the BJP-led Central Government, Capt Amarinder was targeting those writers and singers who had supported the farm protests. He said the state government was dancing to the tune of the Centre and trying to cause maximum damage to the farmers’ agitation. The YAD would give a befitting reply to these conspiracies being hatched by the state government.YAD Mohali (Urban) president Parvinder Singh Sohana asked the Central and the state governments to stop their conspiracies against the farmers’ agitation and stop targeting writers and singers. Otherwise, the YAD would launch a strong agitation against both governments. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/yad-activists-burn-effigies-of-pm-modi-capt-amarinder-196227
10-01-2021||---||‘Covid not transmissible through open wounds’||Chandigarh, January 9According to a study conducted by PGI doctors, coronavirus is not present in the wounds of a Covid patient.The institute studied abdominal emergencies, including wound swabs, peritoneal fluid and bowel tissues, but none tested positive for the virus. This study was performed at the Department of Plastic Surgery, in collaboration with the Department of Virology, PGI, and was carried out by Dr Sunil Gaba, Dr Gowtham Kampalli, Dr Kapil Goyal, Dr Vikas Suri, Dr Poonam Chauhan, Dr Shyam C Meena, Dr Ankur Bhatnagar, Dr Mini P Singh and Dr Ramesh K Sharma.In the study, wound specimens from Covid-19 positive patients were collected for studying the presence of SARS CoV-2 to study the possible transmission of Covid though open wounds. Eight patients were part of the study and eleven samples were analysed, but none of the wound samples tested positive for the virus.The PGI doctors have also suggested that with the daily increase in cases, there is an ongoing burden on dedicated Covid hospitals for new beds and healthcare workers. Patients with wounds, whose throat swabs are negative, can be referred back to their regional health centres to decrease the burden on Covid hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-not-transmissible-through-open-wounds-196228
10-01-2021||---||Mohali MC poll: SAD releases first list of 28 candidates||Mohali, January 9The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) here today released the first list of 28 candidates for the Mohali Municipal Corporation elections to be held likely in the 3rd week of February. The list was declared after several meetings of the party held during the past few days.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had constituted a committee for the Mohali MC elections. Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra was the chairman of the committee, while NK Sharma, Charanjit Singh Brar and Kamaljit Singh Ruby were other members of the committee.Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra today released the first list of 28 candidates of the party after discussing the same with the party president. He said the remaining candidates would be announced soon.As per the list, Preetinderjit Kaur will be the candidate from Ward No. 1, Harmanpreet Singh Prince (Ward No. 2), Satnam Kaur Sohan (Ward No. 3), Kuldeep Kaur Kang (Ward No. 5), Inderpreet Kaur Prince (Ward No. 6), Arjan Singh Shergill (Ward No. 8), Parmjit Singh Kahlon (Ward No. 10), Suresh Kumari (Ward No. 13), Manjit Singh Lubana (Ward No. 16), Harwinder Kaur (Ward No. 17), Dr Tanmeet Kaur Sahiwal (Ward No. 18), Birdevinder Singh (Ward No. 20, Amar Kaur Tasimbli (Ward No. 25), Ravinder Singh Bindra (Ward No. 26), Ramandeep Kaur (Ward No. 28), Kuldeep Kaur Dhanoa (Ward No. 29), Jasvir Kaur Atli (Ward No. 30), Sarbjit Kaur Sidhu (Ward No. 31), Surinder Singh Road (Ward No. 32), Harjinder Kaur Sohana (Ward No. 33), Sukhdev Singh Patwari (Ward No. 34), Rajinder Kaur Kumbhra (Ward No. 35), Ramesh Prakash Kamboj (Ward No. 36), Kamaljit Kaur (Ward No. 40), Rajinder Kaur (Ward No. 43), Taranjot Singh Pahwa (Ward No. 44), Manjit Kaur (Ward No. 45) and Iqbalpreet Singh Prince will be the candidate from Ward No 48, Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-poll-sad-releases-first-list-of-28-candidates-196229
10-01-2021||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Court issues notice to Chandigarh Administration||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9A local court has issued a notice to the Chandigarh Administration seeking its reply on its move to make Cheshire Home a residence for mentally ill persons. A case has been filed by Veer Sandhu, a member of the Indian wheelchair cricket team and captain of the Punjab wheelchair cricket team through his counsel Avnidha Gupta. The court has asked the Administration to file reply by January 20.Avnidha has demanded from the court that wheelchair cricketers should not be removed from Cheshire Home. She said Cheshire Home was wheelchair friendly place in the city. The Administration should not shift them from Cheshire Home until wheelchair friendly place was arranged for them, she added.Around 17 wheelchair cricketers, including Sandhu, have been staying at Cheshire Home since 2015.It is stated in the civil suit that that the UT Administration has shown apathetic, inhuman and insensitive behavior towards these occupants with this one sided decision.Cheshire Home inmates have been asked to vacate the building without any prior notice or consultation at the time when the whole world is going through global health crises and facing pandemic.Demonstrations were held by the NGO and members of the Wheel Chair Cricket Society against the Chandigarh Administration’s move and Social Welfare Department to dispossess/relocate members from Cheshire Home to Malloya.“The Administration has offered them two options either to stay in flats at Maloya by paying rent or in the Sector-42 Hockey Stadium. Maloya is inappropriate for state and national players. Also some areas of the Sector-42 Hockey Stadium, especially washrooms and dining areas, are inaccessible for physically challenged players,” said Sandhu.“Cheshire Home inmates have brought laurels to the country and Chandigarh with their performances in sport,” said Avnidha.Case filed by wheelchair cricketersA case has been filed by Veer Sandhu, a member of the Indian wheelchair cricket team and captain of the Punjab wheelchair cricket team through his counsel Avnidha Gupta. The court has asked the Administration to file reply by January 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-issues-notice-to-chandigarh-administration-196230
10-01-2021||---||2 crows found dead in city||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-crows-found-dead-in-city-196231
10-01-2021||Kurali||Two killed in SUV crash at Kurali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-killed-in-suv-crash-at-kurali-196233
10-01-2021||Amit Bathla||Staff crunch takes a toll on culling||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 9Culling of birds could take place at only two poultry farms in the Barwala and Raipur Rani regions, which have reported the death of over 4.37 lakh chickens due to avian influenza, due to the issues of logistics and staff availability today.Twelve rapid response teams (RRTs) of the state Animal Husbandry Department, supported by health, civic and police officials, began the culling operation in the afternoon at two hotspots of the flu outbreak — Siddharth Poultry Farm in Kheri village and Nature Poultry Farm at Ganauli village of Raipur Rani tehsil. A total of 3,700 birds were culled – 1,000 at Siddharth Poultry Farm and 2,700 at Nature Poultry Farm — till this evening.The culling operations are expected to continue for two more days. Later, cleaning and disinfection of the culling area will be done. The authorities have ordered to cull 1.66 lakh birds to break the chain of infection. The culling operations were supposed to take place at five farms — Siddharth, Narender, Naveen and Sunil farms in village Kheri and Nature Poultry Farm. When asked about the slow pace of culling process, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said more manpower would be pressed into service tomorrow to speed up the culling operations. “We could only cull birds in hotspots today due to logistics and manpower issues. The culling at three other farms will also begin tomorrow and the whole drive will be completed in the next two days,” he said.The owners of several poultry units resisted to the operations, asking the authorities to confine the culling only to epicentres from where the positive samples were taken.Shish Pal, owner of Narender Poultry Farm, said, “How could the authorities cull birds in my farm, if no sample has been taken from there. The culling of birds should be restricted only to the farms, which have reported positive bird flu cases.”The district authorities have suspended the sale of poultry at shops within 10 km area of the epicentres. Sale or transport of poultry or any other pet bird is also banned in the survillenace zones till further orders. Two of the three samples sent to a Bhopal-based laboratory on Friday had confirmed that lakhs of birds at poultry farms died due to avian influenza (H5N8). So far, the official toll in Barwala, which is Asia’s second largest poultry belt, stands at 4.37 lakh.Crows found deadScores of crows have been found dead in several parts of the district, including residential sectors, raising fears of bird flu. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said he would ask the Animal Husbandry Department to collect their samples to find if they died of bird flu.Movement unrestrictedEven as the authorities claimed active containment in Barwala in view of bird flu, there was no restriction on the movement of people at poultry farms in the infected areas. Tractor-trailers transported chicken feed out of many farms, including Naveen Poultry Farm where 50,000 birds would be culled.Number of hotspots expected to riseThe number of hotspots of the outbreak is expected to rise. The preliminary reports from a lab in Jalandhar have been sent to a Bhopal-based lab for confirmation on the presence of avian influenza.Teams to be quarantined at four schoolsOfficials said the rapid response team members would be quarantined at four schools in Raipur Rani to ensure there was no virus transmission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/staff-crunch-takes-a-toll-on-culling-196235
10-01-2021||Panchkula||Stray cow claims 19-yr-old’s life||Golf club annual general meetingChandigarh: The newly elected body of the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) will conduct its annual general meeting on Sunday. The newly elected president, Ravibir Singh Grewal, and managing committee members will attend the meeting. TNSCustomers’ day celebratedChandigarh: Customers’ day was celebrated at Sukhna Automobiles, Sector 28. The day is celebrated every year by Indian Oil Corporation Limited to thank and felicitate customers for the trust they have showed in the corporation throughout the years. 100 customers were felicitated on the occasion and customer feedback was received. Bikers group joined the event. TNSSeminar in support of farmers’ stirChandigarh: A seminar is being organised in support of the ongoing farmers’ movement at the Punjab Kala Bhawan in Sector 16 on Sunday. The seminar will start at 11 am. At the meeting, eminent journalist and rural affairs expert P Sainath will be the key speaker. Agriculture expert Devinder Sharma will also address the audience. The seminar will be presided over by former Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court Justice MS Liberhan. TNSBag snatchedChandigarh: Three auto-borne miscreants fled after snatching a bag from a Sector 22 resident, Manoj Kumar, near the Sector 18/19/20/21 rotary on Friday. The victim claimed that the bag contained his PAN card, Aadhaar card and Rs 5,000. TNSYouth held for theft at houseChandigarh: The police have arrested a Sector 25 resident, Nishant, alias Jalebi, 20, for a burglary at a house in Sector 15 on December 26 and recovered a laptop and a computer tab from his possession. In his complaint to the police, Chander Mohan, who is presently living in Noida, alleged that unknown person stole his laptop and a tab, four silver bowls, a silver glass, some silver ornaments and Rs10,000 by breaking the locks of his house. The suspect was already booked in two cases, including a theft, in the past two years at the Sector 11 police station. A case under Section 454 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 11 police station. TNSCar, scooter stolenChandigarh: A Mani Majra resident, Barjinder Kumar, reported that unknown person stole his car from near his residence on January 7. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. In another incident, a Sector 39 resident, Nitesh, reported that unknown person made off with his scooter near Sector 35 on January 4. A case has been registered. TNSTwo held with opium, charasLalru: The police have arrested two Nepalese nationals with two-kg opium, 9.5-kg charas and seized 6,000 tablets of lomotil, 900 tablets of nitrazinpaam and 75 bottles of biorep syrup. The suspects - Pramod Jangshaw (38), and Kamaldev Ghatri (33) - were nabbed from the main highway near Shiv Mandir in Jharmadi village. Lalru SHO Sukhvir Singh said the duo used to bring narcotics from Nepal and used to sell it in Shimla, Solan and the nearby areas. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stray-cow-claims-19-yr-olds-life-196237
10-01-2021||---||Ex-SHO, driver arrested in Rs 55L extortion case||Panchkula, January 9A former SHO of the Sector 14 police station, Inspector Naveen Saharan, his driver and Head Constable Harpal, and a resident of Greater Noida have been arrested by a special investigation team (SIT) probing an extortion and cheating case. The two policemen have been sent to four-day police remand.ACP Vijay Kumar, who is heading the SIT, said: “It was after we collected sufficient evidence regarding the allegations against the police officers that we arrested them.”He said the two police officials were arrested on Thursday and produced before a local court the next day. However, the Police Department made the development public today.No police official had been named in the FIR when it was registered at the Sector 5 police station on December 8 last year.The police had earlier arrested two Delhi residents in the case.Kunal Chopra of Nilokheri in Karnal had filed a police complaint that Kshwinder Sharma (with whom he established contact through his acquaintance Sanjeev), two police constables and five unknown persons took away his bag containing Rs 55.50 lakh at a hotel room in Sector 5 where he was putting up.Subsequently, when he went to the Sector 14 police station, he was threatened by police officials present there, including then SHO Naveen Saharan, with implication in a false case.He told the police that he had arrived in Panchkula to buy a property and was carrying cash along.The complainant had complained to Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij, whose office forwarded the matter to the state DGP, following which a case was registered in Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-sho-driver-arrested-in-rs-55l-extortion-case-196238
10-01-2021||---||Bizman's ex-driver among 5 held for carjacking bid||Chandigarh, January 9A daylight carjacking planned by a former driver of a resident of Sector 27 ended with the arrest of five youths a day later. The police have arrested five suspects for trying to rob the 49-year-old victim of his luxury SUV (Land Rover) at knifepoint in Khuda Ali Sher on January 7.They have been identified as Amit, 27, a Nayagaon resident; Jasbir Singh, 22, a resident of Sector 65; Sanjay, 24, a resident of Sector 12; Multan Khan, 21, a Sohana resident; and Varun, 25, a resident of Dera Bassi. A knife, an Aadhaar card, a PAN card and a car used in the crime have been recovered from them.A case under sections 341, 392, 34 and 411 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 11 police station.The victim, Tarun Mahajan, who is the owner of Mahajan Tent House, Sector 30, told the police that around 4:15 pm on January 7, he was returning home in his SUV from his farm house in Khuda Ali Sher when four youths in a car waylaid him. Two persons snatched his wallet containing Rs 8,000, his Aadhaar card and the registration certificate of the vehicle at knifepoint and told him to leave the SUV. When he raised the alarm, the miscreants fled the spot.During investigation, the police found that the vehicle used in the crime was a rental car hired by Jasbir Singh from December 31 to January 9. Subsequently, he was arrested on Friday and his interrogation led to the arrest of his four accomplices the same day.They revealed that the robbery was hatched by Amit, who was earlier employed as a driver of the victim. The police said Amit knew about the movement of Mahajan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bizmans-ex-driver-among-5-held-for-carjacking-bid-196256
10-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 50 fresh cases, one fatality||One death, 61 cases in MohaliMohali: One more person died due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 351. Besides, 61 fresh cases surfaced till Saturday evening. Among the fresh cases, 44 were reported from Mohali (urban), three from Dera Bassi, one from Kurali, two from Gharuan, five from Dhakoli and six from Kharar. — TNS23 more infected in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Saturday reported 23 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 10,199. The Covid toll remained at 144. While 9,836 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 219 cases are still active. The district’s recovery rate stands at 96.44 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-50-fresh-cases-one-fatality-196257
10-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||Two services, two payments?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9While the local MC has stated that its two-bin vehicles will lift segregated waste from door to door and the corporation will collect charges from Sector 1 to 30 residents from January 1, rehris are still lifting garbage at many places.At some places, both rehris and two-bin vehicles are picking garbage from houses. Many residents prefer the rehri service over two-bin vehicles as the collectors lift waste from doorstep, unlike the MC vehicles.Many residents are apprehensive that at the end of the month, both the MC and the private collectors (with rehris) may ask for charges.“Rehris have been lifting waste from our houses as per the previous arrangement and the collectors are themselves segregating garbage. We do hear waste vehicles doing rounds in the area,” said Narender Singh, a resident of Sector 19.FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said: “In our Sector 21, household waste was being collected mostly in rehris. The MC vehicles keep doing the formality of roaming around in the area. Sometimes, the vehicles are found parked idle near the Sehaj Safai Kendra. The MC should let RWAs do the job through rehris. It will save on expenses on fuel and drivers.”A senior MC official said: “Our vehicles are visiting all areas from Sector 1 to 30 to lift garbage. We do not know why ‘rehriwalas’ are collecting waste. We have already informed the residents through our sanitary inspectors and public notices, as well as through the press that the MC will collect charges.”Officials said they would collect garbage-collection charges either through POS machines or water bills. Besides, the civic body has given a final notice to all remaining collectors to register with the MC by January 14 or else the corporation will make its own arrangements, they said. Meanwhile, certain collectors have got themselves registered with the MC and were hired as either helpers or drivers of the waste-collection vehicles. But, many continue to operate privately.Dalbir Rana, general secretary, Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 19-C, said: “Residents will be bound to pay the MC since it is a government body. Rehri collectors picking waste from many houses will also ask for charges. There could be a dispute at the end of the month.”During a meeting with MC Joint Commissioner SK Jain, which was held with regard to launching the scheme in southern sectors, CRAWFED chairman Hitesh Puri said: “Before starting it in the southern sectors in the second phase, the MC should first settle its dispute with the private collectors for a smooth running of the project.” Jain assured him of action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-services-two-payments-196259
