10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 10,000 fine if Chandigarh liquor vends fail to maintain hygiene in and around shops||Liquor vend owners in Chandigarh will have to pay a fine of Rs 10,000 if they fail to maintain hygiene in and around their shops, as per amended excise policy.The Chandigarh Union Territory Administration on Wednesday approved an amended excise policy for the period July 2020 to March 31, 2021.The earlier excise policy for financial year 2020-21 could not be notified because of the coronavius outbreak. The policy for 2019-20 was extended till June 2020, a government statement said.As per the amended policy, the number of licensed liquor vends has been reduced from 95 to 94 while the allotment of vends will be made through an e-tendering system for more transparency, it said.To curb the menace of cartelization and monopolistic practices, a single person or entity will be entitled to allotment of maximum 10 vends, it further said.“The total quota will be 75 lakh proof litres for Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and 7.5 lakh proof litres for country liquor and 2.47 lakh proof litres for Imported Foreign Liquor,” it said.“The quota of country liquor has been rationalized keeping in view its less demand in city shops and quota of IFL has also been rationalized keeping in view its less demand in village shops,” it said.“In order to promote ‘Swach Bharat Abhiyan’, the retail licensees will have to maintain cleanliness and hygiene in and around the shop, failing which a penalty of Rs 10,000 will be imposed for the first time and of Rs 20,000 for subsequent failures,” the release added.The Cow Cess of Rs 5 per bottle of beer and country liquor and Rs 10 per bottle of whisky, which has already been announced, will be applicable from July 1. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-10-000-fine-if-chandigarh-liquor-vends-fail-to-maintain-hygiene-in-and-around-shops-97330
10-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Subordinate judiciary can allow filing of non-urgent cases: Punjab and Haryana HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10More than two months after the Courts went into restricted functioning mode following the outbreak of Covid-19, the subordinate judiciary in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh was on Wednesday given a green signal to permit the filing of non-urgent cases not involving the need for granting immediate relief.The final decision would be of the Sessions Judges in the two states and the Union Territory based on the prevailing circumstances.Keeping in view the circumstances following the eruption of the pandemic and after considering the prevailing situation in the States of Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh, the Punjab and Haryana High Court’s Administrative Committee today resolved that the District and Sessions Judges may allow the filing of non-urgent cases, in addition to the urgent cases, in their Sessions Division.While regulating the filing of such cases, the District and Sessions Judges would ensure there was no over-crowding in the Courts and adequate measures were taken at their own level. They were also asked to utilise their resources to the optimum to regulate the footfall.An order issued on behalf of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha by Registrar-General Sanjiv Berry added such filing would be staggered to prevent overcrowding at the filing counter also.“The category of non-urgent cases which are to be allowed for filing, at the first instance or in the phased manner, shall be decided by the District and Sessions Judge, keeping in view the nature of litigation in the Sessions Division/Sub-Division. Further, the District and Sessions Judge concerned shall be at liberty to allow or not to allow such filing, keeping in view the prevalent situation, arising out of COVID-19 in the respective Sessions Division, at a given time,” the order added.It was further added the District and Sessions Judges while taking such decision would also take into consideration the location of the Courts, whether these were in red, orange or green zones or in containment zones.“The District and Sessions Judge shall depute the requisite number of judicial officers and their staff as may be deemed necessary, keeping in view the guidelines/advisories issued by the authorities from time to time. The remaining officers as well as the staff shall work from home. They will not leave the station except by taking requisite permission from the competent authority...,” the order added.All officers and officials attending the court were also directed to strictly adhere to the government and health advisories/ guidelines issued from time to time. They were compulsorily asked to take all precautionary measures to maintain safe social distancing and use masks, hand sanitiser, etc.The order added the court buildings would be sanitised regularly. All the entrants would also be screened. Any officers/officials showing the symptoms of high fever, cold, cough or sneezing would be asked not to attend the office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/subordinate-judiciary-can-allow-filing-of-non-urgent-cases-punjab-and-haryana-hc-97309
10-06-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports three more coronavirus cases||Mohali reported three more coronavirus cases on Wednesday, officials said.A 43-year-old man from Mubarakpur in Dera Bassi recently returned from Delhi with mild symptoms of COVID-19 infection, prompting authorities to conduct a test.READ: Punjab reports 86 new coronavirus cases, state tally now 2,805Civil Surgeon Dr  Manjit  Singh said authorities were still trying to check if he lived in Delhi or Mohali.The second case is a 26-year-old man from Nayagaon’s Dasmesh Nagar who tested positive in a routine sampling.Both have been moved to a COVID Care Centre in Gian Sagar Hospital, the doctor said.The third case was 29-year-old man who flew back from Hyderabad on Sunday.Kharar Civil Hospital SMO Tarsem Singh said the patient was a resident of Palm Enclave on Jhungian road. His swab samples were taken from testing at the airport on Sunday.He has been moved to the hospital in Banur and his residential area has been sealed off, authorities said. District authorities say Mohali now has 140 COVID-19 cases, 25 of them active. However, Punjab’s official COVID tally puts that number at 136 with 24 active cases.The district has three fatalities since coronavirus outbreak in March.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-three-more-coronavirus-cases-97288
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Plans for Balbir Singh Sr’s birth anniversary||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plans-for-balbir-singh-srs-birth-anniversary-97217
10-06-2020||---||34-year-old Khuda Jassu man gets infected with coronavirus; Chandigarh tally reaches 327||Chandigarh, June 10A 34-year-old man of Khuda Jassu on Wednesday tested positive for coronavirus.With this the number of infected people so far in the union territory has reached 327.There are 37 active cases as of now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/34-year-old-khuda-jassu-man-gets-infected-with-coronavirus-chandigarh-tally-reaches-327-97189
10-06-2020||---||Chandigarh's biz booster: Shops to open seven days a week||Chandigarh, June 9Shops in the UT can now open seven days a week.In a notification issued today, the UT Administration exempted all shops and commercial establishments covered under the Punjab Shops and Commercial Establishment Act, 1958, for a period of three months “as there is a need to boost the economy by liberalisation of rules in view of the adverse effect of Covid on the economy”.With the exemption, the employers of shops and commercial establishments are allowed to open their outlets on all days, but they have to comply with all provisions of the Act/rules relating to employment, working conditions, rest interval, weekly offs and other restrictions.Opening and closing hours of all these shops and commercial establishments will remain the same on all seven days of a week as notified by the UT Administration from time to time.The notification stated that the employees should work on a rotational basis so that the mandatory weekly rest can be given to them.The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal has welcomed the UT move allowing shops to open throughout the week to tide over the crisis induced by the lockdown.Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said it would help traders pay rent and salaries, and bear other expenses. However, it should be the shopkeeper’s prerogative to open or keep the shop closed on Sunday, he added.“We assure the Administration that a weekly off will be given to the staff,” he said.However, the Administration clarified that the orders issued separately regarding the odd-even formula in selected markets would continue to be in operation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-biz-booster-shops-to-open-seven-days-a-week-97026
10-06-2020||---||CTU inter-state bus service to resume today||Chandigarh, June 9After over two and a half months, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will resume its inter-state bus service from tomorrow.Confirming this, Uma Shankar Gupta, Director (Transport), said initially, the buses would ply on nine routes in Punjab and seven in Haryana. On starting buses to Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and other neighbouring states, he said they were yet to receive consent from these states. The long-route buses will start only from the ISBT, Sector 43. The buses will be operated from “point to point (origin to destination)” only with 50 per cent passenger occupancy keeping in view the social distancing and other guidelines. No boarding or de-boarding of passengers will be allowed en route.Passengers can book their tickets only through the online bus reservation management system. No night bus service has been planned for now. As a preventive measure, thermal screening of passengers will be done at the ISBT. The buses will be sanitised twice — at the start of the trip and at the end.Amit Gupta, GM, CTU, said initially, 40 buses would be pressed into service. They would scale up the operation as per the requirement.Online booking of ticketsTickets can be purchased online on the CTU website http://ctuonline.chd.gov.in or through mobile app “CTU Musafir”, available on Google Play Store, or from the counter at the ISBT, Sector 43.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-inter-state-bus-service-to-resume-today-97035
10-06-2020||---||4-year-old among 6 contract virus in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 9The city today reported six fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 326.The first case is of a 42-year-old man, who is a driver of a senior RSS functionary and has been living in the office of the RSS at Sector18. The patient had come in contact with the senior RSS functionary after his return from Delhi and took him for Covid test to a private laboratory in Sector 11. The senior RSS man is a resident of Himachal Pradesh and has a history of coming in contact with a Covid patient during his visit to Delhi.A four-year-old son of a Covid positive CISF constable has also been found infected. The constable’s three workplace contacts have tested negative for the virus, while his three other workplace contacts were sampled today.A 28-year-old man from Subhash Nagar in Mani Majra, who had returned from Gurugram, has contracted the virus. He had returned to the city on June 7 with symptoms of fever and cough. On his return, he went straightaway to a hospital for a check-up where he was sampled. He has six family contacts. A 43-year-old man, a medicine distributor in Panchkula and resident of Sector 21 here, has tested positive for Covid. He has four family contacts and all of them are asymptomatic.A 35-year-old man from Sector 16, whose father owns a medical shop in the sector, has been found infected. He has five family contacts, of which, two are symptomatic. His father and mother had travelled to Sangrur (Punjab) around 10 days ago. He has six community contacts, who are work at their shop.From Bapu Dham Colony, a 56-year-old woman has tested positive for Covid. There are 36 active cases in the city, while 285 have already been cured and discharged. The city has reported five deaths.Badnore express concern over returneesDuring a war room meeting on Tuesday, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore said the district authorities should keep a watch on persons coming from other states, so that infection was detected at the earliest and contained. Badnore said Chandigarh was going to meet new Covid challenges after influx of travellers from bordering states, especially Delhi. He said the Administration was going to trace, track and test such cases, and also request them to self-monitor, reveal any symptoms which can be medically treated.The Administrator directed the Principal Secretary, Health, to keep all hospitals and health centres ready to accommodate patients in case there was a second surge of Covid incidence, as the borders were now open.Badnore also suggested that the PGI authorities should also examine the density of infection among various patients and compare it with that of other states, so that further Covid policy decisions could be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-year-old-among-6-contract-virus-in-chandigarh-97041
10-06-2020||Mohali||Another case in Mohali, tally 137||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-case-in-mohali-tally-137-97042
10-06-2020||Panchkula||9 test +ve in Panchkula, all with travel history||Nine fresh cases of Covid were reported from the district today. All have a travel history. Four of these were from Kalka, but will not be added to the district tally as the patients had arrived from Mumbai and would be counted there.A 31-year-old man, his wife (30) and their two children, aged 6 and 7, had reached Marranwala village in Kalka from Mumbai and have tested positive for Covid.Three members of a family of Sector 21 too have contracted the virus. They are a 53-year-old man, his wife (48) and their 23-year-old son. They had travelled to a village near Kala Amb in Himachal Pradesh to enquire about a relative, who had tested positive for Covid earlier.A 28-year-old youth from Sector 6, who had recently returned from Delhi where he was doing a job, has contracted the virus.A 40-year-old man from Sector 17, who had recently returned by air from Hyderabad, has been found infected. Even as health teams were taking him in an ambulance, some persons, including women, were seen entering the corner house from a side gate. The patient’s father was seen carrying a bottle of liquor, which he reportedly received from a neighbourhood shop.Civil Surgeon Jasjit Kaur said the area had been turned into a containment zone and nobody was allowed to enter the house. If the people had entered the house, they would look into the matter.The Civil Surgeon said all new patients had been admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. The family members of these patients had also been home-quarantined. She said the teams had started tracing the contacts of these patients so as to isolate them and take their samples.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-test-ve-in-panchkula-all-with-travel-history-97043
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Covid casts shadow on Chandigarh community centre bookings||It seems the Covid-19 scare, coupled with the restrictions on timings and number of guests, has kept people away from booking community centres in the city.While these centres were thrown open to the public for booking on June 4, only 35 bookings have been made so far. While 32 bookings are for marriage purposes, three are for antim ardas or bhog. Most of these bookings are for June.No permission requiredMC officials said for holding a marriage or bhog at community centres, no permission was required from the Deputy Commissioner. However, in case an applicant wanted to hold an event after 9 pm, permission was mandatory.Bookings can be made at Sampark Centres and charges vary between Rs29,000 and Rs50,000 depending on the category and area.The civic body faced a loss of around Rs70 lakh due to the closure of community centres during the lockdown. The MC earns Rs1 lakh daily on an average.“Earlier, these many bookings were made in a single day. Many reasons can be attributed to the poor response. The community centres are allowed to open from 5 am to 9 pm even though marriages continue till late at night. The limit on the number of guests and fear of contracting Covid-19 are among the other major factors,” said an official.“People may be preferring hotels to community centres as these can accommodate guests in rooms. We hope the situation normalises soon,” he said.Events were allowed at community centres from June 8 as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs.Of the 46 community centres in the city, bookings are barred in seven — Sector 23-D, Sector 47-B, Sector 49, Sarangpur, Dhanas and two in Maloya — as these centres have been kept reserved for quarantine/isolation facilities.A maximum of 50 persons can participate in a marriage, while 20 persons can attend bhog. The attendees have to wear mask and practise social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-casts-shadow-on-chandigarh-community-centre-bookings-97044
10-06-2020||---||Suspect brought from Ambala jail||Chandigarh, June 9A suspect in the Sector 33 firing incident, Deepu Banur, who was lodged at Ambala jail, has been brought on a production warrant by the Chandigarh Police. He was produced in a court and remanded in five-day police custody.Deepu was allegedly in touch with at least one of the assailants, who was arrested last week.A Ludhiana resident, Karan Sharma (23), a hotel management student, was one of the assailants who had opened fire at businessman and hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33 on May 31.During his interrogation, Karan had revealed that he was in touch with Deepu through the social media and Deepu had asked him to meet Sewak, alias Guri, of Zirakpur to carry out the crime.Sewak had provided a car to the assailants, which was used in the crime. “We will interrogate Deepu to establish his role in the crime,” said a police official.Deepu is an accomplice of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who is lodged in a jail in Rajasthan. Bishnoi had allegedly hatched the conspiracy to carry out the firing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspect-brought-from-ambala-jail-97046
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Govt teachers asked to resume duty on June 15 in Chandigarh||The UT Education Department today allowed principals of all government and aided schools to call 25 per cent teachers of the total strength to join duty at their respective schools from June 15.The formal orders have been communicated to all principals and school heads.Education dept mulls TV/radio optionsTeachers have been told not to carry out regular classroom teaching in the school and no student shall be called to the school. Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, School Education, said, “For students who do not have access to the online medium, the department is mulling over options such as TV/radio. Physical classrooms may also be readied as per local conditions.”The teachers have been called for supplementing online teaching, new admission of students, PISA preparedness and planning for conduct of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams and other works related to academic, administrative and infrastructural issues of the school.As per the plan of the Education Department, teachers will be called on a rotational basis. However, teachers residing in containment zones will not be called for duty. Also, teachers suffering from old age health problems or with comorbidities or pregnancy shall not be called to school. They will work from home as per the instructions from respective school heads and any teacher can be called for any urgent work to school.The Education Department has directed school heads to ensure that no teaching or non-teaching staff come to school either without properly covering his or her face with a mask or cloth piece or with symptoms of cough or fever.Panel to suggest plan for re-opening of schoolsThe principals or school heads have also been instructed to constitute a small committee of senior teachers by including members of School Management Committee (SMC), area councillor and parents of students to suggest a plan for re-opening of schools. The suggestions of the committee will be sent to the DEO office before June 22 for further implementation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/govt-teachers-asked-to-resume-duty-on-june-15-in-chandigarh-97047
10-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Politics on mind, student outfits at Panjab University hold survey||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9As the authorities are working tirelessly to combat the Covid-19 outbreak, student outfits of Panjab University (PU) are brainstorming to prepare a list of issues to be raised during the poll.Members of various outfits are conducting surveys and asking students if study material provided by teachers is sufficient, are they happy to study online, do they feel the need to restructure fee and are they willing to pay hostel fee for the lockdown period, among others.“There are many issues. The biggest concern is regarding hostel fee during the lockdown as students did not stay here. We have around 35 signed documents from students. We are planning to approach more students,” said the National Students Union of India’s (NSUI’s) Manoj Lubana.The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) is focusing on semester exams while keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic.“Exams should be conducted, but not at the cost of students’ health. We are in touch with numerous students,” said Aman, an activist of the ABVP.The Students For Society (SFS) said they had not started any such campaign. “We have not started conducting such surveys,” said Harman from the SFS.“Political parties are approaching students through questionnaires. Such surveys are giving a ray of hope to students,” said a faculty member.“This is the best way to get in touch with students. No one wants to travel to appear in exams and pay fee. Such surveys definitely help students to bring forth their issues,” said Kulwant, a PU student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/politics-on-mind-student-outfits-at-panjab-university-hold-survey-97050
10-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Students’ safety top priority: PU VC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9Safety of the students would be the top priority while making any decision, said Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar.Professor Kumar said though all preparations regarding exams had been made, there was no rush to conduct these or start classes.He said any stringent step would be taken only after considering the students’ interest, safety and as per the Government of India’s directions.“We have our plan ready for conducting exams or for starting classes, but we are in no hurry. We have done our homework in simple terms. There have been many speculations, but we are working day and night to avoid any difficulty for our students,” said Kumar.When asked if the university is planning to conduct exams of exiting classes first in July followed by other classes, he said, “The life of final year/semester students is equally valuable for us. We won’t go beyond government’s guidelines and expert views of our faculty for conducting any kind of exams. Our teachers have been going all out to plan the best for the students.”Citing high respect of the university, Kumar remained reluctant on promoting students to next class. “We have all options available. Our university is one of the top-rated universities of the country. Promoting students to next class will not be good for them. We have many options, which can be chosen whenever required,” he said.Maintaining that the university will not open before the government’s nod, the Vice-Chancellor said, “Students should not become anxious. They will be given ample time to prepare for exams. We have already changed our exam pattern for certain courses and the same will be carried further.”On the issue of fee waiver for hotel management students and feasibility of calling students from far away, Kumar said that the PU Registrar was trying to fill in the gaps. “The demands have been well addressed by our Registrar and we have been working on it.” Sharing his views over handing over hostels to the UT Administration, Kumar said the decision was taken after directives by the government. The Vice-Chancellor also interacted with the superintendents of examination branch to streamline the functioning today.Reports suggested that the PU Registrar had written to the UT Administration for handing back the hostels that were converted into isolation wards.Sanitisers, thermal screening on cardsSources claimed that the university authorities were making mandatory for its students and staff to wear mask, carry sanitisers and download Aarogya Setu app whenever the varsity opened. The departments will also have sanitiser and thermal screening facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-safety-top-priority-pu-vc-97051
10-06-2020||Kharar||Illegal mining rampant  in Kharar||A delegation has submitted a memorandum to the Kharar SDM against alleged illegal mining going on in Abhipur, Kubaheri and Mianpur Changar villages of the Kharar sub-division.In the memorandum, the delegation, which included Abhipur villagers, alleged that water was being misused for illegal mining and crushers and it was resulting in severe shortage of water in the area. They alleged that people were getting disturbed due to the noise of crushers and vehicles. They said due to heavy loaded vehicles, cracks had appeared in houses and these could collapse at any moment and no effective steps were being taken to stop the practice.Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain said he had issued strict instructions to the Mining Department to take concrete action in this regard. He said a special team has been formed to check illegal mining in the areas. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-mining-rampant-in-kharar-97052
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Parents complain against school over fee||As many as 168 parents of students studying in Saupin’s School, Sector 32, today signed and submitted a complaint to the UT fee regulatory body constituted under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, and extended to the Union Territory of Chandigarh.The complaintThe parents filed a complaint against “non-compliance of the mandatory uploading of balance sheets detailing their income and expenditure accounts, charging excessive fee and indulging in profiteering and commercialisation of education”.The plaint read, “The school has already made a norm of charging a consolidated quarterly fee without disclosing several heads for which it is being charged, thus keeping the parents in the dark.”“Though as per the UT Administration’s order dated June 3, 2020, schools are only allowed to charge tuition fee (without any increase), the school has cunningly merged all other charges such as maintenance fee, computer fee, annual fee, etc, into the tuition fee. Thus, increasing the tuition fees heftily,” read the plaint.ABS Sidhu, Director, Saupin’s School, said, “This is a concerted effort by a certain group of parents who have decided not to pay school fee under any circumstances. We sympathise with those parents who have been hit hard financially on account of the Covid outbtreak. The Education Department, the CBSE and the Income Tax department have the balance sheets and they are free to take action against erring schools.”On Monday, more than 100 parents jointly submitted a similar complaint against St Joseph School, Sector 44, to the fee regulatory committee of Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-complain-against-school-over-fee-97053
10-06-2020||---||Six get 10-year RI in NRI kidnapping case in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 9Over eight years after an NRI was kidnapped from Chandigarh before being rescued by the police from Kurukshetra after a gunfight, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has sentenced six convicts to 10-year rigorous imprisonment.The convicts — Sukhdev, Sanjeev Kumar, Ajit Singh, Nitin, Anil Kumar and Pardeep Malik — were initially sentenced to life imprisonment by the trial court in Chandigarh after being held guilty for kidnapping for ransom and other offences under Sections 364-A, 120-B, 395, 397, 342 and 411 of the IPC in September 2016.Taking up their appeals, the Bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Archana Puri altered the offence of kidnapping for ransom under Section 364-A to kidnapping under Section 364 of the IPC.“The demand for ransom does not stand proved and that being so, necessary ingredient vis-a-vis offence under Section 364-A of the IPC does not stand established... The abduction of victim Navneet Singh Chatha by the accused after having been put in danger of being murdered stands established. Thus, offence under Section 364 of the IPC is established,” the Bench asserted.Referring to the testimonies of the complainant, the victim and the police officials, the Bench added it stood amply established that the accused had committed robbery of cash carried by the NRI in his car. The Bench added various articles belonging to the victim were also recovered from their possession.The case has its genesis in a call received on April 10, 2012, from Gurneet Singh Chatha. Calling the police control room from Canada, he said his younger brother Navneet Singh Chatha had been kidnapped by some unknown persons and a ransom of Rs 1 crore had been demanded.The police party visited their Sector 18 house where servant Amit Kumar’s statement was recorded. He said the victim had gone somewhere on April 9, but did not return till night. Around 2 am, he received a call from the victim asking him to handover the money lying in a cupboard to some persons he was sending.During an operation carried out by a special investigation team at a village in Kurukshetra, one of the convicts fired at the police party from inside a room. The police too fired in retaliation before the kidnappers were apprehended and the victim rescued.The Bench asserted phone connectivity between victim Navneet Singh Chatha and his servant Amit Kumar regarding ransom amount was not established.Nothing was on record to show that the foreign number from which the police received the call belonged to Gurneet Singh Chatha. Though Amit Kumar claimed receiving a phone call on his mobile number apprising him of kidnapping, his call details did not reflect call from the said number.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-get-10-year-ri-in-nri-kidnapping-case-in-chandigarh-97055
10-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||4,000 devotees pay obeisance at Mansa Devi, Kali Mata temples||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 9Around 1,900 devotees paid obeisance at the historic Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula today. The doors of the temple were thrown open to devotees after 84 days of the lockdown. Over 2,000 devotees paid obeisance at Kali Mata temple in Kalka today.According to sources, 2,000 devotees had registered themselves for paying obeisance at Mansa Devi temple today. The devotees started reaching the temple at 6 am. In view of the Covid-19 scare, long queues of devotees were not witnessed. Only 10 to 12 people could be seen waiting at the main entrance.How to register for darshanDevotees, who want to visit Mansa Devi temple, have to register themselves on the official website of the board www.mansadevi.org.in. After registration for a particular slot, devotees will get e-token on their cell phones. Persons above the age of 65, children below the age of 10, persons with comorbidities and expectant mothers are not allowed to visit the shrine.Over 5,000 devotees used to visit the shrine daily before the lockdown was imposed in the district. On Saturdays and Sundays, 12,000 to 15,000 devotees, respectively, used to visit the shrine daily.Mansa Devi temple is a symbol of Himalayan culture and faith. The shrine located on the foothills of Shivalik is an epitome of age-old tradition of ‘Shakti’ worship in Northern India. Himalaya being the abode of Shiva and his consort ‘shakti’ became the centre of Shakti worship. In the vicinity of Panchkula, there are numerous Shakti worshipping centers known by their names such as Chandi, Kalika, Mansa, Bhima, etc.In order to maintain social distancing, devotees were required to register themselves on the portal of the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board. The devotees had to undergo thermal scanning at the entrance to the temple. Devotees were asked to show booking confirmation message received on their cell phones to enter the complex.MS Yadav, Chief Executive Officer, Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, said 2,000 devotees registered themselves for paying obeisance at Mansa Devi temple in 34 slots today. A similar number of devotees registered themselves to pay obeisance at Kali Mata temple in Kalka.He said 1,200 devotees had registered themselves to visit Mansa Devi temple on Wednesday. The number of devotees visiting the shrine was likely to increase as more and more people were registered themselves on the shrine’s portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-000-devotees-pay-obeisance-at-mansa-devi-kali-mata-temples-97056
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sanitisation, social distancing followed strictly in CTU buses||Contrary to the public perception, travelling by Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) buses is far safer than taking any other means of public transport in the tricity. Social distancing norms are being followed strictly in the buses. Safety normsBuses are being sanitised periodically with a special eye on doors, doorknobs and handles. Bus conductors and drivers wear masks all the time and make sure that only one person sits on the window seat while the next one is kept vacant.The vehicles are being sanitised periodically with a special eye on doors, doorknobs and handles. Bus conductors and drivers wear masks all the time and make sure that only one person sits on the window seat while the next one is kept vacant.“They do not even allow family members to sit together. A maximum of 10 to 12 people are there at any given time,” said Kirti Kashyap, a schoolteacher who commutes from the ISBT, Sector 43, to Zirakpur daily.Contrary to the public perception that there is a chance of overcrowding, buses these days are running half-empty. Passengers, who travel relatively long distances in the tricity, said travelling in the buses was cheaper.“From VIP road in Zirakpur to the Sector 43 bus stand it takes Rs 30 only,” said Rampal, an executive in a real estate firm.Station Supervisor Gurcharan Singh said: “The CTU and the Municipal Corporation are looking after the sanitisation of the bus stand. As of now, close to 107 buses are running on local routes.”“We are following the Covid-19 guidelines strictly. Every passenger walking into the ISBT is thermally scanned. There is only one entry point and the access is strictly restricted,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitisation-social-distancing-followed-strictly-in-ctu-buses-97057
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh yet to take call on Shramik Special trains||While the UT is yet to respond to the Ambala Division of the Northern Railways regarding the provision of Shramik Special trains, Punjab said it won’t require any such train. The division, following the orders of the Supreme Court, had sent a communique to Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and the UT today.The order states, all states or UTs should take all necessary steps regarding the identification of stranded migrant workers, willing to return to their native places, in their state and take steps for their return journey by train or bus. The process may be completed within a period of 15 days from today.ADRM Pankaj Gupta, Nodal Officer for the Ambala Division for Shramik trains of Chandigarh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, said: “We have sent a communication to the UT and two states. While Punjab has said it won’t need any more Shramik special trains, the UT is yet to respond. In Himachal, Kalka, a train will leave for Dhanbad on June 12.”The division has been writing to the states, acting on the Supreme Court’s directions on any additional demand of Shramik Special trains. The order says, in addition to demand of 171 Shramik trains, the Railways should provide Shramik trains within a period of 24 hours as submitted by the learned Solicitor General to facilitate the return journey of migrant workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-yet-to-take-call-on-shramik-special-trains-97059
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Do away with odd-even system, says Beopar Mandal||A delegation of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal called on Finance Secretary Ajoy Sinha with a demand to do away with the odd-even system in motor markets in Mani Majra, Sector 48 and other markets of the city. These markets are well planned and can maintain social distance and follow other Covid-19 guidelines.Members of the delegation, including mandal president Anil Vohra, chairman Charanjiv Singh and Rajinder Singh, stated that Sinha was kind enough to recommend their representation to the SDM concerned to evaluate the ground situation and take a decision.“We are hopeful that these markets will start opening daily on the pattern of other markets soon,” said Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/do-away-with-odd-even-system-says-beopar-mandal-97060
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets panel of 3 IPS officers for post of SSP||The Punjab Government today sent a panel of three IPS officers to the UT Administration for the post of Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Chandigarh. The post of the SSP is reserved for Punjab cadre IPS officer.The Punjab Government sent the names of Kuldeep Singh Chahal (2009 batch), SSP, SAS Nagar, Patil Ketan Baliram (2010 batch), AIG, Counter Intelligence, Amritsar, and Vivek Sheel Soni (2011 batch), SSP, Ludhiana Rural.The term of UT SSP Nilambari Jagadale (2008 batch) will end in August. Nilambari took the charge on August 22, 2017. The UT Administration will send the names to the MHA for approval. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-panel-of-3-ips-officers-for-post-of-ssp-97061
10-06-2020||Mohali||Cross case against PGI nurse, kin||A day after a cop was booked for thrashing a PGI nurse, her daughter and brother, the Nayagaon police have registered a cross case against the nurse and her family on the counter allegations of Punjab Police ASI Diler Khan.A case was registered against ASI Diler Khan, posted at the PAP 13 Battalion, Chandigarh, and his family members under Sections 323, 294, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC last night. Now, a case under the same sections has been registered against PGI nurse Sushila Rohila and her family members.The victim, Sushila Rohila (44), a resident of Shivalik Vihar, Nayagaon, is posted as a nursing officer in the PGI, Chandigarh. In her complaint, she alleged that the cop, along with his wife Shakila, two daughters and a son, thrashed her and her daughter with sticks.Sushila stated that on Sunday night her daughter Pranjal went outside her house when the cop allegedly abused her. Later, Sushila came outside and intervened following which heated arguments took place between both families. In the meantime, the cop’s wife Shakila pulled the hairs of Sushila and pushed her down. Then, Diler, along with his family members, attacked Sushila, her daughter and brother with sticks. Sushila suffered injuries on her head and started bleeding. The victim was admitted to the PGI from where she was discharged today.Sushila said: “They thrashed us mercilessly. They had around 4-5 sticks in their hands. The cop and his family members are threatening us for the past five years. I have also submitted a complaint against them.”Diler, in his counter allegations, said: “The allegations levelled against my family are baseless. They had initiated the fight by blocking my way when I was going to duty. I have also submitted a complaint against them. I cannot abuse a girl as I am also a father of two girls.”Nayagaon Station House Officer Ashok Kumar said: “We are investigating the matter. Statements of some of the victims are yet to be recorded. No arrest has been made so far.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cross-case-against-pgi-nurse-kin-97062
10-06-2020||---||Parking contractor seeks action against MC officials||Chandigarh, June 9The contractor, who built the city’s first multi-level parking lot in Sector 17, replied to the MC’s show-cause notice and sought action against officials who prepared specifications in the tender.Earlier, the Municipal Corporation had withheld an amount of Rs2.66 crore of the firm for seepage and other issues in the parking lot. The MC is in the process of relaying the top surface and has estimated Rs2.13 crore, which is to be paid from the withheld amount.In its reply, the builder referred to the IIT’s observations on waterproofing design specifications, which said, “The proposed waterproofing design specifications in the terrace slab parking portion on the structure are inadequate.”The contractor said the work was executed as per the items mentioned in the tender. The work was cleared by the Sub-Divisional Officer and the Executive Engineer and recorded in the measurement book. It was in line with the specifications laid down by the Central Public Works Department. The action should be taken against the officials concerned, not against the contractor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parking-contractor-seeks-action-against-mc-officials-97063
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Lapse by Chandigarh over quarantine poster at RSS office in Sector 18||In a major lapse, the UT authorities did not put up a home quarantine poster at the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) office in Sector 18 despite its senior functionary testing Covid-19 positive on June 4.RSS functinonary tested +ve on June 4According to sources, the senior RSS functinonary — who tested positive — is a native of Himachal Pradesh. He came back from Delhi to the Sector 18 office on June 1. He got himself tested on June 3 at a private lab in Sector 11 and his report came out on June 4.The poster was put up today after second positive case surfaced from the RSS office, which is being run from a kothi.According to sources, the senior RSS functinonary—who tested positive — is a native of Himachal Pradesh. He came back from Delhi to the Sector 18 office on June 1. He got himself tested on June 3 at a private lab in Sector 11 and his report came out on June 4.“It is strange on their part. Did they want to hide the matter? If quarantine poster is not put up, how will people come to know that they do not have to go inside? This mistake can spread infection to more people,” said an official.The second person who tested positive today is an attendant at the office and had accompanied the senior RSS functionary to get his test done.Anil Kumar Garg, nodal officer, quarantine wing, said, “We did not get any information about the first positive case. It was not possible for us to put up the poster.” The first case was added to Himachal Pradesh’s tally.Health Secretary Arun Gupta, said, “We did not put up the poster as we had tested all his primary contacts. Of them, one is positive and others negative.”The news of a senior RSS functionary testing positive has created a flutter as the Bharatiya Janata Party’s leaders met him in the city. “Senior BJP’s leaders held meetings with him,” said a saffron outfit leader.Didn’t meet anyone, says senior RSS functionaryHe said, “After returning from Delhi, I had not met anyone. I met politicians on May 28 before going to Delhi, where I came in contact with two RSS workers, who tested positive after I reached Chandigarh. Iam doing fine.” He said he had undergone self-isolation at the RSS office and went to New Delhi to pick up his luggage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lapse-by-chandigarh-over-quarantine-poster-at-rss-office-in-sector-18-97064
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rain likely in Chandigarh on Friday||NSUI submits memo to BadnoreChandigarh: A delegation of the NSUI submitted a memorandum to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore to take note of risks for conducting examination at Panjab University amid the Covid-19 pandemic. It was raised that it would be difficult for students to give online examination due to the paucity of technological resources with the candidates. “We talked to the university several times, but there isn’t any positive response. This is a national issue and the NSUI is constantly fighting for the students’ right,” said Manoj Lubanafrom the NSUI.TNSMan held with 10-gram heroinChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a Sector 40 resident while possessing heroin. According to the police, the suspect, identified as Ravinder Singh (29, was arrested from near the local bus stand at Maloya on Monday while possessing 10 grams of heroin. The police said a case under the NDPS Act had been registered against the suspect at the Maloya police station and an investigation has been initiated. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-likely-in-chandigarh-on-friday-97066
