10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two more die of COVID-19 in Chandigarh||Two more fatalities due to COVID-19 took the death toll to 190 while 96 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 13,081 in Chandigarh on Saturday.There are now 1,229 active cases in the UT, as per a medical bulletin.As many as 157 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the number of cured persons in the city to 11,662, it stated.A total of 86,201 samples have been taken for testing so far, and of them 72,589 have tested negative while reports of 113 samples are awaited. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-die-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-153872
10-10-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 64 new COVID cases||Panchkula reported 64 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours, district officials said---a development that takes the district’s total to 6,556.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said that CRPF camp, Power Colony, Raipur Rani, Rajiv Colony, Sector 1, 2, 4, 7, 12-A, 25, 26, 27 all reported one case each, Sector 9, 15, Sector 21 and MDC-4 and Pinjore all reported two cases, MDC-5 and Kalka both reported five cases, Khangesra village reported six, Sector 11 and 17 reported three cases each, Sector 16 reported four, Sector 19 reported nine, and Sector 20 had seven.Eight-seven people were released from hospitals after recovery, the official said.The district now has 439 active cases, and has reported 100 deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-64-new-covid-cases-153868
10-10-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh’s Covid death rate witnesses decline||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 10In a major relief, Chandigarh has started to witness decline in Covid-19 deaths as the cases started dipping. In the last one week, the number of daily new Covid-19 deaths has come down to an average of 1.6 per cent, as compared to 4.6 per cent seven-day growth rate witnessed between September 11 and September 18.From October 2 to October 9, the city recorded 19 deaths preceded by 24 deaths (September 25 to October 2) and 35 deaths (September 18 and September 25).Till September 30, experts were apprehensive of the declining pandemic curve in view of constant surge in deaths being reported two weeks ago.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former  Head of the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, said, “The decline in deaths from past two weeks is the clear indicator that we are steering towards decline in epidemic curve. It was important to see how the situation unfolded two weeks after peak number of infections. Because whenever cases surge, deaths take place after 14 days. We have already crossed that stage. This explains the dip in number of deaths as cases are also on the decline.”PGIMER Director Jagat Ram said, “For the last two weeks, there is a decline in number of infected patients and thus mortality has also reduced. Ninety per cent patients who are dying have co-morbidities. Even at PGIMER emergency, the rate of positivity among patients has also reduced. Earlier, we were getting 60 positive patients from emergency, which has reduced to 10-15 patients.”Prof Ram warns, “However, we should not violate the protocol to sustain the decline and spread of infection. Now, festival season is approaching and if safety is breached, another surge is expected.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-covid-death-rate-witnesses-decline-153853
10-10-2020||---||PGIMER maintains 80% recoveries of moderate to severe COVID cases||Naina MishraTribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 10The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has maintained 80 per cent recovery rate among the moderate to severe cases of Covid-19 admitted to the hospital for treatment.The statistics provided by the institute until October 5 shows that out of 1,702 COVID patients who were provided treatment at the hospital, 336 patients succumbed to the illness owing to severity. The fatality accounts for 20 per cent, of which 214 were males and 122 were females.The data also shows that 43 per cent of patients who died in Covid hospital were between 46 and 65 years and 33 per cent between 13 and 45. Only four per cent patients were below 13.The average length of stay of COVID patients at PGIMER is 14 days. According to the institute, the common reasons of COVID death as per the observation of the doctors are Acute Respiratory Distress due to COVID pneumonia or cardiac arrest.The institute only looks after moderate to severe cases of COVID-19 who require Intensive Care Unit and ventilator support. Currently, there are 138 COVID positive patients admitted to COVID hospital of PGI and 28 out of them are in ICU.Severe COVID cases coming to PGIMERAccording to the doctors, cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes, congestive heart failure, chronic kidney disease, stroke and cancer can increase a patient’s risk of dying from the virus.Prof. GD Puri, Dean (Academics) and Head, Department of Anesthesia & Intensive Care said 80 per cent cases of COVID cases at the hospital were diabetic, 50 per cent had heart problems, 20 per cent had kidney failure and 10 per cent have liver failure.“Some COVID patients coming to us also require surgery and hence the complications get severe. Serious patients who are tested negative after two to three weeks are shifted to Intensive Care Unit and given post COVID treatment as well,” he said.COVID patient breakdown Chandigarh–53Haryana –73Himachal Pradesh–31Punjab–149Others – 30Age profiles of fatalities< 13 years = M – 6, F – 1013 to 45 = M – 76, F – 3546 to 65 = M – 91, F – 55>66 years = M – 41, F – 22||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgimer-maintains-80-recoveries-of-moderate-to-severe-covid-cases-153850
10-10-2020||---||90 fresh Covid cases surface in Mohali||Mohali, October 10Fresh 90 covid positive cases have surfaced in Mohali district during the past 24 hours taking the infection tally to 11,318 till Saturday.As per official date out of the 90 fresh coronavirus cases 52 were from Mohali (urban), three from Kharar, 16 from Dera Bassi, five from Dhakoli, one from Banur, two each from Gharuan and Kurali and nine from Lalru.Meanwhile, 120 patients of Covid-19 have been cured and discharged from the hospital. As of now there are 11,318 positive cases and out of these 10,066 had been cured and discharged from hospital. There are 1045 active cases with 207 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/90-fresh-covid-cases-surface-in-mohali-153849
10-10-2020|| ||Himachal man shot dead in Zirakpur in road rage incident||Zirakpur, October 10 A 35-year-old man was allegedly shot dead in Zirakpur on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.He has been identified as Anil Kumar, a resident of Kharar. The incident took place at around 1.30 am on Saturday.According to information, five men riding a Fortuner on VIP Road here had an argument with the men occupying another Fortuner over the issue of overtaking the vehicle.The men in one of the vehicles asked their friends Anil and Monty to come to the spot. Anil, who was attending a birthday party in Zirakpur, arrived on the spot where he had an argument with the other men.One of them, a native of Faridkot, allegedly fired three shots at him of which two hit him.He was rushed to a local hospital where he later died.Anil, who used to repair lifts, leaves behind wife and a 10-month-old son. He hailed from Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/himachal-man-shot-dead-in-zirakpur-in-road-rage-incident-153751
10-10-2020||Mumbai||Vaani Kapoor heads to Chandigarh for shooting Abhishek Kapoor’s film||Actor Vaani Kapoor is set to start filming for director Abhishek Kapoor’s next film in Chandigarh.Described as a “progressive love story”, the film will also feature Bollywood star Ayushmann Khurrana.Vaani, who recently wrapped up the shoot of Akshay Kumar-starrer “Bellbottom”, is all charged up to collaborate with Abhishek, best known for movies like “Rock On!!”, “Kai Po Che” and “Kedarnath”.“It’s a lovely heart-rendering film. I have always wanted to work with Abhishek Kapoor, being so inspired by his films this feels like an amazing opportunity to be part of his vision,” Kapoor said in a statement.The movie marks her first collaboration with Ayushmann and she hailed him as one of the most talented actors of the country.“Ayushmann is one of the most talented actors of our generation and I’m only thrilled about our first film together to be this beautiful love story,” Vaani added.The actor will follow all the quarantine processes before beginning the shoot.The untitled film is set to hit cinema halls in 2021. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaani-kapoor-heads-to-chandigarh-for-shooting-abhishek-kapoors-film-153747
10-10-2020||Mohali||‘Rape’ suspects yet to be nabbed by Mohali police||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rape-suspects-yet-to-be-nabbed-by-mohali-police-153742
10-10-2020||Vaani Kapoor is heading to Chandigarh to start shooting her next film where she has been paired opposite Ayushmann Khurrana. Directed by Abhishek Kapoor||For her next film, Vaani Kapoor heads to Chandigarh||Says Vaani, “It’s a lovely film. I have always wanted to work with Abhishek Kapoor; being so inspired by his films, this feels like an amazing opportunity to be part of his vision. Ayushman is one of the most talented actors of our generation and I’m only thrilled about our first film together.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/for-her-next-film-vaani-kapoor-heads-to-chandigarh-153651
10-10-2020||---||Punjab, Haryana Bar Council withdraws strike ultimatum||Chandigarh, October 9The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has withdrawn its ultimatum for the strike in view of the decision taken by the Punjab and Haryana High Court for reopening of physical courts.Karanjit Singh, chairman, the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana, said, “The High Court administration panel has considered council’s representation and passed an order addressed to District and Sessions Judges in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, for starting physical hearing along with virtual hearing of cases.”“In view of the positive response from the panel the council feels that there is no need to proceed with the proposed mode for acceptance of demands and as such the same is withdrawn,” he added. Earlier, the Bar Council had decided to launch peaceful agitation and hunger strike in case physical hearing of courts was not started by October 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-haryana-bar-council-withdraws-strike-ultimatum-153463
10-10-2020||---||Road mishap leaves 2 motorcyclists dead in Ambala||Ambala, October 9Two persons were killed on the spot when the two-wheeler they were riding on collided with a dumper loaded with sand near the Ugala village chowk on the Barara-Shahabad road here late on Friday night.The deceased have been identified as Rahul of Shahabad-Markanda in Kurukshetra and Gaurav of Sadhaura in Yamunanagar.The incident took place around 9 pm near The Emperor Marriage Palace in Barara.After the incident, the dumper driver fled, leaving the vehicle behind.The deceased were reportedly employees of the Shahabad Municipal Council.The Station House Officer (SHO), Barara police station, Virender Singh, said, “They were commuting on the Barara-Shahabad road and their motorcycle collided with a dumper when they reached near the Ugala village chowk. We have informed the families of the deceased and their bodies have been shifted to a hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-mishap-leaves-2-motorcyclists-dead-in-ambala-153452
10-10-2020||---||Now, Chandigarh pollution control panel to issue e-consent to industries||Chandigarh, October 9Doing away with the time-consuming process, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) will now issue consent (no-objection certificate) online to the industries.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today launched the ‘e-consent service’.During the function, Badnore said the role of the CPCC was important to regulate the pollution of the City Beautiful. At the same time, for proper growth of industries, fast disposal of their applications for consent to establish/operate was also equally important.“This is a big stride towards transparency in governance and fast delivery of services to the citizens. The e-consent to the public will be issued which will not only substantially reduce the normal processing time of application, but also spare the officers to divert their energy for other productive works,” he said.Debendra Dalai, Member Secretary, CPCC, said normally a physical copy of the consent was issued after the approval of the competent authority.“This process consumes substantial time of employees. As a result, several important areas remain unattended. Now, e-consent will be generated and issued to the units automatically on the approval of the competent authority,” he said.The step had been taken to enhance the efficiency of the office taking advantage of the technology available. Besides transparency in governance, the system would also help in creating a positive eco-system in carrying out industrial activities in the UT, he said.Now, applicants need not to come to the office and they can apply from anywhere. After the approval, they can get the consent order in the portal which can be downloaded anytime anywhere. It will be beneficial for all industries as well as DG set owners.Appreciating the efforts of the CPCC for the move, Manoj Parida, UT Adviser, and Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Environment), UT, said the facility of e-consent would definitely lessen the work load of both CPCC as well as public. They appreciated the steps taken for transparency in governance, which is one of the important agendas of the Government of India.The CPCC is responsible to manage, prevent and control water pollution, air pollution and preservation of the quality of air in the UT.Before an industry to start operations, it requires the consent of the CPCC to discharge any effluent (sewage or trade effluent) into a stream or well or sewer or on land, and/or emits air pollutants into the atmosphere.The committee grants consent under Section 25 of the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and Section 21 of the Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 for the discharge of trade effluents and discharge of emissions, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-chandigarh-pollution-control-panel-to-issue-e-consent-to-industries-153464
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Nodal delivery centre launched in Sector 17, Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Postal Division, which is celebrating National Postal Week from October 9 to October 15, observed World Post Day and launched its nodal delivery centre (parcel) in Sector 17 here today.The centre has already started functioning and is engaged in centralised and merchandised delivery of parcels. A total of nine postmen have been assigned to the centre for speedy disbursal of parcels.Manoj Kumar, Senior Superintendent of Post Office, Chandigarh Postal Division, said: “Since the parcel segment is gaining more priority after utilisation of e-commerce by public at large and to closely monitor the delivery of parcels, it has been decided to centralise the delivery of parcels by introducing nodal delivery centre in Sector 17 for almost all delivery zones of the UT.”During the national postal week, the division will observe Banking Day on October 10, PLI Day on October 12, Philately Day on October 13, Business Development Day on October 14 and Mail Day on October 15.Postal vans distribute over 3 lakh mealsIn the recent past, the Chandigarh Postal Division participated in various social welfare activities by liaisoning with local charitable institutions, religious establishment and UT Administration for distribution of food on the doorstep of needy people after the Covid-19 outbreak during the lockdown period. Major areas served were Bhatta Colony, Mauli village, Shastri Nagar, Mani Majra, slums near Railway Lines, Mani Majra, Colony No. 4, Industrial Area, night shelters and under-construction sites where labourers were stuck during the lockdown. This concept of distributing food through postal vans had been tagged as “Food on Wheels” and more than 3 lakh meals were distributed during that time which was appreciated by the local Administration. Recently, the Department of Posts was given the “Best Logistics Service Provider” award during Covid-19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nodal-delivery-centre-launched-in-sector-17-chandigarh-153449
10-10-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||CAT notice to PGI Chandigarh, Ministry of Health||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 9The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has issued a notice to the PGI and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to file a reply on a petition of the PGI Employees’ Union (Non Faculty) seeking hospital patient care allowance (HPCA) for all gazetted non-faculty employees and officers (group A and B) irrespective of their categories.The CAT has fixed December 2 as the next date of hearing in the case.Counsel Karan Singla, appearing for Ashwani Munjal, president of the PGI Employees’ Union (Non-Faculty), prayed to the court to quash the orders dated January 21, 2020, and February 3, 2020, issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the PGI, respectively, restricting the payment of the HPCA to the petitioners who approached the court.Singla contended that the PGI was following the discriminating policies while giving the allowances.Singla said despite the directions of the Supreme Court upholding the CAT order for allowing the HPCA to all gazetted officers of Group B, the PGI has decided to restrict the benefit to petitioners only, which was wrong. The counsel said the PGI started giving the HPCA to non-faculty staff from 1987, but it was stopped for Group A and B employees in 1999.The PGI Medical Technologists’ Association challenged the decision before the CAT. In the decision passed on July 10, 2013, the CAT decided in the favour of the petitioners. The PGI challenged the decision before the High Court and the Supreme Court, but it failed to get any relief. The Supreme Court upheld the decision of the CAT and directed the PGI to give the HPCA to employees vide its judgment dated January 11, 2019.The union has now approached the CAT for seeking direction to end the discrimination and disburse the HPCA to gazetted employees from April 20, 1998.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cat-notice-to-pgi-chandigarh-ministry-of-health-153451
10-10-2020||---||Exams, even if online, will be held in professional way: Punjab Engineering College||Chandigarh, October 9Punjab Engineering College (PEC) will hold exams in an authentic way even if students wanted these to be rescheduled, said a committee of students’ representatives, which has been objecting the management’s decision to conduct practical exams on the campus from the next month.The committee assured full support to the students’ representatives and asked them to come up with a plan till Wednesday. The final decision will be taken after the next meeting. The management maintained that they had not forced anyone to sit in the exams.“Students discussed their problems, which are obvious to appear during the pandemic. They were clearly told that no one has forced them to appear in the exams. We are ready to reschedule the plan for those who cannot come for it. However, we will not conduct exams in an unauthentic manner,” said Prof Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, PEC.“Even if we reschedule the exams in online mode, it will be conducted in a very professional manner wherein students won’t be able to cheat. We want our students to excel and thus, we are bound to conduct exams in an authentic way. There have been instances where we have conducted exams twice in a year after receiving students’ request and the same can be done this year. The representatives have been informed and the next meeting is on Wednesday,” Sanghi said.Earlier, the management had decided to call students to the campus in small batches under different time slots to attend practical examinations. For BTech fifth semester, practical exams have been scheduled from November 2 to 6, end-semester exams from November 7 and pending exams of the previous semester from December 11. Practical exams of BTech third semester are expected to be held from November 17, followed by their end-semester exams from November 22 and pending exams from December 21. For seventh semester, exams have been scheduled from December 5 to 9. And for MTech third semester, pending exams are announced to be conducted from January 4, while dissertation evaluation from January 11 to 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/exams-even-if-online-will-be-held-in-professional-way-punjab-engineering-college-153447
10-10-2020||---||Kumar-Naura team all the way||Chandigarh, October 9The Mritunjay Kumar and Amarjit Singh Naura team swept the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) elections, which concluded here today.Of the registered 627 voters, 520 exercised their right to vote. The Kumar-Naura team faced a tough fight from the Mohammed Khalid and MC Sidhu group before emerging as the winner. The team was backed by the group, which won the last three elections consecutively.Mritunjay Kumar, PUTA presidentOur priority will be to safeguard teachers’ dignity, arrange interviews for CAS promotions, approach the UGC for clarification of Clause 6.3. Our focus will be on immediate release of retirement benefits and PF, full pension after 25 years of service and leave encashment for 300 days.Kumar won the post of PUTA president by a margin of 42 votes against Khalid. Of the 520 votes, Kumar got 276, whereas Khalid received 235. As many as nine votes were counted invalid.Naura won the post of general secretary by 34 votes. He received 274 votes and Sidhu got 240 votes, while six votes were found to be invalid. For the post of vice-president, Supinder Kaur from the Kumar-Naura team got 268 votes, while Amit Chauhan received 242 votes. A total of 10 votes were counted invalid.Sarvnariender Kaur won the joint secretary post by 74 votes. She got 288 votes, while her rival Anupam Bahri got 214. As many as 18 votes were counted invalid. Nitin Arora won one-sided contest for the post of treasure. He received 306 votes, while his rival Samarjit Sihotra got 194 votes and as many as 20 votes were counted invalid.In executive (group-I), Rajesh Gill got 339 votes to claim the top position. Suman Sumi, Jasbir Singh and Neelam Paul (all from the Kumar-Naura group) claimed the top positions with 336, 267 and 230 votes, respectively.Rakesh Mohindra received 214 votes, Ashu Pasricha claimed 189 votes and Ali Abbas claimed 161 votes from the Khalid-Sidhu group. In executive (group II), Guldeep Singh emerged victorious with 295 votes, Navneet Kaur claimed the second position with 281 votes and Vijayta Chadha got 256 votes. Santosh Upadhya claimed the fourth position with 228 votes.In executive (group III), JK Goswamy claimed the top position with 353 votes, followed by Anil Kumar with 296 votes, Amritpal Kaur with 278 votes and Neeraj Aggarwal claimed the fourth position with 238 votes. Keshav Malhotra was elected for group IV unopposed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kumar-naura-team-all-the-way-153444
10-10-2020||---||Interact with players before training, says hockey legend Sandeep Singh||Panchkula, October 9Haryana Sports and Youth Affairs Minister and hockey legend Sandeep Singh interacted with young players and coaches at Tau Devi Lal Sports Stadium in Sector 3 here this morning.The former Indian captain and two-time Olympian shared mental and physical health lessons with the players while presiding over a mental health camp organised by the Haryana Sports Department in coordination with The Art of Living Foundation.The minister also had a virtual session on mental health with all district sports officers (DSOs), coaches and young sportspersons from across the state.“When it comes to sports, having mental strength is nearly as important for players as physical fitness. During anxiety, the player can neither concentrate on the game nor can he give better performance. Therefore, it is necessary to be mentally sound before coming onto the field,” he told the young players.“Winning and losing are part of the game. If a player enters the field with clear thinking and determination, he can make valuable contribution to his team to register a win,” he added.He urged the coaches to interact with the players before training and matches to boost their mental health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/interact-with-players-before-training-says-hockey-legend-sandeep%C2%A0singh-153445
10-10-2020||Naina Mishra||Covid survivors face post-traumatic stress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 9This year’s World Mental Health Day comes at a time when the entire world is grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic. As the pandemic continues to linger on, a major section of society also continues to face mental health issues.The traumatic experience of hospitalisation continues to haunt Covid patients even after recovery in the form of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and social stigma.According to doctors, PTSD symptoms such as brain fogging may arise in patients recovered from Covid-19 as a response to invasive measures, including intubation and ventilation, taken to treat them. Brain fog is not a medical condition, but a term used for certain symptoms affecting your ability to think and concentrate.Dr Sandeep Grover from the Department of Psychiatry, PGIMER, said, “As patients have to stay in hospitals in isolation settings, it leads to PTSD after recovery. The whole experience of getting diagnosed and treated is manifested into flashbacks wherein the patient still feels that he is in isolation or undergoing the same treatment. For say, if a patient was in the ICU or on oxygen therapy, he or she may get flashbacks of the hospital setting or may get nightmares while sleeping. In such cases, patients are re-experiencing or reliving illness. Many patients are experiencing fatigue even after recovery as part of psychiatric manifestation.”Dr Grover said, “PTSD can last long for an indefinite period depending upon how traumatic the experience of the disease has been.”Battling stigma, depressionEven as eight months have passed ever since the pandemic broke out, recovered patients are still being stigmatised. Sonia Singh (29) from Sector 36, said, “Even after 21 days of quarantine, people don’t want to connect with me or my family. Some people also told us that affected patients can be infectious till 90 days. Despite being well aware of the disease, I felt I was a criminal as I had contracted the infection.”Not only this, healthcare workers, who are treating Covid patients, are also struggling with stress. Jagdish Chaudhary, a nursing officer, who has been working at the Covid ward of the PGI since April, said, “There is a constant fear of contracting the infection while working with Covid-19 patients in the ICU. The fear is for passing on the infection to family. Nobody plays with my child as they know I work in Covid hospital. Our neighbours have completely detached themselves from us.”‘Feel guilty while stepping out of home’Residents have been compromising with their psychological well-being. A lawyer at the Punjab and Haryana High Court requesting anonymity said, “I am currently receiving only 60 per cent salary. During the lockdown, I had to increase my dosage of depression as I was panicky at initial stage. My depression has again accelerated as I have less work now. I also feel guilty while stepping out of home as I fear I will pass on the infection to my family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-survivors-face-post-traumatic-stress-153446
10-10-2020||Ambala||Private schools in Ambala seek free coronavirus test for teachers||Kulbhushan Sharma, president of the Federation of Private Schools’ Welfare Association, Haryana, has appealed to the Haryana Government to make the Covid-19 test, which costs Rs1,200, free for private school teachers like that of government schools.Accusing the Haryana Government of adopting indifferent attitude towards them, Kulbhushan, who is also the president of the National Independent Schools’ Alliance, said “Private schools, especially budget private schools, have received around 5 per cent fee and they have 25 to 50 per cent fees due from the last year as well. So, these are unable to bear the cost of the Covid-19 test for their teachers. Also, teachers have not received full salaries and are already facing financial crunch.”“The government has already allowed students of Classes IX to XII to attend school and now the government is contemplating opening schools for Classes VI to VIII, which is an appreciable move, but we request the government, especially Health Minister Anil Vij, to make the Covid-19 testing free for private school teachers just like government school teachers,” he said.Kulbhushan demanded from the government to give relief on passenger tax, electricity bill and tax on other items that had not been used by schools lately. He said in most of the schools in rural areas, children were brought to the schools in buses and these schools had suffered the most during the lockdown. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-schools-in-ambala-seek-free-coronavirus-test-for-teachers-153448
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Extortion from bizman: 1 booked||Elderly woman’s chain snatchedChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a gold chain from a 70-year-old woman at Sector 35 on Friday morning. The victim, Asha Parmar, was returning home after a walk when the miscreants snatched her chain. The police are scrutinising the CCTV footage of the area. TNSPU-MET Entrance test scrappedChandigarh: Panjab University announced to scrap PU-MET (Management Entrance Test) 2020 for admission to MBA (sectoral) programmes at the University Institute of Applied Management Sciences (UIAMS). All registered candidates have to fill the admission form at uiams.puchd.ac.in under notice board section by October 20 for getting considered in the admission process. The candidates are requested to keep on visiting the website for more information and further schedule. TNSPU declares BCA resultsChandigarh: Panjab University on Friday announced results of BCA sixth semester. The examination was conducted in blended (offline/online) mode. On Thursday, results of BSc (hons) (bio-informatics) and business administration sixth semester examination were declared. TNSAnnual Credit Plan launchedMohali: The Annual Credit Plan for Mohali district for the fiscal 2020-21 was launched by Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan here on Friday. Dayalan said the District Credit Plan envisages credit disbursal of Rs7,669.05 crore. Out of the total disbursement, Rs6,162.11 crore had been reserved for the priority sector and Rs3,104 crore had been earmarked for the agriculture sector. Dayalan said the aim of the District Credit Plan was to enable balanced growth of the district by optimum utilisation of resources, adequate credit dispensation to key sectors, generation of employment opportunities and enhancement of productivity by coordinating various resources. TNS137 evacuees land at city airportMohali: An evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 137 passengers from Sharjah landed at the Chandigarh International Airport here on Friday. The Indigo operated Air Bubble flight carrying 137 stranded passengers from Sharjah landed at the airport at 5.50 pm. TNSRoad closedThe MC will start recarpeting work on the V4 road in Sector 44-A from October 10 to 16 and on the V6 road in Sector 19-A and the parking in front of SCOs at Sector 22-B & C from October 12 to 30. Due to the work, the traffic will be diverted on a single road and the public is requested to take the alternative route.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/extortion-from-bizman-1-booked-153465
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man’s body found hanging from tree in Chandigarh||The body of an unidentified man was found hanging from a tree near the Poultry farm roundabout here this morning. The police believe it to be a case of suicide.Cops rushed to the spot on getting information about the incident around 9.30 am.The body was shifted to the GMCH in Sector 32. The police said the victim seemed to be a vagabond, whose identity was yet to be established.The police have ruled out any foul play in the incident. Meanwhile, inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Industrial Area police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mans-body-found-hanging-from-tree-in-chandigarh-153456
10-10-2020||---||Covid-19: 41 new cases in Panchkula, no death||Panchkula, October 9The district today witnessed 41 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the case tally to 6,492. The Covid toll stands at 100 as no death was reported today.The new cases include nine from Kalka, six from Sector 15, four each from Barwala and Sector 12-A, two each from Majri, Pinjore, Sector 16 and Sector 8, and one each from Amravati Enclave, Devinagar, Naggal, Rajiv Colony, Sector 19, Sector 21, Sector 25, Sector 26, Sector 27 and Sector 9.While 462 cases are still active, 5,930 persons have been cured. Panchkula has so far conducted 73,628 Covid cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-41-new-cases-in-panchkula-no-death-153466
10-10-2020||---||2 ASIs among 5 booked for duping man of Rs 36L in Panchkula||Panchkula, October 9A 47-year-old man from Sector 25, Preet Pal, has filed a police complaint against five persons, including two ASIs posted at the Police Headquarters, for allegedly duping him of Rs 36.50 lakh.The police booked two ASIs — Dharminder Sharma and Naresh Kumar Rana — and three other persons — Gurinderjit Singh Dhajal, a resident of Zirakpur, Sat Narain, a resident of Karnal, and Kiran Bala, wife of ASI Naresh Kumar Rana, under Sections 120-B, 406, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 506 of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station.ASIs Dharminder Sharma and Naresh Kumar Rana are posted at Police HQPreet Pal, in his complaint to the police, said in October 2014, he came across an advertisement issued by the IOCL wherein the public sector company had advertised for the dealership of kisan sewa kendras (rural outlets) across Haryana.As his family had land in Naraingarh in Ambala, they made up their mind to apply for it. Facing difficulties in filling the online form, the complainant visited the office of his relative, Samrat Saini, in Sector 16 for clarification.On December 1, 2014, the victim met prime suspect Gurinderjit Singh at his relative’s office. In lieu of helping him get the dealership, Gurinderjit lured the victim, saying he had links with politicians.Thereafter, the victim approached two ASIs, with whom he had friendly relations, for advice. Both policemen told him they were known to Gurinderjit and could help him finalise the deal. The victim told them that he would have to sell one of his plots in Sector 28 to arrange the money.They introduced him to Sat Narain of Karnal saying he had relations with the Chief Minister and the Petroleum Minister. They offered the victim to finalise the deal for Rs35 lakh — Rs10 lakh in advance and the remaining amount after the work.After the victim showed his inability to pay Rs10 lakh immediately, ASI Naresh offered him the money at 4 per cent interest.On December 26, 2014, the victim paid Rs10 lakh to the suspects. On January 7, 2015, he paid Rs1.5 lakh as interest as per the deal. On February 11, 2015, he further paid Rs5 lakh to them after taking a loan from two of his relatives.In early June 2015, the suspects demanded Rs5 lakh from him. However, he refused to pay the money until there was progress in the work.After several days, they assured him that the work for the allotment of the retail outlet was at an advanced stage and they would get it allotted shortly. On July 13, 2015, they demanded Rs20 lakh from the victim. To win his confidence, they showed him a file having stamps and signatures of IOCL and Petroleum Ministry officials.In April 2016, the victim sold his Sector 28 plot to pay them Rs20 lakh.On June 23, 2016, they lured the victim to pay Rs10 lakh in the account of Kiran Bala, wife of ASI Naresh, who owns a firm, Guru Kirpa Rice Mills. The victim paid the money.They later admitted to their guilt and agreed to return the entire amount paid by him, but failed to do so.The victim then filed a complaint with the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-asis-among-5-booked-for-duping-man-of-rs-36l-in-panchkula-153467
10-10-2020||Mohali||Kidney recipient beats Covid in Mohali||A 63-year-old man, who underwent a kidney transplant about seven years ago, has recovered from Covid-19.The patient, Satya Pal, along with his wife Reena, who was the donor and also Covid positive, were brought to Grecian Hospital on September 21 with Covid symptoms and breathlessness. Satya Pal was diabetic, hypertensive and on immunosuppressant drugs.Since Satya Pal was on immunosuppressive therapy, his immunity was low and his comorbidities and age made it a difficult case. However, with modifications in his immunosuppressant drugs, doctors were able to save him.Reena was discharged first while Satya Pal was still on high-flow oxygen in the ICU. As he became stable on room air and had stable renal functions with no dialysis needed, he was discharged. — TNSComorbidities made it a difficult case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kidney-recipient-beats-covid-in-mohali-153435
10-10-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali Municipal Corporation yet to notify stray animal bylaws||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 9The Municipal Corporation, Mohali, is yet to notify the Stray Animals (Registration and Proper Control) Bylaws-2020, which was passed by the House in January this year.The House had passed the resolution after the office of the Director, Local Government Department, Punjab, had sent a draft notification of bylaws to the civic body for its adoption in January.If the MC notifies the bylaws, the victims of attacks or accidents involving stray animals will start getting a compensation of Rs2 lakh from the civic body in case of some disability.Under the bylaws, the owner has to register a pet, including dog and cat, within seven days from April 1 every year or face a fine of Rs100 for a delay of one month and Rs200 for a delay of two months. In case of any delay in getting an animal registered for over two months, the fine will be five times the registration fee, which will be Rs100 per year.As per the draft, one family could keep maximum three dogs/cats. The MC has to set up a cattle pound. All private/stray animals found roaming on roads will be shifted to the pound. As per the draft, private animals will be released only after recovering the penalty from its owner. The proposed fine for the first offence is Rs5,000 and Rs10,000 if the offence is repeated.The civic body could also charge fee from the owners of animals brought at exhibitions or for entertainment purposes, stated the draft. The fee will be Rs50 per day per animal. The entire amount collected as fee and from different penalties under the bylaws will be spent on the animal upkeep, for compensating victims and the insurance of animals, stated the draft.MC Commissioner Kamal Deep Garg said after the draft resolution was passed by the MC House, they had to invite objections from residents and later, the bylaws were to be notified. He said the process was already completed and the bylaws would be notified soon.Congress councillor Kuljit Singh Bedi said he had also taken up the issue of stray dogs and animals with the local MLA and Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. He said they were planning to deal with the stray dog menace by giving the contract to some NGO as the number of stray dogs have increased manifold during the past five years.What the bylaws say||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-municipal-corporation-yet-to-notify-stray-animal-bylaws-153437
10-10-2020||---||Covid-19: Two fatalities, 63 fresh infections in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 9The city today recorded 63 fresh cases, pushing the infection count to 12,985. This is for the first time after August 8, when 52 cases were reported, that the city has seen some relief in the number of cases. The daily case count had risen exponentially after August 8 and the highest number of 449 cases were reported on September 13.Meanwhile, two more Covid fatalities have been reported from the city, raising the toll to 188. A 79-year-old man from Sector 51 died at Max Hospital, Mohali, while a 50-year-old woman from Maloya, a case of type 1 respiratory failure, died at the GMCH, Sector 32.The UT now has 1,292 active cases. As many as 161 more patients have recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 11,505.One death, 76 new cases in MohaliMohali: The district reported one more Covid fatality, taking the toll to 207 on Friday. Meanwhile, 76 fresh cases surfaced while 128 patients were cured of the virus. Of the 76 new cases, 41 surfaced in Mohali urban, seven in Dera Bassi, eight in Kharar, two in Dhakoli, one in Banur, three in Kurali and 14 in Lalru. As of now, the district has reported 11,228 cases and 9,946 patients have been cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-two-fatalities-63-fresh-infections-in-chandigarh-153439
10-10-2020||---||Commuters bear the brunt as farmers hold up traffic||Mohali, October 9Various factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU and workers of political parties, including the Congress, SAD and AAP, blocked the Chandigarh-Ambala national highway in Lalru and the Kharar-Landran road today against the farm Acts passed by the Centre.‘30 km extra travel’Sushil Kumar, a resident of Phase 6, Mohali, said he had gone to Kurukshetra for official work on Friday and on returning, he was stopped near Jharmari by the police. He said he had to travel 30 km extra to reach Dera Bassi after passing through various villages, including Jeoli, Bhukri and Samgauli.Commuters were at the receiving end as they had to “go the extra mile” to reach their destinations due to the protest. The police had diverted the traffic coming from the Ambala side on the Jharmari-Naraingarh road, while the traffic from the Chandigarh side was diverted on the Lalru-Handesra road to avoid any inconvenience to the commuters.Sushil Kumar, a resident of Phase 6, Mohali, said he had gone to Kurukshetra for official work this morning and on returning, he was stopped near Jharmari by the police. He said he had to travel 30 km extra to reach Dera Bassi after passing through various villages, including Jeoli, Bhukri and Samgauli.At Kharar, the BKU (Sidhupur), the BKU (Lakhowal) and the Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, Mohali, blocked the Landran road at the Badala T-point for nearly an hour. They also burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, showing their opposition towards the three farm Acts passed by the Central Government. Naib Tehsildar Puneet Bansal, DSP Manjeet Singh and DSP Rupinderjit Kaur, along with a police party, managed the protesters and said the protest was peaceful.The kisan union, supported by various political parties, blocked the Ambala-Chandigarh Highway at Lalru in protest against the farm Acts. Manpreet Singh Amlala, vice-president, BKU (Lakhowal), and Karam Singh Baroli blocked the highway along with 125 to 150 supporters.A huge traffic jam was witnessed on the Banur-Kharar and Kharar-Landran highways and also on the Ambala-Chandigarh highway near Lalru. The Mohali traffic police diverted the traffic on alternative routes to reach Mohali and Chandigarh.The leaders, while addressing the protesters, threatened that they would close the Dappar toll plaza if their demands were not met.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/commuters-bear-the-brunt-as-farmers-hold-up-traffic-153441
10-10-2020||---||Delhi man shoots self dead at sister’s house in Zirakpur||Mohali, October 9A 48-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with a revolver in Zirakpur here on Thursday evening.The deceased has been identified as Manoj Aggarwal, a resident of Delhi.It is learnt that Manoj allegedly ended his life at his sister and brother-in-law’s house at Maya Gardens, a society in Zirakpur.According to the police, the victim arrived from Delhi at his sister’s house around 4 pm and took the extreme step around 8 pm.Sources said Manoj was under depression as he was having financial issues with his sister. The police have initiated a probe to verify the same. No suicide note was recovered by the police.According to the sources, a case has been registered against Manoj’s brother-in-law and sister on a complaint of his wife. However, the police have not confirmed this yet.Inspector Gurwant Singh, SHO, Zirakpur police station, said, “We are investigating the matter through different angles. No case has been registered yet. The post-mortem examination is still not conducted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delhi-man-shoots-self-dead-at-sisters-house-in-zirakpur-153442
10-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh heritage furniture to go under hammer in London||Heritage furniture designed by French architects Le Corbusier and Pierre Jeanneret will be auctioned in London on October 14.As many as 10 heritage items of the UT, with an international worth of more than Rs1.5 crore, will be auctioned by Bonham, an auction house. The items to go under the hammer include chairs, armchairs and tables designed for the Punjab and Haryana High Court and administrative buildings.“There is an urgent need for the government to intervene in the matter,” said Ajay Jagga, a member of the Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh.Trafficking in cultural property of Chandigarh is going on for the past 10 years. “The UN may also be approached, reminding it of its international commitment to the UNESCO to combat trafficking of cultural objects,” Jagga wrote in a letter to the Union Minister of External Affairs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-furniture-to-go-under-hammer-in-london-153443
