10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 90 new COVID-19 infections, 4 more deaths||Ninety fresh COVID-19 infections were recorded in Chandigarh on Tuesday, taking its case count to 15,339, while four more deaths pushed the death toll to 241, a health bulletin said.The number of active cases in the city stands at 922, it said.A total of 1,18,279 samples have been taken for testing so far. Of these, 1,02,243 samples have tested negative, while reports of 142 are awaited, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-90-new-covid-19-infections-4-more-deaths-168831
10-11-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports two deaths and 75 COVID cases; infection tally crosses 13,000-mark||Mohali reports two deaths and 75 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the district's death total to 250.The coronavirus tally stands at 13,060.Meanwhile, in the last 24 hours, 45 patients were cured and discharged from hospitals.Out of the 75 cases, 69 were recorded from Mohali (urban), two each from Dhakoli and Lalru and one each from Gharuan. At present, the city reports 775 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-two-deaths-and-75-covid-cases-infection-tally-crosses-13-000-mark-168819
10-11-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Guess Ayushmann Khurrana's favourite coffee shop in Chandigarh; hint it's in Sector 17||We all have our favourites. So does actor Ayushmann Khurrana.The actor has got this unique opportunity to relive memories from his childhood, that he lived in his hometown, the city beautiful, Chandigarh.In his recent Instagram stories, the 36-year-old actor has revealed his favourite Chandigarh cafe.It was none other than, the Indian Coffee House.Along with the picture of the coffee shop, he talked about how rates on the menu card have changed over the years.Nostalgic Ayushmann talked about how he would visit the cafe with his father as a kid."Rate badalte rehte hain har saal. Bachpan mein jab papa ke saath aate the toh 10 rupaye ki coffee hoti thi," he wrote.The famous eatery, that Ayushmann mentioned in his Instagram story is Indian Coffee House in Sector 17, Chandigarh, which has been around since 1957.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/guess-ayushmann-khurranas-favourite-coffee-shop-in-chandigarh-hint-its-in-sector-17-168772
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||10K Health Care Workers in Chandigarh identified for COVID vaccine prioritisation||A database of over 10,000 Health Care Workers (HCWs) has been created by the UT health the department, who will be prioritized for vaccination once a COVID vaccine is available as per the directions of the central government. The health care workers are from 45 health facilities of Chandigarh excluding the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), which is governed by the centre.The union government asked the states and union territories for collecting data of health care service providers and other workers in health care settings, both government and private. The Covid vaccination drive of the HCWs will utilize this database to identify the beneficiaries.As per the union ministry of health and family welfare, the HCWs working in the health facilities is envisaged to be prioritized for the immunization drive (including HCWs working in community under their geographical jurisdiction). These include front line health workers like auxiliary nurse midwife, accredited social health activist, staff nurse, allopathic doctors (MBBS or post graduates, teaching and non-teaching and doctors on administrative posts), AYUSH Doctors (both in AYUSH dispensaries and other PHCs, hospitals, etc.), dentist, paramedical staff, scientist and research Staff, support Staff- dietary staff, sanitation worker, ambulance drivers, security staff, outsource agency staff and other support staff, and clerical & administrative staff in the hospital.”Anticipating that COVID-19 vaccine may soon be available, the Government of India (GoI) is preparing for its introduction in the country so that it can be expeditiously rolled out when available. For this, a National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) has been constituted, which is guiding on prioritization of population groups for vaccination; vaccine inventory management and tracking; monitoring of implementation processes; identification of vaccine delivery platforms, etc. Vaccine beneficiary management systemCOVID-19 Vaccination Beneficiary Management system (CVBMS) is being created as an extension of existing electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) module for individualised tracking of all beneficiaries receiving COVID-19 vaccine. This will require the creation of beneficiary databases within the CVBMS which in turn will streamline the process of tracking them for vaccination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10k-health-care-workers-in-chandigarh-identified-for-covid-vaccine-prioritisation-168743
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||115 fresh cases in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/115-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh-168732
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||460 stalls in Sector 19 open invite to Covid?||With the MC allowing 460 stalls in the Sector 19 market alone, the possibility of a spike in Covid cases looms large ahead of Diwali.As the civic body failed to mark slots for shopkeepers and vendors for setting up stalls, the market witnessed a huge crowd yesterday. Though the situation improved today, the city is likely to be more vulnerable to the spread of Covid in the coming days. In the absence of specified spots for vendors, they were seen rushing to occupy prime locations, triggering chaos.According to experts, the city may witness a second Covid wave in the winter season and the situation in the market could further lead to a rise in the number of cases.“This market is already congested. There is no or little space for visitors to park their vehicles. Vendors should not have been allowed in congested markets. Instead, they should have been spread across various sectors. Neither are vendors tested for Covid nor are any norms followed. Who will be responsible if there is a surge in Covid cases?” lamented RK Garg, president, Second Innings Association.MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora, however, claimed, “There were some problems yesterday, but now, we have set the system right. We have also sought assistance from the police.”MC sources said vendors, who used to sit in Sector 15, 17 and 22, were now opting for Sector 19 as there were limited vending areas in Sector 17 and 22 in line with the High Court’s directions. They said the next time, stalls would be rationalised beforehand.Vendors said the crowd in the market was little as compared to last year. They said they feared huge losses this season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/460-stalls-in-sector-19-open-invite-to-covid-168464
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Police nail prime suspect among 3||Three suspects, including a juvenile, who were involved in the firing at a TikTok star outside a club, EskoBar, in Sector 9, have been arrested by the UT police. The police said the prime suspect, Sagar, tried to fire at a police party in a bid to escape from a naka laid near Kaimbwala village.7 cases against prime suspectSeven cases, including one of murder, two cases of attempt to murder and a case of theft, have been earlier registered against the prime suspect, Sagar, in Ludhiana.The suspects have been identified as Sagar (22), Movish Bains (22) and a juvenile, all residents of Ludhiana. The police said on seeing the police party, Sagar pulled out a pistol to fire. However, he was nabbed.The police recovered a .32 bore pistol from him.Both Sagar and Movish have a criminal past. Seven cases, including a murder case, two cases of attempt to murder and a case of theft have been registered against Sagar in Ludhiana. Two cases, including one pertaining to attempt to murder, were registered against Movish in the past in Ludhiana.Earlier, Sukhdeep, alias Sukhi, was arrested by the police. All suspects had come to celebrate the juvenile’s birthday.Arms concealedDuring interrogation, Sagar and Movish disclosed that they had more arms and ammunition, which had been concealed with their friends — Vijay and Raja, both residents of Ludhiana.Complainant Akash, a resident of Zirakpur, had reported that he, along with his friends Sourav Gujjar and Kunal, visited EskoBar. The trio was sitting on a table, while the suspect, Movish, along with four others, was sitting on another table.After sometime, members of both groups started dancing. While doing so, Sourav and Movish exchanged heated words and Movish slapped him. Both groups came out of the club where they again quarrelled. Sagar then opened fire at Sourav and his friends. Three gunshots were fired, one of which hit Sourav near the waist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-nail-prime-suspect-among-3-168466
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Don’t lower your guard against pandemic, warns PGI Director Jagat Ram||Amid a resurge in Covid cases, PGI Director Prof Jagat Ram, in a statement released today, warned city residents against lowering their guard and adhere to “Covid-appropriate behaviour”.“With the Covid positive cases rising for the past one week, there are chances of another spike in view of the festive season, winters and increasing pollution levels,” said Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI.“Respiratory viruses such as SARS, influenza, show seasonal variance with cases spiking in winters. So, there is a possibility that the coronavirus infections might also rise in the coming months. Furthermore, low humidity promotes evaporation of viral particles and aerosol formations, which can increase the airborne spread of disease,” he said.He said: “Rise in the pollution level in winters is lethal for respiratory health. If one contracts Covid now, it’s likely to be more severe. Till the time a vaccine is out, wearing a proper mask, following hand hygiene and social distancing are important.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-lower-your-guard-against-pandemic-warns-pgi-director-jagat-ram-168467
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Inmates to return to Model Jail Chandigarh from November 16||A meeting, chaired by Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and chairman, High-Powered Committee of the UT, Chandigarh, constituted for the decongestion of jails, was convened to decide on the readmission of prisoners to Model Jail, Chandigarh, who had been released on special parole and special interim bail due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Steps in placeThe committee, at its previous meeting on September 29, had directed the prison authorities to submit a detailed plan for the readmission of prisoners to the jail in a staggered manner and keeping in view the gravity of offence(s)/punishment(s).Ombir Singh, IG, Prisons, gave a presentation on the detailed plan for the readmission of prisoners.The jail authorities said the sanctioned capacity of Model Jail was 1,120 prisoners — 1,000 male and 120 female.The number of prisoners as on November 5 was 779 — 741 male and 38 female. The number of prisoners released on special parole was 202 — 193 male and 9 female — and those on special interim bail 47 — 46 male and one female.The committee concurred with the plan submitted by the prison authorities and decided that convicted prisoners who had been released on special parole would return in batches of around 50 from November 16 to December 7. Similarly, undertrial prisoners will return to the prison from December 12 onwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inmates-to-return-to-model-jail-chandigarh-from-november-16-168469
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||250 pre-fab shelters razed in Sector 56||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) carried out a demolition drive for pre-fab shelters in Sector 56 here today. Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said nearly 250 vacant shelters were demolished during the drive. “Land is being cleared and the Engineering Department has started fencing around it with barbed wires,” he said. “The remaining 70 pre-fab shelters will be demolished after Diwali,” he said.A camp was organised to receive applications for the allotment of flats in Maloya-I. Allotment to the eligible applicants would be made through a computerised draws and the first draw for 352 flats would be held tomorrow, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/250-pre-fab-shelters-razed-in-sector-56-168470
10-11-2020||Panchkula||No death for 4th day in Panchkula||In a relief to the Health Department ahead of Diwali, the district reported no Covid death for the fourth consecutive day today. As many as 65 fresh cases were detected, taking the overall tally to 7,574.Among the fresh cases, the maximum nine were reported from Sector 4 and eight from Pinjore. While 7,064 persons have defeated the virus so far, 393 cases are still active. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-death-for-4th-day-in-panchkula-168471
10-11-2020||Mohali||2 more succumb in Mohali||Two more Covid fatalities were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 248.As many as 88 cases surfaced in the district, taking the case count to 12,985. A total of 35 more patients have been cured.Among the fresh cases, 85 were reported from Mohali (urban), two from Lalru and one from Gharuan. The district has so far seen 12,985 positive cases and 11,990 patients have been cured. There are now 747 active cases, while 248 persons have died of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-succumb-in-mohali-168472
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||JJP activist buys ‘0001’ for Rs 8 lakh||An educationist and activist of the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) has spent a whopping Rs8 lakh on a special number for his new SUV, a Fortuner.Dr Satish Pogaat, Director, Pogaat Public Senior Secondary School at Faridabad, made the highest bid of Rs7.50 lakh for the number, ‘0001’, against the reserve price of Rs50,000 at an e-auction for vanity registration numbers of a new series, CH01CC, conducted by the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) here today.A resident of Burail, Dr Pogaat, who joined the JJP in Delhi last Friday, said he bought the VIP number for his new SUV.Virat, Secretary, RLA, said the authority earned a revenue of Rs71.32 lakh from the e-auction in which 266 bidders participated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jjp-activist-buys-0001-for-rs-8-lakh-168475
10-11-2020||Mohali||Engineering diyas to keep family tradition alive||Two city-based well-educated youths, who are making diyas during the ongoing festive season to preserve their family’s traditional profession, are nothing short of a revelation.However, this is the only time of the year when one can witness a spark in their — Nishant Kumar and Javed Kumar — eyes and their muddy arms spin the clay 24x7. With their courtyard filled with the Diwali stock, wading through it is not easy a task.The brothers don’t want to lose touch with the art of making diyas and thus, help their parents during the festive season. Nishant is a mechanical engineer while his brother Javed has recently taken admission to an ITI for an automobile engineering course. They said they help their father, Parveen Kumar, in making diyas while their mother paints them.Nishant Kumar said they get Rs500 for 1,000 diyas in the wholesale market. However, the amount was not proportional to the raw material and their hard work, he said. Sometimes, they also sell diyas in retail at a roadside in Sector 7, Chandigarh.Parveen Kumar, who moved to Mohali about 16 years ago from his native village, said he did not want his children to be illiterate and tried providing them with good education.While the preferential shift from diyas to candles has picked up pace, the art of making diyas in on the cusp of extinction. The threat looms large over artisans so much so that despite increase in the price of raw materials, they sell their produce as per the old rates. Most of them are third or fourth-generation potters.“Under any circumstance, we do not want to lose out on orders. This is the only season when we earn. We are trying new designs to get the business running throughout the year. However, the price of raw material is affecting us,” said Parveen.Sushma Sharma, a resident of Phase 7, prefers diyas to candles. “Diyas are not very expensive and buying them helps local artisans. I love the aroma of mud and they exude a feeling of our tradition.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/engineering-diyas-to-keep-family-tradition-alive-168476
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Senate: Panjab University a house divided||Panjab University is now a house divided among faculties over the issue of dissolving Senate. While former Senate members took out a protest march on the campus against dissolution of House, many faculty members supported the PU’s decision to scrap the Senate ahead of the implementation of the New Education Policy (NEP).“It’s a matter of shame that members had to hold a protest for having a meeting with the Vice Chancellor, who has been maintaining a silence over the memorandums and demonstrations staged by different stakeholders. We have made it clear that the Vice-Chancellor’s excuse of Covid for not holding the Senate elections by quoting factually incorrect information regarding the voters coming from Maharashtra, Rajasthan and MP is a mere hoax.“His excuse of UT Administration, Chandigarh, not allowing the Senate elections also stands completely exposed. Members asked the Vice-Chancellor to hold a Syndicate meeting immediately and also to write to the Deputy Commissioner, UT, Chandigarh, seeking permission to hold the Senate elections,” stated syndic Ashok Goyal.Time to correct mistakes, say faculty members“A cry of total destruction or utopian reforms exists only in romanticism. The NEP 2020 is a way forward and governance reforms are the need of the hour. One cannot simply stop governance reforms in the hope of achieving a sinecure post. There were many issues which, for long, had fractured the dignity of university teachers. People from non-academic backgrounds were involved in university governance undermining the seniority and dignity of PU teachers,” said a group of teachers.Many factors behind not conducting poll: VC“I have called a meeting twice (online), but to no avail. I am not denying calling the House meeting in future. There are many factors for not conducting elections — we have budget constraints, employees are not willing to perform duties and the number of cases is increasing. How can you expect me to ignore all this? Who will be responsible, if our employees get infected or have to face something worst? Everyone will blame the VC. You (senators) have been giving examples of Bihar elections and others... Do you know the manpower and budget involved? We have taken this university to new heights. But such protests clearly depict what is the value of faculty or VC or senators here. We have to take local administration in confidence. I am a teacher first and have to look for all instead of a few. Due to Covid cases on the campus, our work is affected on a daily basis and you are demanding for open elections,” said Prof Raj Kumar, PU VC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senate-panjab-university-a-house-divided-168477
10-11-2020||Zirakpur||Travel agents’ nexus suspected||A nexus of travel agents is suspected to be involved in facilitating passports by forging documents in connivance with two policemen posted at the Zirakpur police station. Two Punjab-based drug peddlers with criminal record had paid money to get their passports made on forged documents in connivance with the dismissed policemen of the Zirakpur police station.The Mohali police investigation has also hit upon a Ludhiana-based travel agent who facilitated procurement of passports by dubious means. Police officials say his arrest in the coming days would throw up more names. It has come to light that Raman Kumar, a Dera Bassi travel agent, who was arrested yesterday, was part of the chain of inter-state travel agents who solicited clients.Raju Basaudi, a fugitive and notorious gangster of Haryana, also got his passport issued through them.Officials said 41 passports have been made on forged papers in the past two years and there are good chances that the number may increase in the coming days.“It is not clear whether all 41 passports made on forged documents are of gangsters. As the investigation progresses, more details will emerge. As of now, three passports, one of a Haryana fugitive and two drug peddlers from Punjab, have been verified,” said Mohali SSP Satinder Singh.The disgraced cops, Rajinder Singh and Sukhwant Singh, were part of an inter-state nexus who took bribes in facilitating passports on forged documents, reveals police investigation.The police officials are in the process of writing to the passport office and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to get all passports cancelled and the entry-exit of the accused blocked in a day or two.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/travel-agents-nexus-suspected-168478
10-11-2020||Panchkula||276 Diwali stalls booked on Day 1 in Panchkula||As many as 276 shopkeepers booked Diwali stalls on Day 1 of the online booking process conducted by the Panchkula Municipal Corporation on a dedicated portal – stallbooking.online.The MC collected an amount of Rs1.49 lakh from shopkeepers for setting up stalls in various markets.According to information, spaces in front of SCOs, SCFs, DSSs, bays and booths could only be booked by the owner/lessee/tenant of the shop. In case the booking was made by persons other than owner/lessee/tenant of the shop, it would be rejected and the amount would be forfeited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/276-diwali-stalls-booked-on-day-1-in-panchkula-168480
10-11-2020||Mohali||RBU awards degrees to foreign students||Rayat Bahra University (RBU) held the second convocation of international students here on Sunday. Students from different countries, including Zambia, Ghana, Afghanistan, Tanzania, Ivory Coast, Malawi and Nigeria, were awarded degrees. Gurvinder Singh Bahra, chairman of the Rayat Bahra Group of Institutions and Chancellor of the Rayat Bahra University, delivered the convocation address.Students from different courses, including computer application, management, pharmacy and engineering, were conferred degrees. Sahila Bahra, vice-president of the Rayat Bahra Group, said the university was committed to developing high quality, professionally groomed technical and engineering manpower. Deepak Sharma, Director of International Affairs, said the students who were awarded degrees were from the University School of Engineering and Technology, University School of Sciences, University School of Social Sciences, and the University School of Management Studies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rbu-awards-degrees-to-foreign-students-168481
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||CRRID students selected for MPIDR training||Two students of the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Anayat Gill and Ujjwala Singh, have been selected for a training programme at the Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research (MPIDR), Germany. The MPIDR investigates the structure and dynamics of populations and explore issues of demographic change, aging, fertility and the redistribution of work over the life course. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crrid-students-selected-for-mpidr-training-168483
10-11-2020||Mohali||Voluntary blood donation organisations honoured||The Punjab State AIDS Control Society and the Punjab State Blood Transfusion Council today honoured 14 voluntary blood donation organisations, which managed over 2,000 units of blood and made them available to blood banks last year.Punjab Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu honoured 17 men and 24 women blood donors who donated blood over 100 and 10 times, respectively. Six blood banks, one medical college and six blood component separation units were also honoured on the occasion.The minister said government hospitals in Punjab were providing free blood facility to patients. There were 132 licensed blood banks in the state. Of this, 46 were run by the government, six by the Army and 80 by private hospitals and institutions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/voluntary-blood-donation-organisations-honoured-168484
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Bhaag Singh is president of District Bar Association||Advocate Bhaag Singh Suhag has been elected the president of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh. He defeated Neeraj Hans and Munish Dewan.Bhaag Singh secured 740 votes while Neeraj Hans got 539 and Munish Dewan polled 189 votes. Ankit Gupta has been elected to the post of vice-president.The other members who have been elected to the executive body include Karamjeet Singh (secretary), Gurvinder Kaur (joint secretary) and Vikas Kumar (treasure). A tough fight was witnessed for the post of treasure. Atul Nathalia was elected library secretary unopposed.Belonging to a politicians’ family of Haryana, Bhaag Singh Suhag has been practising law for the past more than 15 years at the District Courts, Chandigarh.His father, Chaudhary Hukam Singh Suhag, has been an MLA in Haryana. Suhag said his priority would be to help the needy lawyers suffering due to the pandemic. The lawyers had been facing the most difficult time due to the restrictive functioning of the courts. He also promised to get a housing scheme and new chambers for advocates.The election for the post was held on November 6 but the counting was withheld on the directions of the High Court, which stayed the result on a petition filed by Suhag challenging the eligibility of voters whose fee was waived in the previous years. The counting was held after he withdrew the petition today. The returning officer said a total of 1,506 votes were polled in the election.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhaag-singh-is-president-of-district-bar-association-168485
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Centenary year celebrations begin at PEC||Centenary year celebrations commenced at Punjab Engineering College (PEC) with the celebration of its 99th Foundation Day today. Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore also attended the function.The celebrations started with a small video followed by a welcome note by the Director of PEC, Dr Dheeraj Sanghi. The awards were announced by Dr Divya Bansal, Dean Alumni Corporate and International Relations. The alumni who have been awarded also joined the celebrations online.Five alumni — Prof SC Handa, Dr Akshai K Runchal, Dr Manmohan S Kalsi, Jarnail Singh and Chakshu Kalra — will be awarded prestigious Distinguished Alumni Awards and Young Alumnus Award 2020 to mark its 99th Foundation Day.“Alumni of PEC are settled in all parts of the world and are zealously serving society as engineers, technologists, leaders, administrators and entrepreneurs. While the Distinguished Alumni Awards are presented annually, the category of Young Alumnus Award has been added this year to recognise outstanding services of alumni below 40 years. Our office had received over 100 nominations,” said Prof Sanghi.The awardeesProf SC Handa: Awarded for his excellent services to society. Retired as Professor from the IIT-Roorkee in 2004, he is founder of Roorkee School named “Anushruti Academy for the Deaf” and well known for extending free services related to hearing tests, counselling and rehabilitation to the hearing-impaired children and adults at his residence. He is also a recipient of the prestigious National Award which is given for being one of the best individuals serving the disabled.Dr Akshai K Runchal: Award conferred for his outstanding contributions to academics and research. He is the founder and Director of CFD Virtual Reality Institute and ACRI group of companies and internationally renowned expert in computational fluid dynamics (CFD) with over 50 years of experience. He was a key member of the three-member team that invented the Finite Volume Method (FVM) in the mid-1960s. He has authored or co-authored seven books and more than 200 technical publications.Dr Manmohan S Kalsi: Award conferred for outstanding services as an industry leader as well as for being an entrepreneur role model. He is the founder and president of Kalsi Engineering, a company recognised worldwide for providing design, analysis, and testing services for mechanical equipment to the oilfield, petrochemical, and nuclear power industries. He is the holder of more than 35 patents in hydrodynamics, rotary shafts and valves.Jarnail Singh: Award conferred for his outstanding contributions to government services and public administration. He has handled major ministries relating to infrastructure in the PMO from 1996 to 2004 when the major initiatives were taken in power, civil aviation, national highways and road connectivity, telecommunications, petroleum and natural gas etc. He was conferred Prime Minister’s Award for Excellence in Public Administration for 2007-08, the highest award for civil servants.Chakshu Kalra: Award conferred for his outstanding entrepreneurial contributions in an early stage of career. He is the founder and director of GreyB, a technology research and intelligence firm performing custom analysis on patent, scientific papers and market reports to drive business insights. He has been working in improving entrepreneurship around the tricity and has created several job opportunities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centenary-year-celebrations-begin-at-pec-168486
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Restore OPD facilities fully in Chandigarh after Diwali: Governor||After nearly eight months, residents will be able to avail themselves of full OPD facilities after Diwali in the city. During a review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed all hospitals to fully restore the original OPD facilities after Diwali.Adhering to the strict protocol of Covid-19, the PGI and the GMCH-32 started OPD services from November 2.The Acting Director Principal, GMCH 32, Dr Jasbinder Kaur, mentioned that due to increased number of Covid cases, the Sector 48 hospital has been re-opened to accommodate Covid patients.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director Health Services, stated that they had tested 5,858 Covid samples and the positivity rate was 8.6%, which showed an increase in trend.She also mentioned that 168 persons had been diagnosed with dengue and 708 persons had been kept in home isolation for Covid.The Administrator directed the Deputy Commissioner to return the deposits taken from traders while holding the draw of lots for cracker stalls. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restore-opd-facilities-fully-in-chandigarh-after-diwali-governor-168487
10-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mobile display van flagged off||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mobile-display-van-flagged-off-168488
10-11-2020||Mohali||Three held for gambling||2 nabbed with liquor boxesZirakpur: The police have arrested two persons and seized 260 boxes of illicit liquor from a truck near a checkpoint. Dera Bassi DSP Gurbakshish Singh said a truck, bearing Himachal Pradesh registration number, coming from Chandigarh towards Panchkula was stopped for checking by the police and excise officials. Truck driver Zafar Ali and Mustafa, both residents of HP, were apprehended. TNSWomen steal clothesDera Bassi: A gang of women thieves active in Dera Bassi has made off with clothes worth Rs2.5 lakh from a readymade garments shop near Ramlila maidan here. The gang of five women roaming in the area under the garb of garbage-pickers has been captured in the CCTV footage around 3 am on Saturday. They broke open the locks of the shop and stole the goods. TNSGangster’s remand extendedChandigarh: Police remand of gangster Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, was extended for three days on Monday. Baba is being interrogated regarding his role in the Gurlal Brar murder case. Police officials said Baba had to be interrogated regarding his gang members active in the city, following which further his remand has been sought. TNSMystery shrouds man’s deathChandigarh: A 31-year-old man reportedly died under mysterious circumstances at Dhanas on Sunday night. The victim has been identified as Kamal Goyal, a resident of Milk Colony, Dhanas. Police officials said they received information from Max Hospital, Phase VI, Mohali, that the victim was admitted to the hospital and was declared brought dead. The police have initiated investigations into the matter and the body was shifted to a mortuary at the GMSH-16. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-held-for-gambling-168489
10-11-2020||Zirakpur||Auto driver killed in mishap||12-day training programmeChandigarh: Aiming to equip community volunteers of Moga district with the skills of rescuing tasks during floods, the Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration (MGSIPA), Chandigarh, in collaboration with the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), started a unique 12-day training programme here on Monday. Jaspreet Talwar, Principal Secretary, Punjab, and Director, MGSIPA, launched the programme through online portal. Rajendra Singh, member, NDMA, said the Centre had undertaken a programme under “Aapda Mitra”, a centrally-sponsored scheme by the NDMA to train 200 community volunteers in disaster response in 30 most flood-prone districts identified across the country. TNSRotary Club sends sweets to jawansChandigarh: “In no way can we compare the sacrifice of our jawans guarding our borders,” said Governor of Punjab and Administrator of UT Chandigarh VP Singh Badnore, as he flagged off three Army trucks carrying 4,000 kg of sweets to be delivered by the Indian Air Force in the border areas. The project, initiated in 2016 by the Rotary Club of Chandigarh at the instance of Usha Saboo, wife of former world president of Rotary International Rajendra K Saboo, has now participation from the Rotary Clubs of Chandigarh, and parts of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, UP and Uttarakhand. TNSFive pair of trains cancelledChandigarh: Five pair of trains plying from the Chandigarh railway station have been cancelled due to the farmers’ agitation. Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express will not run on Tuesday. A puja special train from Chandigarh to Lucknow has also been cancelled for the want of rake till Wednesday. Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Mail Express Special and New Delhi-Una Janshatabdi too won’t move beyond Ambala. The holiday special tri-weekly train plying from Chandigarh via Jaipur and Daulatpur will also halt at Ambala. TNSBank branches mergedMohali: Indian Bank merged its Quilla Complex branch with its Desu Majra, Kharar, branch on Monday and integrated e-allahabad bank with Indian Bank. The new combined entity was inaugurated by Ashok Patnaik, field general manager of Chandigarh Circle at Desu Majra branch. Patnaik explained the benefits of combined synergies of both the banks and benefits it translated for all stakeholders. TNSBids invited for privatisationChandigarh: The Engineering Department, UT, has invited bids for privatisation of the Electricity Department as per the conditions set out in the request for proposal (RFP). Recently, the Empowered Committee on privatisation of the department had finalised the RFP. The UT Adviser, Manoj Parida, stated the Chandigarh Administration was the first Union Territory to issue an RFP for privatisation of the Electricity Department. TNSBedi sets the pace with 65Panchkula: Chandigarh’s Aadil Bedi set the early pace with a flawless 7-under 65 to grab the lead after the first round of the PGTI Players Championship at the Chandigarh Golf Club. One stroke behind Bedi, three players were bunched up in a share of the second position — local hope Karandeep Kochhar, Gurugram’s Veer Ahlawat and Kolkata’s Divyanshu Bajaj were tied-2nd at a 6-under 66 at the Panchkula Golf Club. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-driver-killed-in-mishap-168490
