10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Gurpurab celebrations at Guru Nanak Public School||MRA Modern Public SchoolPanchkula: Students of MRA Modern Public School, Sector 7, enthusiastically participated in the virtual event ‘Balmahostav’, organised by the Haryana Child Welfare Department to display their creativity, talent and skills. Aadhrika (KG) got second position in the fancy dress competition, while Isha (Class IX) bagged first and Kavya (Class X) got third position, respectively, in the declamation contest. Keshav (Class VIII) was awarded a consolation prize in the essay writing competition. TNSSHIVALIK PUBLIC SCHOOLChandigarh: Science Teachers of Shivalik Public School, Sector 41-B, Chandigarh, organised a webinar to educate students about how to manage and control industrial disasters and create awareness about the importance of the pollution control Acts. Students were made aware about air, water, soil and noise pollution and how to control and manage industrial disasters. TNSSt Soldier’s SchoolMohali: Warrior TT Academy was inaugurated at St Soldier’s School premises by Principal Anjli Sharma and Headmistress Amrit Kalsi along with management committee member Bismin Brar. Enthusiastic paddlers, coach Rishabh Kumar and national TT champion Deepak Thakural participated in the inaugural ceremony. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurpurab-celebrations-at-guru-nanak-public-school-182273
10-12-2020||Mohali||Bailable warrants issued against Phase 1 SHO||117 vet officers appointedMohali: The Punjab government has recruited 117 veterinary officers in the Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries Department under the door-to-door employment programme. Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries Minister, handed over appointment letters to the veterinary officers at Live Stock Bhawan here on Wednesday. TNSOne arrested with knifeChandigarh: A 21-year-old youth was arrested on the charge of possessing a knife. The suspect has been identified as Anit, alias Anna, a resident of Sarangpur village. He was arrested from near Dhanas. The police said Anit was out on bail as he was earlier arrested in a case of murder in 2018. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against the accused. TNSMan held with poppy huskChandigarh: A Daddu Majra resident has been arrested for possessing one-kg poppy husk. The suspect, Paramjit Singh, was arrested from near Sector 26. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused. TNS‘Early detection prevents spread’Mohali: The early detection of Covid can help in preventing the spread and better treatment, said Dr Parvinder Chawla, Senior Consultant, Internal Medicine, Fortis Hospital. "The first week after the patient has been infected is the golden week that can help in containing the spread of the virus," he said. "Many a time, a test for Covid is recommended, but patient gets it done almost a week after the onset of symptoms," she said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bailable-warrants-issued-against-phase-1-sho-182272
10-12-2020||---||Tiger cubs Amar, Arjun, Dilnoor to attract visitors to zoo||Mohali, December 9The Chhatbir zoo is set to reopen tomorrow after a gap of over eight months with a strict Covid-19 protocol for the safety of visitors, employees and animals. It has been lying closed since March 17.M Sudhagar, Field Director, Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, Chhatbir, said, “Visitors will get an opportunity to see tiger cubs Amar, Arjun and Dilnoor for the first time. Also, the Indian fox, along with her newborn pups, will be an attraction for the first time.”Many new facilities and amenities such as mom and baby care room, free Wi-Fi hotspots, coffee booth, control room, selfie points, new rest room, hassle-free parking, touch-free hand wash and sanitiser dispensers have been added in the zoo for the visitors.Several new facilities added Many new facilities and amenities such as mom and baby care room, free Wi-Fi hotspots, coffee booth, control room, selfie points, new rest room, hassle-free parking, touch-free hand wash and sanitiser dispensers have been added in the zoo for the visitors.The zoo administration has worked out a set of norms to be followed as standard operating procedures (SOPs) to prepare towards reopening of the zoo and its facilities for the visitors.The zoo will be opened for the public six days a week (Monday closed). Entry for visitors will be allowed from 9.30 am to 4.30 pm (instead of 9 am to 5 pm). To ensure the optimal carrying capacity in the zoo at any point of time, the number of visitors entering the zoo has been regulated. A maximum of 2,700 visitors will be allowed to visit the zoo in a single day till normalcy returns.Only a limited number of timed tickets will be available in different slots to ensure staggered entry and social distancing.The entry tickets will be valid only for two hours after the entry.What you need to know||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tiger-cubs-amar-arjun-dilnoor-to-attract-visitors-to-zoo-182146
10-12-2020||---||Goldsmith shot at in robbery bid||Chandigarh, December 9In a robbery attempt, a goldsmith was shot at by four assailants at his shop in the busy Sector 23 market this afternoon. The suspects, who wanted to rob the victim, arrived at his shop on the pretext of selling gold. The police said the victim, Dada Devgan, had received a call from his acquaintance Rohit, a resident of Sector 15, who told him that someone known to him wanted to sell gold.The victim reached his shop where his brother Sanjay was also present. Soon, the suspects also arrived there. While Rohit waited outside, the other three suspects went inside. There was some argument between the victim and the suspects following which one of them opened fire. Two shots were fired, one of which hit the victim on the left arm.Murder case registeredSohana SHO Daljit Singh said, “We have registered a murder case under Section 302 of the IPC and the Arms Act. There were two bullet marks on the rear side of the head.’’ Sources said the body was found in a car, a km away from a police station.Sources said the suspects tried to snatch a bag containing cash. However, the victim did not leave the bag.Pinto, a jeweller, who has a shop in the same market, said the suspects tried to snatch the cash bag. However, the bag got torn and the currency was scattered outside the shop.All suspects escaped from the spot. They are seen escaping in the footage of a CCTV camera installed near the shop.The police were informed, who visited the spot. A live bullet and an empty shell were found at the spot.The victim was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where his condition is stated to be stable.Rohit was arrested by the police. Earlier, he had expressed ignorance about the intention of the suspects. “Rohit claimed that someone known to him had told him that the suspects wanted to sell gold following which he took them to the victim’s shop,” said a police source.Meanwhile, a case has been registered at the Sector 17 police station.Bullet hit victim on left armUT police confirm murder victim as suspectMohali: In a sensational turn of events, the police found a body in Sohana, which later turned out to be that of one of the suspects in the Sector 23 firing incident. SSP Satinder Singh confirmed that the body was that of one of the suspects. “The deceased has been identified as Jaspreet, a resident of Mani Majra. Another suspect has been identified by the Chandigarh Police. The other two are on the run,’’ he said. The UT police also confirmed the body as that of one of the suspects in the robbery bid. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/goldsmith-shot-at-in-robbery-bid-182147
10-12-2020||Mohali||Four deaths, 125 test +ve in Mohali||Four Covid-19 deaths and 125 new positive cases were reported from the district today. As many as nine patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 104 were reported from Mohali (urban), 11 from Dera Bassi, five from Dhakoli, four from Kharar and one from Kurali.The district has seen 16,667 positive cases so far. With four more deaths, the toll has reached 303. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-deaths-125-test-ve-in-mohali-182148
10-12-2020||---||Provide flats at old rates, say allottees||Chandigarh, December 9UT employees have reiterated their demand for the allotment of flats at old rates under the UT Employees Housing Scheme-2008 of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB).A a meeting was held under the chairmanship of Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, which was attended by UT Adviser Manoj Parida and representatives of UT employees. The representatives of the employees submitted that the flats should be given at the rates mentioned in the brochure of the scheme, which was launched in 2008. They said that the delay in implementing the scheme was caused by officials and the extra financial burden should not be put on the employees.The employees have already turned down two options given by the UT Administration, under which the cost of the flats could be based on either the plotted area or the entire land.As the stalemate over the prices of the flats continued, Dr Dharamender, a representative of the employees, said the UT Administration could bring in a fresh proposal on the cost of the flats.The scheme was launched in 2008 for employees of the UT Administration, its boards, corporations, the Punjab and Haryana High Court, etc. Nearly 7,811 applications were received for the allotment of flats, of which, 3,930 were accepted after a draw in 2010. The allottees had deposited nearly Rs29 crore for the flats which were to be constructed in Sectors 52 and 56 by the CHB.In 2012, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) gave directions that land for any purpose must not be disposed of below the market value. This had enhanced the cost of the flats manifold and later, the scheme was shelved. It was revived after the employees took up the matter with MP Kirron Kher and the MHA allowed the UT Administration to transfer land to the CHB at the prevailing collector rates.The employees then moved the High Court alleging that the CHB was charging five times the initial price of the land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/provide-flats-at-old-rates-say-allottees-182149
10-12-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Draft notification issued on delimitation of MC wards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 9The Local Government Department, UT, today issued a draft notification for delimitation of wards of the Municipal Corporation (MC).As per the notification, the number of wards has been increased from 26 to 35. The department has invited views, comments or suggestions, if any, from the general public and other stakeholders on the draft notification within seven days. The process was necessitated as the civic body will be going to the polls in December 2021.The last delimitation of wards was held in 2006, which was on the basis of the 2001 Census. However, the next process for delimitation of wards, which was to be held in 2015 on the basis of the 2011 Census, could not be conducted as the issue of merger of UT villages with the MC was still pending.The 13 new villages that came under the MC last year are Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas.Apart from referring to the 2011 Census, the latest electoral records were also considered for the delimitation process to uniformly balance the population of the wards, said an official. In reaction to the ward list, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has suggested that each ward should have on an average 20,000 voters.City AAP convener Prem Garg has asked the Administration to ensure that wards should consist of a homogeneous group of voters, so that issues of the ward concerned could be resolved properly. “As far as possible, village wards shouldn’t have urban areas. The reason is that the problems faced by residents of villages were different from the ones faced by those living in urban areas,” he said.Though geographical continuity must be ensured, category or group of people in a ward should also be homogeneous, he said.Congress leader Devinder Singh Babla, who is also the Leader of the Opposition in the MC, alleged that the BJP had got the wards created for its own benefit. He said wards of the Congress strongholds were intentionally changed. He said he had done a lot of work in his ward, but the ruling party got it changed. “The public would give a befitting reply to the BJP in the MC elections as they had made the UT a ‘tax city’ after imposing a number of taxes,” he said.BJP councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali said they would first study the draft notification and discuss it in a party meeting. If required, they would give their suggestions, the councillor added .Proposed wards1. Kaimbwala, Khuda Alisher, Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora Colony2. Sector 1 to 103. Sector 26, Sector 26-E, EWS Colony, Bapu Dham Colony, Phase I, II and III, Police Lines, Madrasi Colony4. Basti Kishangarh, Basti Bhagwanpura, Pipli Wala Town, Housing Board Duplex Mani Majra, IT Park5. Old Mani Majra (NAC), Shanti Nagar, Mariwala Town, Thakur Dwara, Govindpura.6. Railway Colony, Mauli Jagran (Part II), Shivalik Enclave, Dhillon Comple, Motor Market, Darshni Bagh, Subhash Nagar, Indira Colony7. Ambedkar Colony, Charan Singh Colony and small flats, all in Mauli Jagran8. Vikas Nagar in Mauli Jagran, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Raipur Khurd9. Industrial Area, Phase I, Sanjay Colony, Kabari Colony, Colony No. 4, Daria10. Sector 27 to 2911. Sector 18, 19 and 2112. Sector 15, 16, 17 and 2413. Sector 11, 12, 14 and 25, UIET, Dental College14. Dhanas, LIG Colony in Dhanas, Milkman Colony, Aman Chaman Ambedkar Colony15. Sarangpur, Rehabilitation Colony in Dhanas16. Sector 25 Bhaskar Colony, Sector 25 and 25 (West).17. Sector 22 and 2318. Sector 20 and 3019. Industrial Area, Phase II, Ram Darbar, Tatarpur20. Hallo Majra and Behlana21. Sector 47, Bair Majra, Faidan, Burail and Chahar Taraf Burail22. Sector 31 to 3323. Sector 34, 35 and 4324. Sector 36, 42, 53 and 54, Furniture Market, Adarsh Colony and Sector 4225. Sector 37 and 3826. Sector 38 (West), Dadu Majra Colony, Dadu Majra village, Shahpur Colony and village27. Sector 39 and 4028. Maloya village, EWS Maloya, Sector 39 (West), Gursagar Bhattal Colony, Gwala and Kumhar Colony, Sukhrana and Bansal Farm and EWS Maloya.29. Sector 55, Palsora, Bapu Dham Colony, Ambedkar Colony, Sweeper Colony, LBS Colony in Sector 56.30. Sector 41, Buterla, Badheri31. Kajheri Colony, Sector 52, Sector 61, Kajheri village, Transit Camp, Karsan Colony, and Kuldeep Colony, Pandit Colony, Gwala Colony and Majdoor Colony in Kajheri32. Sector 44, 51, Colony No. 533. Burail (Sector 45).34. Sector 45 and 4635. Sector 48, 49, 50 and 63||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/draft-notification-issued-on-delimitation-of-mc-wards-182150
10-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Edu Dept starts process to revise school bag policy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 9The UT Education Department has initiated the process of revising its existing school bag policy. The development comes after the Ministry of Education released the School Bag Policy, 2020. The ministry had asked all states and union territories to adopt relevant suggestions of the School Bag Policy and ensure its implementation in their respective jurisdiction. A compliance report has also been sought by the ministry.The UT Education Department had notified the Children School Bag Policy, which called for a ‘bag-less day’ a month and lockers for students to reduce the burden of bags.In line with the new policy, the UT has also limited the weight of the school bag to not more than 10 per cent of the weight of the student. The UT has also prescribed the classwise weight limit for the bag.However, the new policy document also recommends that the total homework time for Classes III to V should be maximum of two hours a week while a maximum of one hour a day from Classes VI to VIII.The secondary and higher secondary classes should be given homework for a maximum of two hours a day.The ministry has suggested that the class time table should indicate which book will be used on which day. When more than one textbook for the same subject are prescribed, students should know which one of the textbooks is to be used on any particular day.Sharing of textbooks among peers may be promoted so that children sitting together need not carry all textbooks every day.Although the UT’s policy called for ‘bag-less day’ once a month, the Centre has suggested that all students may participate in a 10-day bagless period sometime during six to eight grades wherein they intern with local vocational.Schools to display weight of NCERT booksThe ministry has also asked all the Department of School Education at the state/UT level to frame a table displaying the weight of NCERT books. This table will be sent to schools under the state jurisdiction with an instruction to formulate a table of the weight of all textbooks used.The Director, School Education, Rubinderjit Brar, said, “Experts are studying the policy sent by the Centre. Soon, we will notify the new School Bag Policy in Chandigarh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-edu-dept-starts-process-to-revise-school-bag-policy-182151
10-12-2020||Patiala||Representative of firm booked on MC’s plaint||The police have registered an FIR against a representative of a private company after receiving a complaint from the Municipal Corporation (MC) for damaging public property. Rahul Dubey, a representative of Reliance, has been booked in the matter. Officials said The MC Councillor of Ward No. 50, Harwinder Singh Nippi, had complained that roads in his ward were being damaged in the night. The police then registered an FIR on the complaint of Sham Lal Gupta, Superintending Engineer of the corporation, against Dubey.  In his complaint, the MC official said representatives of the company had dug up newly constructed roads in Ward No. 50 for laying underground connectivity wires.  Roads were dug up during night hours, which was stopped in the early morning, they added. Moreover, the company had also not taken permission from the authorities concerned to carry out the digging work, they said. The police have registered a case against Rahul Dubey under Sections 283 and 188, IPC, and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/representative-of-firm-booked-on-mcs-plaint-182152
10-12-2020||---||Virtual session on career in IAF for NCC cadets||Chandigarh, December 9 The ‘Disha Cell’ of the Air Force headquarters organised a virtual session on a career in the Indian Air Force for Chandigarh NCC air wing cadets today. Cadets were appraised about opportunities available in the IAF, modalities for joining and service benefits on the occasion.  Wing Commander Sneha Singh was the speaker for the day, who shared her journey of over 15 years in the Indian Air Force (IAF).  She apprised cadets about different branches of the Air Force and spoke about opportunities available specifically for NCC air wing cadets for joining the force. Cadets got a chance to interact directly with her with their queries. “The programme was helpful for cadets as this is the best way to inform and clear their doubts through one-to-one interaction. Most candidates have limited knowledge about induction,” said Group Captain MR Pandeya, Commanding Officer, Chandigarh NCC Air Squadron.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virtual-session-on-career-in-iaf-for-ncc-cadets-182153
10-12-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula MC elections: BJP goes full throttle with campaign, Cong lagging||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 9Even as the BJP has gone full throttle with its campaign for the upcoming Panchkula Municipal Corporation (MC) elections, the Congress seems to be lagging on the campaign front.With voting scheduled to be held on December 27, the BJP has already wrapped up ward-level workers’ conferences or ‘ward sammelans’ with its local face and Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta remaining at the helm to boost confidence of party’s rank-and-file ahead of prestigious poll test.The local unit of the BJP on Wednesday organised at least eight such events, which also witnessed the participation of former Haryana Minister and party’s poll in-charge Captain Abhimanyu, poll co in-charge and Yamunanagar Mayor Madan Chauhan and BJP MLA from Kurukshetra Nayab Singh Saini.As per party’s official spokesperson, the BJP organised 20 workers’ conferences between December 7 and 9, covering all 20 wards of Panchkula.As the voting day draws near, the saffron party is expected to press into service state ministers, MPs, MLAs and organisation’s top leaders into the election campaigning.Even though the Congress tried to give itself a vigorous push by supporting yesterday’s Bharat Bandh in support of farmers protesting against contentious farm laws, the party seems to be trailing behind with no meetings and announcements regarding election campaigns in the sight.Surprisingly, the party doesn’t have an official spokesperson to put forth party’s view in the media.Leaders in the race for Mayoral and councillor push forward their agendas in the media at their own level to steal the limelight.On the other hand, BJP’s official spokesperson regularly updates mediapersons on party activities through various means of communication like WhatsApp and e-mails.Media and IT room inauguratedKnown for its next gen campaigning, the BJP today inaugurated its media and IT room at party’s office in Sector 2 to strategise election campaigning in every ward.“The party will not only make residents’ aware of development works undertaken by the BJP during its tenure using communication tools set up at the media war room, but will also debunk Opposition’s lies,” said the BJP spokesperson.On the contrary, the Congress falls behind not only in person to person campaigning, but online mode too. Leave alone media war room, the Congress doesn’t even have a regular party office in Panchkula.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-elections-bjp-goes-full-throttle-with-campaign-cong-lagging-182154
10-12-2020|| ---||Indiscriminate axing of trees in Mohali leaves residents fuming||Mohali, December 9 Residents have criticised indiscriminate cutting of trees at Primary Health Centre, Phase 3B1, for upgrading facilities. Residents in various parts of the city have been repeatedly pointing out pruning drives being carried out in the city.  Devinder Singh, former Deputy Speaker, Punjab Vidhan Sabha, and former MLA, Kharar, has written to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to take cognizance of the callousness of the Health Department towards trees.  “The green cover of the satellite town is being mercilessly destroyed without any rationale. Unfortunately, old trees are being cut in broad daylight without any tangible justification. These trees are almost over 34 years old and were planted during the inauguration of the PHC in 1986,” said former Deputy Sepaker.  He also sought clarification from the authorities concerned regarding formal necessary approval of the Forest Department for cutting old trees. Some residents said the Chief Conservator of Forests, Punjab, should intervene to stop further cutting of trees in the city. An issue in MC elections  With MC polls round the corner, pruning has become a major issue of debate this season. Councillors often lock horns over cutting of tress in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/indiscriminate-axing-of-trees-in-mohali-leaves-residents-fuming-182155
10-12-2020||Panchkula||Villagers ‘attack’ BJP worker in Saketri village, ask him not to support party||A BJP worker was allegedly attacked by fellow villagers, who asked him not to support the ruling party in the coming Municipal Corporation elections and back a candidate of their choice. The BJP worker was identified as Jaswant Singh of Saketri village.“I was sleeping with my family around 10 pm. On December 7, I heard some one knocking at my door and shouting. I initially thought he might be an alcoholic man and will go away after some time. But my speculation was wrong. I went outside and found Kuldeep Singh and Amandeep Singh of Saketri village and several unidentified persons standing in the porch of my house with sharp weapons,” the complainant stated.When asked about their behaviour, the suspects threatened the BJP worker not to support the BJP in the upcoming elections or face consequences.When the complainant said he is an active worker of the BJP and will continue to campaign for the party, the suspects started raining blows on the victim and attacked him with sharp weapons. The suspects asked the BJP worker to support the candidate of their preference, which they claimed was being supported by all villagers.As per the FIR filed at te Mansa Devi police station, the suspects even threatened to shoot the victim after he showed unrelenting behaviour.They subsequently left victim’s house with a warning to comply with their insturction.The BJP worker, in his complaint, claimed the suspects might be carrying a pistol at the time of incident.A case was registered under Sections 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt),452 (House trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation), IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/villagers-attack-bjp-worker-in-saketri-village-ask-him-not-to-support-party-182156
10-12-2020||Panchkula||ROB in Panchkula Ward No. 8 to ease traffic jams||Haryana Speaker and sitting MLA Gian Chand Gupta of the BJP today said development works were carried out in the Panchkula Assembly constituency during the last six years. While presiding over a ‘karyakarta Sammelan’ in Sector 19 falling under Ward No. 8 for the upcoming MC elections, Gupta said they had presented their report card before the people. The Congress should also tell what they did during their 10-year tenure, he added. “Ward people will soon get a railway overhead bridge (ROB), which is being constructed at the cost of Rs32 crore. It that will relieve locals of traffic jams at railway crossing,” he said. “Unlike earlier times, when people were forced to spend 10-12 hours without electricity, 24x7 supply in the area is being ensured,” he said. The Panchkula Assembly constituency was deprived of the development during the Congress tenure due to their internal rift, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rob-in-panchkula-ward-no-8-to-ease-traffic-jams-182157
10-12-2020||---||Patiala school principal ‘siphons off’ mid-day meal ration, suspended||Patiala, December 9Taking a strict action, the Education Department has suspended principal of the Government Model Senior Secondary School, Pheel Khana, for depriving 800 students of mid-day meal ration for the past seven months.The said principal has already been shifted to the district headquarters in Muktsar.Notably, the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) in March had directed all the states to provide mid-day meals to students on a monthly basis despite the Covid-19 lockdown.Following the guidelines, the state Education Department had provided the school with necessary ration till October, but it never reached students.The decision of suspension came after a state team of mid-day meal cell members visited the school two weeks ago for an inquiry into the matter. It has been learnt that schoolteachers had already alerted the cell about Principal Karamjeet Singh not providing mid-day meal ration to students.Meanwhile, Vikram Dev, senior vice-president, Democratic Teachers Front (DTF), said, “We welcome the decision as poor kids were deprived of food when they needed the most during the lockdown.” Notably, the union, along with schoolteachers, had already raised the issue and written to the Education Department many times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-school-principal-siphons-off-mid-day-meal-ration-suspended-182158
10-12-2020||---||Draw for allotment of 487 Maloya flats today||Chandigarh, December 9 The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will hold a computerised draw for the allotment of 487 flats tomorrow. Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Housing Board, said it would be the fourth and last draw for the allotments of flats to eligible applicants at Maloya-I. “There are 14 applicants who have submitted disability certificates and they will be considered for the allotment of flats on the ground floor,” he said. The UT Administration had decided to re-locate the residents of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 to EWS flats in Maloya-I under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme.   The CEO said so far, 1,216 flats had been allotted through three computerised draws held on November 10 and 25 and December 2.  Physical possession of about 1,000 flats had already been handed over and the remaining flats would be handed over this week itself, said Garg. He said around 800 pre-fab shelters had already been demolished. The draw would be held in a fair and transparent manner and it would be supervised by senior officers from other organisations.  For following the Covid protocol, special arrangements have been made for a live telecast of the draw on YouTube and it will also be streamed live at the site of pre-fab shelters through a display van.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/draw-for-allotment-of-487-maloya-flats-today-182159
10-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||Rs 173-cr grant-in-aid for Chandigarh MC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 9The cash-starved local Municipal Corporation (MC) has received a monetary boost as the UT Administration has started issuing the remaining grant-in-aid of Rs173 crore. The MC has also been advised to raise income and reduce expenditure.The corporation has received Rs73 crore and the remaining Rs100 crore will be granted soon for December to March under the current financial year. With this, the civic body has already asked the councillors to give a list of works in their respective wards. All 26 elected councillors will get Rs30 lakh each for the development works in their wards.“We have fixed Rs30 lakh each for all wards. Once they share the details with us, a budget estimate will be prepared,” said KK Yadav, MC Commissioner. The MC already has dedicated funds for roads and dark spots.Councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said: “Different wards have different priorities such as drinking water, sewerage pipeline issues, paver blocks, toilets or other works. In my ward, service lanes are broken and the work has been pending for the past two years. We will get that done.”In February, the MC had passed the budget with an estimated expenditure of Rs1,471 crore for the 2020-21 fiscal. However, it was allocated only Rs425 crore under the Union Budget. It received another blow when the Centre had ordered 20 per cent cut on its funds. However, now the funds for the MC have been restored to Rs427 crore, including Rs2 crore for Swachh Bharat Mission.Admn’s adviceWhile issuing the grant-in-aid letter, the UT Administration has asked the civic body to make efforts to generate more income from its own resources. The MC was also directed to work out modalities for reducing the expenditure. The BJP-ruled MC has been facing criticism for raising the water tariff, property tax and imposing several kinds of cess.Month : Amount(yet to be received)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-173-cr-grant-in-aid-for-chandigarh-mc-182160
10-12-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Rs 7K crore credit plan for Fatehgarh Sahib||Additional Deputy Commissioner Anuprita Johal released a Rs7,368.29-crore credit plan for 2021-22 for Fatehgarh Sahib today. As per the loan scheme launched, Rs2,803.53 crore have been earmarked for the agriculture sector, Rs1,131.76 crore for small and medium enterprises, Rs346.87 crore for exports, Rs468.60 crore for housing, Rs13.23 crore for renewable energy and Rs87.56 crore for social infrastructure and other sectors.  Johal directed all bank officials to ensure that at least one youth is sent every month for self-employment training at the institute being run by the SBI. She directed that loan cases sent by various government departments for self-employment should not be kept pending and cleared in a month. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-7k-crore-credit-plan-for-fatehgarh-sahib-182161
10-12-2020||---||3 more services go online in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, December 9Mayor Raj Bala Malik today launched three new e-governance services — National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM), property tax and RTI — to facilitate the residents.It is aimed at providing online delivery of services, minimising manual intervention, ensuring transparency, 24X7 access to the online citizen services and public convenience by eliminating the need for visiting the government offices.Help to vendorsStreet vendors can also get themselves registered using one of the services. Also, government department employees will have the privilege for online approval of applications. Online application for the registration of NGOs and shelter homes is part of the services launched.The Mayor launched these services at the Command & Control Centre at the MC building. KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, NP Sharma, Chief General Manager, Chandigarh Smart City Limited and other officials concerned were present.The commissioner said total 15 e-governance services were now available online. In the National Urban Livelihoods Mission application, citizens or NGOs can raise online applications for different Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs schemes/programmes such as self-employment programme (SEP), social mobilisation and institutional development (SMID), shelters for urban homeless (SUH) and support to urban street vendors (SUSV) programme.Street vendors can also get themselves registered using this service. Also, department employees will have the privilege for online application approval. Online application for the registration of NGOs and shelter homes is alsoa part of the services launched.He said residents could see their outstanding property tax, previous payments paid, details of properties and could also pay property tax online. With this application, a dashboard will be provided to MCC officials where they can see the defaulters of the property tax, view area/ sector-wise property tax details of the entire city.Yadav further said RTI service showcases RTI-related details to the department users.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-services-go-online-in-chandigarh-182163
10-12-2020||---||City applies for ‘Water Plus’ certificate||Chandigarh, December 9 The Municipal Corporation has declared Chandigarh as a ‘Water Plus’ city and applied for a certificate for the same. A city can be declared as ‘Water Plus’ if the wastewater released from households, commercial establishments, drains and nullahs is treated to a satisfactory level before it is released into the environment. Further, a city also has to ensure adequate capacity of wastewater and sewage treatment facilities before it could get a certficate.  The infrastructure should be maintained properly and cost recovery should be ensured through reuse/recycling of treated wastewater to ensure sustainability. MC Commissioner KK Yadav said the MC had applied for the ‘Water Plus Certification this year. “Chandigarh meets all minimum necessary infrastructure and regulatory conditions for Water + protocol and in all likelihood, is set to earn this certification after a third party independent assessment conducted at 64 different locations in the city. With the certification, the city would get additional 200 marks (3.33% weightage) in Swachhta Survekshan 2021 to be conducted in January next year, which in turn would get the city a good national ranking,” said Vinod Vashisht, Convener, City Forum of Residents’ Welfare Organisations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-applies-for-water-plus-certificate-182164
10-12-2020||---||Notice to Mohali civic body over condition of gaushala||Chandigarh, December 9 The Punjab and Haryana High Court today put the Mohali Municipal Corporation on notice over a petition filed in the public interest for monitoring the activities of a cow shelter (gaushala) at the Industrial Phase-I to save animals there from starvation and death because of alleged “negligent behaviour”. The notice by the High Court Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli came on the PIL filed by Udit Bhatia through counsel Anurag Chopra and Meghna Nagpal. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Chopra and Nagpal sought directions to the MC and other respondents to establish a committee for creating a proper procurement mechanism and making sure the donations were being used only for the welfare of animals at the gaushala. Directions were also sought to the respondents to improve the condition of animals living in gaushala and for urgently taking necessary steps to stop cruelty on the animals. The Bench was told that no step whatsoever had been taken for the protection and welfare of animals at gaushala. “There is no other alternative but to approach this Court for seeking direction to the respondent to take effective measures as stated in the petition for the protection and improvement of environment,” read the PIL.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/notice-to-mohali-civic-body-over-condition-of-gaushala-182165
10-12-2020||---||Bike-sharing project takes off today||Chandigarh, December 9 The bicycle-sharing project will be launched tomorrow by Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh at Rock Garden. He will reportedly ride a cycle from Rock Garden to the Raj Bhawan. It is being started as a pilot project under the “Cycles4Change Challenge”. It will have cycles on an half-hourly payment basis. Chandigarh is one of the 95 cities in the country taking part in the challenge to make city dwellers cycle-friendly and increase zero carbon mobility. It will be launched with 25 docking stations and 250 bicycles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bike-sharing-project-takes-off-today-182166
10-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Vaccine in sight, Chandigarh ups its preparations||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 9The UT Administration has stepped up the preparations for the Covid-19 vaccine as the time for rolling out the vaccine is inching closer. Keeping in mind that the logistics for the vaccination will be received shortly, the identification for a storage space at all health facilities has been initiated in the city.During a meeting yesterday, officials of the UT Health Department apprised the Ministry of Home and Family Welfare of the preparations being taken at the local level. It is learnt that all hospitals in the city have been instructed to earmark space for dry storage and identify an area, which can be designated exclusively as the Covid-19 vaccination site.A total of 187 vaccinators in government health facilities will be involved in the Covid vaccination. There will be 59 session sites in the city where the vaccine will be administered. The postal code will be critical for linking the beneficiary to the session site. Push messages will be sent out to the beneficiary and the vaccinator before the vaccination session.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said, “Our arrangement is in order for the Covid-19 vaccination as it is expected to roll out soon. The training of all health staff is going on in full swing. We have consolidated data of health care workers whereas the MC and the police are compiling their data of frontline workers.”UT to rope in pvt health workersThe UT Health Department has asked health workers in private facilities to get themselves registered for the vaccination at the GMSH in Sector 16. As many as 12,066 health care workers have registered for the first phase of the vaccination. While all 50 government facilities have submitted the data of 8,217 health workers, only 174 of the total 635 private institutions have submitted the details.Supply chainCold chain equipment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccine-in-sight-chandigarh-ups-its-preparations-182175
10-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 83 cases, 1 death||Sood tests +ve, in PGIArun Sood, city BJP president, has been admitted to the PGI. He has tested Covid positive. His condition is stable and the vitals are under control. He is having mild fever. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-83-cases-1-death-182176
10-12-2020||Panchkula||40 fresh cases in Panchkula||The district reported 40 new coronavirus cases today, taking the tally to 9,276. With no fresh fatality, the Covid toll remained at 135.Among the fresh cases, four each were reported from Sector 15, Sector 2 and Sector 9, and three each from Sector 10, Sector 11, Sector 6 and Sector 7. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-fresh-cases-in-panchkula-182177
