11-06-2020||Aditi Tandon||PGI Chandigarh country's second best medical college after Delhi's AIIMS in HRD Ministry's annual ranking||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 11Indian Institute of Technology Madras is the top ranked Indian higher educational institution in India as per the domestic rankings released on Thursday.Indian Institute of Science Bengaluru and IIT Delhi follow in the National Institutional Rankings Framework, the update of which was released by HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal.Seven of the top 10 HEIs in India are IITs. IISC, JNU and BHU are the only non-technical institutes in top 10 and are ranked 2, 7 and 10, respectively.The NIRF has also ranked institutions separately by category with AIIMS New Delhi, PGI Chandigarh and CMC Vellore being top three medical schools.Leading technical schools in the order of merit are IIT Madras, IIT Delhi and IIT Bombay.Among colleges, Miranda House, Lady Sri Ram and Hindu College are top three, all located in New Delhi.Leading three universities are IISc Bengaluru, JNU Delhi and Benaras Hindu University.IIMs Ahmedabad Bangalore and Calcutta are top three management institutes.Meanwhile, the northern region lags behind on the top 100 Indian institutions with IIT Roorkee in Uttarakhand ranked ninth; IIT Ropar 39, PU Chandigarh 44, Thapar Institute of Engineering Patiala 51, IISER Mohali 59, IIT Mandi 67, University of Kashmir 78, GNDU Amritsar 88, University of Jammu 90, Lovely Professional University in Phagwara at 99.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chandigarh-countrys-second-best-medical-college-after-delhis-aiims-in-hrd-ministrys-annual-ranking-97704
11-06-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 4 new COVID-19 cases, tally rises to 47||Panchkula reported four more COVID-19 cases, taking the district’s case tally to 47, officials said on Thursday.Three cases were recorded at Mansa Devi Complex in Sector 5 and one at Abheypur in Sector 19.The infected have been shifted to an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.The process of contact tracing has also begun, said officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-4-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-47-97700
11-06-2020||---||Mohali reports 3 new COVID-19 cases, tally rises to 143||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 11 Mohali on Thursday reported three more COVID-19 cases, taking the district’s case tally to 143.The cases were reported from Dera Bassi.A 57-year-old man, a resident of Preet Nagar in Dera Bassi, a 25-year-old man, a resident of Shivam complex in Dera Bassi, and a 22-year-old woman, a resident of Bhera village in Dera Bassi, have contracted the disease.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the 25-year-old man had returned from Mathura in Uttar Pradesh on June 8, while the 22-year-old woman had come to the hospital with flu-like symptoms.The contacts of the 57-year-old man are yet to be traced. The samples of the family members of these patients will also be taken, said Singh. All three have been shifted to the COVID Care Centre of the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.All the patients admitted are stable, added Singh.The district has reported a total of 143 cases, out of which 112 people have recovered, three have died and 28 cases are active at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-3-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-143-97675
11-06-2020||---||4 of Sector-16 family test coronavirus positive; Chandigarh tally rises to 334||Chandigarh, June 11Four of a family in Sector 16 here on Thursday tested coronavirus positive. They are the family of an already-coronavirus-positive man.They are the mother (56), father (60), grandfather (80) and daughter (5) of the infected man. His wife has tested negative.The family runs a medical shop in Sector 16.A 24-year-old man of Sector-16 and a 34-year-old man from Dhanas have been reported to be positive for nCoV.Both are work place contacts of positive case of Sector-16. With this the total number of patients in the UT has reached 334. There have been five deaths.There are 36 active cases at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-of-sector-16-family-test-coronavirus-positive-chandigarh-tally-rises-to-334-97640
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sec 20 resident duped of Rs40,000||5 two-wheelers set afireChandigarh: Miscreants set afire five two-wheelers and vandalised two cars at Mauli Jagran on the intervening night of June 8 and 9. In a complaint to the police, Ajay Yadav of Mauli Complex stated that three motorcycles and two Activa scooters were set on fire while two cars were vandalised by some unknown person. Yadav, who owns a motorcycle, stated that the vehicles were parked near his house. A case under Sections 435 and 437 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unkown person at the Mauli Jagran police station. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area was being scrutinised to identify the miscreants. tnsKalka man killed in hit-and-runPanchkula: A 46-year-old man from Kalka was killed after a rashly driven car hit the bike he was riding near Nanakpur on Sunday evening. The deceased has been identified as Manoj Kumar, who lived at Kamla Nagar in Kalka. According to the FIR, the complainant, Sanjeev Kumar, who works in a private company, claimed that he was following his cousin, the victim, on a two-wheeler on their way back home from Marranwala village. Around 6 pm, as a rashly driven car hit the victim’s vehicle. Manoj lost control of the bike and fell on the ground. The car driver fled the spot. The victim sustained serious injuries on his face and right hand and was taken to the Community Health Centre at Kalka where doctors declared him brought dead. A case was registered under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC at the Pinjore police station. tnsPRTC resumes service to ChandigarhFatehgarh Sahib: The PRTC has resumed bus service from Sirhind to Fatehgarh Sahib and Bassi Pathana to Chandigarh, which was stopped during the lockdown. Subhash Sood, director, PRTC, said the bus service has been resumed under “Mission Fateh”. He said the bus will leave from Bassi Pathana at 6.30 am and from Sirhind bus stand at 7 am. He said the bus will return from Chandigarh at 3 pm. OCDemarcation of MC land orderedKharar: Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain on Wednesday ordered the Kharar tehsildar to start demarcation of a municipal land near Khanpur T-Point, which was allegedly encroached upon by some unknown persons. He said further action would be taken after receiving the report. He clarified that no one would be allowed to illegally occupy the municipal council land. Residents from Khanpur village that falls within the Kharar municipal council had written to the Kharar SDM over alleged encroachment of the land worth crores and the officers concerned were not taking any action. OCEssential items given to needyMohali: Fateh Welfare Foundation of Mohali distributed ration items, masks, gloves and sanitisers among the labourers of villages in the district. BS Maan, president of the foundation, said, “We have distributed essential items among the needy persons of Santemajra, Khunimajra, Nayagaon, Badali and Behrampur villages. During the lockdown, we have provided ration to around 780 families.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sec-20-resident-duped-of-rs40-000-97626
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Stringing machine||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stringing-machine-97625
11-06-2020||Our correspondents||5 of a family discharged||Fatehgarh Sahib/ Khamano, June 10Five members of a family from Panaichan village, who had tested positive for Covid-19 a few days ago, were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, Rajpura, after treatment today.Earlier also, two residents of the village had tested positive for the virus. The villagers heaved a sigh of relief after they were discharged from the hospital today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-of-a-family-discharged-97624
11-06-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||‘Equally important to look after regular patients’||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 10"It's important to look after regular patients just like Covid-19 patients. Doctors can't ignore one at the cost of other, otherwise the whole purpose will be defeated," said Sanjeev Goyal, Senior Medical Officer, Community Health Centre, Raipur Rani, who took lead in identifying and setting up a quarantine centre at Jawahar Navodya Vidayalaya in Mouli village of Barwala here.As many as 72 Tablighi Jamaat people suspected of Covid-19 were accommodated there when the virus first made its entry into the district. Of them, two were found positive and kept there and the rest were sent back.Goyal is incharge of four primary health centres (PHCs) -- Raipur Rani, Hangola, Kot and Barwala. Also, there are 19 sub-centres under his block with a total population of 1,42,088.He said the Health Department and the administration had to take into account several things such as location, security, ideal accommodation for the suspects while identifying the facility."It was a massive logistics exercise. There was no prior facility, which could be emulated. Everything had to be done for the first time. They were in quarantine for 28 days and their medical treatment too had to be monitored closely," the 55-year-old said.Explaining the psychology of patients hailing from the rural background, Goyal said, "Most of the people were worried about the harvesting of their crops. There is no specific medicine for Covid, but the quarantined persons were anxious that they were not being given any medicine. They even argued with our medical staff and insisted on letting them go."Goyal's task became more difficult when Jawaharpur, an adjoining village in Barwala, witnessed a spurt in cases. "As the cases mounted in Jawaharpur, women and children started shifting to their relatives' place in Barwala. Though the borders were sealed, there are countless exit points from fields, which became a big challenge for effective containment, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/equally-important-to-look-after-regular-patients-97623
11-06-2020||---||Coordinate with states: Chandigarh Administrator to Health Secretary||Chandigarh, June 10Expressing concern over spike in Covid cases due to travellers, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore said today that with the opening of state borders and movement of persons through roads, trains and flights, the spread of infection could increase substantially.During the daily review meeting, the Administrator directed Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, to coordinate with the neighbouring states so that a common strategy could be formed to screen those coming into the tricity from other regions.Earlier, those returned from Delhi were reported positive on May 31 and June 3. A 40-year-old man from Khuda Ali Sher had travelled to Delhi, along with his wife, and stayed there for two days before returning to the city. Another 25-year-old man living and working in Patel Nagar, Delhi, had reported positive on his visit to Chandigarh. He returned from Delhi on May 22 to visit his mother in Sector 21.A 42-year-old RSS functionary, who is a resident of Sector 18, had come in contact with a senior RSS functionary (Himachal Pradesh resident). The senior RSS man had travelled from Delhi to Chandigarh and has a history of contact with a Covid positive case during his visit to Delhi.Another returnee, a 28-year-old resident of Mani Majra, Chandigarh, who is working and living at Gurugram, returned to Chandigarh with symptoms of fever and cough on June 7.Till now, as many as five cases of returnees have been reported in the city.Meanwhile, Adviser Manoj Parida today visited the Wholesale Market, Sector 26, and Grain Market, Sector 39. He said they would formulate a proposal for shifting if required and feasible.Finance Secretary AK Sinha said all efforts were being made to facilitate migrant labours and stranded persons to their native places.Panel to check overcrowding in OPDs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coordinate-with-states-chandigarh-administrator-to-health-secretary-97486
11-06-2020||---||Roadways GM wants bus service to Delhi, Gurugram suspended||Panchkula, June 10 Haryana Roadways General Manager (Panchkula) Ravinder Pathak has sent a proposal to Virender Kumar Dahiya, Director, State Transport, asking him to stop the bus services between Panchkula and Gurugram to prevent Covid from spreading. Pathak is not in favour of bus travel to and from Delhi also. Pathak, who has been appointed by the Deputy Commissioner to keep tabs over those coming to Panchkula by bus and train, believes threat looms large over the district due to the inflow of passengers from Covid hotspots. The district had managed to limit the number of cases until Unlock 1.0. By June 2, the district had 26 cases. Currently, Panchkula’s Covid tally stands at 43. In the past eight days, Panchkula has reported 17 cases.  Pathak said: “On factual grounds, there is a strong case for suspending bus services between Panchkula and Covid hotspots. We have written a letter to the state transport authorities in this regard. The final decision is yet to be taken.”  According to the website of Haryana Roadways, five buses operate between Panchkula and Gurugram each day and only one bus plies between Panchkula and Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roadways-gm-wants-bus-service-to-delhi-gurugram-suspended-97487
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to recommend 50% reservation||The Chandigarh Administration has decided to recommend 50 per cent reservation policy for the selection of candidates for Diplomat of National Board (DNB) courses in Chandigarh.This policy, when implemented, shall benefit the residents of Chandigarh who fulfill the criteria and shall be eligible to apply in future.The GMSH-16 is a district hospital with a capacity of 500 beds and is running DNB courses since 2004. The DNB seats are filled through centralised counseling conducted by the office of the National Board of Examination (NBE), New Delhi, for departments of gynaecology, paediatrics, medicine, surgery, orthopadedics, anaesthesia, ENT, pathology and are likely to be approved for dermatology and radiology.The criteria are that the candidate must have studied for a period of five years in the UT at any time prior to the last dates of submission of application. The candidate should submit a certificate issued by the Deputy Commissioner to the effect that the candidate or his parents have been residing or have resided in Chandigarh at least for five years.Children of those who have had owned immovable property in the UT for a period of five years at any time prior to the last date of the submission of the application are also eligible. The property should be in the name of the parents or the candidate himself/herself and candidate must submit a certificate issued by the Deputy Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer or a tehsildar stating that the candidate or parents of the candidate are holding immovable property in the UT for at least five years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-recommend-50-reservation-97488
11-06-2020||---||5 snatch cash from health worker, 4 held||Mohali, June 10 The police have arrested four miscreants on the charge of looting Rs35,000 from a health worker. The suspects have been identified as Harjant Singh, alias Dimple, Deepak Kumar, alias Deepu, Sukhjant Singh, residents of Seou village and Shami Mohammad and Gurpreet Singh, both residents of Manauli village. According to the police, Sukhjant is on the run. The victim, Amit Kumar, was going to give medication to a patient in an ambulance near Banur village. The miscreants came in a car and a mini-truck. They blocked the road near a railway crossing at Chilla village. The assaulted the victim and snatched cash and medicine from him before fleeing. The victim was able to note the registration number of the car, which has been recovered by the police. “The suspects will be produced before a court on Thursday,” said Sub-Inspector Barma Singh.  A case under relevant sections of the IPC has been registered at Sohana police station against the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-snatch-cash-from-health-worker-4-held-97489
11-06-2020||---||184 submit plaint against school||Chandigarh, June 10For the third day in a row, 184 more parents submitted a written complaint to the Regulatory Body, constituted under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, against fee being charged during the lockdown period.Parents of those studying at Ajit Karam Singh International Public School (AKSIPS), Sector 45, submitted the complaint against the school authorities for charging excessive fee; indulging in profiteering; and commercialisation of education.Parents stated: “The fee hike for the 2017-18, 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21 sessions were arbitrary, unnecessary and illegal because there was no need to generate additional funds to run the institution, as mandated by Section 5 of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, as extended to the Union Territory of Chandigarh.”Jasdeep Kalra, Director, AKSIPS, said: “We have an extremely reasonable fee structure and charge only tuition fee. We have reduced it further as per the government instructions. It’s only a handful of parents who get influenced by troublemakers. Some of the protestors are not even parents of students from our school. A majority of the parents don’t have any issue.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/184-submit-plaint-against-school-97490
11-06-2020||---||Teachers submit memorandum||Chandigarh, June 10 The Panjab University Teachers’ Association, Chandigarh, Punjabi University Teachers’ Association, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Dev University Teachers’ Association, Amritsar, have submitted a memorandum to Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh for considering precautions before taking any call on opening universities.  “The universities are scheduled to be reopened on June 16 after the summer vacation — as announced by the state government. While the universities are gearing up to reopen, there is a sudden spurt in the cases of Covid-19 in Punjab and Chandigarh. Moreover, given the financial crunch being faced by the universities, it’s just not feasible to strictly adhere to the guidelines/directions issued by the MHA, especially in terms of daily sanitisation of office premises and social distancing,” stated in the memorandum.  It has been further added: “Utmost caution may kindly be taken while taking a final call on the reopening of the universities, after considering all pros and cons.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-submit-memorandum-97491
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University admission panel meets||A meeting, under the chairmanship of Prof Sanjay Kaushik, Dean, College Development Council, Panjab University (PU), was held today to finalise the admission guidelines for the 2020-2021 session for affiliated colleges. Members of the committee discussed the guidelines keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic. The committee discussed details regarding admission schedule for various undergraduate and postgraduate courses to be included in the admission guidelines, which will be prepared in consonance with the PU Academic Calendar and examination schedule for the session. The committee also discussed about the eligibility guidelines for admission, along with online and offline mode of admissions.  The dates of admission are not yet confirmed and will depend upon the examination schedule of the PU. The committee also deliberated on reservations of seats and fee concessions for various courses. The committee consisted of Prof Karamjeet Singh, Registrar, various principals of the affiliated colleges, Senate and Syndicate members and senior professors of the PU. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-admission-panel-meets-97492
11-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Sports academies await nod to open||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 10 Local private sports academies, which function under pay-and-play format, are waiting to get UT Administration’s clearance for starting operations.  Such academies, located mostly in private schools and corporate arenas, offer facilities such as playing six-a-side football, cricket, badminton and tennis at various locations in the city. Though the UT Sports Department has opened selective coaching centres for the sportspersons, private ventures are still waiting for SOPs.  “We opened the arena for two days, but later closed it as there were no clear instructions by the Administration. We cannot allow people to play at the academies without getting proper consent from the authorities,” said an owner of a football ground. Such arenas charge on hourly basis for using the grounds, which is a popular trend among youngsters.  “We have to take precautions even if we allow people to play here. We get several  requests but we cannot really help. We also want to start operating and earn revenue. We have rentals and EMIs to pay. So, we are in a very dicey situation,” said another owner of a playfield at Zirakpur. “Fitness enthusiasts love to play at least twice or thrice a week, which is a good a footfall for this business. But, the Covid-19 pandemic has hit us bad. We were expecting some relief from the Administration, but we have been told to wait,” said another person in business.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-academies-await-nod-to-open-97493
11-06-2020||ibune News Service---||Association urges traders to sanitise premises||Chandigarh, June 10 Members of the Chandigarh Traders’ Association, Sector 17, today launched an awareness campaign against the Covid-19 pandemic. Members of the association, led by Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, assembled by the roadside in Sector 17 maintaining social distancing and started an awareness campaign, ‘Don’t forget three things in fight against Covid-19 – sanitise your hands, wear mask and maintain social distance’. Panchhi appealed to all traders’ associations and Resident Welfare Associations of Chandigarh to come forward and join hands in the awareness campaign and follow the guidelines laid out by the Central Government and the UT Administration. The association also made a special appeal to traders of the city to sanitise their business premises, check temperature of customers, organise health checkups for employees and promote Aarogya Setu App. Among others, LC Arora, Gurmeet Singh, Narinder Jain, PK Grover, Rakesh Jain, Naresh Bansal, Sandeep Grover, Sunny Bedi, Deepak Kumar, Jodh Singh, Ravi Kumar and Balbir Saini were present during the awarness drive in Sector 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/association-urges-traders-to-sanitise-premises-97494
11-06-2020||Naina Mishra||Covid halts EWS advertising process in unaided schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10The UT Education Department is yet to resume the process of advertising vacant seats of economically weaker section (EWS) in unaided schools.District Education Officer Alka Mehta said, “The EWS process was halted due to Covid. The decision of resuming the process will be taken after permission from higher authorities. The details of vacant seats from private schools are yet to be sought as schools are closed.”What RTE act saysAs per the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, there is a provision of reservation up to 25 per cent for students belonging to the economically weaker section/disadvantaged group in the entry class under Section 12(1) (c). Private unaided recognised schools of Chandigarh have already admitted some children for the 2019-20 academic session under this category, while there may be some seats lying vacant.The process of filling EWS seats at entry level in private schools began in December last year and concluded on February 1.Usually, vacant EWS seats are advertised in April every year. Last year, 43 seats were lying vacant at around 10 private schools against the total 730 seats. The parents of the eligible children interested in admission of their ward in any of the schools where seats are lying vacant have been asked to submit the registration form.This year, top schools in the UT received three times more forms for 25 per cent EWS seats. At Delhi Public School, Sector 40, 335 forms were received for 37 seats reserved under the RTE, in Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 33, Chandigarh, 192 forms were received till last date for 25 seats. At Chitkara International School, 261 forms were received for 30 seats. Strawberry Fields High School received 200 forms for 40 seats.As per the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, there is a provision of reservation up to 25 per cent for students belonging to the economically weaker section/disadvantaged group in the entry class under Section 12(1) (c). Private unaided recognised schools of Chandigarh have already admitted some children for the 2019-20 academic session under this category, while there may be some seats lying vacant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-halts-ews-advertising-process-in-unaided-schools-97495
11-06-2020||---||New excise policy from July 1 in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 10The new excise policy will be implemented in the city from July 1 after three months of the Covid-induced lockdown.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has approved amended excise policy 2020-21 (July 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021). The excise policy 2020-21 for April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021, could not be implemented and the excise policy for 2019-20 was extended up to June 30, 2020, due to the Covid-19 outbreak.In the new policy, the allotment of licensing units will be made through complete e-tendering system for more transparency and complete online system for issuance of permit/passes to facilitate trade and industry has also been introduced.For the remaining nine months, the number of licensing units (CL/IMFL) has been reduced from 95 to 94. To curb the menace of cartelisation and monopolistic practice, a single person/entity will be entitled to allotment up to a maximum of 10 vends only.The total basic quota to be allotted will comprise 75 Lakh Proof Litre (LPL) of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and 7.5 LPL of country liquor (CL) and 2.47 LPL of imported foreign liquor (IFL) (bio brands i.e. whisky).The quota of country liquor has been rationalised keeping in view less demand in city shops and quota of IFL has also been rationalised keeping in view less demand for IFL in village shops.To promote the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, the retail licensees will have to maintain cleanliness and hygiene in and around the shop, failing which a penalty of Rs10,000 will be imposed and subsequent non-compliance will attract a fine of Rs20,000.The cow cess will also be applicable in the policy. The cess will be levied at Rs5 per bottle of 750 ml of country liquor, Rs5 per bottle of 650ml of beer and Rs10 per bottle of 700ml/750 ml of whisky and will be deposited by the wholesale licensees in the dedicated bank account of the Municipal Corporation.The levy of Covid cess will also be applicable from July 1. It will be levied at 5 per cent on minimum retail sale price of all categories of liquor to be deposited by the wholesale licensees in the dedicated bank account of the Municipal Corporation. The cess will be levied up to December 31, 2020, or as per the instructions issued by the Chandigarh Administration.To promote the Digital India programme, the arrangement of online deposit of excise levies will start and the payment of all amounts relating to the excise levies will be made through electronic payment platform such as debit cards, credit cards, RTGS, NEFT, etc.Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, all excise licensees will comply with the guidelines announced by the Ministry of Home Affairs and the State Disaster Management Authority, UT, from time to time to contain the spread of the virus. Salient features of the new policy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-excise-policy-from-july-1-in-chandigarh-97496
11-06-2020||Surinder Bhardwaj||2 test +ve in Mandi Gobindgarh||Fatehgarh Sahib, June 10Two new Covid-19 positive cases having a travel history to Uttar Pradesh and Mumbai have created panic among residents in Mandi Gobindgarh.The biggest concern is that thousands of migrants, who went back to their respective states during the lockdown, have applied at the Deputy Commissioner office to return.Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal said, “Whosoever comes to the district will be quarantined for 14 days and industrialists have to seek prior permission from the Deputy Commissioner to bring labourers back.”Under “Mission Fateh”, the Health Department has launched a campaign to identify suspected patients through a door-to door-survey.The Civil Surgeon said, “Medical teams will visit every household and seek information about ailments of people, especially those above 30 years and type of medicine they are taking.”He said the teams will also check-up persons for flu, cough and temperature.He urged the residents to follow guidelines of the Health Department to combat Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-test-ve-in-mandi-gobindgarh-97497
11-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||MC gets Rs 11 crore for water storage project||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10With the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) today agreeing to contribute Rs11 crore for upgrading water storage capacity in the city, relief from water crisis would soon become a reality.According to the MC officials, they had approved Rs38 crore for the project, however, they had only Rs27 crore for the task.Other approved projects “It was approved during the Board of Directors meeting of the CSCL today. Next week, we will float a tender to hire an agency to carry out the work,” said MC Commissioner KK Yadav.The MC House had previously approved the project for upgrading the water storage capacity from the existing 45 million gallons per day (MGD) to 90 MGD by using its own funds. The MC had also made provision of funds in the Budget prepared for 2020-21.Chandigarh gets 90-95 MGD of water, but the demand in summer rises to 120-125 MGD.The Sector 39 waterworks reservoir receives supply from the Kajauli waterworks. At present, the Sector 39 waterworks has half-day underground water storage capacity. Water stored in the morning is supplied in the evening and vice versa.This led to frequent “low or no water supply” in the city. In case of any leakage in the pipeline from Kajauli to Chandigarh, the city witnessess severe water crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-gets-rs-11-crore-for-water-storage-project-97498
11-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||27 yrs on, 13 street vendors removed from Sector 19 Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10After about 16-year-long battle in various courts, 13 street vendors, who have been operating near the dhobi ghat in Sector 19 for 27 years, had to finally leave the place today.A team of the MC enforcement wing, headed by Inspector Sunil Dutt, reached Sector 19 with the notices following which the vendors had to shut their business. The vendors lamented that now, they had nowhere to go during the ongoing Covid crisis as they had not even got themselves registered with the Municipal Corporation during its vendors’ survey.It means they will not be able to operate from any other vending site in the city.The notice by MC Commissioner KK Yadav stated that following the directions of the Supreme Court on July 6, 2015, the MC had in February this year issued notices to the vendors, but they did not vacate the area they had occupied illegally. They could not even show any claim, added the notice. “The Street Vendors Act was implemented in 2016 and they did not get themselves registered,” shared an official.“Due to Covid-19, the process got delayed. We issued them a notice three days ago, but they did not move out. We then went to the area and asked them to take away their goods. For about 16 years, they have been fighting cases in lower, sessions and high court and finally, the apex court. They did not get any relief,” said an MC official.Rocky, one of the vendors, said, “We are the Sadar Market fire victims. Some of us got booths from the UT Administration, but we didn’t get any relief. So, we started operating from here in 1993.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/27-yrs-on-13-street-vendors-removed-from-sector-19-chandigarh-97484
11-06-2020||Amit Sharma||Deepu orchestrated firing from Ambala jail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10Deepak, alias Deepu Banur, an accomplice of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, orchestrated the firing at the hotelier’s house in Sector 33 from Ambala jail at Bishnoi’s behest. Deepu got the shooters together and arranged weapons and a car for them to carry out the crime.Deepu’s interrogation has revealed that they wanted to threaten liquor contractor Arvind Singla to extort money from him. Wanted share in liquor vendsDeepu was brought on a production warrant from Ambala jail after Sewak, alias Guri, who provided the car for the crime, and one of the shooters, Karan Sharma, revealed that they committed the crime on Deepu’s directions.A police official said Deepu, connected with all suspects through WhatsApp calling and gave them directions. “He told them whom to target and when,” said a police official.Deepu, through his network of criminals in the region, provided the car, weapons and shelter to the shooters.He has divulged some names of the shooters, which are being verified.The police have conducted raids at three places in Ambala and two places in Patiala on information provided by Deepu.Were other bizmen also on target?The police are investigating whether other businessmen were also on their target to extort money.The shooters had opened indiscriminate fire at businessman and hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33 on May 31. At least 17 bullets were fired at the house. They had come looking for Rakesh’s brother Arvind Singla, who is an established liquor contractor.Bishnoi, who is lodged at a jail in Rajasthan, is operating his gang from the jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deepu-orchestrated-firing-from-ambala-jail-97476
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC staff beaten up over water misuse notice||A team of the Municipal Corporation (MC), including a junior engineer (JE), was attacked by three persons at Sector 39 where it had gone to issue a notice for misuse of water on June 9.According to the police, the complainant, Ashok Kumar, JE, Waterworks, Sector 37, reported that he, along with two staff members — Barinder Singh and Munni Lal — were on duty to check water misuse in Sector 39. On reaching house number 1224, the complainant found that water was being wasted as residents were washing the floor using a hosepipe.The JE issued a water misuse notice following which three persons, including a woman, attacked the JE and his staff with sticks and wipers. While the JE’s both hands were injured in the attack, Barinder Singh received injuries on his chest.The police were informed about the incident following which a case under Sections 332, 353 and 34 of the IPC was registered at the Sector 39 police station. The police said they had arrested the woman, identified as Nimmi Sharma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-staff-beaten-up-over-water-misuse-notice-97477
11-06-2020||---||Water supply in city to be hit tomorrow||Chandigarh, June 10 There will be no water supply on Friday afternoon and evening in a few sectors due to replacement of an old pipeline at the Sector 14/15/24/25 roundabout. Water supply to Sectors 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21-A, 22-A & B, 23-A & B, 24-A & B and 25 will be affected. The water supply in the morning will be at normal pressure. The Municipal Corporation has advised residents to store water according to their needs on Friday morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-supply-in-city-to-be-hit-tomorrow-97478
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two new cases in Chandigarh, 4 beat virus||A 45-year-old man from Sector 47 and a 34-year-old man from Khuda Jassu have been found infected from Covid-19. With the two fresh cases, the city tally today rose to 328 with 34 of these active.The patient from Khuda Jassu is a worker at a medical shop in Sector 16. The shop owner’s son was tested positive for Covid on Tuesday. The 34-year-old has three family contacts.The Sector 47 patient is an ex-serviceman and has three family contacts and four community contacts. In the past two days, the UT has witnessed four cases from new areas, Sector 16, Sector 41, Daria village and Khuda Jassu.Meanwhile, three residents of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, and a resident of Khuda Ali Sher have been discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College & Hospital and have been shifted to Sood Dharmshala, a post-discharge quarantine facility.Two brothers from Delhi found infectedTwo brothers from Delhi have tested positive for Covid in the city. The in-laws of one of them live in Daria village. His wife had reached her parents house with her newborn on May 21.The two brothers had come to visit the Daria family on June 8 and had symptoms of fever. Their samples were taken for a Covid test on June 9.The cases will be counted in the line list of Delhi and are not linked to the previous cases reported from Daria.The Daria family has four members and all of them are asymptomatic. TNS2 fresh cases take Panchkula tally to 43Panchkula: Two more persons have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the district tally to 43. The patients are a 55-year-old woman from Sector 8 with a travel history to Delhi and a 30-year-old woman from Sector 16, who recently delivered a baby at a private hospital. The source of her infection is not known, officials said. Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said, “Both patients have been shifted to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6. Their immediate contacts have been quarantined and tested.” “We will also collect the samples of the newborn. The baby is under the observation of doctors,” she said. Panchkula has 17 active cases.1,153 under home quarantineDeputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said at present there were 1,153 people under home quarantine. “Two foreign returnees have been lodged at Pallavi Hotel and six at Park Royal,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-new-cases-in-chandigarh-4-beat-virus-97479
11-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Miscreants make off with ATM containing Rs 16 lakh||Lalru, June 10Unidentified miscreants allegedly barged into an unguarded automated teller machine (ATM) situated outside the Punjab National Bank branch at Dappar near Lalru, uprooted the cash dispenser containing Rs16 lakh, and fled with it in a pickup van in the early hours of Wednesday.Sources said the ATM booth was closed and miscreants went inside after breaking the shutter locks. The thieves first damaged the CCTV cameras installed outside and inside the kiosk, and then uprooted the ATM by tying one end of a rope with the machine and the other with the pickup van, said the police.Kulwant Singh, in-charge at Lehli police post, said a CCTV camera mounted outside the kiosk captured the movement of a Mahindra pickup around 2.14 am.In the footage, the thieves with their face covered could be seen conducting a recce of the area and entering the kiosk at 2.20 am, said Kulwant Singh. The screws of the ATM were loose. An iron rod was recovered from the kiosk, he added.Bank manager Ashish Adhikari said, “There were around Rs16 lakh in the machine, which was taken away by the miscreants,” he stated. On October 16, 2016, robbers had adopted the same modus operandi and decamped with the machine containing Rs18.43 lakh from the same kiosk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/miscreants-make-off-with-atm-containing-rs-16-lakh-97480
11-06-2020||Chandigarh||4 nailed for house thefts at Dhanas||Four persons — two thieves and two jewellers — have been arrested for house thefts during the lockdown. Jewellery and household goods worth around Rs6 lakh have been recovered from them.The police said two house thefts were reported from Dhanas during the lockdown.Stolen items worth Rs6 lakh recoveredJewellery and household goods worth around Rs6 lakh have been recovered from them. The police said jewellery worth Rs1 lakh, two LED TVs, seven cylinders, five motorcycles and a camera had been recovered.One of the complainants, Mukut Prashad, had reported that he had gone to his relatives’ place in Mohali on March 21 after which the lockdown was imposed and he could not return. On April 20, his neighbour had informed him that a theft had taken place at his house and the locks were found broken.In another incident, complainant Guddu, who works at the grain market in Sector 26, had reported that since March 15, he had not visited his home and was staying in Sector 26. He returned home on June 7 and came to know that a theft had taken place there.The police said jewellery and other valuables were stolen from both houses.On June 9, a team, led by Inspector Ram Rattan Sharma, SHO, Sarangpur police station, nabbed two suspects, Babloo (20) and Izhar, alias Daadi (20), both of Dhanas.They confessed to having burgled several houses in Dhanas, along with their two accomplices, who are at large.The police said the suspects used to sell stolen jewellery items to jewellers, identified as Rajan (27) and Kirpa Shankar (27), also from Dhanas. Both jewellers have been arrested and the jewellery items sold to them recovered by the police.The police said gold and silver jewellery worth Rs1 lakh, two LED TVs, seven cylinders, five motorcycles and a camera had been recovered.The police said both thieves had been remanded in two-day police custody. “Raids are on to nab the remaining two suspects,” said an official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-nailed-for-house-thefts-at-dhanas-97481
11-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Green riders face parking blues at Sukhna lake||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 10Sukhna Lake, a favourite destination of cycling enthusiasts, is sans a dedicated bicycle parking lot.The UT Administration claims to have left no stone unturned to promote cycling, but nothing concrete has been done on developing parking lots for bicycles.With gyms lying closed due to Covid-19, there has been a significant increase in the number of people taking to cycling to stay fit in the city.Cyclists reach Sukhna Lake in large numbers. As they fail to find parking space, they chain their bicycles with grills, covering the entire pedestrian path near the entrance to the lake.“Sukhna Lake is a major tourist spot. UT officials also ride bicycles here. However, the Administration has failed to provide a basic facility,” said Dr Mukesh, who loves cycling.Though there is a small patch for parking bicycles, it is in a deplorable condition. UT Adviser Manoj Parida, whose love for Sukhna Lake is not hidden on social media, said the issue would be solved soon. “We will develop a cycle parking lot soon,” he said.The Administration is keen on installing lights on cycle tracks from Sukhna Lake to Madhya Marg at a cost of Rs80 lakh and wants to lay a 180-km bicycle track in the city at an expenditure of Rs25 crore.“Chandigarh Master Plan-2031 lays emphasis on making the city pedestrian and bicycle-friendly. There is lack of parking facility at present Haphazard parking of bicycles is a common scene at Sukhna Lake. Like parking lots for four-wheelers and two-wheelers, the Administration should develop bicycle parking lots,” said Nimish Malhotra, a city resident.“We have to park our bicycles on the footpath at Sukhna Lake. It usually takes 30 to 45 minutes for a walk. Till then, the bicycles remain parked in the open,” said Deepti Makotia, a cycling enthusiast.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/green-riders-face-parking-blues-at-sukhna-lake-97482
11-06-2020||---||3 from Mohali contract virus||Mohali, June 10Three more persons tested positive for Covid today, raising the district tally to 140.A 43-year-old man of Mubarakpur in Dera Bassi and a 26-year-old youth of Dasmesh Nagar in Nayagaon are the two new additions to the Covid positive cases list of the district.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said, “The Mubarakpur resident came from Delhi with mild symptoms. We took his samples and he has tested positive for Covid. We are trying to check whether he is a resident of Dera Bassi or Delhi.”The official said the two new patients have been shifted to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.In Kharar, a 29-yr-old youth, who had come from Hyderabad by air on Sunday, has tested positive.Tarsem Singh, SMO, Civil Hospital, Kharar, said the patient was a resident of Palm Enclave on the Jhungian road in Kharar. His samples were taken at the airport on Sunday.He too has been was shifted to the Banur hospital. The area where he lived has been sealed.As of now, there are 140 cases in the district and of these, 112 persons have been cured of the disease. There are 25 active cases in the district and three persons have died of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-from-mohali-contract-virus-97483
