11-01-2021||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 47 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Monday reported 47 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 20,342, according to a medical bulletin.No death was reported on Monday and the toll stands at 327, as per the bulletin.There are 259 active cases as of now, it said.A total of 29 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 19,756, the bulletin said.A total of 1,93,545 samples have been tested so far, and of them 1,72,263 have returned negative, as per the communication. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-47-new-cases-in-chandigarh-197028
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Theft reported from house||Youth found dead in P’kulaPanchkula: An unidentified youth, believed to be in his 30s, was found dead at the Sector 20 grain market here on Sunday afternoon. The victim’s body bore several injury marks, the police said. The body was shifted to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital mortuary for an autopsy. The police have not ruled out the murder angle in the case. TNSAuto driver killed in mishapZirakpur: A 38-year-old auto driver was killed in a road accident when a speeding truck coming from the Patiala side hit the vehicle at the Airport light point. The deceased, identified as Anandpal, a resident of Amb Shahib Colony, was going from Dera Bassi to Mohali when the mishap took place. The injured auto driver was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Mohali where doctors declared him brought dead. The auto-rickshaw was badly damaged while the carrot-laden truck overturned on the roadside. TNSZirakpur Power shutdownZirakpur: The electricity supply to Dhakoli, Peer Muchalla, Baltana, Harmilap Nagar, Bishanpura, Nagla and Sanoli will remain suspended on January 11 from 10 am to 5 pm due to maintenance work at the 66 KV Grid in Dhakoli. TNSOnline exams from Jan 15Chandigarh: The PU will conduct online exams for additional and improvement subjects of intermediate even semesters from January 15, said Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination. The exams will be conducted only for the students who have already filled their exam form last year in May. Students can download their roll no from January 12 from the university website. TNSGolf club body meetChandigarh: The newly elected body of the Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) conducted their first annual general meeting on Sunday. The newly elected president, Ravibir Singh Grewal, and other members discussed various issues pertaining to the development of the club. The House also selected office-bearers and their portfolios will be distributed later. TNSTennis tourney starts todayChandigarh: The Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association will organise CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis U-18 Tournament for boys and girls from January 11 to 13. As many as 53 players are participating in the main draw events. TNSBharat is Pencak Silat Assn secyChandigarh: Bharat Bhushan (Lali) was elected general secretary of the Pencak Silat Association of Chandigarh at its first annual general body meeting on Sunday. The meeting was presided over by Mohammed Iqbal, director-general, Indian Pencak Silat Federation, and Parvinder Kumar, president of North India Pencak Silat Association. TNSMakaan Bachao Samiti meetChandigarh: A 'nukkad' meeting of the Makaan Bachao Samiti was organised at Sector 45-B. AC Dhawan, Advisor to the Samiti, explained the Delhi module and blue print of one-time settlement for the approval of all types of violations made in CHB houses. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-reported-from-house-196847
11-01-2021||Open house||Safety, side effects & efficacy of vaccine main concerns||Public scrutiny is a mustThe approval for the emergency use of the Covaxin to Serum Institute's Covishield and Bharat Biotech by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had cleared the last hurdle before the start of the vaccination drive in India. The government appointed Subject Expert Committee was convinced that Covaxin's inactivated virus may be more effective against mutations. Lack of transparency surrounding trials data, fast-tracking of data scrutiny and doubts over vaccine dosage and mutations have raised concerns. But India is no exception here. Each country is adopting different approaches. Globally, many view approving of vaccines to combat the Covid pandemic as inordinate haste. The DCGI must make a clean analysis of the submitted data and continue to share reviews of the Phase 3 trials. Vaccine will test government's skill for answering inconvenient questions. It mustn't avoid public scrutiny.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliHaste can do more damageThe Covid-19 vaccine is being politically misused to lure voters by offering its free dose. Administering vaccine in haste can do more damage than virus. A pilot programme to administer vaccine can be launched in the first stage. Select 100 men and women, including old and young in each town for the programme. Give first and second dose to them and keep a strict vigil to find side effects of the vaccine on different categories. After ascertaining safety of the vaccine mass vaccination drive can be initiated.Capt Amar Jeet (retd), MohaliQUESTIONIt took more than a month for the authorities concerned to know the actual reason behind the unusual deaths of birds in farms near Panchkula. Do you think the Panchkula authorities failed to show urgency and obscured the truth in tackling the bird flu in Barwala and Raipur Rani poultry farms, where birds started dying in the first week of December?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comAn achievement of pharmaceutical firmsTwo indigenous vaccines Covaxin and Covishield have been granted approval by the DCGI, which is a landmark achievement of the pharmaceutical firms/sector. This is an optimistic step towards annihilation of the corona pandemic. Vaccination of a huge population is a challenging task. It becomes more difficult as two doses have to be administered after an interval of fortnight. Keeping record and ensuring timely completion of vaccination course is problem. Next is minor side effects. People particularly those suffering from comorbidites, who get inoculated, have to keep in touch with doctors. Major issue is proper storage of vaccine in optimum temperature. There are also apprehensions that unscrupulous elements may take advantage and indulge in black marketing and duplication of drugs.Deepak, ChandigarhVaccines have been approved in a hurryOur government has placed bulk orders for the vaccine from a few manufacturers. These manufacturers became protective and assured the government for expeditious supplies. Since the approval process of Covishield is still not clear mass vaccination may not be in the interest of vulnerable. Hasty approval has been given to vaccine. Health of each and every individual should be monitored after giving vaccine. Till desirable results are obtained mass vaccination drive should be postponed. No one should be coerced to get vaccinated.SC Luthra, ChandigarhGive priority to docs, health workersIt is heartening to know that a vaccine for such a dreaded disease like Covid-19 has been made in such a short span of time and that too indigenously. Dry runs of vaccine at several places have shown remarkable results. People, who are vulnerable, including doctors and other health workers, should be given vaccine doses on priority. The Central Government should distribute vaccines in good quantity among all states irrespective of the ruling dispensation at the helmNPS Sohal, ChandigarhVaccine accessibility is a major issueFor the Covid-19 vaccination programme apprehensions are rife about vaccine distribution in masses. The accessibility of vaccines to the people is a major concern. Spreading awareness regarding vaccination centres and maintenance of ultracold chain for storing vaccine at the right temperature is the need of the hour. Chances of developing allergies post vaccination make the situation ambiguous.Shobhna Kalra, PanchkulaHue and cry over vaccine clearanceBy the grace of God, finally we have got the vaccine for the deadly Covid-19 virus. But there are many apprehensions regarding the vaccination. The first and the foremost worry is whether vaccine has been given a go ahead by the authorities concerned or not as opposition parties are making a lot of hue and cry about its authenticity. The next cause of worry is its administration. It seems to be a Herculean task to vaccinate a big population and that also with fair dealing. Above all whether vaccine would reach the poor and the needy or not is yet to be ascertained? There must not be any corruption in the vaccination programme as it might lead to failure of the administration of the vaccine. People will be under more stress thereby aggravating the pandemic and the situation if the programme fails.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhFear about effects after vaccinationCovid -19 vaccine has been rolled out and its dry run has started everywhere in the country. People fear taking vaccine as they are not aware about its efficacy. They have apprehensions about post administration effects of the vaccine. People want to know whether they will live normal life or have complications after getting vaccinated.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhShun fear, have faith in governmentAs Covid-19 vaccine is rolled out, the fear of its effectiveness and side effects persists in the mind. In how many stages inoculation is complete and the number of times one has to visit health centres is yet to disclosed by the authorities concerned? After getting vaccinated what about recurrence of the disease? For how long will the vaccine provide immunity? Such questions invade mind. But to protect ourselves from the pandemic, we have to eradicate this fear and have faith in the government to make this vaccination programme a success.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliVaccine should be compulsory for allThere should be no apprehensions in minds of the public regarding the vaccination programme. Vaccine should be compulsory as per the guidelines of the government. Further, even after vaccination one should not take it lightly, must follow the Covid-19 protocol and enhance immunity by taking nutritious food, do yoga and meditation. Also maintain social distancing, sanitise hands and wear mask in crowded places. Ensure positivity and happiness in day-to-day life.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliMake a plan for vaccination driveDry run for the Covid-19 is on at several places. Apprehensions about the programme include the roster for vaccination, priority list of the people to be vaccinated first and the place and timings for administering it. Another concern is about the vaccine, which one is better out of the two cleared by the DCGI. The third is the cost of vaccine. There is a need to have a clear plan about vaccination so that people are ready to get vaccinated without any fear or ambiguity.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliVaccine safest tool to combat coronavirusMostly people are willing to take vaccine and are actually waiting for it because they have largely ignored advice given by doctors. So, coronavirus vaccine remains the safest and powerful tool to combat the virus. Moreover, arrival of the vaccination is good news for the world. It is quite safe and effective. The most vulnerable category should be administrated vaccine in the first leg of the vaccination programme. Covid-19 vaccine does not belong to any political party. Above all, vaccination related news must come to us via official and trusted sources like newspapers or TV channels.Anita Tandon, KhararDisinformation scaring peopleAs Covid-19 vaccine programme has been initiated in various parts of the world, India seems to be dealing with a new problem, which is fraud messages. People are scared due to these messages. With the first vaccine getting a go ahead for emergency use, the cyber safety wing of the Union Home Ministry has issued a warning against fraudulent offers on the vaccine. Any link, email, message or phone call offering Covid-19 vaccine on priority is fraud. Due to apprehensions associated with the Covid-19 programme, cyber criminals are playing various tricks. They may offer to pay and register for getting vaccine first through links, mails, messages or phone calls.Akshar Kumar Singla, ChandigarhSuspicion over vaccine is usualCovid-19 vaccines will be rolled out soon. Suspicion and apprehension about vaccination is fairly common among people. The government has released a communication strategy to support the Covid-19 vaccine roll out in India that seeks to disseminate accurate and transparent information by alleviating fears and ensuring its acceptance. Certain religions and beliefs promote alternative perspectives towards vaccination. Religious objections to vaccines are based generally on belief that body is sacred, should not receive certain chemicals or blood or tissue from animals and should be healed by God or natural means.Adish Sood, AmlohLot of politics over vaccine approvalThe vaccine is being rolled out too early as it is still under trials. Even experts say the government is rolling out vaccine early. Data of vaccine trials is still not out for the public review. There is lot of politics over vaccine, but the government and the opposition should understand that it is crucial in the fight against Covid-19. Therefore, vaccine should have proper evaluation to ensure that it is 100 per cent safe for use and has almost no side-effects.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhEconomy will be back on trackLaunch of the much awaited vaccine drive will bring happiness across the country. The vaccine will save lives and bring the economy back on the track. But the execution of the vaccination programme will certainly be a challenging task. Currently, there is confusion and doubt over availability of the vaccine for all, its safety, cost and results. Because of these apprehensions some even reluctant to take vaccine. It is said that every vaccine has their own peculiar problem. But regulators and experts have said it is 100 per cent safe. The authorities should dispel also such doubts. The impact of Covid-9 will be felt for some years. So, everybody should get vaccinated.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaLet faith be stronger than fearCovid-19 vaccines - Covishield and Covaxin - have received approval from the government. World's largest Covid vaccination programme is all set to begin in India. There may be some criticism/fear about approval of the vaccine and its side effects. But, we should trust the government, which has a large responsibility and let faith be stronger than fear.Ramesh Kumar Arora, ChandigarhMust wait and watch patientlyAs the Covid-19 vaccination programme is under way, the vaccine is still in its infancy. Apprehensions regarding the same are many. The race to develop it led to its short testing period, wherein testing phases were overlapped. Also its effectiveness in the wake of the mink-mutated new variant Covid strain is questionable. It's undesirable side effects owing to some disturbing news from other countries also adds to the worry. It is being ascertained that the vaccine only reduces the risk of the virus and boosts immunity up to a year when administered twice after a lapse of a few months, but doesn't make you completely safe from the disease. Scientists still don't have answers to all questions regarding the new virus. So, rather than heeding to anti-vaccine rumours, we must patiently wait and watch.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhTrials must be completed firstIt is a matter of great satisfaction and pride that the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine will be rolled out in a few days. But, why can't we wait for ensuring its efficacy? It is true that we are desperately waiting for vaccine, but trials must be completed before it's rolled out. All believe our scientists and doctors, but the norms should be followed strictly while preparing vaccine as it involves human lives and national pride.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhGive vaccine to poor, needy free of costThe Central Government has already approved Covishield and Covaxin for restricted emergency use before launching a mass inoculation drive. Countrywide dry run of the approved vaccines has been done. Looking at the gravity of the situation owing to Covid-19 the government should bear the cost of providing vaccines and supply them to states for free distribution among those, who will not be able to its cost. Though the danger of Covid-19 is not over, the government has already stopped the supply of masks, ventilators and RT-PCR kits. Their cost is now being borne by the state governments for which poor have to bear the brunt.SK Khosla, ChandigarhGovernment should give assuranceThe Central Government has decided to start the Covid-19 vaccination programme from January 16 onwards. Initially, around three crore healthcare and frontline workers dealing with the pandemic will be covered under this drive. As per the data available in the public domain over 79 lakh beneficiaries have already registered on Co-WIN, a digital platform that will provide real-time information on the inoculation drive. Despite all assurances being given by the manufacturing companies and the government, the common man still has many apprehensions about efficacy of the vaccine due to transparent trial-run data available. We are not sure whether the vaccine will really take care of the most vulnerable sections of society, such as elderly and those with comorbidities. Another cause of worry is the quantum of side effects of the vaccine as every person’s body reacts uniquely to any foreign chemical when administered. The government has to come out with assurances on the safety and efficacy of these new vaccines. The population cannot be used as guinea pigs.Anil Kumar Yadav, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/safety-side-effects-efficacy-of-vaccine-main-concerns-196845
11-01-2021||Mohali||Chandigarh policeman assaulted, purse snatched||Four unidentified persons have been booked for assaulting and snatching a purse from a UT cop near the cricket stadium in New Chandigarh.The incident happened around 9 pm on Friday when the victim, Harjinder Singh, a resident of Majri, was returning home from the UT police headquarter. As he reached near the Togan-Boothgarh main road, two bike-borne youths signalled him to stop and asked for direction. One of the youths then directed a spray into the cop’s eyes. In the meantime, two more youths came out of bushes and the four miscreants then assaulted the cop. They snatched his purse and fled the spot.Mullanpur SHO Yogesh Kumar said, “On the victim’s statement, we have registered a case of snatching and assault against the four unidentified youths. We are scanning the CCTV footage of the area.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-policeman-assaulted-purse-snatched-196843
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Now, send EOI by January 25||The local MC has extended the date for accepting the expression of interest (EOI) to January 25 for upgrading the waste processing plant in Sector 25.The MC House had earlier approved January 15 as the last date for sending the expression of interest, but apparently due to a lukewarm response, they have further extended the date.The waste processing plant was installed in 2008 by Jaypee Associates on 10 acres. The possession of the plant was taken over by the MC in June this year due to processing issue.The IIT-Roorkee had recommended setting up of a 500-tonne per day (TPD) plant for the treatment of dry and wet waste. It stated that all machines were already 12 years old, which is practically the lifespan of such machines. Even an NGT panel had recommended upgrade of the plant. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-send-eoi-by-january-25-196842
11-01-2021||---||CCTV captures 3, yet to be identified||Panchkula, January 10The two suspects, who allegedly killed a 37-year-old man from Mani Majra while he was heading home on foot from his workplace in Sector 11 on Friday evening, have been captured on a CCTV camera, but their identity is yet to be established.The SHO of the Sector 5 police station, Inspector Lalit, said efforts were on to establish the identity of the suspects and they would be nabbed soon.The victim, Dheeraj Kumar, as per his brother’s statement to the police, was attacked by two masked men with a sharp weapon when he was walking back home to Mani Majra around 7.40 pm.The suspects pushed him into a Sector 9 park and took away Rs4,000 from him.“When they tried to snatch Dheeraj’s phone, he resisted and the suspects stabbed him several times in the back and thigh. When he shouted for help, the suspects fled from the spot. The injured victim rang the doorbell of a nearby house for help and fell down on their doorstep,” the victim’s brother said.He was rushed to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital, from where he was referred to the PGI in a serious condition.He succumbed to his injuries while being taken to the PGI in an ambulance.A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), 392 (punishment for robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of a common intention) of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cctv-captures-3-yet-to-be-identified-196841
11-01-2021||Zirakpur||Patwari booked on graft charge, aide arrested||The Vigilance Bureau today arrested an aide of a patwari in the Lohgarh area for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs12,000 in lieu of mutation of a flat.Acting on the complaint of a Chandigarh resident, the Vigilance Bureau had laid a trap to catch the culprit red-handed. The Vigilance Bureau has registered a case against the patwari Ravinder Singh and his aide Sonu.Bureau officials said Chandigarh resident Amandeep Singh wanted to get his father’s house in Green Park registered in his name after his father’s death but the patwari was demanding Rs15,000 for it. Finally, the deal was struck at Rs12,000 and the patwari was called to meet the complainant near the Metro Plaza on Sunday, said the officials.Instead of coming himself, the patwari had sent his aide to collect the money. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patwari-booked-on-graft-charge-aide-arrested-196840
11-01-2021||Deepankar Sharda||Students wait for PU to open||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10Panjab University (PU) is not likely to start physical classes soon, primarily due to regular reporting of Covid-19 cases on the campus, said sources.The matter to open the university campus for students has been discussed at various levels. However, there has been no positive outcome so far. “The authorities are meeting time and again to find a solution. We are hopeful for a positive outcome soon,” said Prof SK Tomar, DSW, PU.Sources maintained that regular emergence of Covid cases reported on the campus was one of the major concerns of the authorities. Recently, a hostel warden reportedly tested positive. The authorities are also waiting for getting back full authority on hostels from the UT Administration. “Not many, but there have been a handful of cases reported almost every day on the campus. Authorities are discussing the situation on a daily basis. The university’s priority is safety of students and residents. Reclaiming our stake on hostels, which were taken over by the UT Administration for setting up isolation centres, is also on the cards. However, even then, we are unlikely to accommodate all students in one go. Things may take time, but we are working on making some development,” said an official, seeking anonymity.When asked about conducting practical exams, which the students are eagerly waiting for, the sources maintained that it would happen soon. “There has been no denial on this. The practical examinations will be conducted for the benefits of the students. We are aware of this.”Meanwhile, the final-year undergraduate students of Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital are likely to attend physical classes from January 15. Earlier, faculty members were asked to report from January 5 and postgraduate students from January 6. Recently, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had asked the state governments and the UTs to take steps to reopen dental colleges, following a suggestion by the Dental Council of India (DCI).According to the SOPs, each student has to bring the report of his or her RT-PCR test. “Nothing has been finalised as of now. The authorities will follow the procedure issued by the DCI before calling the students,” said a PU’s spokesperson.The sources said the students would not be provided hostel facility. According to the guidelines issued by the DCI, the authorities may reopen campuses in a phased manner, ensuring safety, health and well-being of students, faculty and staff. They should also be equipped to handle any untoward incident arising due to Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-wait-for-pu-to-open-196839
11-01-2021||Sandeep Rana||Coldest January day in four years||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10Chandigarh today not only witnessed the lowest maximum temperature in four years, but also saw a day colder than many hill stations of Dharamshala, Manali, Kangra, Shimla or even Jammu.The city recorded 12°C maximum temperature which is a degree less than the normal temperature witnessed during this period of January.Manali recorded day’s temperature at 14 degree Celsius and Dharamshala at 16.6°C.Shimla recorded 18.9°C maximum temperature. Even Jammu witnessed 12.1°C maximum temperature.“Western disturbances are there. When cold winds blow from hills, it makes plain areas colder. This is why today’s max temp is quite less than the hill stations,” said an official of the Chandigarh Meteorological Department.However, the city’s minimum temp was 9.4°C. The night was colder in hill stations. Today’s temp is also the lowest maximum temperature of January so far in 2021. Last year, the lowest max temp was 13.3°C on January 15.In 2019, the lowest maximum temp was 14.4°C on January 23. Even in 2018, the lowest maximum temperature was 14.4°C on January 5.However, 2017 January saw the maximum temperature lower than today. It was 11.5°C on January 18.Meanwhile, the residents should brace for similar cold conditions in the coming days. As per the Met Department, it will be a “cold day” till January 14. It considers “cold day” when the maximum temperature is below 4.5°C to 6.4°C than normal.Winds are likely to blow amid fog. It is expected to be partly cloudy for the next few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coldest-january-day-in-four-years-196794
11-01-2021||
||Rs9-cr mother & child health centre to come up at GMSH-16 soon||Chandigarh, January 10 The construction of a multi-storey 200-bed mother and child health wing will soon begin at Government Medical and Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.  The childbirth-related medical services of the district hospital will be shifted to the Sector 22 Civil Hospital for at least a year till the construction of the wing is complete. The health authorities are mulling to raze three-storey building presently being utilised for services related to childbirth at the GMSH-16. A state-of-art mother and child health care centre with a capacity of around 200 will be constructed in way that occupies less space. The Rs9-crore project will be completed in a year. “The new centre will have more manpower and upgraded machinery for neonatal care. The actual work of the project is expected to start in two months. Currently, the newborns, who are critically ill, have to be referred to the PGI or GMCH-32 for treatment due to lack of better provisions for neonatal care in the hospital. With the construction of the new centre, we will ensure that all specialised treatment is provided at one stop,” said Dr VK Nagpal, Joint Director and Medical Superintendent, Health Department, UT. The new centre will also have a modular operation theatre and advanced machinery for paediatrics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs9-cr-mother-child-health-centre-to-come-up-at-gmsh-16-soon-196795
11-01-2021||Ambala||Man shoots woman in Ambala City, kills self||A man shot dead a woman before directing the gun at himself and ending his life in Ambala City here today.The victim has been identified as Amarjit Kaur (in her 50s), a resident of Ward 6 who had recently contested the Municipal Corporation election unsuccessfully on the Haryana Jan Chetna Party ticket. The suspect, Isham Singh (in his 50s), was a resident of Karnal.The incident took place at the Housing Board Colony under the jurisdiction of the Baldev Nagar police station. Both injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, where the woman was declared brought dead. Isham Singh died while undergoing treatment.The woman had recently switched from the Congress to the Haryana Jan Chetna Party. Isham Singh was reportedly involved in liquor business in the past and was out on a parole in a criminal case. The victim’s family members have claimed that they had no information about any dispute between the two.Baldev Nagar SHO Hamir Singh said, “The incident happened at the house of an acquaintance of Amarjit Kaur. She has claimed that Amarjit reached her house around 3.30 pm and soon after Isham Singh also reached there. Amarjit asked her to prepare tea and they went inside a room as they wanted to talk something about a business. She heard three gunshots and went inside the room only to find them lying with gunshot injuries.”The police said the reason behind the incident was yet to be ascertained. The police have seized the weapon used in the crime.The woman had suffered two shots, including one in the head. The police have registered a case on a complaint of the woman’ son and started an investigation into it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-shoots-woman-in-ambala-city-kills-self-196801
11-01-2021||Sanjay Bumbroo||Delhi fare drops as flight count soars||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 10An increase in the number of flights from the Chandigarh international airport to Delhi has led to a drop in the air fares over the past two weeks.Major online travel agencies posted a fare of Rs2,597 to Rs3,897 for a January 11 Chandigarh-Delhi flight. About one month ago, the cost of a ticket was about Rs15,000 in view of the farmers’ protest.Air India, IndiGo, Vistara, GoAir and United Airlines operate flights between the two cities.At present, a total of 29 flights depart for various destinations from the Chandigarh international airport. These include 12 flights to Delhi, four to Mumbai, three to Bengaluru, two to Dharamsala and one each to Pune, Kolkata, Lucknow, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Chennai and Goa.In view of the farmers’ protest on the Singhu border, which is on the Chandigarh-Delhi road, people were forced to look for other options such as taking a flight to reach Delhi, resulting in the five-fold increase in the air fares. This also resulted in an increase in the spot air fares besides increasing the occupancy by 30 to 40 percent.The Delhi-Mumbai route has been traditionally the busiest in the country. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, flights originating from Delhi and headed to the eastern destinations, including Chennai and Kolkata, have been among the busiest.A ticket for a flight from Chandigarh to Mumbai is being offered for Rs4,828 to Rs9,160 by various airliners while the one to Chennai was available for Rs5,171 to Rs10,661. Similarly, the air fare from Chandigarh to Hyderabad and Bengaluru ranged from Rs5,893 to Rs11,300 and Rs6,200 to Rs14,100, respectively. The air fare for Dharamsala and Jaipur flights ranged from Rs1,626 to Rs6,536 and Rs3,594 to Rs16,490, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delhi-fare-drops-as-flight-count-soars-196804
11-01-2021||Naina Mishra||PGI to vaccinate 500 health workers a day at five sites||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10The PGI will vaccinate 500 health workers at five vaccination sites per day after the Covid-19 vaccine is rolled out.Points to rememberOn getting a dose of the vaccine, the beneficiary will receive an SMS on the registered mobile numberAfter all doses of the vaccine are administered, a QR code-based certificate will also be sent on the registered mobile number of the beneficiaryRest at the vaccination centre for at least half an hour after taking the vaccineRemember to continue following key Covid appropriate behaviour such as wearing of a mask, hand sanitisation and physical distance (6 ft)Dr Surinder S Pandav, professor of ophthalmology, who is chairing the internal vaccination committee of the institute, said, “We have identified five vaccination sites at the institute where 100 beneficiaries at each site will be vaccinated. The estimated time to vaccinate each beneficiary will be 45 minutes. About 15 to 20 minutes will be consumed in the verification of the beneficiary and uploading the details on the CoWIN portal. Nearly 30 more minutes will be required to monitor the beneficiary for any side effects after the inoculation.”How much time it will takeThe estimated time to vaccinate each beneficiary will be 45 minutes. Nearly 30 more minutes will be required to monitor the beneficiary for any side effects after the inoculation. — Dr SS Pandav, head, internal vaccination committee, PGIHe said, “In order to maintain social distancing, we have kept only one vaccination team at each site, which will vaccinate one beneficiary at a time. An adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) team comprising specialists is ready at the vaccination site.”Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “So far, the Central Government has not communicated whether the institute will receive Covid-19 vaccine doses separately or it will have to acquire it from the UT Administration. As per the official announcement of the ministry, we are hopeful that the vaccination will take off on January 16. Health workers will be vaccinated during the first phase, but as the vaccination progresses, we will also vaccinate family members and co-morbid population within the institution.” Chandigarh will receive 21,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine as per the communication received by the Central Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-to-vaccinate-500-health-workers-a-day-at-five-sites-196807
11-01-2021||Amit Bathla||9,395 birds culled on Day 2||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 10As many as 9,395 birds were culled at two poultry farms in Barwala and Raipur Rani today, registering a slow pace of operations on the second consecutive day of the drive.The Animal Husbandry Department has targeted to cull 1.66 lakh birds at five poultry farms in the infected zone. The culling operations are yet to begin at three farms — Narender, Naveen and Sunil, all located in Kheri village. Officials are currently focussing on epicentres of the flu outbreak.The drive was completed today at Sidhharth Poultry Farm, one of the epicenters, where 1,728 poultry birds were to be culled.Officials claimed that the operations at another epicentre, Nature Poultry Farm, where a total of 16,000 birds were to be culled, would be completed tomorrow.The first day of the drive had witnessed the culling of 3,700 birds. At least 30 more rapid response teams (RRTs) from other districts will be pressed into service to speed up the culling process in addition to the nine teams on the job at present. A senior official of the Animal Husbandry Department said they wanted to perform the culling operations with a mutual understanding between them and poultry owners, which eventually delayed the process.“We tend to take them into confidence for a smooth culling process,” he said.Sudhir, the owner of Siddharth Poultry Farm, said, “While I lost over 40,000 birds to avian influenza, 5,000 were culled by the authorities. They (officials) will also destroy the feed at my farm, which cost approximately Rs35 lakh. The compensation being given by the government is insufficient and will not make up for the financial losses we have incurred.”Darshan Singla, president, Haryana Poultry Farm Association, said firstly, they demand that culling should only be restricted to poultry farms where cases of bird flu from were reported. He further termed the state government’s compensation plan for owners of dead or culled birds due to the flu as inadequate. “The government should increase the compensation amount as the prices of chicks, feed and labour have shot up in the past few years. The cost of vaccination in the poultry industry has spiralled too. These culling rates were defined in 2013. I urge the government to set up a new committee to examine the issue,” he said.Against the compensation of Rs90 per culled bird, the poultry owners are demanding Rs400-450.Singla said they would raise their concerns with Haryana Animal Husbandry Minister JP Dalal.Meanwhile, three farms where the culling is yet to take place have been cordoned off.Officials said they would begin operations at these farms from tomorrow. The drive would pick up pace with the arrival of more RRTs from other districts, an official of the Animal Husbandry Department said. “After completing the operation at commercial poultry units, we will focus on backyard poultry in the infected zone,” the official added.Reports from Bhopal still awaitedThe confirmatory reports of samples sent by a Jalandhar-based lab to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, Bhopal, are still awaited.“The number of epicentres is expected to rise with samples collected from four other poultry farms have been found positive for avian influenza at the Jalandhar-based lab,” sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-395-birds-culled-on-day-2-196810
11-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 44 cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-44-cases-196813
11-01-2021||---||In Mohali district, 84 more found infected||Mohali, January 10The district reported 84 fresh positive cases, taking the case tally to 18,740. No fatality was reported.Meanwhile, 72 more patients have recovered from the virus.Among the new cases, 53 were reported from Mohali (urban), 15 from Dera Bassi, four each from Gharuan and Kharar, and eight from Dhakoli.The district has seen 18,740 positive cases so far of whom, 17,456 patients have been cured. There are now 933 active cases. As many as 351 persons have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-district-84-more-found-infected-196816
11-01-2021||---||Hookah: Club caught on wrong foot a third time||Chandigarh, January 10It seems the decision of the UT Administration to close clubs and restaurants for three days for defying the hookah ban has failed to deter club owners as 10 days after a case was registered against the owner of a club, Pipe and Barrel, in Sector 9 for serving hookah, the UT police again found hookah being served to customers at the club.Three cases have been registered against the club for serving hookah since December.According to the police, hookah was being served at the club on January 9 following which a case was registered against club owner Sumesh Gagneja under Sections 188 and 270 of IPC and Section 58 of the Disaster Management Act at the Sector 3 police station.The police had earlier booked Gagneja after hookah was found being served to customers on December 12.Meanwhile, assistant manager of the club Deepak was also booked by the police after they found hookah being served at the club on December 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hookah-club-caught-on-wrong-foot-a-third-time-196821
11-01-2021||---||Boy sexually assaulted, suspects film incident||Panchkula, January 10A 10-year-old boy was sexually assaulted allegedly by a man and three minors, aged 12 to 13, when he went to collect dry wood on the banks of the Ghaggar.The suspects also shot a video of the incident on a mobile phone.The police today arrested a suspect, Lakhan Singh, a native of Murthal in Sonepat.According to the police, the incident took place on January 6 and they received a complaint from the victim’s father on January 8.The complainant came to know about the incident from a boy living in their neighbourhood, following which the victim himself confirmed the act committed against him.A case was registered under Section 6 of the POCSO Act at the Women police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-sexually-assaulted-suspects-film-incident-196823
11-01-2021||Panchkula||15 new cases in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-new-cases-in-panchkula-196824
