11-08-2020||---||Two more fatalities due to Covid-19 in Mohali; 67 fresh cases surface||Mohali, August 11Two more fatalities were witnessed taking the total count to 23 in the Mohali district on Tuesday. Both the patients with co-morbidities had tested positive.The deceased have been identified as 28-year-female, a resident of Sunny Enclave in Kharar who was suffering from multiple co-morbidity had died at the PGI Chandigarh. The second patient is a 62-year-male, a resident of village Manakpur and was suffering from comorbidity.Dr Harmandeep Kaur, District Epidemiologist and Nodal Officer, said that 28-year- old patient had damaged heart, kidneys and lungs and was under treatment at the PGI while the 62-year-male was suffering from diabetes and hypertension and was under treatment at Ivy Hospital.Health of both the patients, who had tested positive of the virus, was deteriorating from the last couple of days.Meanwhile, the persons infected with the virus include two males and three females from Baltana, six males and two females from Padiala village, two females and a male from Bhabat, five males and four females from Kharar, 17 males and five males from various parts of Mohali city, two females and a male from Bhabat, one male and a female from Sohana, three males from Dhakoli, one male and one female from Aerocity, one male and a female from Baltana.The other areas from where the patients were found positive of the virus include Jangpur, Balongi, Jujhar Nagar, Zirakpur , village Nada, Derabassi, Nayagaon, Bairmajra, Lohgarh, and Kurali.Twenty-five patients have been cured and discharged from hospital.As of now there are 1,452 positive patients and out of these 740 have been cured. There are 689 active cases with 23 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-fatalities-due-to-covid-19-in-mohali-67-fresh-cases-surface-125146
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 75 new coronavirus cases, one fatality||Chandigarh reported 75 new coronavirus cases and one more fatality on Tuesday, taking the union territory’s tally to 1,670 with 26 deaths.An 81-year-old woman from Sector 43 tested died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Monday, hours after she tested positive. She had a history of heart problems and had a stent.Forty-seven of the UT’s 75 new cases were detected through RT-PCR tests for COVID-19, Chandigarh’s evening medical bulletin said. The rest were found through the rapid antigen tests.Seven of the new cases were people over 60---four of these over 65.Chandigarh has 628 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-75-new-coronavirus-cases-one-fatality-125124
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||New Tribunal rules and advertisement for AFT members come under HC scanner||A Public Interest Litigation filed before the Punjab and Haryana High Court has sought a stay on the enforcement of new rules governing various Tribunals as well as a recent advertisement for filling up vacancies of administrative members on the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT).A Division Bench of the High Court comprising Bench Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli has issued a notice of motion and notice regarding stay to the Central Government.In the PIL, the petitioner, Lt Col SN Sharma (retd), a former president of the AFT Bar Association, has averred that in November 2019, the Supreme Court had struck down tribunal rules introduced by the central government in 2017. The Apex Court had then asked the government to reframe the rules in consonance with parent statutes governing tribunals and law laid down by the court earlier for ensuring independence of tribunals. The PIL has pointed out that the new rules issued in 2020, however, carried only cosmetic changes and continue with the control of the executive over tribunals. It states that Section 6 of the AFT Act only permits appointment of retired Major Generals and above as Administrative Members.The new rules and advertisement, on the other hand, make any person with experience in economics, management, commerce, industry, etc. eligible to be appointed as an administrative member, The PIL contends that not only is this in contravention of the Act but also law laid down by a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court, which has already ruled that such ambiguous clauses cannot be introduced for appointments in tribunals.The PIL also avers that the AFT continues to be placed under the control of the defence ministry and has the defence secretary as a part of the selection committee which is against the law laid down by the Supreme Court in L Chandra Kumar vs Union of India and Madras Bar Association vs Union of India as well as the dicta of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Navdeep Singh vs Union of India, wherein the government was ordered to place the AFT under the Law Ministry.Legal experts point out that multiple decisions by the Supreme Court for ensuring independence of tribunals have not been implemented by successive governments in letter and spirit leading to varied problems in their functioning and autonomy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-tribunal-rules-and-advertisement-for-aft-members-come-under-hc-scanner-125101
11-08-2020||Mohali||Fire breaks out in utensils shop in Mohali village||A fire broke out in a utensils shop in Mohali village adjacent to the kiosk market of Phase 1 in the city on Tuesday morning.However, no loss of life was reported from the incident.After receiving the message, the fire tenders rushed to the spot to douse the fire that had engulfed the second floor of the shop where plastic items had been kept.The firemen were able to control the fire within half an hour.Fire Officer Mohan Lal Verma said the short circuit appeared to be the cause of fire. He said six fire tenders were rushed to the spot which managed to douse the fire within half an hour. He said actual loss would be known after getting the details of the items kept at the second floor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-in-utensils-shop-in-mohali-village-125098
11-08-2020||Mandi||Mandi reports 16th COVID-19 death in Himachal; patient travelled from Panchkula||Mandi reported a COVID-19 death on Tuesday, taking the district's death toll to 16.The COVID-19 patient was identified as Kamlesh Devi—a resident of Sandhol in Mandi. The victim had travelled from Panchkula, Haryana.According to medical college authority, the patient was admitted at the medical college on August 10, and her condition was critical. She died in the hospital due to COVID-19 infection.Also read: Baddi woman tested positive for COVID-19 at PGI dies14 more tests positive for COVID-19 in Chamba; six in KangraThe family of the deceased have been informed about her demise. The funeral of the patient will be conducted at Nerchowk with complete safety protocol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mandi-reports-16th-covid-19-death-in-himachal-patient-travelled-from-panchkula-125076
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh declares blocks of Sector 40, Sector 46 as containment zones||To curb the spread of the deadly disease, two more containment zones were declared in the city on Tuesday.On the recommendation of a committee, UT Adviser Manoj Parida has announced a block with 24 houses, from house number 2,778 to 2,801, at Sector 40, and block with 23 flats with one garage, from house number 1,185 to 1,190 (four-storyed), in Sector 46, Chandigarh as containment zones.On August 3, six houses in Manimajra, and a block in EWS Colony in Dhanas had been declared as containment zones to contain the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-declares-blocks-of-sector-40-sector-46-as-containment-zones-125074
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Drunk biker hits Home Guards volunteer||A drunk motorcyclist reportedly hit a Home Guards volunteer at a naka in Sector 26 today. According to the police, volunteer Manoj was on duty at a naka near a temple in Sector 26 when the motorcyclist, identified as Yash of Sector 20, hit him. Manoj suffered injuries and was shifted to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.A case has been registered against the motorcyclist at the Sector 26 police station.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drunk-biker-hits-home-guards-volunteer-124840
11-08-2020||---||CBI court rejects former Mani Majra SHO’s plea||Chandigarh, August 10The CBI special judge, Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, has dismissed application of the suspended inspector and former SHO, Jaswinder Kaur, for providing the DVR of the Mani Majra police station to preserve the CCTV recording.Jaswinder Kaur’s counsel Terminder Singh moved an application before the CBI Court for issuing direction to the investigation officer concerned having the custody of the DVR of the Mani Majra police station to preserve the CCTV recording of June 30, 2020, from 10 am to 4 pm. The advocate also requested to provide the CCTV footage to the applicant as the same would be required by her during trial of the present case.“CBI officials have taken into possession the DVR of the police station. It has been pleaded in the application that on June 30, CBI officials have taken into possession the original DVR containing the CCTV footage of the Mani Majra police station,” said Terminder.After hearing arguments the CBI Court said, “Whatever CCTV footage available in the said DVR sealed and seized by the CBI on June 30, is preserved and same will be provided to the applicant/accused at appropriate time.”Jaswinder Kaur was booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding Rs 5 lakh bribe from a Mani Majra resident Gurdeep Singh for not registering a cheating case against him.An FIR was registered under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, against Jaswinder Kaur, former Mani Majra police station SHO and Bhagwan Singh, a private person, on the basis of written complaint of Gurdeep.Later, the CBI laid a trap and caught Bhagwan red handed while allegedly demanding and accepting bribe of Rs1 lakh on behalf of former the SHO.INTERIM BAIL OPPOSEDThe CBI has opposed the application of suspended inspector and the former Mani Majra police station SHO, Jaswinder Kaur, seeking interim bail to attend the marriage of her son. The CBI today filed its reply in response to her bail application before the court today. The CBI Court deferred the hearing on the application for tomorrow. While attaching marriage card and booking receipt of the hotel as proofs Jaswinder moved an application for allowing interim bail under Section, 439, CrPC, for participating, performing necessary rituals and ceremonies on the occasion of marriage of her son on August 14, 2020, during the pendency of the trial. Jaswinder surrendered before the court on July 25, 2020, in a bribery case. Presently, she is in judicial custody in Burail Jail, Chandigarh. The application was moved by the petitioner’s counsel, Terminder Singh, who pleaded that the presence of Jaswinder in the marriage function was necessary being mother.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-rejects-former-mani-majra-shos-plea-124822
11-08-2020||---||Website to provide info on Chandigarh’s development launched||Chandigarh, August 10A step to meet endeavors of the Government of India under ease of doing business and ease of living, a dedicated website https://urbanplanning.chd.gov.in of the Department of Urban Planning, Chandigarh, has been launched by Manoj Parida, Adviser to the UT Administrator.The website has been developed by Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC) with the intent to provide a single online source of information relating to the development in the city for facilitating public interface functions. It provides information relating to planning and designing of various projects, which are either ongoing or at planning stage or have already been completed.For transparency and visibility of the government schemes and to keep residents of the city apprised of the latest projects, important notified policies and reports of the Chandigarh Master Plan-2031, Chandigarh’s Heritage and information regarding various city-level infrastructure proposals have also been uploaded on the website.The portal shall be first of its own kind, which provides consolidated information required in online building plan approval system because all approved architectural controls, updated site verified zoning and layout plans have been uploaded on the website under distinct heads for clarity and ease of use.The latest building byelaws applicable to various types of land use (as compiled under the Chandigarh Building Byelaws (Urban) 2017) will also be available on the website for reference of residents in general and private architects’ in particular for all relevant information on building plans.The site also provides a list of private architects empanelled in the Chandigarh Administration under the “Self Certification Scheme”. An important link a G2G portal has also been developed within the website for client departments for seamless interface on all issues.Links to other important websites of planning and architecture of Chandigarh such as Capitol Complex, Foundation Le Corbusier and UNESCO World Heritage have also been provided.Mandatory information under the RTI Citizens Charter and a separate link for feedback/grievances has also been incorporated in the portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/website-to-provide-info-on-chandigarhs-development-launched-124823
11-08-2020||---||Four more Covid labs start functioning in Punjab||Mohali, August 10Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu Health Minister today inaugurated Covid-19 testing labs at Punjab Biotechnology Incubator and Punjab Forensic Science Laboratory, Mohali.Speaking on the occasion, Soni said with four more laboratories becoming operational in the state today, the testing capacity had increased from 16,000 to 20,000 tests per day. The other two labs that became operational today are Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, and Viral Testing Lab at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana.Sidhu said with timely tests, the infected people were being isolated from others thus reducing the chances of spread.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-covid-labs-start-functioning-in-punjab-124877
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||More showers likely||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-showers-likely-124842
11-08-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Bike thief gets no relief from court, Judge dismisses bail plea||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 10The Additional Sessions Judge, Sanjiv Joshi, has rejected the bail application of Baljinder Singh (22), who was arrested by the Chandigarh Police on the charge of stealing two-wheelers, including Bullet motorcycles.Pronouncing the order, the Court said, “The applicant is implicated in numerous cases of similar crimes in Punjab. The contention of public prosecutor that accused is professional thief cannot be brushed aside. Offences alleged against the accused are serious and it seems that petitioner is a habitual offender. In view of this, the court finds no ground to grant regular bail to the applicant-accused.”The police arrested six persons, including Baljinder, with stolen motorcycles on January 20, 2020. An FIR was registered at the Sector 39 police station, Chandigarh, in this connection. Baljinder’s counsel said, “No useful purpose shall be served by detaining the accused behind the bars as conclusion of trial will take sufficient time due to the Covid-19 conditions. Besides, he has already been bailed out in all cases pending against him in Punjab.”Contesting the arguments, the public prosecutor contended that the police recovered 28 Bullet motorcycles from the petitioner and co-accused. Further, the petitioner himself disclosed about seven Bullet motorcycles stolen by him from different places, which were recovered by the police, he added.“The petitioner happens to be a professional thief and has been implicated in numerous cases in Punjab. Therefore, he is not entitled to bail,” he said.After hearing the rival’s contentions, the court found no merits in the application. “At this stage, it cannot possibly be said that case registered against the applicant-accused is false. Hence, in the peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case, this court finds no ground to grant regular bail to the applicant-accused,” the Judge said.34 two-wheelers recovered The arrest of seven members of the gang led to the recovery of 34 two-wheelers, including 13 Bullet motorcycles. The police claimed that the suspects were arrested when they were planning to rob a petrol station in Sector 39 on January 20. They were riding six stolen Bullet motorcycles. The suspects stole two-wheelers and sold these at throwaway prices in Patiala, Khanna, Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib and Mohali. The police claimed that the gang had stolen around 70 two-wheelers of which almost half were sold to gullible people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bike-thief-gets-no-relief-from-court-judge-dismisses-bail-plea-124829
11-08-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Another district court judge tests positive in Chandigarh||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, August 10Three days after an Additional District and Sessions Judge tested Covid-19 positive, another Judge of the District Court, Chandigarh, tested positive today.As per information, Punita Bashamboo, Judicial Magistrate (First Class), contracted the virus. The District and Sessions Judge has assigned her duties to Mandeep Singh Kainth, Civil Judge-cum Judicial Magistrate (First Class), for August 11, 13 and 15 in addition to his own duties.The staff that came in contact with the judge over the last few days has been asked to go for self-quarantine.In a separate order, the District and Sessions Judge has asked Bashamboo not to attend office.The case has come at a time when Registrar-General of the High Court has sought suggestions from the District and Sessions Judges on limited physical hearing in district and subordinate courts.The high court as well as subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh are working in a restricted manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-district-court-judge-tests-positive-in-chandigarh-124830
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Eighty fresh cases in UT, 100 patients recover||Chandigarh recorded 80 Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the tally of infections up to 1,595. Of these, 24 cases emerged during rapid antigen tests. The new cases have been reported from sectors 41, 46, 5, 32, 52, 20, 44, 40, 20, 45, 35, 48, 15, 47, 38, 63, 49, 25, Mani Majra, Raipur Khurd, Ramdarbar, PGI, Khuda Lahora, Burail, Dadu Majra, Dhanas and Hallo Majra.Three of the new cases are health workers, two from the PGI and one from the GMCH-32. The day also witnessed a record single-day recovery of 100 patients. A total 1,004 patients have recovered in the city till now. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eighty-fresh-cases-in-ut-100-patients-recover-124831
11-08-2020||Zirakpur||Zirakpur reels under power cuts||Residents of the town today reeled under frequent power outages for the third day running. Swastik Vihar, Sushma Villas, Skynet Towers and housing societies near VIP Road were the worst hit.On Saturday and Sunday, most parts of the town faced power outages for close to eight hours. VIP Road, Baltana, Babhat, Jarnail Enclave (Phase II), Swastik Vihar, Dashmesh Nagar, Silver City, Shivalik Vihar were the affected areas.Officials of the PSPCL said there was a problem with the feeder line. The Banur-Babhat line needs to be connected with the Aerocity area for which a tower is being installed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-reels-under-power-cuts-124832
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Snatchers land in police net||The Chandigarh police have arrested two persons and claimed to have solved two cases of snatching and a case each of burglary and theft.The police said on July 27, a pedestrian snatched a gold chain from 72-year-old Shakuntala Sharma while she was returning home from the market in Sector 15.The police identified the suspect with the help of CCTV footage. A team, led by Inspector Rajiv Kumar, SHO of Sector 11, nabbed the suspect, identified as Gurdarshan Singh, alias Jashan (23), a resident of Ropar, while he was riding a motorcycle.Jashan disclosed that he, along with his associates, including Jagmeet (25), had committed many snatchings and a burglary in Chandigarh and Punjab. On his disclosure, a resident of Chamkaur Sahib was also nabbed. A motorcycle used in the crime was also recovered from him.The police have recovered the stolen gold chain, a purse and cash from the suspects. Four cases registered at the Sector 11 police station have been solved with the arrest of the suspects. — TNSCriminal pastJagmeet has seven cases registered against him, including one in Himachal Pradesh. Gurdarshan Singh, alias Jashan, has a case of snatching registered against him in Phillaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatchers-land-in-police-net-124833
11-08-2020||---||2 more succumb in Mohali||Mohali, August 10Mohali district today witnessed two fatalities taking the Covid-19 death toll up to 21. The district also logged 76 fresh cases of Covid and the total count now stands at 1,385. Twenty patients were discharged from the hospital.A maximum number of infections surfaced at Zirakpur (15) and Dera Bassi (12). The other areas from where the cases were reported include Phase 2, Phase 11, Sector 68, Sector 126, Landran, Charbar, Dhakoli, Baltana, Behda, Issapur, Sector 67, Sukhgarh, Kharar, Nayagaon, Sector 70, Phase VII, Phase IIIA, Parol, Mundi Kharar, Phase VI, 127, Phase I, Kharar, Sector 110, Peermuchalla, LIC Colony Mundi Kharar, Sector 114, Aerocity and Sialbamajri.The deceased were a 38-year-old man of Mubarikpur, who had recently undergone a brain surgery at the PGI, and a 70-year-old resident of Dera Bassi, who was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension (died at Panchkula). Of a total of 1,385 positive cases, 715 patients have been discharged from hospitals and the number of active cases at present is 649.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said one of the main reasons for the rapid increase in Covid cases was that most people were totally ignoring the basic guidelines of keeping face covered, keeping distance from each other and washing hands frequently. He said: “There is an urgent need to strictly follow the necessary precautions.”He said apart from Gyan Hospital, Banur, a Level 1 covid care centre had been set up at Chandigarh University, Gharuan. Although no stone has been left unturned in terms of necessary arrangements by the district administration, it is difficult to control the disease without the cooperation and support of the residents. He again asked people to do online transactions to pay their water, electricity, insurance, mobile, cylinder refill and other bills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-succumb-in-mohali-124835
11-08-2020||Naina Mishra||Post-Covid care centre to come up at PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 10The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is going to set up a post-Covid care clinic for patients who have recovered from the illness.Dr Jagat Ram, Director of PGIMER, said: “We have discharged a number of patients and we want to have a follow-up to know whether there are any problems persisting in them. There are many Covid-19 patients with co-morbid conditions such as heart disease, kidney failure or diabetes. We want to see whether any adverse effect of Covid-19 is still persisting in these patients or not.”“The virus neutralises in two weeks but it may leave some complications. The clinic will help to examine any sequel in these patients. We are yet to identify the site for such patients. However, the post-care centre will have doctors from various disciplines, including pulmonologist, internal medicine etc,” he added.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has also asked Covid care hospitals and centres regarding the national Covid-19 registry that whether there is any provision of a Covid-19 follow-up clinic at the hospital. “It has been observed that a few Covid patients, who completely recover and even become RT-PCR negative after treatment, later on suddenly die of cardiac arrest or stroke. This could be due to the silent inflammation of the blood vessels or blood clots in their blood vessels feeding the vital organs. Lately, it was observed that a few recovered patients had post-Covid lung fibrosis (damage caused by the infection that leads to scarring of lungs), thereby necessitating the need for a dedicated post-Covid care facility to offer them timely medical care,” said Dr Mandeep Garg, who is Professor in the Department of Radiodiagnosis and Imaging at the PGI.West Bengal had come up with post-Covid follow-up clinic model in June.Why it is neededDr Jagat Ram, Director of PGIMER, said: “We have discharged a number of patients and we want to have a follow-up to know whether there are any problems persisting in them. There are many Covid-19 patients with co-morbid conditions such as heart disease, kidney failure or diabetes. We want to see whether any adverse effect of Covid-19 is still persisting in these patients or not.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/post-covid-care-centre-to-come-up-at-pgi-124836
11-08-2020||---||2 held for robbing auto driver||Chandigarh, August 10The UT police have arrested two miscreants for thrashing and robbing an auto driver. They have been identified as Rajat Singh (19), a resident of Sector 38 (West), and Rohit (21), a resident of Sector 38.Rohit was earlier arrested in two cases of snatching.The victim, Sanjay Kumar a resident of Milk Colony, Dhanas, had reported that two unknown persons boarded his auto from the Sector 25/38 light point on the night of August 2. On reaching near a gaushala in Sector 38 (West), the suspects caught hold of the victim’s neck and hit him on his head with a brick. The suspects robbed him of Rs500.The suspects then again asked the auto driver to drop them at the Sector 25/38 light point from where they escaped.Victim was robbed of Rs500The victim, Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Milk Colony, Dhanas, had reported that two unknown persons boarded his auto from the Sector 25/38 light point on the night of August 2. On reaching near a gaushala in Sector 38 (West), the suspects caught hold of the victim’s neck and hit him on his head with a brick. The suspects robbed him of Rs500.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-for-robbing-auto-driver-124837
11-08-2020||---||Mohali DC allays home-isolation fears||Mohali, August 10Allaying residents' fears caused by the rising number of Covid-19 patients in home isolation, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan has said no critically ill or serious patients are placed under home quarantine. He has said it is only after due medical assessment and house inspection that patients are home-quarantined.Dayalan said doctors analyse patients for co-morbidities and on finding them fit enough to recuperate at home, permit home quarantine. Similarly, after ascertaining the locality where the patient wants to be along with the availability of a separate room and washroom at his home, he/she is granted home-quarantine permission. Making an appeal to people not to panic in the wake of a patient home-quarantined in their neighbourhood, Dayalan said a person who did not require direct medical care could recuperate best in his house. thereby making room for critical patients in hospitals. “It is a well-deliberated mechanism adopted on the directions of the Centre and the state government for ensuring the right person in the right place,” he said, adding that “we need not panic on this account. The crisis period is a test of our human empathy and brotherhood”.Meanwhile, the District Administration issued formal orders assigning responsibility to various government departments for the collection of bio-medical waste of Covid-19 patients in home isolation.Dayalan said the Municipal Corporation and the nagar councils would be responsible for waste collection from all households of Covid-19 patients in their respective jurisdictions. He said BDPOs will cater to villages and GMADA will be responsible for arranging for bio-medical waste collection from urban areas outside the municipal limits.Dayalan said a person placed under home quarantine was not supposed to come out of his premises so no direct threat of spread of infection existed. Each of the above departments would provide yellow-coloured waste disposal bags in sufficient quantity to the patient as soon as he is home-quarantined and thereafter arrange for daily garbage collection and disposal through the agency roped in by them, he added. As of now, sanitisation is being carried out in areas that fall in the Covid-19 clusters, micro-containment and containment zones. The DC said for public safety, they would now facilitate sanitisation of banks and other public institutions, who reach them for support on having detected a Covid-positive employee. Similarly, residential welfare associations, who seek to sanitise common use area of their building, where a Covid case surfaced or positive patient was home-quarantined, would be also be facilitated.Medical kitAs solidarity and safety measure towards patients under home quarantine, along with the dedicated medical follow-up, the administration will provide a kit containing vitamin supplements, antipyretic medicine and a pulse oximeter to measure the blood oxygen level (SpO2) of the patient. The pulse oximeter would however be given only for quarantine period and the patient would have to return it on recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-dc-allays-home-isolation-fears-124838
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Man commits suicide in Sec 21||Webinar on NEP in sd collegeChandigarh: The business school of SD College here recently organised a webinar on the impact of New Education Policy (NEP) on undergraduate and postgraduate colleges. NC Wadhwa, Director General, Manav Rachna Educational Institutes, Faridabad; RL Raina, Vice-Chancellor, JK Lakshmipat University, Jaipur; Manjula Chaudhary, Dean, Academic Affairs, Kurukshetra University; and Dr Sanjay Kaushik, Dean, College Development Council, Panjab University, put forward their opinions during the webinar. They reposed confidence in the NEP. About 200 persons participated in the webinar. TNSMan nabbed with opiumChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a 27-year-old man for possessing 208 grams of opium. According to the police, the suspect, identified as Surinder Jat, a resident of Darshani Bagh, Mani Majra, was nabbed from near the Sports Complex, Mani Majra, on August 9. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. TNSHigh drama at grain marketChandigarh: High drama was witnessed at Grain Market, Sector 26, after a trader alleged that a woman constable thrashed a labourer for not wearing a mask on Monday. Neeraj, owner of Neeraj Trading Co, stated that Pinto was working without mask when the woman constable arrived there and started videography. Pinto got scared and went inside the shop. He alleged that the constable pulled the labourer out of the shop and thrashed him. Senior cops also reached the spot. A probe has been marked into the matter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-commits-suicide-in-sec-21-124839
11-08-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Aug 31 last date for fee payment in Punjab University||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 10On the lines of Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Panjab University (PU) announced that it would frame a policy for helping the needy students, who are not in a position to pay the fee due to the pandemic.It has been also decided to extend the last date for the payment of fee to August 31.Amid a series of protests by various PU students’ political parties, the coordination committee, set up by the PU Syndicate, met today and took these decisions.It has been also decided that online classes for the current session will not be held before August 31. However, the faculty will continue to teach the students of previous semesters for covering their remaining topics or to clear doubts from August 11 to 31.“The last date for the payment of fee for the current semester has been extended to August 31,” said Prof RK Singla, Dean of University Instructions. “The faculty will engage the students in online classes for clearing doubts or covering remaining topics of the previous semesters,” he added.Meanwhile, the PU Vice-Chancellor will form a committee to set up the funds and spot the needy students. “I felt that such funds should be raised for the needy students of the university. The coordination committee met today and decided that it should be introduced and implemented. The Vice-Chancellor will form a committee and its members will look after other proceedings,” said Navdeep Goyal, Chairman, coordination committee.On arranging funds, Goyal added: “Though the decision is yet to be made, alumnus, faculty members and others should come forward to contribute to this. We have to fight the ongoing pandemic situation together. Even the students’ parties should understand the fact that issues should be settled amicably.”PEC modelLast month, PEC has decided to provide financial assistance to students in need for the next semester. It was decided that since a complete fee waiver is not possible, financial help will be given to the students who genuinely need support. It had announced Covid emergency fund for providing financial help to students. The institution’s alumnus contributed to the fund. For granting financial aid, PEC identified students who need the institution’s assistance through a proper screening.Parties demand complete fee waiverMeanwhile, PU students’ political parties demanded a full exemption of the fee. Today, representatives of student organizations, including the PSU (Lalkaar), ASA, SFS, PUCSC, PUSU, SATH, NSUI, SOI, INSO, SOPU, SFI, Y4S, CYSS and AISA, held a protest outside the Administration Office. The protestors claimed that the course fee and examination fee paid by students in the last semester could not be utilised for students of the university due to the unavoidable suspension of the ongoing session in mid-March because of the lockdown. They said the university was now extracting the full fee from students for online session. The organisations said they would continue to protest till the PU authorities completely waive the semester fee.Session may get delayedAs the demand to extend the last date of fee submission has been accepted, the session may get extended to February 2021.Meanwhile, the protestors were seen paying no need to the social distancing norms and were not wearing masks too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aug-31-last-date-for-fee-payment-in-punjab-university-124807
11-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Covid: Violators made to stand for hour||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 10The district police have started implementing the new guidelines of the state government by punishing people violating the Covid norms, especially those not wearing a mask.The violators were made to stand along the roadside for an hour and then masks were distributed among them.Harpal Singh, SP (Investigation), said the new guidelines of the government were being implemented in letter and spirit. He said instead of imposing fines those roaming without a mask, they were being asked to stand for an hour in a public place. He said: “If we can save our society and family just by wearing a mask and maintaining social distance, we must follow it.”He said the police were working round the clock and guarding all nakas to save people from the pandemic. He said residents should also co-operate and follow all the directions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-violators-made-to-stand-for-hour-124809
11-08-2020||---||UT to spend Rs 26 lakh on renovation of  IAS officer’s house||Chandigarh, August 10Amid economic slowdown, the Engineering Department of the UT Administration is going to spend Rs26.44 lakh on the repair and renovation of a house here.The department has already floated a tender for the work to be carried out in house number 514 in Sector 16.According to the information, the house has been allotted to an IAS officer of the Punjab cadre. The tender was floated on August 8 and bids will be opened on August 14.According to the tender details, the work will include the construction of a multipurpose room and additional toilet at the ground and first floor and renovation of the house.An official of the Engineering Department said the repair and renovation work was to be carried out in the house after more than a decade. The tender had been floated only after getting approval from the Urban Planning Department, he added.Social activist RK Garg said there was no need for spending a huge amount of money on the renovation of houses allotted to officers.Garg said: “We need to review the expenses that are being incurred on the renovation of houses of the officers and the Chandigarh Administration has to take a call to stop all such wasteful expenditure for future.”“This is not a time for such expenses as we are facing financial crunch. At present, we need to save every penny to fight Covid-19 pandemic,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-to-spend-rs-26-lakh-on-renovation-of-ias-officers-house-124810
11-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Wife among four held for man’s murder in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, August 10The district police claimed to have solved the blind murder mystery of one Paramjit Singh, alias Raju, a resident of Kaleran village in the Bassi Pathana subdivision with the arrest of the wife of the deceased and her three accomplices.The police also recovered the stick and other weapons used for murder, along with a motorcycle.Addressing the media, SSP Amneet Kondal said a body was found lying on the outskirts of Rampur Kaleran. The deceased was identified as Paramjit Singh. She said the murder case was solved in 24 hour and arrested Kuldeep Kaur, wife of the deceased, arrested. Her accomplices were Maninder Singh, alias Mani, a resident of Samrala, Sunny, who is the brother of Kuldeep Kaur and a resident of Amritsar, and Parwinder Singh, alias Gaggi, a resident of Sangrur.She said the reason behind the murder was that Paramjit Singh was a habitual drinker and used to beat his wife and torture her. He was a government employee, but remained absent from the duty. The suspects had murdered him and threw his body on the outskirt of the village.She said a case has been registered under Section 302, 120B, 34 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wife-among-four-held-for-mans-murder-in-fatehgarh-sahib-124811
11-08-2020||---||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh key speaker at webinar organised by Sarva Kamboj Samaj||Chandigarh, August 10The International Sarva Kamboj Samaj organised a webinar, ‘Hai Naman Unko’, through Web X, in which the Defence Minister of the country, Rajnath Singh, addressed the participants.The event was anchored by the of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha vice-president Abhinav Sharma.In his address, Rajnath Singh mentioned how the life of Shaheed Udham Singh was a source of inspiration for the youth. He said in 2018, he went to Jallianwala Bagh to unveil the life-size statue of martyr Udham Singh and that event was also organised by the International Sarva Kamboj Samaj.Arun Sood, state BJP president, senior Congress leader Pala Batti, Kamboj Samaj adviser Kewal Handa and Sarv Kamboj Samaj vice-president Parvesh Kamboj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-key-speaker-at-webinar-organised-by-sarva-kamboj-samaj-124813
11-08-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Social-distancing norm goes for a toss at Chandigarh's Labour Chowk||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 10Daily wagers coming to find work at a temporary arrangement at the Sector 44/45 Labour chowk are at risk amid the Covid-19 scare. Labourers, already hit by no work and low income, gather at the chowk in large numbers flouting the social-distancing norm.Besides, no basic arrangements have been made for a mandatory medical screening at the venue, which puts them at higher risk in these tough times.“No medical screening is conducted here as of now. A person or company, who hires us for a day or two, checks us. They check our body temperature as we enter the construction site. If we go to work on hourly wages or for a small repair work in houses, there’s no provision for any screening,” said Ramesh, a plumber.A majority of times, labourers surround people or their vehicles stopping at the Labour chowk urging the latter to hire them. “Even we don’t want to surround vehicles or touch them. But, when one person does that accidently, then there is no stopping for others. There has literally been no work these days and if someone comes, our hopes rise. We are not doing it out of choice,” said Prince, a daily wager.Most labourers come from nearby sectors, including Sector 45, Kajheri and other places, including Mohali. “The Administration provided us food for some time, but since one month there has been nothing. No face masks have been provided to us. We have a common area to drink water, which remains open for all. There is no other way to earn living,” said Muna, also a daily wager.People sit together and play cards at the temporary arrangement. “What else can we do to kill our time when we don’t have work. There is nothing new to discuss. We just hope and wait for someone to come so that we can make some money. Playing cards or sitting together won’t make a difference,” said Mai Lal, another daily wager.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-distancing-norm-goes-for-a-toss-at-chandigarhs-labour-chowk-124814
11-08-2020||---||History-sheeter nabbed in Mohali||Mohali, August 10The police have arrested a history-sheeter, who is involved in two-wheeler thefts. The police also recovered two stolen bikes from his possession.The accused has been identified as Gurinder Singh, alias Baba, a resident of Patiala. He was produced in a local court today, which sent him to five-day police remand.According to the police, 23 criminal cases were registered against the accused at various police stations in Punjab and Haryana since 1991.Inspector Manphul Singh, Station House Officer (SHO), Phase 1 police station, said, “We had received various complaints regarding theft against him in the recent past. Following a tip-off, we nabbed him from the Industrial Area, Phase 7, when he was about to sell stolen bikes.”“The accused is a history-sheeter. He is involved in various thefts in the area. Further investigation is on so that we can arrest his accomplices too,” the SHO added.A case has been registered against the accused under Section 379 of the IPC at the Phase 1 police station in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/history-sheeter-nabbed-in-mohali-124815
11-08-2020||---||Panchkula polyclinic to be upgraded||Panchkula, August 10Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Monday called an internal meeting with officials of the Health Department at Haryana Vidhan Sabha to discuss rising Covid cases across the district and ways to prevent the spread of disease.He also reviewed health facilities at the Sector 6 Civil Hospital, CHCs, PHCs and dispensaries during the prevailing condition of Covid-19.He touched upon the issue of seasonal diseases and preventions taken by the Health Department to tackle them during the meeting.Meanwhile, Sector 26 polyclinic to be upgraded to 100-bed hospitalGupta said, “The Sector 26 polyclinic is being upgraded to a 100-bed hospital. It will benefit people living in trans-Ghaggar sectors as they will be able to avail better health facilities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-polyclinic-to-be-upgraded-124816
11-08-2020||Amit Bathla||62 fresh cases take Panchkula Covid tally past 1,000 mark||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 10With 62 new Covid-19 cases, Panchkula crossed 1,000-mark on Monday.Twelve cases were reported from Sector 9, 10 from Sector 10, four each from Sector 15 and Sector 20, three each from MDC, Sector 5 and Sector 25. Positive cases also surfaced in Kalka, Pinjore, Dharampur, Natwal village, Mouli village, Hangoli village, Ashiana, Sector 20, Chikkan village, Sector 1 and Sector 2. The district has 408 active cases while 590 patients have been discharged and cured. Three Covid related deaths have been reported so far.How cases progressed2000-mark a matter of time, says CMOTaking account of almost 40 cases being reported every day since the beginning of August, health officials claimed that if safety measures were not taken seriously by residents, 2000-mark would just be a matter of time. Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “The pandemic has touched almost every neighbourhood in the district thus the rise is inevitable.”First positive case in the district was reported on March 20. It was during the Unlock 1.0 in June when Panchkula witnessed a surge in the cases with inter-state travellers entering the district and turning out to be positive.Panchkula crossed the 100-mark on June 25, 97 days after the district reported its first case. Almost 450 cases were reported in July. In the last 10 days, 418 positve cases have been reported.The spike has been attributed to contacts of infected persons. Even cases from the Central Reserve Police Force and Indo Tibetan Border Police contributed to a rise in the case load.If officials are to be believed, the district has been conducting around 600 tests daily. According to today’s health bulletin, the district collected 23,184 samples til date. Notably, Panchkula’s testing is highest in the tricity in terms of per lakh population. Officials claimed that they were doing three types of tests — RT-PCR, serological (ELISA) and rapid anti-gen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/62-fresh-cases-take-panchkula-covid-tally-past-1-000-mark-124817
11-08-2020||---||Private labs can collect samples from home||Chandigarh, August 10The UT Adviser, Manoj Parida, on Monday announced that private laboratories had been permitted to collect samples of suspected patients from home.Parida said, “Private laboratories have been allowed to collect RTPCR and antigen samples from home.”There are three private laboratories – SRL Diagnostic Laboratory, Atulaya Healthcare and Metropolis Healthcare. SRL Diagnostics at Sector 11 has been conducting RT-PCR testing in Chandigarh and has also started antigen and antibody tests recently .While, rapid antigen is nasopharyngeal swab test, antibody test is a blood test primarily used for sero-surveillance. The antigen test is priced at Rs1200 in SRL Laboratory.Atulaya Healthcare is providing the Covid-19 testing in three different ways — RT PCR for Rs2,000 per test, antibody on chemiluminescence immunoassay for Rs999 per test and antigen on rapid card for Rs1,500 test.Metropolis Healthcare will only collect samples from home as the laboratory has no kiosk set up in Chandigarh for sampling.SRL and Atulaya will collect samples from home along with collection from sites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-labs-can-collect-samples-from-home-124818
11-08-2020||---||Woman commits suicide at Sec 52||Chandigarh, August 10A 23-year-old woman reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself at the forest area in Sector 52 today evening. The deceased has been identified as Pooja, a resident of Kajehri, Sector 52. She was found hanging by passersby, who informed the police.A PCR vehicle reached the spot and rushed the deceased to hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. The police said that deceased had an argument with her husband Manoj Kumar over some issue after which she left home today. The deceased is survived by her husband and two children aged five and two years, respectively. An inquest proceeding has been initiated into the matter at the Sector 36 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-commits-suicide-at-sec-52-124819
11-08-2020||---||Car stolen from Sector 68||Mohali, August 10A Hyundai i20 car was stolen from the residential area of Sector 68 in Mohali late last night.The car owner, Jagdeep Singh, complained to the police that he had parked his vehicle near his house at night. Today morning, he noticed that the vehicle was missing from the spot.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Rakesh Kumar said, “We have checked the footage of CCTV cameras of the locality, but no clue has been found yet.”“A case has been registered under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase 8 police station in this connection today,” the ASI added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-stolen-from-sector-68-124820
11-08-2020||Chandigarh||Project for doubling Chandigarh's water storage capacity hits roadblock||A long-pending project for doubling city’s water storage capacity has further been delayed as the Municipal Corporation (MC) did not get desired response to its tender floated last month. So, the MC has now refloated tender for the project. Delaying of the project means residents will have to bear frequent water supply cuts for some more time.According to MC officials, only two companies had filed bids for the work. However, only one of them qualified for the job. Thus, the corporation had to cancel the process and float tender again. The cost of the project is Rs37 crore. With this project, the water storage capacity will be upgraded from the present 45 to 90 million gallons per day (MGD) at the Sector 39 waterworks reservoir, which receives supply from the Kajauli waterworks.The waterworks at present has only half-day underground water storage capacity. Its capacity is inadequate. The water stored in the morning is supplied in the evening while evening storage is for the morning. Due to half-day water storage capacity, the city has been witnessing frequent “low or no water supply”.In the event of any leakage or repair work of the pipeline from Kajauli to Chandigarh, UT sees severe water crisis as the Sector 39 reservoir runs out of water. Normally, there is a demand of 90 to 95 MGD water per day. In summer, it rises to 120 to 125 MGD. Chandigarh has a water availability of 120 MGD.The project has been hanging fire for a long time. Last year, the MC took up the matter with the UT Administration for providing funds for the project, but the latter did not budge. Later, the MC decided to do the job with its own funds and the House gave its approval in February this year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/project-for-doubling-chandigarhs-water-storage-capacity-hits-roadblock-124821
