11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh curfew to continue  as long as nation remains under lockdown: UT Administrator||Chandigarh’s curfew will continue so long as nation lockdown continues, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore said on Saturday.Badnore, who attended the video conferencing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said: “It is heartening to know that Chandigarh has fared well in the first phase of curfew. The curfew in Chandigarh will continue as long as the lockdown in the country continues”.He directed UT Adviser Manoj Parida to formulate a scheme for utilising the services of idle workers in the second phase of curfew, and said the farmers going for harvesting and marketing of their produces should be facilitated during the curfew. The Administrator asked the UT’s Education Department to devise a mechanism for 40 book stores of Chandigarh to deliver books to students’ homes during the long curfew period, a press statement from the UT Administration said.Badnore directed the Adviser to ensure that all students from North-east, Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir are taken care of in the city.Badnore also launched a new mobile application developed by IT Department of Chandigarh to track quarantine corona patients. The development comes at a time when state governments through India have asked the central government to extend its lockdown beyond April 14 to stem the spread of coronavirus.Chandigarh’s coronavirus tally currently stands at 19 infections.Chandigarh Administration ordered curfew in the union territory on March 23, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered a nationwide lockdown.Punjab has already announced it was extending curfew restrictions in the state until May 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-curfew-to-continue-as-long-as-nation-remains-under-lockdown-ut-administrator-69771
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Pension rules simplified to avoid inconvenience to retiring defence personnel||To avoid inconvenience to armed forces personnel proceeding on retirement amidst the nationwide lockdown due to the threat of COVID-19, the Defence Accounts Department has simplified some of the pension payment procedures.A circular issued by the Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (PCDA) states that a pensioner would no longer be required to physically visit the pension disbursing agency (PDA) to activate the first payment of pension.The first payment will be credited in his account on the basis of an undertaking submitted by the service headquarters or the record's office concerned on the status of re-employment or non-reemployment of the individual after retirement.In pursuance of the decision to impose a complete lockdown in view of the threat posed by COVID-19, the records offices have been requested to transmit scanned soft copies of the required documents like descriptive roll, re-employment certificate and undertaking on any over-payment recovery to the concerned PDA on designated email addresses, the circular states.All PDAs have been asked to follow the instructions and credit the pensionary awards notified in favour of the pensioner into the bank account without his physical presence as and when due on the basis of the scanned documents in soft copies till further orders.The PDAs have also been requested to ensure that the pensionary benefits as mentioned in the pension payment order are not held up for want of any documents.The measures will be applicable till further orders.The circular adds that the aforesaid instructions will also apply mutatis mutandis to commissioned officers except that the undertaking and certificate will be submitted by the office directly to the bank while the descriptive roll and PPO will be forwarded electronically to the bank by the PCDA.As far as defence civilians who are paid out of defence estimates are concerned, orders have been issued that till the lockdown continues, superannuation pension claim where the date of retirement is on or before April 30, 2020, as well as pension claim in death cases may also be forwarded to PCDA in a soft copy.Some offices had expressed their inability in forwarding of pension claims in hard copy due to the lockdown and this arrangement has been made optional for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pension-rules-simplified-to-avoid-inconvenience-to-retiring-defence-personnel-69768
11-04-2020||Mohali/Jalandhar/Patiala||Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur alone has 34 cases; Punjab tally 158||Mohali, Jalandhar, Pathankot, and Patiala reported new coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the state tally to 158.  Two more people tested positive in Dera Bassi's Jawaharpur village in Mohali district, taking the vilage tally to 34 and the district tally to 50.The district has seen one death so far.The two people tested positive are associates of the families of the panch and the sarpanch who had also tested positive. They have been admitted to the isolation ward of Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.  The first case in the village surfaced on April 4 when a 42-year-old-year panch of the village had tested positive. Since then 33 more people—30 part of his extended family—have tested positive for coronavirus.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said teams had been deputed for the village to take samples of their family members and other contacts. He said reports of all 12 samples had arrived--two had tested positive while 10 had tested negative.The district administration has already sealed Jawaharpur along with Devigarh and Mehmudpur villages, deploying 75 cops with three PCR vehicles to ensure no movement.None of the 34 people has any travel history. Most of them were asymptomatic and detected only though testing and added that some Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed in the village, but left before anyone could get information about them.Jalandhar reported three more positive cases---all three relatives of the man who died of the infection in Mitha Bazar on Thursday.Among those who tested positive is a 34-year-old local Congress leader who is the block president of the Congress. He met Jalandhar North MLA Bawa Henry on March 30 and half a dozen Congress workers and councillors.All of them quarantined themselves soon after the Congress leader’s father tested positive.This takes Jalandhar cases to 15, with one death.In Patiala, a man who works as gardener at the residence of a PCS officer tested positive for coronavirus. Sources said that he worked in the houses of some other officers as well.His brother, who is employed at the house of a noted city doctor couple, has also been quarantined.Another person tested positive in Faridkot, taking the total number of cases in the district to three. Authorities said the third person who tested positive was friends with the other two already diagnosed with the infection. A student at Lovely Professional University in Phagwara tested positive on Friday evening. She was living at the university hostel.However neither of these two cases have been yet to be added to the state tally.Punjab government extended curfew restrictions in the state until May 1, and advanced school vacations in an attempt to stem the spread of the virus.The state's latest media bulletin shows that of 3,909 cases tested in Punjab, 3,249 tested negative. The state's awaited results 502. Two patients are in serious condition. The state has also revised its death tally to 12, from 10 until Friday.Here's the state's official tally||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassis-jawaharpur-alone-has-34-cases-punjab-tally-158-69725
11-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Migrant labourer dies in Kharar, police seal area||Kharar, April 10A 27-year-old migrant labourer died in Kharar on Friday. It is suspected that he had coronavirus following which the police sealed the area where he was residing. Dr Tarsem Singh, SMO, Civil Hospital, Kharar, said he came to the hospital on April 4 for treatment complaining cough.SHO Kharar city police station Bhagwant Singh said the police have sealed the area of Papu Colony in Bhagoo Majra area where he was residing. Meanwhile, the police commandos today sent the body for electric cremation in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/migrant-labourer-dies-in-kharar-police-seal-area-69474
11-04-2020||ATM van||ATM route plan for today||Location to start: Andhra Bank, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Satvinder GurnamContact No. 8146903533Proposed route: Sector 3 (10.30 am to 1.30 pm), Sector 4 (2 pm to 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 AMATM van, Canara BankLocation to start: Canara Bank, Plot No. 1, Sector 34-A, ChandigarhCoordinator: Sarvpreet SinghContact No. 8728800158Proposed route: Sector 50 - Victoria, Pepsu, BSNL and other Societies (10.30 am – 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 AMATM van, SBILocation to start: LHO, SBI, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Deepak ChechiContact No. 9478535876Proposed route: Behlana village (10.30 am - 1.30 pm), Sector 31 (1.30 pm - 4.30 pm) ChandigarhTime to start: 10.30 AM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-route-plan-for-today-69473
11-04-2020||Naina Mishra||GMCH-32 screens all with flu-like symptoms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 10To prevent the entry of any patient with flu-like symptoms into the GMCH, all those visiting the emergency and trauma services are currently being screened.In the screening OPD, any patient who fits into any of the five categories specified by the ICMR is directly admitted to the Covid-19 isolation ward and the sample is collected in the ward itself.The patient is accompanied by a hospital attendant to the isolation ward.There is a specified route to be followed for shifting the patient to the ward that includes a dedicated lift. The lift operator is provided with a mask and hand sanitiser. The operator stays outside the lift and the attendant from the screening OPD, with PPE kit, accompanies the patient.There are two 24X7 flu corners being manned by a social worker, a lab technician and a security guard. Outside the entrance to emergency and trauma services and labour room, all patients who complain of sore throat, cough, fever and difficulty in breathing are provided with face mask and are directed to go to the 24X7 screening OPD.The screening OPD for Covid and other flu-like symptoms is manned by a team consisting of a senior resident and two junior residents. This OPD is situated on the ground floor, D Block.As many as seven police constables are posted outside the institute to check any untoward incident. The attendant posted at the screening OPD is directed to sanitise the chair and table before attending the next patient.In the isolation ward, oral and nasopharyngeal swab is taken by a team consisting of an ENT specialist and a microbiologist. In case a patient turns out to be positive, he/she is shifted to the ward concerned and if the report is negative, the patient is discharged and advised home-quarantine for two weeks and information regarding him/her is also sent to the nodal officer to ensure proper labeling of the house and putting up a notice board outside the house.Two separate wardsThe GMCH has two separate wards, one for Covid-suspected cases and another for positive cases. Each suspected patients is kept at a separate room and is not allowed to meet with other patients. He/she is managed as a positive case till the report comes out. There are two separate teams of healthcare staff for both wards. All staff wear PPE kits. The wards are sanitised thrice daily.Seven-day workEach team works for seven days and after seven days, a new team takes over and the old team is given off for seven days and they are kept under observation at private rooms area 72/ Hotel Parkview or their homes as per the choice of the staff. The staff is provided with free meals irrespective of their place of stay.Option of staying away from family during the duty and seven days after the duty is offered to doctors, nurses, attendants and safaikaramchari.HCQ for healthworkersStaff looking after Covid-19 patients are provided with hydroxylchloroquine as a preventive strategy as per the ICMR guidelines. The positive Covid-19 patients are given only symptomatic treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-32-screens-all-with-flu-like-symptoms-69472
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Christians celebrate Good Friday at home||Amid lockdown in the tricity, members of the Christian community celebrated Good Friday at their home today.Priest Rev Denzal Peoples, Christ Church (CNI), Sector 18, prayed in the empty church for the entire community. Good Friday is observed with fasting and praying by many Christian believers as Jesus Christ was crucified on this day.He specially prayed for the healing of the sufferers affected by Covid-19 virus in the entire world and for the peace and harmony in the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/christians-celebrate-good-friday-at-home-69471
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Congress councillors call for special House meeting, write to Mayor||In view of the Covid-19 cases, Congress councillors have called for an urgent special House meeting of the Municipal Corporation through video-conferencing.In a letter to Mayor Raj Bala Malik, Devinder Singh Babla, Leader of Opposition, Gurbax Rawat, Ravinder Kaur Gujral, Sheela Phool Singh and Satish Kainth, all Congress councillors, stated that “There are several issues pertaining to residents across different strata of society, including daily wage labourers, dhobis, garbage collectors, safai karamcharis, rickshaw pullers and government employees. Shopkeepers, local businesses, traders and MSMEs have suffered huge losses. If we start collating the total economic loss in the city itself, the amount will sum up to several hundreds of crores”.“As an elected representative and a responsible citizen, I consider this as my duty to make an appeal to you to address the issue of Covid-19 and request you to kindly call for an urgent special House meeting via video-conferencing with a single-point agenda on how to fight the virus in the city as several departments from the MC are engaged in this fight,” said Babla. He said councillors should be made part of the implementation plans in fight against the Covid-19.“The House should pass a resolution and contribute towards fighting Covid-19 and also take into account how we can contribute financially to Indian Red Cross Society, UT, and further strengthen the capability of the Administration,” he said.MP Kirron Kher should also be a part of the videoconference meeting being an ex-officio member of the MC, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-councillors-call-for-special-house-meeting-write-to-mayor-69470
11-04-2020||Mohali||Ration packets given to needy||Know Thy Self as Soul Foundation here today distributed 900 packets of dry ration among the needy. The foundation had earlier donated 800 packets among the needy. The packets included 5-kg atta, 3-kg rice, 1-kg dal and 1 packet of salt.Disclosing this here today, Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan welcomed the help extended by the foundation and expressed gratitude to the philanthropists who are coming forward to support the efforts of the district administration in combating Covid-19.Dayalan said Federal Agro Industries Private Limited gave a monetary help of Rs 5 lakh, while Indus Towers also pitched in with donation of 200 sanitisers and 300 masks. Britannia Industries, which had earlier donated 10,000 packets of biscuits, gave 5,000 more biscuit packets today. The DC said if anyone wants to extend monetary help, then contributions could be made in the name of President, Red Cross Society, Mohali, in the branch of Punjab National Bank located at the District Administrative Complex in Sector 76. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ration-packets-given-to-needy-69469
11-04-2020||---||Man arrested for driving SUV with fake number||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 10The UT police arrested a 35-year-old man for driving an SUV in violation of the curfew orders around Sector 10 here. The SUV also has two different number plates affixed on it.According to the police, the suspect, Sarandeep Singh, a resident of Sector 10, was roaming in his Toyota Fortuner, when the cops stopped him.The suspect could not produce the curfew pass.The police later found that the SUV has different number on both plates.CH05-6064 was mentioned in the front number plate, while CH05-6061 was written on the rear number plate.Upon verification, it came to light that the actual number of the SUV is CH05(T)6064. The police said the suspect was also not wearing the mask.A case has been registered against him at the Sector 3 police station. The police have also impounded his SUV.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-driving-suv-with-fake-number-69468
11-04-2020||---||5 booked on charge of assault||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 10Five youths allegedly attacked a man with bricks following heated arguments in Nayagaon here today. The victim has been identified as Rajinder (52), a resident of Janta colony in Nayagaon.The suspects have been identified as Naresh, Shubham, Amit, Sumit and Ramesh, residents of Janta Colony. Naresh was arrested by the police today while others are absconding.Saurav, the victim’s son, told the police that the suspects were teasing his father from the past few days and on April 6, they started abusing him. Following this, a scuffle broke out between them and the suspects attacked his father with bricks, said Saurav.He said his father witnessed concussion and fell unconscious on the spot. When the complainant tried to intervene, the suspects hit him with sticks.Saurav said the suspects were inebriated when they assaulted his father.The victim is undergoing treatment at the PGI. His condition is reportedly critical due to multiple head injuries.A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 307, 341, 323, 506, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code.Naresh was produced before a local court which remanded him in three-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-booked-on-charge-of-assault-69467
11-04-2020||---||Three shop owners booked for curfew violations in city||Chandigarh, April 10The Chandigarh Police have booked three shop owners for opening shops of nonessential items in violation of the curfew orders. They have been booked under Section 188 of the IPC.The police said there was an information that three shops selling nonessential items are open in the area of Dadu Majra Colony.SHO Maloya Palak Goel reached the spot in a covert manner and found that three shops namely Divya Photo Frame owned by Vipin Kumar, Narinder Electronics owned by Narinder Kumar and Sharma Book Depot owned by Dharminder were open.Cases has been registered against all three shop owners at the Maloya police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-shop-owners-booked-for-curfew-violations-in-city-69466
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Four arrested for house theft||Four persons have been arrested for committing a theft at a house in Burail.Complainant Gul Mohammad reported that he had gone to his native village in Uttar Pradesh on March 17.On April 8, the complainant’s landlord informed that the locks of his house were broken following which he reached Chandigarh.The complainant reported that around Rs 1.5 lakh in cash, gold jewelry, a laptop, a digital camera and other valuables were stolen from his house. The police were informed about the incident following which a case was registered at the Sector 34 police station.The police said a naka was laid in Burail and four suspects, identified as Ajay, alias Babu Ganja, (20) of Jujhar Nagar, Mohali, Sohail, alias Chotu, (20), Mohammad Sanjay, alias Jaggu, (20) and Vishnu Yadav, alias Kancha, (19) all residents of Burail, village were arrested. The police said the stolen items had been recovered from the suspects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-arrested-for-house-theft-69465
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Municipal Corporation official demands money from vendor, suspended||The MC Commissioner has placed a sub-inspector (enforcement) under suspension for allegedly demanding money from a vendor while posted on Covid-19 duty on CTU buses.In view of the Covid-19, special measures have been taken by the UT Administration and the Municipal Corporation to ensure essential services on the doorstep of residents. MC officials have been given duty to ensure home delivery of vegetables and fruits by taking authorised vendors in CTU buses on retail rates duly notified by the Secretary, Marketing Committee, Chandigarh.The Commissioner stated that the act of sub-inspector (enforcement) Parveen Gupta demanding money from a vendor was a gross negligence of duty and blatant misuse of the authority at this critical time.“Hence, Parveen has been placed under suspension with immediate effect,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/municipal-corporation-official-demands-money-from-vendor-suspended-69464
11-04-2020||---||Quack held for running clinic during lockdown||Chandigarh, April 10A quack has been arrested by the Chandigarh Police, for running a clinic amid lockdown, at Dadu Majra here.According to the police, the suspect, Om Prakash of Dadu Majra village, was running a clinic posing as a doctor. Another plaintA complaint of another quack operating his clinic at Hallo Majra during the lockdown was received by the Chandigarh Police.Inderjeet Singh, who is officiating as a Special Executive Magistrate during the lockdown period along with police staff, was on duty when he checked a clinic, namely Deepa Clinic with a signboard of Dr Om Prakash.On enquiring about degree/registration, Om Prakash admitted that he didn’t have any degree or licence.Further enquiry revealed that he had been operating the clinic for the past one month impersonating as a doctor.The police said he was a compounder earlier. Having learnt the trade, he started posing himself as a doctor and opened the clinic.The police said a case under Section 419 of the IPC, Section 15 of the Indian Medical Council Act and Section 23 of the Punjab Medical Registration Act has been registered against him at the Maloya police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/quack-held-for-running-clinic-during-lockdown-69463
11-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration readies integrated Covid management plan||The UT Administration has prepared an integrated Covid management plan for the city in case the cases increase.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said the plan was prepared in consultation with doctors of the PGIMER, GMSH and the GMCH.Sources said as per the plan, a three-level facility for housing patients was worked out and special centres would be established for people with mild symptoms of Covid-19.Panchayat Bhawan and other community centres would be converted into such centres. The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and the Government Multi Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, will treat positive cases with moderate symptoms. Apart from the PGI, exclusive facility for severe positive cases would be created at the Civil Hospital, Sector 48.During the daily review meeting, UT Adviser Manoj Parida informed UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore that 2.19 lakh persons had already been screened in the city. The remaining will be done through additional teams from door to door. The Adviser also informed the Administrator that the Government of India had banned all social/religious gatherings and processions during festivals up in April.Badnore desired that outlying areas in periphery and colonies should be given priority in door-to-door screening. He also directed that idle CTU buses could be utilised for the purpose. He stressed that all officials going for screening must maintain hygiene and wear proper safety gears. While conducting the screening, they should also advise residents to maintain proper hygiene and social distancing.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar stated that 55,800 cooked food packets had been distributed among the destitute and the needy people in various parts of the city yesterday. He stated that a sum of Rs 1.53 crore had been received in Chandigarh Fights COVID Fund.Finance Secretary AK Sinha stated that the matter was being taken up with the Food Corporation of India for limited procurement without crowding the Market Yard, Sector 39.Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal stated that more impounding of cars and bikes was being done so that the curfew was effectively maintained in the city. The Administrator directed the DGP to ensure that there should be a vigil on the social media against the circulation of any objectionable content.“We will write to the Centre for considering an increase in the wages of the frontline health workers in the city,” said Manoj Parida. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-readies-integrated-covid-management-plan-69462
11-04-2020||---||Mohali bans harvesting via combines from 7 pm-6 am||Mohali, April 10District Magistrate Girish Dayalan prohibited harvesting through combine machines between 7 pm and 6 am in the district. However, it can be done from 6 am to 7 pm.The orders further stated that the persons engaged in the work would strictly maintain the prescribed social distancing of two metres. Besides, the burning of straw is also banned.‘Sanitise combines’The orders will remain in force till June 9. In order to contain the spread of Covid, the State Agriculture Department has already directed that the combines should be properly sanitised before use.It is further said that the combines would not be allowed to be used unless they were fitted with the harvester, Super SMS equipment.Moreover, the Chief Agriculture Officer of the district would ensure that the combines were used in a rotational manner, keeping in view the advance, medium and later sowing of wheat in the villages.These orders would remain in force from April 10 till June 9. In order to contain the spread of Covid, the State Agriculture Department has already directed that the combines should be properly sanitised before use.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-bans-harvesting-via-combines-from-7-pm-6-am-69461
11-04-2020||Amit Bathla||Wheat harvesting a major concern||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 10With the onset of the wheat harvesting season, 42-year-old Gyan Singh is working at agriculture fields in Billah village near Ramgarh – long and grueling hours for Rs 200 a day.He, along with his 12 fellow labourers, harvests the crop till the sun goes down.Gyan, who used to work as a contractual labourer for sanitation work, has picked up some skills to sustain the life of his family members, like any other responsible husband and father of four kids – three daughters and a son.“Our lives have been destroyed due to the Covid outbreak. The contractor we worked for claims he is stuck in New Delhi due to the lockdown and our salary has not been released yet,” said Gyan, who hails from Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh.But the harvesting season has given him some hope. “I will get money to support my family. Something is better than nothing. It is about survival now,” he said.Gyan said he hopes to go back to his native place when the lockdown is over. “I just pray that the lockdown is not extended and things go back to normal,” he said. “Against the usual rate of around Rs 6,000 per acre, these farm labourers will get less than Rs 3,000 per acre for harvesting crops,” said a villager.Farmers cluelessShyam Lal (48), a small farmer who owns 5 acres, is clueless as to what is in the store for him. “The procurement begins on April 20. We are compelled to follow the government’s decision,” he said on whether he is struggling to harvest, sell crops during the lockdown.Fear shortage of labourMamdin (45), who has 8 acres of farm land of his own and several more acres on lease, is planning to start reaping his produce in a day or two. “Wheat is largely harvested by manual labour, not combine, as land is uneven. Hence, we require much labour for harvesting. Since the labour is in shortage this year, it poses a big challenge for us. We may have to take help from our kin and fellow villagers. The storage of harvested crop at home before the procurement process begins is also a headache as we don’t have much space. Also, transportation charges will be high,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wheat-harvesting-a-major-concern-69460
11-04-2020||---||BSNL to accept requests for plan change through e-mail||Mohali, April 10To facilitate the subscribers and prospective customers, the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) has launched an initiative in which requests for changing landline, broadband and postpaid plans would be accepted through emails.Disclosing this, JS Sahota, PGM (Telecom) BSNL, said the customers would have to submit a scanned copy of the letter which states the name, telephone number and plan required besides the contact number of the subscriber for verification of the request.Similarly, the request for new connection may be allowed if a customer submits scanned copy of the customer application form, along with the requisite documents on email IDs of the CRO/CO. Customers can submit the physical copy afterwards. The forms are available at rebrand.ly/BSNLCAF.Sahota said most of the organisations in the tricity had instructed their employees to work from home, causing 1.5 times increase in traffic than a normal day. He said in order to meet the demand, the BSNL had initiated connectivity of the Chandigarh core router to the NDL core augmented by 10GE to avoid choking at the core level during the lockdown.Sahota said that the BSNL was committed to the government’s digital initiatives and the proactive approach towards tackling the pandemic. He said they had set up a Covid-19 helpline on short code 1075 for Punjab, Haryana and UT.He further said that for the subscribers and new customers of the north Chandigarh will be catered by cro17chd@gmail.com 9417044088, south Chandigarh by jtocsc034@gmail.com 9417555522, Mohali (SAS Nagar) division by cromohali@gmail.com 9465841119 and the Panchkula division by bsnl.csc.pkl@gmail.com 9463111492.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bsnl-to-accept-requests-for-plan-change-through-e-mail-69459
11-04-2020||---||Chandigarh to open  in phases  if lockdown  not extended||Chandigarh, April 10With the deadline of April 14 of lockdown approaching fast, the UT Administrator has sought the opinion of doctors of the PGIMER, the GMCH, Sector 32, and the GMSH, Sector 16, regarding steps to be taken in the post-lockout stage.“Unlocking plan is ready. Date will be decided by the Administrator keeping in view the local situation and in consultation with the Centre,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.“When it happens, it will be gradual and subject-wise and not area-wise,” he added.“The city will be opened in phases. As per the post-lockdown plan, some shops or factories will be allowed to operate with one-fourth of the staff strength. Also, nearly 25 buses could be allowed to operate and also limited number of private vehicles will be allowed to move. Even odd-even formula can be implemented to restrict the number of vehicles on the road. Places with huge footfalls will not be allowed to open,” he said.However, the final decision on unlocking the city would depend on the number of positive cases of Covid on or before April 14. The Administrator would also consider the situation prevailing in neighboring cities in regard to the number of positive Covid-19 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-open-in-phases-if-lockdown-not-extended-69458
11-04-2020||Panchkula||Congress leader, brother get life threats||Congress communications in-charge Randeep Surjewala said he and his brother have received life threats.The life-threatening calls were made on his official landline at Sector 6 house between 9.50 am and 10.20 am on April 1 and the caller introduced himself as a gangster from Uttar Pradesh.According to the FIR, the suspect threatened to eliminate Surjewala and his brother Sudeep and then disconnected the call.The caller claimed that he was aware of Surjewala’s location in Panchkula and had complete details of movement, vehicles and residential addresses of him and his brother.Surjewala received another call from the same number around 10.15 am and the caller extended the same threat and this time introduced himself as Agrim.The Congress leader apprised the police that earlier too, he had received such threatening calls and letters on behalf of Surinder Geong and thereafter, on behalf of his brother.Accordingly, Surjewala had approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for his personal security in 2016. The court had granted him ‘Y’ category security through a central agency.The police have registered a case under Section 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons at the Sector 5 police station. Inspector Karambir Singh, in-charge, Sector 19 crime branch, said the investigation into the matter was on. However, the police were yet to find any leads in the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leader-brother-get-life-threats-69457
11-04-2020||---||Panjab University releases salary bills||Chandigarh, April 10Panjab University (PU) has processed salary bills of guest faculty and project staff of various departments as received by the Accounts Department for payment. Respective beneficiaries would get credit in their bank accounts on Monday, said Vikram Nayyar, Finance and Development Officer (FDO).He said the payments of students engaged in AC Joshi Library under ‘Earn while Learn’ scheme of PU had also been cleared.On Wednesday, Nikhil Narmeta, a student at PU’s UIET, had demanded that the students who had been working under the PU’s ‘Earn While You Learn’ scheme should be given payments at the earliest. He said, “We too have been told that the payment dues to students enrolled under the scheme have been cleared. However, none of them have received any money yet. Hopefully, the money will be credited to them soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-releases-salary-bills-69456
11-04-2020||A Correspondent||College to set up Atal Community Innovation Centre||Mohali, April 10To channel the creative instincts of students and researchers and give them opportunities to innovate, ideate and design impactful solutions for the unserved areas of the nation, CGC, Landran, is setting up Atal Community Innovation Centre (ACIC), a new initiative under Atal Innovation Mission (AIM), on the campus and the approval for its establishment has also been received by NITI Aayog.“Our students and researchers will get a platform to ideate programmes for community outreach with the help of evolving technologies,” said a spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/college-to-set-up-atal-community-innovation-centre-69455
11-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||MC okays Rs 3 cr for CM’s relief fund via video-conferencing||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 10The Municipal Corporation approved Rs 3 crore for the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund in the last House meeting held through video-conferencing here today in view of the nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19.The meeting, which was held at Municipal Bhawan in Sector 68, began at 11 am and continued till 1 pm. As many as 44 councillors participated in the meeting, which was chaired by city Mayor Kulwant Singh.While approving Rs 3 core for the CM’s fund to fight Covid-19, the members asked the civic body to take all measures to prevent the spread of the deadly virus, which had taken two lives in the district, besides affecting 46 others.MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg told the members that they were taking all measures to prevent the spread of Covid. He said areas with dense population were being sanitised and added that even sanitation workers were carrying out work to keep the city clean during the curfew.Garg said the House had also approved a new water supply pipeline in the city costing Rs 15 crore and an agenda for maintenance and development works worth Rs 13 crore hadalso been approved for the city.In order to mitigatethe shortage of water during summers from April 15 to June 30, the House also approved penalty for water wastage violators.A fine of Rs 1,000 will be imposed on the first-time violators while second and third-time violators will be fined Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000, respectively, and water connection of the household will be cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-okays-rs-3-cr-for-cms-relief-fund-via-video-conferencing-69454
11-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Gaushalas cash-strapped as fodder price increases||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 10The managements of gaushalas in Mohali district are dealing with cash crunch for purchasing fodder as donations have dropped amid the lockdown.The gaushalas are dependent on devotees’ help for feeding their cattle. Due to the lockdown, devotees are unable to visit the gaushalas.Rrates up by 40%Even though the district administration gives Rs13 per cow per day to the gaushalas, this is insufficient as the rates for fodder have increased by almost 40 per cent.Even though the district administration gives Rs 13 per cow per day to the gaushalas, this is insufficient as the rates for fodder have increased by almost 40 per cent.Pardeep Kumar, head of the gaushala in Phase I that is being run by the Gauri Shankar Sewa Dal, said there was a huge shortage of fodder at his gaushala.“We are left with fodder only for two to three days. The gaushala has around 600 cows,” he said.He said earlier, they used to buy fodder at Rs 160 to Rs 170 per quintal, but the same was now available at Rs 250 per quintal.He said that the reason for the shortage of fodder was that the farmers were unable to visit fields due to the lockdown.He said: “Now that the district administration has relaxed the norms for farmer, I hope the fodder prices gets reduced.”Mohali Municipal Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said that the gaushalas were being run by charitable organisations on a contract basis.He said there was no shortage of fodder and they were supplying 40 quintals of fodder daily to each gaushala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gaushalas-cash-strapped-as-fodder-price-increases-69453
11-04-2020||---||People are hopeful despite lockdown, finds PU survey||Chandigarh, April 10An online research survey conducted by the Psychology Department of Panjab University (PU) has revealed that a majority of Indians are high on optimism and hope despite a life-altering disruption caused by the nationwide lockdown to fight the Covid pandemic, said Prof Seema Vinayak, Chairperson of the department.The survey findings mapping the psycho-social impact of Covid-19 upheaval on the homebound people and their coping strategies were released here today.“That an overwhelming majority of respondents (96 per cent) have reported a positive emotional and mental health is the silver lining to the bleak public mood since the virus outbreak,” Vinayak, who carried out the research investigation between April 6 and April 9.The survey was responded by over 400 people of diverse age groups and social strata, having the internet access,in over a dozen states across the nation.“A new sense of family bonding has acted as a cushion for stress, anxiety and fear arising out of uncertainty and also upped the happiness quotient of members,” she said. According to the survey, much of the positive outlook among people is a prolonged period of togetherness forced upon the families by the curfew-like stay-at-home norms.Interestingly, elderly respondents, who generally experienced loneliness in normal times, reported a significant surge in their emotional well-being owing to greater interpersonal interactions at home. The lockdown appears to have offset the empty nest syndrome in many cases.At least two-third of respondents reported that enjoying nature, yoga, meditation and physical exercise in the confines of home helped them cope with the stressors of an unabated pandemic and an open-ended lockdown.Impact on livelihood, uncertainty on academic and professional lives, continued raging of Covid and loss of social life emerged as the top-of-the-mind worries among respondents.Yet, most are high on hope about the post-lockdown future. Trust in the government’s steps to deal with the virus outbreak, a likely invention of vaccine, greater focus on health care and increased awareness about hygiene were mentioned as bright spots by three-fourth of respondents. Uncertainty on professional lives a concern||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/people-are-hopeful-despite-lockdown-finds-pu-survey-69451
11-04-2020||Manpriya Singh||At home, Diwan Manna hones his culinary, gardening skills||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 10“This is an extraordinary time and requires serious introspection,” says Diwan Manna, an artist and the president of the Punjab Lalit Kala Akademi. He feels there are lessons for all of us in it.However, he says he is guilty of spending some time checking the daily dose of WhatsApp messages. “Some of these are funny, others are quite informative, while some are even insensitive.”We are surrounded by several concerns and uncertainty. But yes, we have all the time to ponder about life — where are we headed? Are we going to be any different after the situation goes back to normal? It’ll be a long haul before, if at all, we have the answers, but at least right questions are being asked.—  Diwan MannaOn how he is enjoying the lockdown period, he says: “Enjoying is not the right word, I’d rather utilise this time. We are surrounded by several concerns and uncertainty. But yes, we have all the time to ponder about life — where are we headed? Are we going to be any different after the situation goes back to normal? It’ll be a long haul before, if at all, we have the answers, but at least right questions are being asked.”His “me-time” is pretty much unaffected by the hours spent in studio or at home. “It is after a gap of some 20-25 years that he’s got back into the kitchen, “I am not a foodie. My idea of a meal is something wholesome and simple — dal, vegetable and roti.”He says he may revisit his culinary skills from back in the day when he cooked himself, especially mutton. “I can make excellent dips and be quite inventive with Maggi. Then there’s the beetroot soup, the recipe of which I learnt during my stay at a hotel in Poland.”He also has a little vegetable and herb garden to take care of every day. The garden has a Stevia plant, spinach, cucumber, five kinds of lettuce, ‘tori’, lady finger, a microgreen that his gardener calls ‘Chinese saag’. When not cleaning the house or cooking, he is reading. There is an endeavour to go beyond just news or headlines and “I’ve also been reading about artists and intellectuals. Recently, I read about Satish Gujral, Ranjit Hoskote, Harari and Sadananad Menon.”Once the lockdown ends, he thinks of having all his friends over and throwing open the books and artworks at his house. “Maybe, one day I’ll have them over and let them take whatever books I’ve read and over a hundred artworks in the house.”Nevertheless, he feels we all need a few kind and reassuring words, “I make calls to everybody associated with the Akademi. Right from the sweeper to mid-level administrative staff, I ask about their well-being, exchange a few words and keep the morale high. That’s the need of the hour.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-home-diwan-manna-hones-his-culinary-gardening-skills-69450
11-04-2020||---||Decomposed body found||Panchkula, April 10The police have recovered the decomposed body of a 65-year-old woman from a house in Sector 7 where she was living alone. The victim has been identified as Karamjeet Kaur.According to the police, they received a call from one of the family members of the victim, who lives in the US, that the victim was not picking up calls for the past many days. The police reached the house, but it was found locked from outside. Neighbours told the police about foul smell emanating from the house.With inputs from the neighbours, the police contactedthe victim’s relative in Mohali. After his arrival, the police entered the house after breaking the lock and found the woman lying on the floor.The body was sent to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, for a postmortem.A police official privy to the investigation said the victim woman had been ill from quite some time. “Going by the decomposition of the body, it seems the victim may have died around a month ago. But the actual reason of the death will be known after postmortem report, he said||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decomposed-body-found-69449
11-04-2020||---||Youth caught spitting outside shops, arrested||Chandigarh, April 10High drama was witnessed at Badheri village, Sector 41, when an 18-year-old youth was found spitting on the road and pillars of shops. The youth was caught and the police were informed about the incident.Police sources said information was received at 11.04 am that a person had been detained at Badheri village, who was spitting sputum on pillars of shops.A police party reached the spot where complainant Gurjot Singh, owner of Health Care Clinical Lab, reported that he saw a youth roaming in the market and repeatedly spitting on the road.The complainant asked the youth not to spit. However, he again started spiting on shops and even on pillars of nearby shops.Gurjot got suspicious and called health workers, who were cleaning the area. With their help, the suspect, identified as Navi Mohammad (18), a resident of Badheri village, was caught. The police informed the Health Department about the incident following which a team from Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, visited the spot.The suspect was handed over to the medical team for a check-up following which he was taken to the hospital.The sources said the youth was taken to the GMSH. However, his test for Covid-19 was not conducted. The youth was asked whether he had any symptoms, which he denied following which he was allowed to leave. He was arrested and later released on bail.The police said a case under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC, Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Section 51 of the National Disaster Management Act has been registered against the youth at the Sector 39 police station.He is a native of Hathrus district in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-caught-spitting-outside-shops-arrested-69448
11-04-2020||---||276 liquor boxes stolen, 3 held||Chandigarh, April 10Amid the lockdown in the city, thieves broke into a liquor vend at Mauli Jagran and made off with 267 liquor boxes, besides other goods. Later this evening, three suspects were held, while two more are at large.Complainant Pardeep Kumar, a resident of Gurdaspur district, was informed about the theft at his shop in Mauli Complex on Thursday following which he rushed to Chandigarh.He reported that 267 boxes of liquor, an LCD, a car battery and a DVR and camera were stolen from his shop.The thieves entered the liquor vend after breaking the rear wall. The shop was closed since the lockdown in the city.A case was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station.The police said on a tip-off, three suspects — Pintu (19) and Gazab Singh (19), both residents of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula, and Dadan (19) of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran — were arrested from near Nirankari Bhawan in Mauli Jagran.The police said 41 liquor and beer boxes and 24 bottles of different liquor brands were recovered from the suspects.“Two more suspects are at large, who will be nabbed soon,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/276-liquor-boxes-stolen-3-held-69446
11-04-2020||---||10 more positive in Jawaharpur village||Tribune ReportersMohali/Kharar, April 10Ten more persons, including a six-month-old boy, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jawaharpur village of the Dera Bassi block in the district.With the fresh cases, there are 32 patients in the village alone. Meanwhile, a 78-year-old co-morbid woman, who died at Kharar on April 7, was also found Covid positive. These 11 cases have taken the tally in the district to 48.Those who tested positive today at Jawaharpur include three females. They all are family members of the panch and sarpanch of the village, who had earlier tested positive.After the village became the new hotspot for Covid, the district administration sealed it along with other villages, including Devigarh and Mehmudpur. As many as 75 cops were deployed there with three PCR vehicles to ensure there was no movement of people.It is pertinent to mention here that none of the 32 patients in the village has any travel history. Most of them were asymptomatic and detected only though testing. Some Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed in the village, but left before anyone could get information about them.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “Extensive sampling enabled us to identify more positive cases in the village. They were timely isolated.”He said they hoped to contain the spread of the virus in the village, which had a population of more than 2,500.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said of the 80 samples of Jawaharpur tested today, 55 were found negative, 10 positive and the reports of 15 were awaited. He said 25 fresh samples were sent for testing today. The test report of a 78-year-old woman, a resident of Astha Enclave in Mundi Kharar, who had died at the Civil Hospital, Kharar, on April 7, had come positive for coronavirus.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the woman, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, had collapsed after being admitted to the hospital on April 6. He said her samples were taken and sent to the PGI, Chandigarh, for testing.The Civil Surgeon said they had now taken the samples of her family members, including her husband, two sons, a daughter-in-law and two grandchildren, and sent these to the PGI for testing. The family members have been home-quarantined. Besides, five staff members of the Kharar hospital, including a doctor who came in contact of the woman, have been put under home quarantine.Health officials have started a door-to-door survey of the area.Meanwhile, the administration has sealed the entire area and started sanitising it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-more-positive-in-jawaharpur-village-69445
11-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Court refuses to intervene in child-custody matter||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 10The Punjab and Haryana High Court has refused to intervene in a matter revolving around a child’s custody, after observing that the case was not fit to be heard during the Covid lockdown period.“This court does not find it to be a fit case of emergent nature to hear it during the continuing extremely difficult times,” the Bench observed, while adjourning the hearing on the mother’s plea.The child’s mother had moved the High Court against the state of Haryana, the child’s father and other respondents by filing a writ of habeas corpus. The matter pertains to Panchkula district.Taking up the petition through video-conferencing, Justice Manoj Bajaj of the High Court asserted that India, like other countries, was engaged in a battle against the outbreak of a pandemic, Covid-19. In order to curb its spread, the Central and state governments and the union territories had already imposed restrictions, such as curfew and lockdown.Chandigarh city, too, was under the curfew and the prevailing circumstances in the country were unprecedented and unusual. As such, considering the gravity of the crisis, the petition was being taken up for hearing through video-conferencing.During the course of virtual hearing, the counsel for the petitioner-mother insisted upon getting the interim custody on the ground that the child’s welfare was of paramount importance. She, being the mother and natural guardian, was entitled to the custody as the child was below five.Justice Bajaj asserted that it was not disputed during the course of hearing by the counsel for the parties that the petitioner and the child’s father had separated on November 16, 2019. Since then the child was residing with her father.The parties were, otherwise also, already before the civil court following the filing of a petition by the father under the provisions of the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890.“Considering the above background, this court is of the opinion that in case the prayer of the petitioner is accepted, it would amount to allowing the petition without having response of the respondents. Therefore, the prayer at this stage is not entertained,” the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-refuses-to-intervene-in-child-custody-matter-69444
11-04-2020||---||37-year-old man positive in Panchkula, district count 5||Panchkula, April 10One more person has tested positive for Covid-19 in Panchkula.The 37-year-old man, who attended a religious congregation in Sikar, Rajasthan, got infected with the virus. With the fresh case, the Panchkula Covid tally now stands at five.First two patients of the district recoverThe first two Covid patients of Panchkula district, a 40-year-old woman from Khark Mangoli and a 30-year-old staff nurse, have now tested negative for the virus.Dr Rajeev Narwal, nodal officer for Covid-19 in the district, said, “Twelve members of the family of the 37-year-old man from Banoi Khuda Baksh have been admitted to the isolation ward at the Civil Hospital for testing.”Yesterday, an 18-year-old boy from Banoi Khuda Baksh and an 80-year-old man from Bakshiwala, who had returned from a Tablighi Jamaat event in Sikar, Rajasthan, were found positive for Covid.Health officials had traced four family members of the 18-year-old while the 80-year-old didn’t return to his village after coming back from Sikar and stayed with the 18-year-old in Banoi Khuda Baksh.Max Hospital allowed to collect Covid samples Mohali: The district administration on Friday granted permission to Max Super Specialty Hospital in Phase VI to collect samples for Covid testing.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan said the management of the hospital should fully comply with the directions issued by the Punjab Government and the Indian Council of Medical Research in this regard.He said after collecting the samples, the hospital would send these to Max Super Specialty Hospital, New Delhi, for testing as per the government guidelines. Also, the hospital shall charge as per the rates fixed by the council and the government, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/37-year-old-man-positive-in-panchkula-district-count-5-69443
11-04-2020||---||40-year-old man halts city’s no-new-case run||Chandigarh, April 10Eight days after the city reported its last Covid case, a 40-year-old man, who is a resident of Sector 37-C and has no travel or contact history, tested positive for the virus at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 here today.An assistant professor at Panjab University, he had been visiting grocery stores and chemist shops in his locality in the recent past. He visited Santokh Nursing Home in Sector 38 on March 23. His wife had delivered a baby at the hospital on March 17.The 40-year-old had not visited the PU campus after the lockdown and had been taking online classes.He had visited Indus Hospital in Mohali for a check-up on Thursday. He got his Xray done at the hospital, from where he was referred to the GMSH-16.The patient, whose condition is stable, had reported symptoms like breathlessness and fever.Sources said the virus transmission source was not known yet. There is a possibility that the patient might have contracted virus from some vendor, grocery store, chemist shop or from the milkman. His family members have been quarantined at his residence.At present, there are 12 active Covid cases in the city. Seven of the 19 cases have been discharged from the hospital post-recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-year-old-man-halts-citys-no-new-case-run-69441
11-04-2020||---||6-month-old boy among 10 more infected in Dera Bassi||Chandigarh, April 10With 21 fresh cases, the total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases reported in Punjab has reached 151.After Dera Bassi and Banga, Pathankot district has seen a surge in Covid-positive cases As per the state’s media bulletin, 11 cases have been reported from SAS Nagar, eight from Pathankot and one each from Sangrur and Jalandhar.Jawaharpur village of the Dera Bassi block in Mohali district has turned into a hotspot as 10 more Covid-19 patients, including a six-month-old boy, have tested positive, taking the count to 32 in the village. A 78-year-old woman with comorbidities had also tested positive, taking the count to 48 in Mohali. The 10 persons, including seven males and three females, who had tested positive, are family members of the panch and sarpanch of Jawaharpur village.After the village became the new disease hotspot, the district administration has sealed it along with other villages, including Devigarh and Mehmudpur, deploying 75 policemen with three PCR vehicles to ensure no movement. Besides, a 78-year-old woman from Kharar who had died on April 7, had tested positive of Covid.Besides Mohali, eight new cases were reported from Pathankot district. This takes the total to 15 in the district. Of the eight fresh cases, seven are being linked to the family of Raj Rani (75), who died a few days ago in an Amritsar hospital. However, Raj Rani or her family members didn’t have any links with the eighth case. This seems to be a case of ‘community spread.’ She was working as a maid in Pathankot, whereas Raj Rani’s family is based in Sujanpur.A 17-year-old boy, who is the grandson of the Nijatam Nagar woman in Jalandhar, also tested positive today. Contrary to preliminary reports that they were visited by Italian relatives, the family has expressed apprehensions that someone at a langar, which the elderly woman attended on March 10 to 12, might be the cause of the infection since NRIs, ashram sadhvis, godmen and other dignitaries had come there. Many of them have returned now. In Sangrur, a man has tested positive and has been placed under isolation.As per the department, so far, samples of 3,461 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of them, 2,972 samples were found negative and reports of 338 were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-month-old-boy-among-10-more-infected-in-dera-bassi-69384
