11-10-2020||Panchkula||One more fatality due to COVID-19 in Panchkula||The Panchkula district witnessed one more fatality during the past 24 hours taking the total count to 101 while 37 fresh Covid cases were reported on Sunday taking the total tally to 6,593 in the district.The district has achieved 92 per cent recovery rate as 6,068 Covid patients out of the total 6,593 postive cases have recovered and discharged from hospital.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur said a 69-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 7, had succumbed to the COVID-19 virus. She said the deceased woman was suffering from co-morbities.  The fresh cases include two each from village Abheypur, Sector 17 and 20, three each from Sector 7, 15 and 21, one each from Sector 4, MDC-4, and Morni, four from Barwala and Sector 19, five from Sector 16, six from Kalka.As of now there are 6,593 positive cases in the Panchkula district out of which 6,068 patients have been cured and discharged from hospital. There are 424 active cases with 101 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-more-fatality-due-to-covid-19-in-panchkula-154313
11-10-2020||---||One more fatality due to Covid-19 in Mohali, 97 fresh cases||Mohali, October 11The Mohali district witnessed one more fatality due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours taking the toll to 208 while 97 fresh coronavirus cases surfaced in the district.Out of the total 97 positive cases, 82 cases were reported from Mohali Urban, 3 from Dera Bassi, 7 from Dhakoli, one each from Kharar and Kurali and 3 from Lalru. Meanwhile 124 persons had been cured and discharged from the hospitals in the district.As of now there are 11,415 positive Covid cases and out of these 10,190 patients have been cured and discharged. There are 1,047 active cases with 208 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-more-fatality-due-to-covid-19-in-mohali-97-fresh-cases-154310
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 85 new COVID-19 cases, taking tally to 13,162; death toll 191||The COVID-19 death toll in Chandigarh rose to 191 on Sunday with one more fatality, while 85 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 13,162, a medical bulletin here said. There are 1,184 active cases in the city as of now, it said.A 34-year-old man from Sector 50 died at GMCH-32 on Friday. A total of 125 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the number of recoveries to 11,787, as per bulletin.A total of 87,485 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 73,784 have tested negative while reports of 129 samples were awaited, the bulletin added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-85-new-covid-19-cases-taking-tally-to-13-162-death-toll-191-154309
11-10-2020||Vijay Mohan||Mohali centre develops technology for eco-friendly, economic farming method||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 11The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Mohali, has developed the technology for aquaponic cultivation of plants, which is not only environment-friendly but also has high socio-economic benefits for the farming community.Aquaponics is an emerging technique in which both fish as well as plants complement each other to sustain and grow. The fish waste provides organic food for plants and the plants naturally filter the water which is used to replenish the fish tank. There is no requirement for the use of soil and fertilisers.“The process is completely organic, increases the productivity of the given land, saves water and also augments the farmers’ income,” Dr PK Khosla, director C-DAC, said, adding: “The technology has been developed and suitable protocols have been evolved for scientists and farmers,” he added.A pilot project to develop the technology was awarded to C-DAC by the Ministry of Information and Technology and a budget of Rs 1.60 crore sanctioned for it. A plant has been set up at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, which is scheduled to be inaugurated tomorrow.Scientists from GADVASU as well as Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, are also being associated with the project.Water from the fish tanks is made to flow through horizontal pipes that are fixed on a framework one on top of the other with the required gap to accommodate the plants. Holes are made in the pipes into which small perforated cups, containing plants, are laid. The roots of the plants draw the nutrients from water flowing through the pipes. The pipes can be stacked up to a reasonable height, thereby drastically reducing the area required for the same number of plants to be cultivated.Aquaponics is suitable to cultivate lettuce, spinach, capsicum, coriander, broccoli and some other leafy plants without the use of soil, pesticides and fertilizers. The area where plants grow is enclosed in a glasshouse-like structure.According to a scientist at C-DAC, three water tanks with a combined capacity of 54,000 litres, containing three kg of fish, have been installed at the pilot project. The fish would further multiply. This quantity is sufficient to sustain 2,000 plants.Though aquaponics is a relatively new field in India, it is being used in many parts of the world as it offers a diverse and stable poly-culture system that allows farmers to grow vegetables and raise fish at the same time. While it is ecologically sustainable, aquaponics also reduces pressure on land and cuts down operational costs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-centre-develops-technology-for-eco-friendly-economic-farming-method-154250
11-10-2020||New Delhi||Chandigarh, Maharashtra use less than 50% of COVID-19 grant: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan revealed on Sunday that Maharashtra, Chandigarh and Delhi have failed to fully utilise the Covid-19 grant given in the first phase by the central government.Maharashtra and Chandigarh fared poorest as they could not utilise even half of the total grant provided."In phase-1, the government of India released Rs 3,000 crore to all states and Union Territories (UT)s. Almost all but three state/UTs have utilised the grant given to them to battle Covid-19 pandemic," he said.Also read: Emergency use authorisation for COVID-19 vaccine to depend on clinical trial data: Vardhan"Maharashtra has utilised 42.5 per cent, followed by Chandigarh with 47.8 per cent and Delhi with 75.4 per cent utilization of the total funds provided," Vardhan informed.The Minister revealed these statistics while hosting his weekly webinar, Sunday Samvaad, where he interacts with his social media audience.The data he revealed was an answer to the question posed about utilization of funds provided by Centre to states and UTs. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-%C2%A0maharashtra-use-less-than-50-of-covid-19-grant%C2%A0harsh-vardhan-154245
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Former student leader Gurlal Brar shot dead in Chandigarh||Students’ Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU) former state president, Gurlal Brar, was shot dead outside a nightclub in Chandigarh's Industrial Area, Phase- I on Saturday night.Brar was shot outside the Playboy nightclub at Emporium mall. He was leaving alone in his car when miscreants opened fire at him around 12.30 am.Sources said around three bullets hit Brar. However, the police are yet to confirm the same.Brar was rushed to PGI where he was declared brought dead.Police have initiated an investigation into the matter at the Industrial Area police station.CCTV footage of the area is being scrutinised.Brar was a native of Kotkapura, Faridkot, and was residing in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-student-leader-gurlal-brar-shot-dead-in-chandigarh-154191
11-10-2020||---||Dumper, car collide in Barara, one dead||Ambala, October 10A man was killed when the car in which he was travelling, was hit by a dumper near grain market in Barara last night.The deceased has been identified as Gulzar Singh, a resident of Barara.In his complaint to the police, Sukhbir Singh, a resident of Barara, stated that he and Gulzar were partners in fish farming. Last evening, they were on their way to Barara from Adhoya Chowk. While Gulzar was in his car, Sukhbir was behind him on his two-wheeler. Around 7:15 pm, a dumper, which was coming from the wrong direction hit the car head-on, and went off road. Gulzar, who suffered head injuries, was rushed to a private hospital in Mullana, where he died while undergoing treatment.Meanwhile, the dumper driver managed to flee leaving his vehicle behind.A case was registered under Sections 279 and 304A, IPC, at the Barara police station today. They body was handed over to the family of the deceased after the postmortem.Meanwhile, bodies of Rahul of Shahabad-Markanda in Kurukshetra and Gaurav of Sadhaura in Yamunanagar, who were killed on the spot when the two-wheeler they were riding, collided with a dumper loaded with sand near the Ugala village chowk on the Barara-Shahabad road last night, were also handed over to their families today. A case was registered under Sections 279 and 304A, IPC, on the complaint of Gaurv’s uncle Pawan Kumar.The DSP, Barara, Rajnish Kumar, said, “Bodies of the victims of both the cases have been handed over to their respective families. The dumper involved in Gulzar’s case was empty. Efforts are on to nab drivers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dumper-car-collide-in-barara-one-dead-153993
11-10-2020||---||Mystery shrouds youth’s death in Ambala City||Ambala, October 10A 21-year-old youth died under mysterious circumstances in Ambala City today. The family of the deceased has accused his friends of killing him. The deceased has been identified as Sajan, alias Mogli, a resident of Kabir Nagar in Ambala City.Mother of the deceased, Rani, alleged that Sajan’s friends took him along last evening, but he didn’t return in the night. His friends left him outside their house in an unconscious condition early this morning. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, where he was declared brought dead.The SHO, Baldev Nagar police station, Satya Narayan, said, “The family has shared names of Sajan’s friends. They have claimed that Manish and Rahul took Sajan along with them last evening and left him outside their house today morning. Their claims are being verified.”“There were no injury marks on the body. Some poisonous substance is suspected to be the cause of death. However, the exact reason will be clear in the postmortem report. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC on the complaint of family and the matter is being investigated,” the SHO added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mystery-shrouds-youths-death-in-ambala-city-153994
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Tricksters’ gang busted, 3 held||The UT police have arrested three members of a gang who used to trick people and dupe them on the pretext of providing them bus tickets. With their arrest, the police claimed to have solved two cases registered at the Sector 31 police station. According to the police, complainant Ram Sagar Paswan had reported that two unknown persons approached him and his nephew Ram Babu Paswan near a bus stand in Ram Darbar on October 8.The fraudsters tricked the complainant and his nephew by assuring them that they would book their bus tickets online. “The suspects took Rs4,000 from the complainant and Rs4,500 from his nephew for booking bus tickets. The suspects also took their mobile phones claiming that they will receive an OTP for online booking on their cell phones,” said Inspector Paramjit Kaur, SHO of the Sector 31 police station.The suspects then went inside a building and fled from the spot. The victims later realised that they had been duped. The fraudsters also duped a Uttarakhand resident of Rs32,000 and two mobile phones on October 7.Complainant Hara Dhan reported that he went to the ISBT, Sector 43, to board a bus for Haridwar. He claimed that there was no bus available for Haridwar. While he was waiting at the bus stand, unknown persons approached him and told him that private buses leave for Uttarakhand from Hallo Majra.The duo brought the complainant to Hallo Majra and took cash from him to book a ticket. The duo also fooled him by claiming that they needed his mobile phones for online booking of bus ticket. The police said during investigation, the suspects, identified as Mohammad Jamshid (25), Maheshwar Paswan (50) and Santosh Paswan, all residents of Bihar, had been arrested. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricksters-gang-busted-3-held-153995
11-10-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh's death growth rate down to 1.6%||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 10What comes as a major relief, Chandigarh has started witnessing the decline in the number of deaths due to Covid-19 as cases have started dipping.In the past one week, the number of Covid-19 deaths has grown by an average of 1.6 per cent every day, as compared to 4.6 per cent seven-day growth rate witnessed between September 11 and September 18.From October 2 and October 9, the city recorded 19 deaths preceded by 24 deaths from September 25 to October 2 and 35 deaths from September 18 and September 25.Till September 30, experts were apprehensive of the decline in the pandemic curve in view of the constant surge in deaths being reported.Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of the Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, said: “The decline in the number of deaths in the past two weeks is a clear indicator that we are steering towards the decline in the Covid curve. It was important to see how the situation unfolded two weeks after the peak number of infections. Because whenever cases surge, more deaths are reported after 14 days. We have already crossed the stage. This explains the dip in the number of deaths as cases are also on the decline.”Prof Jagat Ram, PGIMER Director, said: “For the past two weeks, there is a decline in the number of infected patients and thus, mortality rate has also reduced. Ninety per cent of those dying have comorbidities. Even at the PGIMER emergency, the positivity rate has reduced — from 60 earlier per day to 10-15 patients per day.”However, Prof Jagat Ram warns: “However, we should follow the protocol to sustain the declining trend. Now, the festival season is approaching and if safety norms are breached, another surge is expected.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-death-growth-rate-down-to-1-6-153996
11-10-2020||Amit Bathla||Heaps of garbage eyesore for Panchkula residents||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 10While the civic authorities are observing a ‘Swachhata Pakhwada’ in the city, residents complain of garbage lying uncollected at various spots in the city.With overflowing garbage bins near Amartex Chowk, Sector 14, Girls College, Sector 7 market, Sutlej Public School in Sector 4 and several other places, the city still has a long way ahead in maintaining the cleanliness standards.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had launched the ‘Swachhata Pakhwada’ campaign on Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary on October 2 near the Sector 5 police station, which is just 100 metres away from a vacant plot (adjacent to Indradhanush Auditorium) where waste lying scattered is a common sight.Residents are complaining of poor sanitation amid a protest by door-to-door waste collectors.Tarsem Garg, president of the Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 7, said: “Even though the Municipal Corporation is aware of irregular collection of garbage from various spots, they don’t pay heed to the issue. The civic body should tighten its noose around private door-to-door garbage collectors, who are acting arbitrarily.”SK Nayar, president of the Citizens’ Welfare Association, said: “Till the time the Municipal Corporation will not play an active role in garbage collection, the ground situation will remain the same. The civic body’s decision to rope in an NGO for effective garbage collection is a good step, but the door-to-door garbage collectors should be adjusted under the new waste management scheme.”Meanwhile, Panchkula Municipal Corporation Commissioner Mahavir Singh was unavailable for comments.Notably, Panchkula had bagged the third spot in Haryana in this year’s cleanliness survey after Karnal and Rohtak.Door-to-door collectors continue protestMeanwhile, the door-to-door collectors have been protesting outside the MC against its decision to rope in an NGO called Feedback Foundation for door-to-door collection, segregation, treatment and disposal of waste in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heaps-of-garbage-eyesore-for-panchkula-residents-153997
11-10-2020||
||Villagers want passage under overbridge||Kharar, October 10 Residents of several villages today blocked the national highway near Daun village, demanding a passage under an overbridge being constructed for the village. Due to the blockade, road traffic on both sides of the highway came to a standstill. Villagers raised slogans in favour of their demand. They said it was one of the oldest village and the passage would be used by neighbouring villages as well. The protesters said besides this, a number of new societies had come up near the village and they all would be inconvenienced if a passage was not provided under the bridge. Meanwhile, Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain reached the spot and assured the protestors to take up their demand with the higher-ups. After this, they stopped protesting and vacated the road, allowing the movement of traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/villagers-want-passage-under-overbridge-153998
11-10-2020||Panchkula||Show-cause notice to Panchkula hospital||The management of Ojas Hospital is in the dock for allegedly selling more than 50 per cent of its share to Alchemist Hospital, thus violating terms and conditions of allotment.The Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has issued a show-cause notice to the Panchkula-based hospital and the management has been given 30 days to file a reply.According to the information, the HSVP Estate Officer issued the notice after a complaint was received against them alleging that they have sold 54 per cent shares to Alchemist Hospital. The notice stated that as per the terms and conditions of allotment, the original allottees shall retain at least 51 per cent shareholding in Ojas Medical Services Pvt Ltd.If a reply is not received in 30 days, the HSVP would initiate the further proceeding without any notice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/show-cause-notice-to-panchkula-hospital-153999
11-10-2020||---||Chandigarh Police make people pledge to fight Covid||Chandigarh, October 10To sensitise people about Covid and ways to keep themselves safe, the Chandigarh Police initiated a drive to make people pledge that they would wear a mask and follow social distancing.Police personnel from the Mani Majra police station went across the area and distributed pages with a pledge written on them. People were made to read the pledge.Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO, Mani Majra police station, said the drive was to make people realise the importance of wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distancing. “We want to rope in every citizen in the fight against coronavirus,” the Station House Officer added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-make-people-pledge-to-fight-covid-154000
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||Musical ode to Jagjit Singh||Ghazal aficionados were treated to a mesmerising performance by renowned ghazal singers and musicians in a soulful evening organised by the Pracheen Kala Kendra to pay tributes to Jagjit Singh on his 9th death anniversary.This event was telecasted live on official YouTube channel, Facebook and Twitter page of the Kendra.Jaswant Singh, elder brother of Jagjit Singh, shared a few of his memories with the Jagjit Singh. RD Kailey began the programme with a famous ghazal, “baat nikalegi to“, followed by some famous duets by Kailey and Komal Chugh. The programme concluded with a soulful ghazal, “Chithi na koi sandesh”, which was presented by Simant Singh from Gurgaon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/musical-ode-to-jagjit-singh-154001
11-10-2020||---||Shatabdi to be back on track from October 15||Chandigarh, October 10After a hiatus of over six months, New Delhi-Kalka Shatabdi Express is all set to hit the railway tracks from October 15.The special Shatabdi Express (02011) will depart from the New Delhi railway station at 7:40 am. It will reach Chandigarh at 11:05 am and the Kalka railway station at 11:45 am. The Shatabdi Express will stop at Panipat, Kurukshetra, Ambala and Chandigarh. The train will depart from Chandigarh at 6:20 pm and reach New Delhi at 9:55 pm. It will also halt at the above-mentioned stations.According to a notification of the Northern Railway’s Ambala Division, all SOPs to prevent the spread of Covid-19 will be followed in the Special Shatabdi Express.DRM GM Singh said, “The Shatabdi Express will run in full capacity from October 15 and bookings are open now.”Una-Chandigarh-New Delhi Jan Shatabdi Express has been plying daily from the Chandigarh railway station. Apart from this, Kalka-Bandra Paschim Express is also running daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shatabdi-to-be-back-on-track-from-october-15-154002
11-10-2020||---||Betting on IPL match, 3 held in Mohali||Mohali, October 10The police today raided an apartment in Homeland Heights in Sector 70 and arrested three persons on the charge of betting on the ongoing IPL match between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Chennai Super Kings.The police have recovered 14 to 15 mobiles, around five laptops, 500-gm white intoxicant powder, besides the line-holding machine used for betting. During the preliminary investigations, it came to the fore that the three accused, who reportedly belong to Haryana, used to transact through PayTM.SSP Satinder Singh said the identity of the arrested suspects would be disclosed tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/betting-on-ipl-match-3-held-in-mohali-154003
11-10-2020|| 
||Fraudster creates FB profile of another cop||Chandigarh, October 10 Fraudsters have now started creating fake Facebook profile of cops to dupe people on their friends’ list. While a fake Facebook profile of a DSP of the UT police was created earlier, now a swindler made a fake account of a sub-inspector (SI) and sent friend requests to several people with an aim to cheat them. The swindler created a fake Facebook account of SI Ashok Kumar and sent friend requests to people who were on his friends’ list. The SI came to know about the fake profile and posted a message on his real account asking people to be cautious.  Sources said the fraudster demanded Rs10,000 from a person but the latter didn’t transfer the money.  “I will submit a complaint to the cyber crime investigation cell,” the SI said. Last month, some fraudster had created a fake Facebook profile of DSP Dilsher Singh Chandel and sent friend requests to people. While some people accepted the request, others ignored it. Soon after a friend request was accepted, the fraudster started a conversation on the Facebook messenger and requested them for financial help. The suspect mentioned that the money could be transferred through Google Pay. Meanwhile, a retired Inspector’s Facebook profile was also created by a swindler last month. A cop from the cyber cell said people should not fall prey to requests of financial help received on social media accounts, including Facebook and WhatsApp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fraudster-creates-fb-profile-of-another-cop-154004
11-10-2020||---||90 test positive in Mohali||Mohali, October 10The district today reported 90 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally to 11,318. Among the new cases, 52 were from Mohali (urban), three from Kharar, 16 from Dera Bassi, five from Dhakoli, one from Banur, two each from Gharuan and Kurali and nine from Lalru.Meanwhile, 120 more patients defeated the virus and were discharged from the hospital.As of now, the district has recorded 10,066 recoveries. There are 1,045 active cases.As many as 207 patients in Mohali district have lost their lives to Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/90-test-positive-in-mohali-154006
11-10-2020||Amit Sharma||61 Chandigarh cops contract virus in past 30 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 10A total of 61 UT police personnel have tested positive for Covid during the past 30 days. So far, 105 cops, including two DSPs, have contracted the virus and 84 of them have recovered of it.Till September 10, 44 cops were found infected. The number has grown to 105 now. A majority of them (54) were constables and 44 of them have defeated the virus. Nineteen ASIs and 18 head constables too contracted the virus. Fifteen ASIs and 12 head constables have been cured of the disease.Meanwhile, 21 police personnel are home-quarantined.SP (Headquarters) Manoj Kumar Meena said to ensure the safety of police personnel, 100 cops posted in high-risk category across various units recently underwent the Covid test. One cop tested positive for the virus, he said, adding that the cop was asymptomatic and had been quarantined.Cops are among the frontline Covid warriors who have been working out in the field since March. Police officials said regular sanitisation of different units was done. Besides, necessary instructions were issued to cops to keep themselves safe from contracting the virus.Cops at high risk undergo Covid testRecently, the Covid test of 100 cops, who are on duties where the risk of contracting the virus is high, was conducted. One of them tested positive for the virus.Two lose life in city, 96 more infectedChandigarh: The city on Saturday recorded 96 fresh Covid-19 cases, raising the infection tally to 13,081. It also saw two deaths due to the virus, taking the toll to 190. A 51-year-old man from Khuda Ali Sher died at Alchemist Hospital, Panchkula. He was suffering from a chronic kidney disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension. A 65-year-old man from Sector 47 died at Sohana Hospital, Mohali. He was suffering from chronic kidney disease and hypertension. A total of 157 patients were discharged after they defeated the virus on Saturday.TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/61-chandigarh-cops-contract-virus-in-past-30-days-154007
11-10-2020||---||64 new cases, 87 recoveries in Panchkula||Panchkula, October 10The district today witnessed 64 fresh cases of Covid and 87 recoveries.Nine cases were reported from Sector 19, seven from Sector 20. six from Khangesra village, five each from MDC-5 and Kalka, four from Sector 16, three each from Sector 11 and 17, two each from Sector 9, 15, Sector 21, MDC-4 and Pinjore and a case each from the CRPF camp, Power Colony, Raipur Rani, Rajiv Colony, Sector 1, 2, 4, 7, 12-A, 25, 26 and 27.So far, 6,556 Covid cases have surfaced in Panchkula district and 6,017 patients have been cured. There are 439 active cases.The district has seen 100 fatalities due to the virus .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/64-new-cases-87-recoveries-in-panchkula-154008
11-10-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration to rent out 2,100 vacant flats in Maloya||Chandigarh, October 10The UT Administration is considering renting out small flats constructed by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) in Maloya to urban poor under the recently announced Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.Under the scheme, the Administration would rent out nearly 2,195 vacant flats in Maloya to residents of Pre-Fab shelters in Sector 52 and Sector 56, said an official.UT Adviser Manoj Parida had last month visited Pre-Fab shelters in Sector 52 and Sector 56. Residents of both areas had requested the UT Adviser to shift them to vacant CHB flats in Maloya.The official said the residents would have to pay Rs3,000 per month as rent. The facility would be available on rent for a period of 25 years.The Administration had signed an MoU with the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs to rent out these flats under the scheme. The scheme would be implemented by the CHB through concessionaire to be appointed through the bidding process.The Ministry had launched the scheme to provide ease of living, access to dignified and planned housing at affordable rent to migrant labour and urban poor. The scheme will be implemented by utilising existing vacant houses to convert them into ARHCs. The scheme will help urban migrants, who stay in slums, informal settlements, unauthorised colonies and peri-urban areas to save cost on housing. Beneficiaries for the scheme will be urban migrants and poor from the EWS or LIG categories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-rent-out-2-100-vacant-flats-in-maloya-154010
11-10-2020||---||Elderly woman dies, 2 hurt in road mishap||Panchkula, October 10A 65-year-old woman was killed and two others were seriously injured after the Activa scooter they were riding was hit by a car at the Sector 8-9 traffic light point here this morning.The deceased has been identified as Kulwant Kaur, a resident of Karnal. The injured persons have been identified as Satvinder, son of Kulwant Kaur, and Saroj Bala.According to information, Kulwant Kaur, along with her son Satvinder, visited someone in Sector 15 here. Later, the trio was going to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, for the treatment of Satvinder. When they reached the Sector 8-9 light point, a rashly driven car coming from the Sector 10 side hit their two-wheeler.After hitting the scooter, the car rammed into the traffic light poles. The car driver fled from the spot leaving the vehicle behind.The injured persons were shifted to the Civil Hospital, where Kulwant was declared brought dead.The police reached the spot after receiving information. They seized both vehicles and initiated investigations into the case on the complaint of Satvinder.Jagdish Kumar, SHO of the Sector 5 police station, said the body had been handed over to the family members after post-mortem examination. The injured persons were undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital. Investigations were on in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/elderly-woman-dies-2-hurt-in-road-mishap-154016
11-10-2020||---||Road rage: Himachal native shot dead in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, October 10A 35-year-old Himachal Pradesh native was shot dead on the VIP road in Zirakpur on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Anil Thakur, a native of Sarkaghat in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh. He used to repair lifts and was putting up at Daun, Kharar, with his wife and a 10-month-old son.According to information, 11 youths had a party at a club in Sector 26, Chandigarh, and later reached Setha Da Dhaba on the Ambala-Zirakpur highway for dinner. They had got together to celebrate the birthday of one of them, who was identified as Vivek. After having dinner, they left in two vehicles, a Fortuner and a Maruti Swift, around 1.30 am to drop one of them at his house in a society on VIP Road. While returning, Vinay, who was driving the SUV, had a war of words with the driver of another Fortuner, who was trying to overtake.The other Fortuner was being driven by a Faridkot native, Happy Brar. A girl and a Brar’s friend were other occupants of the SUV.Vinay and Brar had heated arguments over the issue and the two parties called up their friends to the spot. Brar’s three-four friends came in a Swift car. Vinay had rung up his friend Money, who reached there in an Accent car, along with Anil who was incidentally at his house in Zirakpur.The two sides had a fight following which Brar pulled out his pistol and fired three shots. Two of the shots hit Anil. Money became unconscious on seeing his friend shot. Brar and his friends sped away from the spot.The injured Anil was taken to a private hospital in Zirakpur where he died during the treatment.The victim’s family reached the Zirakpur police station from Mandi district in Himachal Pradesh this morning. His father and brother lodged a complaint at the police station. Anil’s brother claimed that the police knew the suspects and it was for them to initiate action against them. He also alleged that the suspects were drunk.Gurwant Singh, the SHO of the Zirakpur police station, said, “We have registered a murder case against seven persons, including the girl. We are trying to identify and trace them.”The police said the main suspect, Brar, flaunted his links with a political party on social media, which they were trying to verify. The police said he had cases against him earlier as well. The police did not confirm the names of other suspects and whether any arrest had been made in the case or not.How events unfolded||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-rage-himachal-native-shot-dead-in-zirakpur-154018
11-10-2020||Chandigarh||BCom results declared||Book added to RBU curriculumMohali: Rayat Bahra University on Saturday approved incorporating `Samaj Chintan’, a book by Avinash Rai Khanna, Vice-Chairman of the Indian Red Cross Society, as a part of the curriculum of elements of sociology and human values and professional ethics. Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor of the university, who presided over the function extended a warm welcome to Khanna. TNSGrandparents Day celebratedMohali: Grandparents Day was celebrated at St Soldier School in Mohali. To help grandparents maintain a healthy lifestyle and spread happiness, a yoga session was conducted. Old melodious songs were presented by the school music teacher and grandparents were made to join in. Various competitions such as ‘jugalbandi’, ‘dadi /nani ke gharelu nuskhe’, ‘dadi/ nani ki kahani’ and ‘dadu/nanu ki geetmala’ were organised. TNSVarsity starts biz platformChandigarh: To develop entrepreneurial mindset among students, Desh Bhagat University launched a platform — COCO Beans. It is chemical-free bakery. Dr Sandeep Singh, Vice President, DBU, said: “The bakery is being developed as a platform for our students with an entrepreneurial mindset to not just understand the technical aspect of business but also get hands-on experience of marketing, brand development and commercials for a business venture.” TNSWebinar marks CJI’s birth annivChandigarh: To commemorate the 87th birth anniversary of Justice MM Punchhi, former Chief Justice of India, his family conducted a webinar. His son, Ashu M Punchhi, Public Prosecutor, Chandigarh, spoke about his father’s life journey. The webinar was streamed live on the social media and was viewed by 2,700 people. TNSPortrait of hockey legendChandigarh: Punjab-based artiste Varun Tandon made a portrait of late hockey legend Balbir Singh (Sr) by using ink-dipped hockey ball and stick. The 25x15-feet portrait was kept at the Sector 42 sadium on Saturday. TNSSector 26 resident held with ganjaChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a 32-year-old man while possessing ganja. According to the police, Sunil Kumar, a resident of Phase 1, Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, was nabbed from the Transport light point while possessing 820 grams of ganja. A case has been registered against the suspect under the NDPS Act at the Sector 26 police station and an investigation has been initiated. TNSPanchkula man held with stolen carChandigarh: The UT police nabbed a Panchkula resident riding a stolen car. According to the police, the suspect, identified as Punit Kumar (31), alias Raja, a resident of Mahadev Colony, Surajpur, Panchkula, was arrested from the railway bridge light point near Colony number 4 while he was riding a Honda City. The suspect had affixed a fake number on the stolen car. A case has been registered at the Industrial Area police station and an investigation has been initiated into it. TNSThieves strike at showroomDera Bassi: Three thieves decamped with Rs35,000 and an LED TV from a showroom here in the wee hours of Saturday. The police said the theft took place at Metro Traders, a showroom of electronics, furniture and marble. A CCTV footage showed the thieves coming on two bikes and entering the showroom by removing the side-glass window. Two workers were sleeping in the showroom when the theft took place. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bcom-results-declared-154025
11-10-2020||Lalit Mohan||Veggies fetch high prices in Punjab, farmers in Himachal rejoice||Tribune News ServiceDharamsala, October 10High prices of vegetables in the plains have benefited the farmers of Chotta Bhangal, a remote tribal area in Kangra district. The farmers of the area grow off season vegetables in their fields located in the foothills of Dhauladhar mountains. Though the area is very remote, having poor roads, traders from Chandigarh, Pathankot and other cities of Punjab are making a beeline here these days to buy the vegetables.Rakesh Prajapati, Kangra DC‘Veggies worth Rs 5 cr sold in Multhan market’Farmers of Chotta Bhangal are progressive. Some of them are also growing exotic vegetables, such as broccoli and peas, which are fetching a good price this year. As per the initial estimate, the farmers of Bara Bhangal valley have sold vegetables ranging from Rs5 to Rs6 crore in the Multhan market.Tilak Raj, a farmer from Multhan, the last village connected with road in Chotta Bhangal area, also the Tehsil headquarters, said he had grown cabbage this year and was getting price of about Rs 40 per kg for his crop. “This is the highest price I have got for my crop in the past one decade,” he said.Jagveer Kumar, another farmer from the area, said this year the potato crop was also fetching a wholesale price of Rs 40 per kg. Potato grown in Chotta Bhangal valley is famous as ‘barot’ potato. It is sold at a price higher than the potato grown in plains. The farmers in their area were getting up to Rs 40 per kg, which was much higher than the price of Rs 20 to Rs 25 they got last year, he added.The farmers told The Tribune that daily about 8 to 10 trucks of vegetables were being taken away by traders from Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir.Rakesh Prajapati, Deputy Commissioner, Kangra, said the farmers of Chotta Bhangal area were progressive. Some of them were also growing exotic vegetables, such as broccoli. This year, they were getting up to Rs 145 per kg for broccoli crop. Farmers of the area were also growing offseason vegetables, such as peas, which was also fetching a good price this year. As per the initial estimate, the farmers of Bara Bhangal valley had sold vegetables ranging from Rs 5 to 6 crore in the Multhan market, he said.The vegetables grown in Bara Bhangal valley were as good as organic vegetables and were popular in the plains of adjoining states. The government was trying to help the farmers get better price of their vegetable crop in order to maximise their profit, Prajapati added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veggies-fetch-high-prices-in-punjab-farmers-in-himachal-rejoice-153932
