12-07-2020||Vijay Mohan||Mohali institute scientists formulate nanoparticle to reduce severity of rheumatoid arthritis||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12Scientists from the Institute of Nano Science and Technology (INST), Mohali, have formulated nano-particles with a zinc-based compound that will help reduce the severity of rheumatoid arthritis.The particles contain chitosan and zinc gluconate. Zinc is vital for maintaining normal bone homeostasis and its levels are reported to get reduced in rheumatoid arthritis patients. It is also known that oral supplementation of zinc in the form of zinc gluconate has very low bioavailability in humans.  Chitosan is a biocompatible, biodegradable natural polysaccharide (a carbohydrate whose molecules consist of a number of sugar molecules bonded together). It is one of the most abundant biopolymers obtained from the exoskeleton of crustaceans (crab, lobster, shrimp, etc) have shown absorption promoting characteristics.The INST team particularly chose chitosan as it is biodegradable, biocompatible, non-toxic, and muco-adhesive in nature. A previously published report in the journal ‘Magnesium Research’ exhibited that after intraperitoneal administration in rats, zinc oxide in standard form resulted in a slight increase in serum zinc level, whereas that in nano form resulted in significantly high serum zinc levels, thus increasing the zinc bioavailability. This motivated the INST team to develop the nanoformulation of zinc gluconate.They prepared Zinc gluconate loaded chitosan nanoparticles using chitosan and sodium tripolyphosphate in double-distilled water and zinc gluconate was simultaneously added along with the synthesis of chitosan nanoparticles. These were characterised for various physicochemical properties and then anti-arthritic potential was investigated against collagen-induced arthritis in rats.They observed that the treatment of rats with both zinc gluconate and zinc gluconate loaded chitosan nanoparticles reduced the severity of arthritis by reducing joint swelling, erythema, and edema.The team assessed various parameters like biochemical analysis, histological observations, and immunohistochemical expression of inflammatory markers and suggested that zinc gluconate-loaded chitosan nanoparticles exerted superior therapeutic effects compared to the free form of zinc gluconate. This was attributed to the inflammatory potential of zinc gluconate-loaded chitosan nanoparticles.“Nanobiotechnology provides several effective solutions for the problems that traditional pharmaceutical formulations are often not able to address as effectively, such as sustained and targeted release of drugs, bioavailability, and efficacy of drugs and nutraceuticals, etc. The nanoformulation of zinc gluconate-loaded chitosan nanoparticles developed at INST Mohali is a creative example of a superior therapeutics for rheumatoid arthritis,” said Prof Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science and Technology.In the recent past, ionic gelation method has been widely employed for formulating chitosan nanoparticles, which may contain various medicinally active pharmacological agents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-institute-scientists-formulate-nanoparticle-to-reduce-severity-of-rheumatoid-arthritis-112006
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||10 more test positive in Chandigarh; tally stands at 559||Ten more people tested positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh on Sunday, a medical bulletin said.Seven of the 10 cases---four from Sector 45, two from Sector 21 and one from Sector 7---were contacts of diagnosed cases.  A 39-year-old man from Sector 32, a 60-year-old man from Sector 19, and a 54-year-old woman from Sector 63 were the other cases.Health authorities have begun isolating and testing their contacts.Meanwhile, four people---three from Manimajra and one from Sector 21---were released from hospitals after recovery.The developments take the union territory’s COVID-19 tally to 559 with eight deaths. The UT has 134 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-more-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tally-stands-at-559-111981
12-07-2020||---||Mohali records another single-day spike of new Covid-19 cases at 26; count reaches 392||Mohali, July 12The district recorded another single-day spike of 26 coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the total number to 392.The fresh cases include three women of the age of 25, 26 and 29 years from Nayagaon; a 33-year-old woman from Shivjot Enclave, Kharar; a 54-year-old woman from Gillco, Kharar; a 58-year-old woman and a 34-year-old man from M Shivalik Homes; Kharar; a 41-year-old woman from Sunny Enclave, Kharar; three men aged 43, 63 and 41 years from Dhakauli; one 30-year-old woman and an eight-year-old girl, and a 55-year-old man from Sunny Enclave, Zirakpur; two women aged 24 and 22 years from Sohana; a 67-year-old woman from Sector 97; a 69-year-old woman from Derabassi; a 65-year-old woman and a 20 year-old man from Jhanjeri; a 20-year-old woman, 6-year-old girl, 2-year-old boy and a 34-year-old man from Ward No. 15, Kurali; and a 30-year-old male and a 30-year-old woman from Ward No. 4, Kurali.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that all the patients have been admitted to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital for treatment. He said health teams have been deputed to trace the contacts and take the samples of family members and contacts for testing.As of now, there are 392 cases with 271 persons discharged from the hospital, while there are 114 active cases with seven deaths reported in the district, Dr Manjit said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-records-another-single-day-spike-of-new-covid-19-cases-at-26-count-reaches-392-111963
12-07-2020||Zirakpur||Motorcyclist killed||‘Sankalp Parva’ celebratedChandigarh: The North Zone Cultural Centre, Patiala, celebrated ‘Sankalp Parva’ on Saturday by planting saplings at the Kalagram Office Complex, Mani Majra. Sanjay Tandon, National Council Member, BJP, Prof Saubhagya Vardhan, Director, North Zone Cultural Centre, and other dignitaries were present. Saplings of several varieties were planted. TNSPower staff union protestChandigarh: Members of the Electrical Workmen Union held a protest against the Engineering Department for not giving approval for continuation of services to 300 outsourced workers. Union president Kishori Lal and general secretary Rakesh Kumar stated that the agreement of the outsourced workers had expired last month. Nearly 300 outsourced workers of different categories would lose jobs if the approval for continuing jobs was not granted this month, they said. TNSBan on carrying firearms in UTChandigarh: The UT Administration has imposed a ban on carrying of all kinds of firearm in the city. In an order issued under Section 144 of the CrPC, District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar imposed a ban on carrying of all kinds of firearm, lethal weapons, lathi, spears and javelins, tridents, swords, short swords, knuckle punches, knives and daggers, iron rods, etc, within the city limits for a period of 60 days. The order will not apply to the police, military or paramilitary personnel and other government servants if called upon to carry firearms in connection with their duties. TNSOver 200 challanedChandigarh: The MC issued 200 challans during a special anti-encroachment drive in the past three days. The drive is against those who are occupying corridors outside shops and showrooms. Unregistered vendors were also challaned. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/motorcyclist-killed-111674
12-07-2020||---||40-yr-old man eighth to die in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 11The city today reported its eighth Covid fatality.A 40-year-old man from Sector 52, who was brought dead at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 on Thursday, tested positive for the virus posthumously. The deceased was addicted to alcohol and also suffering from a chronic liver disease. Health authorities have taken samples of five of his family members for the Covid test.Apart from him, 12 more persons tested positive for Covid today, taking the UT tally to 549. Of the total cases, 128 are still active.CRPF jawan among 4 positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: A 40-year-old CRPF jawan from Pinjore was among four persons to test positive for Covid-19 in the district on Saturday. A 19-year-old girl and a 35-year-old man from Kalka and a 43-year-old man from Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5, were found infected. Meanwhile, three patients recovered from the disease on Saturday. TNSA 44-year-old woman, a 38-year-old man and two boys, aged 17 and 13, from Sector 44, a 26-year-old woman from Sector 52 and a 20-year-old girl living on the premises of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research were found infected. They are family contacts of already diagnosed cases.A 47-year-old man from Sector 37, who works at the GST Bhawan in Sector 17, also contracted the virus. His source of infection is not known yet.Besides, a 59-year-old man from Sector 50, who is working in Punjab, a 46-year-old woman from Sector 35 and three members of a Sector 32 family — two women, aged 42 and 40, and a 41-year-old man — were the others to test positive today. Their source of infection too is not known.Five beat virusMeanwhile, four patients have been discharged from the PGI and sent home, while one patient has been shifted from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46, to a post-discharge quarantine centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-yr-old-man-eighth-to-die-in-chandigarh-111677
12-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali dist sees highest recovery count in a day||A day after seeing the highest spike in the number of Covid cases, the district today witnessed the highest number of recoveries in a single day.Fifteen patients, including 14 from Behda village in Dera Bassi, defeated the virus and were discharged from the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. The recovered Behda patients are either employees of a meat plant in the village or direct contacts of the plant workers.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said with 15 more defeating the virus, the total number of cured patients in the district had gone up to 271. In the past few days, Behda village has seen several cases of Covid. Four workers of the meat plant had tested positive. Since then, 38 cases had been reported from the village.The Civil Surgeon said those discharged today were a 52-year-old man from Majat and 14 from Behda village.Three girls, aged 14, 17 and 18, three women, aged 24, 45 and 27, a 17-year-old boy, two youths, aged 20 and 28, and three men, aged 32, 40 and 51, all residents of Behda, were among those who have been cured of the disease. Besides, two men, aged 46 and 48, who worked at the meat plant were discharged.Meanwhile, four fresh cases of Covid were reported from the district today.Manjit Singh said those who contracted the virus were a 59-year-old woman and a 34-year-old man, both residents of Shivalik Homes, Kharar, a 46-year-old man from Peer Muchalla and a 43-year-old man from Dubhali village in Gharuan near Mohali.With the new cases, the district Covid count today shot up at 366. As many as 271 patients have been cured while seven have succumbed to the virus. There are 88 active cases in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-dist-sees-highest-recovery-count-in-a-day-111679
12-07-2020||Panchkula||Gardener’s son tops Panchkula district||Shubham Maurya of Shri Jainendra Gurukul Senior Secondary School in Sector 1 topped the district in the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) Class X exams.The son of a gardener and a resident of Old Panchkula, he scored 98.60 per cent to emerge the district topper.On his preparations, the achiever said, “I used to study for four-five hours after returning from the school. However, the time spent on studying doesn’t matter, but one should be regular. Online learning platforms and teachers helped me a lot in clearing doubts. I don’t use any social media application.”His parents Raj Bahadur and Lalti Devi said he did not want to limit himself and aimed high. Shubham, who wants to pursue non-medical in Class XI, said he aspired to be an architect as buildings and their design always fascinated him. Sharing his success mantra, he said there were times when he found it hard to focus on studies, but not losing confidence held the key.Gardening and painting acted as stress busters for the district topper.Manisha of Saarthak Government Integrated Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 12-A, was placed second in the district with 97.60 per cent. Shubha of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Barwala, bagged the third position with 97.20 per cent.In Panchkula, a total of 4,762 students had appeared for the exams. The district recorded a pass percentage of 65.16 with 3,103 students coming out with flying colours. In the terms of pass percentage, Panchkula ranked 11th. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gardeners-son-tops-panchkula-district-111680
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGI to appoint nodal officer to tackle referred Covid-19 cases||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) will now appoint a nodal officer who will deal with Covid-19 patients referred from Punjab and Haryana. The referring doctor can brief the nodal officer about the case beforehand.A committee comprising faculty members from the departments of cardiology, gastroenterology, hepatology, endocrinology, nephrology, neurology and pulmonary medicine will be formed so that the doctors from Punjab and Haryana can take advice from them in case of an emergency.A series of discussion on referral of Covid cases took place during a joint meeting with Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director-General (Health Services), Haryana, Dr G Dewan, Director (Health Services), Chandigarh, Dr Avneet Kaur, Director (Health Services), Punjab, and Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER.It was agreed upon to share the contact number of the nodal officers of Punjab and Haryana, who will coordinate with the nodal officer of the PGIMER regarding the patients coming to the institute from these states.The doctors from the PGIMER will talk to the nodal officer of the respective states in case it is felt that the patient can be treated or managed in the healthcare facility of the respective states and does not require any immediate intervention.The committee decided that the Director-General (Health Services), Haryana, and the Director Health Services, Punjab, would refer the patients only in case the healthcare centres of these states were unable to treat the patient.It was also agreed upon that after the patients were out of danger and could be managed at their parent states, the patient will be referred back to the respective state after coordinating with the nodal officer concerned.The Director Health Services, Punjab, requested to form a WhatsApp group of doctors from the PGI, Punjab and Haryana so that in case of an emergency, the case could be discussed over phone and consultation could be provided.Recently, the UT Administrator had ordered that the PGIMER Director should hold a meeting with Punjab and Haryana to finalise a protocol for admission of patients coming from other states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-to-appoint-nodal-officer-to-tackle-referred-covid-19-cases-111657
12-07-2020||---||Precautions in place at offices||Chandigarh, July 11A few days after Chandigarh Tribune reported lack of temperature check and use of sanitisers at UT offices, things have improved considerably at various buildings.At the MC office in Sector 17, temperature checking was being done at one of the buildings, but another building had no such provision. As both buildings are connected, testing at just one of them defeated the purpose. Now, the MC has closed the entrance to the second building.UT Adviser Manoj Parida has asked the staff to check temperature of all visitors to the UT’s Mini-Secretariat. The issue gained importance after an employee of the Education Department was found Covid positive and the office premises had to be shut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/precautions-in-place-at-offices-111658
12-07-2020||---||Employees will not be retrenched: Chandigarh UT||Chandigarh, July 11The UT Administration has assured that employee will not be sacked and all their benefits will be safeguarded on privatisation of the power distribution system.A spokesperson for the Administration said the Centre had decided to go for privatisation of the power distribution system in all union territories. Due to this, rumours had been doing rounds that service and benefits of the employees working in the electricity wing of the Engineering Department would be at stake and the power tariff would increase manifold.Accordingly, the UT Administration assured the employees that their services and related benefits would be safeguarded and their employment terms would be similar or better than the present service terms. “No retrenchment of employees will happen and no employee will be transferred outside the geographical area served by the electricity wing of the Engineering Department,” stated the Administration.Further, meetings have been carried out with the employee unions to understand their concerns.As far as probable increase in tariff due to privatisation is concerned, the same would continue to be governed by the defined criteria as was being done presently, stated the spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/employees-will-not-be-retrenched-chandigarh-ut-111659
12-07-2020||---||Garbage plant case: August 19 next date of hearing||Chandigarh, July 11A local court has ordered framing of the issues in a contempt petition filed by JP Associates against officials of the Municipal Corporation.A contempt petition was filed seeking restoration of the Dadu Majra garbage processing plant to the company and an action against MC officials for allegedly disobeying the order of the court. The company had alleged that the plant was taken over by the MC despite court’s stay order.The Municipal Corporation had challenged the petition of JP Associates stating that the court had no jurisdiction to entertain the application.The court, in the order passed on July 10, stated the application by JP Associates was maintainable and the court had jurisdiction to proceed further in the matter. “Let following issues be framed to allow the parties to lead evidence in support of their pleadings: Whether the MC has taken the possession of the plant forcibly and illegally by violating the court orders, if so, what was its effect?” read the order.The next date of hearing is August 19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/garbage-plant-case-august-19-next-date-of-hearing-111660
12-07-2020||---||Fake T-20 match: Suspects get 5-day police remand||Mohali, July 11Ravinder Dandiwal, the kingpin in a fake T20 scandal that surfaced recently, and Durgesh, another suspect, were today produced before a local court which remanded them in five-day police custody.The court has extended the remand of Dandiwal. He was in police custody since his arrest on July 6.Durgesh was arrested by the police from his house in Aterna village in Sonepat, Haryana. The police said Durgesh had brought hi-tech cameras from Delhi to cover the fake T-20 match.Inspector Sukhveer Singh said: “Durgesh is the fourth suspect in the case. We will now interrogate him for more details. Two other suspects, Happy Chandigarh and Kunju, are yet to be arrested.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fake-t-20-match-suspects-get-5-day-police-remand-111662
12-07-2020||---||Waste management plant work reviewed||Panchkula, July 11The residents of the trans-Ghaggar sectors will soon be relieved of the gases and smell emanating from the dumping ground in Sector 23 here, said Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who visited the dumping ground along with Municipal Corporation (MC) officials to assess the waste management project today.A press release issued by the DIPRO office stated, “The contractor concerned was called to the spot and told that no laxity will be tolerated. If the work is delayed, the responsibility will be fixed. Officials told Gupta that the work was going on a war footing and soon the process of composting will begin.”The release said, “MC officials said the entire waste will be destroyed within a year of the commencement of the work. A park will also be made for the residents, who have been facing this problem for the past 16 years. Gupta had approved the project during his first MLA tenure.”From the bio-mining project, fertiliser will be prepared by mining 2,000-3,000 tonnes of waste daily. The discharged solid waste will be sent to the cement factory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-management-plant-work-reviewed-111663
12-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||Vendors overcharge, claim residents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 11As against the rates fixed by the Market Committee, vegetable and fruit vendors are allegedly overcharging residents.After the lockdown was announced, the vendors were permitted to sell through CTU buses in different sectors. After the buses stopped plying for the purpose, they were authorised by the civic body to sell the essentials in the city on their own.Residents said though the market committee releases fixed rates for fruits and vegetables every day, the vendors do not abide by these. When confronted over the issue, they express helplessness and insist on selling on their own rates.Residents of Sectors 34, 41, 40, 38 (West) and other areas complained of overcharging.“What is the use of the Market Committee issuing a price list every day when these are not to be followed? When Apni Mandis were being set up, the price list was adhered to,” said Hitesh Puri, Chairman, Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED).A vendor said: “Earlier, we used to get free transportation through CTU buses. Now, we have to hire tempos. So, we are charging approximately Rs10 per kg extra on all items. You can compare our rates with others. We are still offering a low rate.”“How transportation could be an issue when almost everyone comes on their own cycle carts. Even if transportation is an issue, the committee should mention that transportation charges will be extra,” Puri added.Jarnail Singh Mavi, Secretary, Market Committee, said: “The vendors are supposed to follow the rates released by the committee daily. But the MC has to keep a check on it as they are registered by the civic body.”However, a senior officials of the MC enforcememt wing said: “Vendors are following the rates. In some items, when the quality of an item is better, the prices are increased. If cucumber is mentioned by the committee at a certainrate, but the vendors sell imported ones, then there will be a change in the rate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vendors-overcharge-claim-residents-111664
12-07-2020||Chandigarh||Child panel supports 1,200 kids, families||The Child Welfare Committee, Chandigarh, continues to help children facing improper food intake due to the loss of livelihood during the pandemic.The volunteers have been providing 1,200 children and their families with dry ration every month.The committee has been gathering intelligence on child abuse via chain-calling system ‘phone tree’ wherein each volunteer contributes. “Financial shock and instability is one of the major causes of child labour, child marriage and child trafficking. Since Chandigarh has 20 per cent internal migrant population, our programme spots children facing poor food intake,” said Sangita Vardhan, Chairperson, Child Welfare Committee.She added: “The scale of the ‘phone tree’ has grown to 1,200 children and families per month. Socially relevant data is being analysed to further support the families facing loss of livelihoods. It’s also identifying girls in the ages of 13 to 17 years who are at the risk of child marriage. The intention is to keep them and their parents motivated.”She has devised, scripted and enacted a special radio programme, ‘Anmol’, for contributing to a better world for children. Also age-appropriate Covid-19 kits are distributed among the needy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/child-panel-supports-1-200-kids-families-111666
12-07-2020||---||Mullana boy ends life after failing twice||Ambala, July 11An 18-year-old boy of Mullana in the district allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan at his house today after he failed to clear the BSEH Class X exams for the second time.As per information, the victim, identified as Himanshu, was alone at home when he took the extreme step. His parents were away to work.Mullana SHO Narender Singh said, “The teenager’s friends had found the body hanging when they reached his home to meet him. The boy had failed in Class X exams. The body has been handed over to the family after a post-mortem examination.”Meanwhile, the district registered an improvement of nearly 10 per cent in the Class X exams. The results were declared by the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) on Friday. The district saw a pass percentage of 58.90 against the last year’s 48.58. Of the total 12,185 students, 7,177 passed the exams, while 4,036 failed and 972 got compartments.Pushpinder of Government Senior Secondary School, Majri village, topped the district with 98.2 per cent marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mullana-boy-ends-life-after-failing-twice-111672
