12-06-2020||Naina Mishra||PGIMER cures first patient with plasma therapy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12Giving impetus to the ongoing plasma therapy trial, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) discharged the first patient in the region with the help of convalescent plasma therapy on Friday.A 60-year-old male from Kurukshetra, who became eligible to get plasma therapy, was enrolled at the PGIMER on June 1. He was admitted in a serious condition with pneumonia requiring oxygen therapy.It was observed that in just three days, the patient was taken off the oxygen therapy and gradually his condition improved over time with the help of plasma therapy and supportive care. The patient has been asymptomatic for the last five days.To date, the PGIMER has given plasma therapy to three patients of the six whose recommendation was sent to the ICMR.PGI director Jagat Ram said: “The results have been encouraging as the recovery speed up than the usual time it takes with the help of supportive therapy. The plasma given on other patients has also shown no side effects. The exact outcome will be known after the conclusion of the trial.”The PGIMER is one of the centres of the ICMR national trial on convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 positive patients who require oxygen therapy.The first patient who donated plasma was on May 9. The convalescent plasma is plasma taken from patients who recovered from corona. There are many reports that show that it is useful therapy in the early stage of the disease. The plasma therapy works by antibodies which are present in the plasma.The patients who have recovered from corona infection are eligible to donate plasma, which is, then stored in the blood bank to be given later to patients who come with severe infection.The trial is teamwork from the Department of Internal Medicine, Anesthesiology and intensive care, Transfusion Medicine, Virology, Community medicine and Public Health and Endocrinology.  24*7:  ICMR sending approvals in midnight hoursProf Pankaj Malhotra, Department of Internal Medicine shared: “The process was strenuous and time-consuming. The whole night we were awake as the patient reached at 10 pm in a serious condition. We conducted various tests and got the approval from ICMR at around 1 am. Finally, at 4 am, plasma therapy was administered on the patient. The plasma was given in two batches for two days to the patient.”Dr Malhotra said: “We have been giving a call to the ICMR in the late night for every patient. They have designated doctors who are available 24*7 for us. As soon as ICMR approves, we begin with plasma therapy.”Challenging to avail consent from donors and recipientProf GD Puri, Dean (Academics) & Head, Department of Anaesthesia & Intensive Care, detailed about the therapy as he shared: “For plasma therapy clinical trials we need more donors to come forward. We have to counsel the recovered patients and their relatives to convince them to donate blood.”Dr Malhotra said: “Sometimes, we find it challenging to convince the patients on whom the plasma trial is to be administered. Their consent is to be taken.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgimer%C2%A0cures-first-patient-with-plasma-therapy-98261
12-06-2020||---||Chandigarh reports 11 cases on Friday, total count now 345||Chandigarh, June 12Chandigarh, on Friday, reported 11 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally in the Union Territory to 345.Three cases have been reported from Khudda Jassu — 35-year-old woman, one-and-a-half-year-old girl and 8-year-old girl — all are family contacts of the already tested positive cases of Khudda Jassu.Four cases are from Bapu Dham Colony — 34-year-old man, five-year-old girl, a 27-year-old woman and a 63-year-old man — all family contacts of an already positive case of the same house.Three cases are from Daria — 24-days old child, a 48-year-old woman and a 26-year-old woman — family contacts of two COVID-19 positive cases, who were on a visit to Daria from Delhi.One case is from Khudda Lahora — a 28-year-old man — community contact of an already positive case of Khudda Lahora, who had transported the patient in his auto to GMSH-16.With 11 new cases, the active cases in the UT have climbed to 45.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-11-cases-on-friday-total-count-now-345-98238
12-06-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh Administration suspends interstate bus service||Chandigarh Administration has suspended interstate operations of CTU and STU buses until June 30, a development that comes two days after the administration opened it up.The new order will come into effect on Saturday. In his letter to Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan transport departments on Friday, Chandigarh’s transport secretary said: “I am directed to refer to this Administration's letter No. 2/7/73 HIII (7)- 2020/6607-6614, dated 21.5.2020 and letter No. 2/7/73-H-III(7)2020/7850, dated 05.6.2020 vide which the approval of Inter State Operation of buses have been allowed in U.T., Chandigarh. Now, in view of increase in number of cases of COVID-19, it has been decided by the Chandigarh Administration that the Inter-State operation of CTU and other STUs will remain suspended in U.T., Chandigarh from tomorrow Le. 13.6.2020 till 30.6.2020 for the time being”.The development comes on a day when 11 new cases reported on Friday evening took Chandigarh's tally to 345. Forty-five of those cases are still active. The union territory had allowed interstate transport services to resume on June 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-suspends-interstate-bus-service-98231
12-06-2020||Panchkula||Coronavirus: Panchkula reports 6 more cases, tally rises to 48||Panchkula on Friday reported six more cases of coronavirus, taking the total in the district to 48.Four members of a family in Sector 27 tested positive. The other two cases were reported from Sector 21 and the Industrial Area."Of these, 5 persons are from Delhi. So they won't be included in Panchkula's tally. Currently, there are 48 cases in Panchkula," said Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-panchkula-reports-6-more-cases-tally-rises-to-48-98194
12-06-2020||---||68-year-old Zirakpur woman tests positive for Covid-19; 25 active cases in Mohali||Mohali, June 12One more coronavirus positive case has surfaced in Mohali district taking the tally of infected people so far to 144.A 68-year-old woman, a resident of Zirakpur, is the latest case. She has been admitted to Fortis Hospital, Mohali.Giving details, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the woman is a resident of Swastik Vihar and had recently returned from Saharanpur in UP, where she had gone to meet her daughter.He said that on June 10, she was admitted to Fortis Hospital after she complained of breathlessness. He said the reports of her samples taken at the hospital showed that she was coronavirus positive. She will remain admitted to Fortis Hospital only, he said.Dr Singh said that with this the total cases in the district have reached 144 out of which 116 have recovered, three have died and there are 25 active cases at present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/68-year-old-zirakpur-woman-tests-positive-for-covid-19-25-active-cases-in-mohali-98158
12-06-2020||Rajan Raikhy---||Salute to tricity’s ‘red army’||The call came at 10.30 pm a few days ago. A patient was undergoing surgery and blood platelets were urgently required. I was in the hospital till 2 in the morning. Blood donors you will still find, but platelet donors, not many. The medical staff and relatives of patients are grateful without a doubt, but the biggest pleasure I derive is the rousing reception I get at home whenever I get back after blood or platelet donation. I am 50, but it makes me feel young and raring to go again. It’s a privilege to be in a position to donate, but I also rely on the inspirational presence of several extraordinary individuals. Like 65-year-old Prag Raj Sharma, who started his blood donation journey in 1975 and his zeal continues to be unflinching. He has donated blood 224 times. There’s Dr Usha Rao, also 65, who in fact retired from PGI’s Blood Transfusion Department. Her donation count: 128. Rakesh Sangar, 60, is the backbone of the blood donation campaign in Chandigarh. Also a PGI retiree, this social worker has organised more than 600 camps in the region and help is available for anyone who calls. Sub-Inspector Rakesh Rasila is not only a regular blood donor, but also takes up the cause of disposing of animal carcasses. He is also listed as the top ‘blood donor cop’ in the country. Randeep Bhatia, 54, has made it a mission to donate blood in the capitals of all states of the country. Unusual, but if working for a social cause is all that you aim for, credit is all you deserve. At 31, Satish Sachdeva has already donated platelets 106 times. His source of inspiration: his mother (donated blood 51 times) and father (55 times). Bupinder Singh owns a sweets shop in PU, but this 60-year-old is always ready whenever a request to donate blood comes. Income-tax lawyer Ajay Gupta is no less. His commitment to the cause of blood donation is exemplary. He has also organised 176 blood camps. Dr Pankaj Kaul of PGI is ready to touch the 105 mark on World Blood Donor Day on June 14. Both his daughters are regular donors. What a family! Jasbir Singh Jassi is known as the mobile blood bank. He has contacts of over 1,400 blood donors and arranges blood and platelets within no time. He himself has donated blood 113 times. Then there’s Bhupinder Nagpal. He may be diabetic, but that does not prevent him from donating blood. His count: 157. His ailment has forced him to reduce the donation frequency, but he still insists on donating blood once in two years. And what can one say about Mrs and Mr Jaspal Singh. Their disability has never come in the way of their ability to serve humanity. Their combined donation count is 44. ‘Respectful Disability’ Kuldeep is not able to walk, but he’s a star of the ‘red army’, having donated blood 46 times. I may have missed mentioning so many names. To each blood donor, I can only say that I cherish the privilege to be counted as one among you. My salute to all of you.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/salute-to-tricitys-red-army-97806
12-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Over 3 years on, only 20 sectors of Chandigarh get gas pipeline||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 11Nearly three-and-a-half years after Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas Dharmendra Pradhan inaugurated the compressed natural gas (CNG) and piped natural gas (PNG) projects in the city, the work is far from completion.According to Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Limited, which is carrying out the work, gas pipelines have been installed in 20 sectors and 36 are still remaining.The work is currently being done in the southern sectors.Though the firm was hoping to complete the work this year, the deadline has been extended till the 2022 financial year.At present, the work is stopped due to the unavailability of labour in view of the Covid-19 outbreak.PNG is for houses, hotels and restaurants, while CNG is for vehicles. The firm has set up CNG stations at six petrol pumps and is planning to open four more in Sectors 22, 34, Madhya Marg and Industrial Area in the next few months.Sanjay Tarat, asset head, Indian Oil Adani Gas Private Limited, said, “We hope to complete the work in 2022. There have been permission constraints and one-month time in one sector is too less. We have been taking up the issue with the Municipal Corporation. We are left with just 36 sectors as gas pipelines have already been installed in 20 sectors.”PNG is around 20 per cent cheaper than LPG supplied in cylinders.KL Aggarwal, president, Modern Housing Complex (Duplex) Residents’ Welfare Association, rued, “The work in our area has been stopped for over two years. Nearly 300 people have paid advance registration fee and are waiting for gas connection. The Municipal Corporation has given permission, but the work has still not taken off.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-3-years-on-only-20-sectors-of-chandigarh-get-gas-pipeline-97807
12-06-2020||---||Proclaimed offender wanted in 8 cases held from Mauli Jagran||Chandigarh, June 11A 25-year-old man, who was declared a proclaimed offender in an NDPS case, has been re-arrested by the Chandigarh Police.The accused has been identified as Ravi, alias Thakri, a resident of Mauli Complex, Chandigarh.The police said Ravi was arrested with 60-gm charas on March 10, 2017, following which a case was registered against him at the Mauli Jagran police station.During trial, Ravi did not appear before the court. He was issued a non-bailable warrant on March 25, 2019. The police said they had received a tip-off that the accused was in Mauli Jagran following which he was nabbed on June 10.They said that Ravi was also a history-sheeter. He was involved in more than eight cases, including that of theft and burglary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/proclaimed-offender-wanted-in-8-cases-held-from-mauli-jagran-97808
12-06-2020||Our Correspondent---||Youth takes poison by mistake, dies||Fatehgarh Sahib/Khamano, June 11 A youth died after accidentally taking a poisonous substance here. The victim has been identified as Jaswinder Singh Kalu (30), a resident of Farour village.  Ranjit Singh, brother of the victim, said Kalu used to consume alcohol regularly. He said Kalu felt pain in his stomach and he accidentally consumed the poisonous substance instead of medicine. Kalu was rushed to the Khamano Civil Hospital from where he was referred to the Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Hospital, but he died during treatment. Assistant Sub-Inspector Parjinder Singh said the body of the victim was handed to his family members after a post-mortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-takes-poison-by-mistake-dies-97809
12-06-2020|| ---||Hike in building plan approval fee draws flak||Zirakpur, June 11 As per the orders of the Department of Local Government, Punjab, the Zirakpur Municipal Council (MC) has implemented the annual 15 per cent hike in building plan approval charges for residential and commercial complexes with effect from April 1.  For residential buildings, the charges have been hiked from Rs674 to Rs775 per square yard. For commercial buildings, the charges have increased from Rs3,274 to Rs3,766 per square yard. The Municipal Council SDO, Inder Mohan Singh, said, “It is an annual hike and has been implemented all over the state. No new charges have been imposed.” Meanwhile, the annual hike in charges has not gone down well with residents here, who are expecting relief from the government in the prevailing circumstances.  The Zirakpur Property Dealers Association president, Gulshan Arora, said, “The charges should not have been increased this year. People are suffering due to the lockdown. It will be an additional burden on the salaried class and businessmen. We will give a representation to the MC in this regard soon.” As per the government instructions, development charges for compounding of an unauthorised residential plot outside the municipal limit are 0.5 per cent of the current collector rate for up to 50 square yard. For unauthorised commercial plot, the charges are 9 per cent of the current collector rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hike-in-building-plan-approval-fee-draws-flak-97810
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||CITCO union seeks action against ex-official||The CITCO Progressive Workers’ Union has sought stern action against a former official of the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (CITCO) for allegedly causing a financial loss to the organisation. In a representation to the UT Administrator, Kashmir Chand, vice-president, Hind Mazdoor Sabha, and chairman, CITCO Progressive Workers’ Union, said an inquiry conducted by the Finance Department had found that the official concerned had renewed the FDR for Rs7.25 crore at 5.50 per cent per annum instead of 6.70 per cent per annum with Indian Bank from September 15, 2017 to September 15, 2018. The inquiry concluded that there was a prima facie financial loss of Rs8.70 lakh, he said. He alleged that the Finance Department had submitted the inquiry report to the CITCO in 2018, but no action was taken against the official till he retired on March 31. He said the authorities in the first week of June had stopped two increments of the official concerned. The Union demanded that minor punishment awarded to the official concerned should be reviewed and all financial benefits to be awarded to the official after the retirement should be stopped.   The official concerned said he would take legal recourse. A senior officer said action has already been initiated against the official concerned. The officer said recovery of losses from the official has been ordered and his two increments have been stopped. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/citco-union-seeks-action-against-ex-official-97811
12-06-2020|| ---||Overflowing sewer irks residents of Zirakpur's Shivalik Vihar Colony||Zirakpur, June 11 Residents of Shivalik Vihar Colony on the Zirakpur-Patiala road have repeatedly complained regarding the overflowing sewer, which has made their life hell for the past few days. Overflowing water from the sewer has entered streets, which now emanates foul smell.  Colony residents said they had apprised the administration of the issue several times, but to no avail. All their complaints had fallen on deaf ears, they added.  Pawan Nehru, a colony resident, said, “The problem was rectified last month, but has resurfaced. The stench in streets is unbearable.” Jasveer Singh Jassi, another colony resident, said, “The overflowing sewer problem may aggravate in the rainy season. It needs to be fixed now. Otherwise, there is a risk of spreading disease.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/overflowing-sewer-irks-residents-of-zirakpurs-shivalik-vihar-colony-97812
12-06-2020||Panchkula||4 more test +ve in Panchkula||Four new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district today, taking its tally to 47.Among them, three who tested positive are from the Mansa Devi Complex (MDC), Sector 5, here. They are a 65-year-old woman, who returned from Delhi a few days ago, and a 25-year-old youth and a 30-year-old man, who returned from Lucknow two days ago.Another person who tested positive is a 75-year-old man from Abheypur in Sector 19. His source of infection is not yet known. His 10 family members have been quarantined. They will be tested for the virus tomorrow, said Dr Rajiv Narwal, Covid nodal officer for the district.He said the infected woman from the MDC was staying alone. The other two patients were from the same area. They returned from Lucknow two days ago and had no family members here. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-more-test-ve-in-panchkula-97893
12-06-2020||---||Parts of Sector 8, 16 containment zones||Panchkula, June 11Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja today declared parts of Sector 8 and Sector 16 as containment zones after two persons tested positive for Covid-19 from there.In Sector 8, house numbers 315 to 321 and 322 to 328 are part of the containment zone.In Sector 16, house numbers 514 to 516 and 534 to 535, and an adjoining park are part of the containment zone.HSVP Estate Officer Mamta Sharma will be the in-charge of the containment zones. MP Sharma, SDO (Survey), HSVP, will assist the Estate Officer.The Municipal Commissioner has been asked to sanitise the containment zones. The Deputy Commissioner of Police will ensure sufficient deployment of police personnel to restrict public movement in the containment zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parts-of-sector-8-16-containment-zones-97894
12-06-2020||---||Social distancing goes for a toss||Chandigarh, June 11Social distancing went for a toss during the distribution of dry ration among beneficiaries near the office of the Municipal Corporation here today.Under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), the Food and Supplies Department had distributed ration to nearly 56,000 families in the city during the lockdown. However, those who could not get the benefit of the scheme during the lockdown had been asked to collect the ration from the office of the department. A large number of people reached there today and jostled with each other to get ration.Officials had a tough time in controlling the crowd. An official said under the scheme, the beneficiaries were given three-month ration, including 15 kg of wheat and 3 kg of pulses per person.The official said ration was being distributed among those who did not have a BPL card. Earlier, when ration was distributed among the card holders, a slip was issued to them in advance and only those who had it were allowed to collect the ration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-97895
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||SIM card used by Deepu found in Ambala jail||The UT police claim to have recovered the SIM card used by Deepak, alias Deepu Banur, from Central Jail, Ambala. The same SIM was allegedly used by Deepu to communicate with Lawrence Bishnoi, who is lodged in a jail in Rajasthan.The police said during interrogation, Deepu disclosed that he was using a mobile phone to communicate with Bishnoi and other criminals active in the region.After taking permission, the UT police, along with the jail authorities, carried out a search of the barracks in which Deepu was lodged, which led to the recovery of the SIM card, used to make WhatsApp calls to Bishnoi, and other devices. “The mobile phone used by the accused was destroyed by him during his confinement in jail,” said a police official.One of the gang members, Kulwinder Singh, alias Kala, who was arrested earlier, had disclosed that Deepu used to often call him from the jail, asking him to provide arms and ammunition to members of the Bishnoi gang to carry out crime in the region. “Deepu had kept arms at various hideouts in Punjab and Haryana,” said the official.Kala had reportedly provided weapons to gangsters on the directions of Deepu in the past too. The police said Deepu had provided information about the hideouts of the remaining four shooters in the Sector 33 firing case, who were at large. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sim-card-used-by-deepu-found-in-ambala-jail-97896
12-06-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Area under Zirakpur flyover set for facelift||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, June 11The area underneath the Zirakpur flyover is set for a makeover worth Rs2.15 crore in the coming days. Ornamental plants, benches and decorative lights will be part of the entire area to enhance the ambience of the entire stretch shortly.National Highways Authority of India project director Krishan Lal Sachdeva said: “Tenders will be received in a day or two and the work will begin shortly. The Patiala chowk area will be spruced up to enhance the look of the town.”Besides the beautification, it will also help in the utilisation of the area alongside the Chandigarh-New Delhi road in a better way. At present, stray animals, dumped waste material and sewage are a common sight in the area.“The idea is to effectively utilise the prime spot of the town. Residents, too, will have to share the responsibility of keeping the area neat and clean. Dumping of waste material and defacement of public property will also have to be stopped,” he said.This is the second attempt to beautify the area. In 2017, the local administration had taken up the beautification project, but left it midway due to lack of funds. In 2016, some artists had volunteered to make graffiti on the pillars of the flyover, but these were defaced soon||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/area-under-zirakpur-flyover-set-for-facelift-97897
12-06-2020||---||Six contacts of Sector 16 patient test positive||Chandigarh, June 11Four family members and two workplace contacts of a Covid-19 patient of Sector 16 here tested positive for coronavirus today, taking the tally to 334.The four family members include the mother (56), father (60), grandfather (80) and daughter (5) of an already positive patient. However, his wife has tested negative. The family runs a chemist shop in Sector 16.All four workplace contacts have also been found positive, but two of them are from Punjab and have been added to the state tally. Two others are from Sector 16 and Dhanas here.Four patients dischargedFour residents from Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, here, were discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital after getting cured of the infection. They have been shifted to the post-discharge quarantine facility at Sood Dharmshala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-contacts-of-sector-16-patient-test-positive-97898
12-06-2020||---||Soon, all long-route CTU buses to have panic button||Chandigarh, June 11For the safety and security of passengers, all Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) long-route buses will soon have a panic button and the live tracking system.The UT Transport Department has invited online tenders for the supply and installation of the automatic vehicle location system (AVLS), along with a panic button, in 173 buses.The system is already functional in 40 local buses and it will now be installed in the remaining 173 buses plying on long routes.The department has also invited tenders for the supply and installation of ultrasonic fuel sensor devices in all 213 buses and the supply and installation of six new passenger information system (PIS) boards and maintenance of eight PIS boards, including six new and two old.A senior official of the department said the live tracking system had already been installed in buses plying in the tricity and tenders had been floated to install the system in all long-route buses.He said the panic button fitted in the bus would be used to alert the authorities and seek immediate help in case of an emergency and medical help.How it will workOnce a passenger presses the panic button, it will send a message to the control room, mentioning the bus registration number and its location. Immediately, the nearest police station will be alerted for quick action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-all-long-route-ctu-buses-to-have-panic-button-97899
12-06-2020||---||3 more cases surface in Mohali||Mohali, June 11Three more cases of Covid have surfaced in the Dera Bassi area, taking the Mohali district count to 143.The new patients infected with the virus are a 57-year-old man of Preet Nagar in Dera Bassi, a 25-year-old youth of Shivam Complex in Dera Bassi and a 22-year-old woman of Bhera village in Dera Bassi.Dr Manjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the youth had returned from Mathura on June 8, while the woman came to the hospital with flu symptoms. He said the contacts of the 57-year-old man were yet to be traced. All three had been shifted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and their condition was stable, he said.Dr Manjit Singh said four persons had recovered and were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital today. He said those discharged were Dinesh Bala and Ashish from Baltana, Satpal from Lalru and Dinesh from Nangal Salempur (Banur).Of the 143 cases in the district, 116 have recovered, three have died, while there are 24 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-cases-surface-in-mohali-97900
12-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University slips to 44th spot in NIRF ranking||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 11Panjab University (PU) slipped to the 44th rank in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF).In comparison to last year’s 34th rank with 51.25 points, the PU slipped 10 spots with 50.24 points in the overall category. In the university specific list, it ended up at the 26th spot with 51.85 points. It witnessed a drop of five slots in comparison to 2019.As per this year’s overall rankings, the PU had 50.08 points in teaching, learning and resources (TLR), 42.83 in research and professional practices (RPC), 71.27 in graduation outcomes (GO), 54.90 in outreach and inclusivity (OI) and 26.27 in perception.The University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) was ranked second among 334 pharmacy institutions in the country. The department was declared the second best with 79.80 points and perception of 95.05.“Since the inception of the NIRF, the UIPS has been consistently among the top three. The achievement of the UIPS has been attributed to its high prowess in publications, high-quality research output in terms of patents, technology transfers to industry, academics, collaborative outputs and infrastructural facilities,” said the chairperson, Prof Indu Pal Kaur.The Department of Laws of the PU made an entry into the list and has been placed at the 15th spot with 51.11 points.The University Institute of Engineering Technology (UIET) fell to the 72nd spot with 40.44 points, whereas the management department has been ranked 42nd with 47.22 points, six spots up from last year. The Dental Department remained at the 28th spot with 53.09 points.“The NIRF is important for us. Barring engineering, the PU has improved its overall score in comparison to last year. Our management, law and pharmacy departments have done fairly well. Slight fall in the ranking in the university category despite improving scores is reflective of increasing competition and it gives us a reason to work harder,” said Ashish Jain, Director, International Quality Assurance Cell, PU.He said: “While we celebrate the rankings of pharmacy, management, law and dental departments, we will surely be contemplating improving on our engineering department next year.”Punjab institutes in overall rankingsPunjabi University, Patiala, claimed the 64th spot in the university specific list with 44.07 points. Thapar Institute of Engineering And Technology, Patiala, claimed the 51st rank with 48.54 points. In the university specific lift, it claimed the 31st spot. The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali, claimed the overall 59th spot.PEC also features on the listThe name of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) featured in the list of the universities by claiming the 68th spot with 41.43 points. Chandigarh University claimed the 84th position with 38.82 points. “We have slightly improved from the 78th rank to the 68th and we take it as a challenge to perform,” said Dr Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, PEC.Govt Home Science College at 86th spotIn the college category, Government Home Science College, Sector 10, claimed the 86th position with 51.28 points.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-slips-to-44th-spot-in-nirf-ranking-97901
12-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||PGI is second best in country, GMCH 25th||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 11For the third consecutive year, the PGI has ranked second in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). The rankings were released by the Ministry of Human Resource Development today.The PGI scored 80.06 points, while the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, ranked first with 90.6 points. Christian Medical College, Vellore, stood third with 73.56 points.Our institute scored 80.06 points this year. The PGI’s overall score has improved by two points in comparison to last year. We had bagged the second position in 2019 and 2018 too. This rank has been attained by the combined efforts of the faculty and staff.Rs— Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGIThe PGI got 81.14 points in teaching, learning and resources (TLR), 82.46 in research and professional practices (RPC), 86.16 in graduation outcomes (GO), 66.08 in outreach and inclusivity (OI) and 71.44 in perception.The PGI scored more points in GO (86.16) than AIIMS (83.25), while the latter scored 100 per cent in perception.In 2019, the PGI got 78.60 in TLR, 84.47 in RPC, 76.99 in GO, 70.74 in OI and 64.87 in perception. The overall points were 77.88 points.As many as 88 faculty members and 15 students received national/international recognition from Central Government agencies in the previous session, which proved helpful in securing the second position.“Our institute scored 80.06 points this year. The PGI’s overall score has improved by two points in comparison to last year. We had bagged the second position in 2019 and 2018 too. This rank has been attained by the combined efforts of the faculty and staff,” said Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI. “The second position indicates that there is scope for improvement. AIIMS got 100 per cent in perception, it’s hard to believe. I am not criticising anyone, but we need to improve. We have done a fair job and excelled from AIIMS in GO. For us, the sky is the limit. We are hopeful of attaining the top spot by improving in the area of deficiency,” said Prof Jagat Ram.GMCH-32 performance comes as surpriseStanding nowhere in the NIRF 2019, the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, surprised everyone by bagging the 25th spot this year. The GMCH scored 52.01 points. It secured 69.66 points in TLR, 19.06 in RPC, 84.00 in GO, 58.92 in OI and 26.97 in perception.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-is-second-best-in-country-gmch-25th-97902
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Bhavan’s 11th edition of MUN on June 13, 14||Bhavan Vidyalaya, Chandigarh, will conduct the 11th edition of Model United Nations (MUN) conference on June 13 and 14. The theme of the event this year is ‘From Repression to Expression’.  The BVCMUN2020 aims at addressing the multifarious challenges plaguing the world through 10 committees and agendas. Suresh Kumar, Chief Principal Secretary to the Punjab Chief Minister, will be the chief guest for the opening ceremony that will be held via video conferencing. The school will host around 290 delegates from over 75 schools from across India and abroad. Student delegates from 14 international schools across eight countries — Australia, USA, Sri Lanka, United Arab Emirates, Lebanon, Pakistan and the United Kingdom — will be a part of the event. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhavans-11th-edition-of-mun-on-june-13-14-97903
12-06-2020||---||Valmiki community raises questions over police probe||Mohali, June 11 Around 150 representatives of the Valmiki Samaj today raised questions over police investigation in a clash between two groups. They laid siege to the Phase 11 police station and staged a dharna. On May 28, a clash broke out between two groups — a few persons of the Valmiki community and president of Amb Sahib Colony, Satish Kumar, and his accomplices  — in Phase 11. Some persons were injured in the incident due to the use of sharp weapons by both groups. A case of attempt to murder was registered by the police on the complaint of Satish Kumar. Later, the Valmikis submitted their complaint against Satish Kumar and his accomplices following which police had registered a cross FIR without Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC. A delegation of the Valmiki Samaj today met SP (Headquarters) Gursewak Brar and said they were not satisfied with the probe conducted by the Phase 11 police. They doubted the police were under political pressure. One of the protesters, Kuldeep Kumar, said: “The police are conducting one-sided probe in our case. If they can add Section 307 of the IPC against us, then why can’t add the same section against Satish Kumar, who, along with his accomplices, had first attacked our caste people.” He said the colony president had also hurt their religious sentiments by making objectionable statements against the community. The protesters alleged Satish Kumar had a criminal background and that he was also into the drug business.  Phase 11 Station House Officer Jagdeep Singh said: “We are not working under any kind of pressure. The inquiry in the matter was marked to the SP (Headquarter). We are investigating the matter as per the complaints submitted by both groups.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/valmiki-community-raises-questions-over-police-probe-97904
12-06-2020||---||Minister to GMADA: Focus on social infrastructure||Mohali, June 11Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health and Family Welfare Minister, Punjab, said Mohali had been fast developing as an IT hub, which necessitated the acceleration of the pace of ongoing development projects in the city.Sidhu was presiding over a meeting to review important developmental projects at the District Administrative Complex here today.He directed the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to focus on developing social infrastructure such as old age homes, home for the destitute and girls’ hostels in the city. He asked GMADA to also explore the possibility of finding a chunk of land for developing a motor market and transport nagar in the city, besides permitting booths to become double-storied. The matter of construction of a hospital in Mohali was advocated during the meeting.The minister impressed upon the MC Commissioner to explore the possibility of starting bus service in the city apart from strengthening the fire-fighting system. He talked about the need for procuring sewerage-cleaning suction machines for municipal committees and cleaning sewerage systems before the onset of monsoon.He directed the District Mandi Officer to initiate steps to de-notify the ‘mandi’ in Phase 1 and make sure that the Phase 11 fruit and vegetable market gets operational. He also insisted upon strengthening water supply in the city and completion/re-carpeting of roads. He talked about the need for constructing toilets in slum areas. For the beautification of the city, the minister suggested GMADA to adopt the big parks of the city and lay out cycle tracks along the main roads.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan assured the minister of weekly review on the progress of the ongoing projects, followed by their time-bound completion with no room for laxity. Among those present in the meeting included Tanu Kashyap, Chief Administrator, GMADA, Kamal Garg, MC Commissioner and ADC Aashika Jain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-to-gmada-focus-on-social-infrastructure-97906
12-06-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University Department of Laws conducts webinar||The Department of Laws organised a webinar titled “Human Rights: Issues and challenges amid Covid-19”, for research scholars.Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar was the chief patron. Prof Dilip Ukey, Vice-Chancellor, Maharashtra National Law University, Mumbai, delivered the inaugural address. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-department-of-laws-conducts-webinar-97907
12-06-2020||---||Court puts cap on filing of cases per day||Chandigarh, June 11As a precautionary measure against the Covid-19 pandemic, the District and Sessions Judge, UT, has ordered filing of a maximum of 125 cases of all categories on a daily basis.District Bar Association (DBA) president NK Nanda said since the High Court had directed the District and Sessions Judge to regulate the filing of the cases in accordance with red zone, orange zone and green zone.The District and Sessions Judge, keeping in view the current status of the UT (red zone), has restricted the maximum number of filing of all category cases to 125 in total, including 138 NI Act, from 10 am to 1 pm on all working days, besides holidays.The president of the association said all these cases could be filed in hard copy in the judicial branch of the sessions division, UT.It is further notified that only 50 cases pertaining to 138 NI Act can be filed in one day.A single advocate can only file 10 complaints (138 NI) on a given day, he added.The judge also ordered that the bar association would ensure that only those advocates, who had to file fresh cases, visit the court premises.It was further ordered that no litigant or clerk of advocate would be allowed to enter thecourt premises.Precautionary step against Covid-19||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-puts-cap-on-filing-of-cases-per-day-97909
12-06-2020||Mohali||Biker killed in road accident||10 GIRLS get job offersMohali: As many as 10 girl trainees of Government Industrial Training Institute (W), Phase 5, have been offered job during the campus placement drive. The selected girls will get an annual package of Rs 1.5 lakh by the company. Shamsher Purkhalvi, District Nodal Officer and Principal of ITI (w), Mohali, said M/s Virsa Clothing Company had offered jobs to 10 girls who were given letters for regular employment after a month of practical training. Purkhalvi said that handicraft education had an important role to play in the present times. He appealed to parents to give vocational education to their daughters for building a better future so that they could become self-reliant. The girl trainees selected by the company expressed their happiness and thanked the officials of the institute. TNSAAP against liquor vendKharar: Workers of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday protested the opening of a liquor vend at the Kurali bus stand, which is close to Government Girls School. They submitted a memorandum to the Kharar SDM and Kurali SHO and alleged the vend was opened against the orders of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. They said the vend was also close to a temple. OCPU declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University announced results of science (Honours) anthropology (1st semester, 3rd semester, 5th semester), science (Honours) microbiology (5th semester), diploma in forensic science and criminology (1st semester), PhD course work in mass communication March 2020, electrical and electronics (1st semester, 3rd semester), food processing and quality management (5th semester), hospital administration and management (5th semester). TNSWebinar on healthy dietChandigarh: Wardens of various hostels of Panjab University, including Dr Rajeev, Dr Praveen, Dr Nidhi Gautam, Dr Jai Mala and Dr Avneet organised a webinar titled “Healthy diet to fight Covid-19”. Nutritionist Dharamjit Singh asked around 70 participants to take a sun bath for at least half an hour to get enough vitamin D. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-killed-in-road-accident-97923
12-06-2020||Mohali||Cricketers, B-Town celebs come together in Unlock India song||To infuse positivity among industrialists and people at large not only in Mohali, but also in other parts of Punjab, Chandigarh, Haryana and the rest of India, Karan Gilhotra, a tricity-based entrepreneur, who is also the chairman of the PHDCCI (Punjab chapter) has produced a four-minute music video, ‘Be Strong’, dedicated to the theme of “Let’s Unlock India Together”.A Mohali-based multinational, Bigrox Media, is supporting the endeavour under its corporate social responsibility (CSR) programme.Vikram Vijay Chopra has directed Gilhotra’s music video, while Punjabi singer and lyricist Jasbir Jassi has given the music.Sanjeev Anand has penned the soong, while Jassi has also lent his voice for it.The icing on the cake is appearance of cricket bigwigs such as Virendra Sehwag and Suresh Raina in the video.Bollywood has been amply represented in the video by names such as Jimmy Shergill, Richa Chadda, Pulkit Samrat, Varun Sharma, Vatsal Sheth, Ishita Sheth and Angad Bedi. Famous stand-up comedian Sunil Grover too is part of the song. The Punjabi entertainment industry has been represented by the likes of Amy Virk, Binnu Dhillon and Gurpreet Ghuggi in the musical video.“The USP of the song is the stellar performance of actor- turned Covid philanthropist Sonu Sood, who has sent migrants from Mumbai to their native places during the outbreak,” said Gilhotra.“Actor Manoj Bajpai has given a refreshing start in the form of a prelude to the song. We have got some good enactments in the video from the cricketing as well as the B-Town world,” Gilhotra added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cricketers-b-town-celebs-come-together-in-unlock-india-song-97925
12-06-2020||New Delhi||PGI-Chandigarh retains 2nd best medical college tag||The PGI-Chandigarh has retained its position as the second best medical college in the country after AIIMS-New Delhi for the third year in a row in the annual rankings for higher educational institutions (HEIs) released today.The National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) covers 10 categories. The IIT-Madras retains its number one slot among the HEIs. PU-Chandigarh is the second best for pharmacy studies after Jamia Hamdard, New Delhi. The NIPER is ranked third. IITs dominate India top 10 institutes, bagging seven slots. The only non-technical institutes in top 10 overall institutions are IISc-Bengaluru (2), JNU 8) and BHU (10). Miranda House is the best Indian college. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chandigarh-retains-2nd-best-medical-college-tag-97972
