12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Six more COVID-19 deaths in Chandigarh, 250 new cases||Chandigarh reported six more fatalities due to COVID-19, pushing the toll to 89 in the Union territory on Saturday.The infection tally jumped to 7,542 with 250 new coronavirus cases, as per the medical bulletin.The fresh coronavirus cases included a five-day-old child, as per the bulletin.The new COVID-19 cases were found in several areas including Sectors 1, 7, 8, 10, 14, 15, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 32, 33, 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, Daria, Dhanas and Hallo Majra.There are 2,586 active cases in the city as of now.A total 264 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection. A total of 4,864 people have been cured so far, according to the bulletin.A total of 47,306 samples have been taken for testing so far with 39,483 testing negative while reports of 169 samples are still awaited, as per the bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-more-covid-19-deaths-in-chandigarh-250-new-cases-140324
12-09-2020||---||Bhavan’s Kartik tops tricity in JEE (Main)||Panchkula, September 12Kartik Sharma of Bhavan Vidyalaya in Panchkula emerged as the tricity topper in the JEE (Main), the result of which was declared by the National Testing Agency on Friday evening. He scored 99.998 percentile to secure the all-India rank of 42.“I used to devote seven-eight hours to studies apart from my coaching sessions. A planned approach is the key to success. I tried not to be stressed and took regular breaks. Teachers played a key role in uplifting our mood,” he said.The topper, who had been preparing for the engineering exam for the past two years, wants to pursue BTech in computer science either from the IIT-Delhi or the IIT-Bombay.Sharma scored 98.8 per cent in the Class XII exams.His father Harish Chander is the Chief Manager in State Bank of India and mother Sarita Sharma is a mathematics lecturer.The top 1.5 lakh students in the JEE (Main) list can appear for the JEE (Advanced), which will be conducted on September 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhavans-kartik-tops-tricity-in-jee-main-140301
12-09-2020||Zirakpur||Abetment to suicide: 2 held n Zirakpur||The police have arrested two of the six suspects, including former sarpanch Jai Singh, in connection with the suicide case of Shyam Singh (52), a resident of Shatabgarh.The suspects have been identified as Jai Singh and Ranjit Singh. The police today produced the duo before a court, which remanded them in three-day police custody.Shyam Singh had committed suicide due to humiliation after he was forced to take off his turban and place it at the feet of a village panch.In a suicide note, the victim had stated that he was ending his life after facing humiliation at the village panchayat.On the statement of Virender Singh, son of the deceased, the police had booked sarpanch Usha Devi, her husband Baljit Singh, former sarpanch Jai Singh, Ranjit Singh, Kuldeep Singh and Jagpal Singh on September 5. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abetment-to-suicide-2-held-n-zirakpur-139929
12-09-2020||Dera Bassi||2 arrested for illegal mining in Dera Bassi||The police have arrested two persons on the charge of illegal mining at Pandawala village. The duo was later released on bail. Investigating Officer ASI Mewa Singh said JE-cum-Mining Inspector Narinder Kumar informed them that illegal mining was going on at a private land at the village.After getting information, the police raided the spot and arrested two persons who were carrying out mining with the help of a Poclain machine. The suspects have been identified as Jagdeep Singh, a resident of Mubarikpur, who was driving a Poclain, and Satprakash, a resident of Uttar Pradesh who was driving a tipper. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-illegal-mining-in-dera-bassi-139931
12-09-2020||---||Sector 17, Chandigarh traders give masks to needy persons||Chandigarh, September 11Members of the Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, assembled on the roadside with awareness posters under the presidentship of Kamaljit Singh Panchhi here today.An awareness campaign was started to make people aware of wearing a face mask.Panchhi also distributed face masks among the needy persons and requested them to wear it always to protect themselves as well as others.“We have never faced such a situation earlier. We all have to fight the pandemic to save the human life,” he said.“Coronavirus is not over yet and we need to take extra care as cases are rising exponentially because people have started getting careless. It can prove fatal. So, wear a mask and follow social distancing norms,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-17-chandigarh-traders-give-masks-to-needy-persons-139921
12-09-2020||---||Registering and Licensing Authority adds 2 more counters to ensure social distancing in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 11The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) has added two more counters to reduce rush and ensure social distancing. An official said the counters were increased to clear pending cases as the office remained closed during the lockdown period.The official said they were giving more than 600 appointments daily for different works at the RLA, including registration of vehicles and driving licences.He said they were trying to manage the crowd and only genuine persons were allowed to enter the premises. Recently, six employees of the Registering and Licensing Authority had tested positive for coronavirus and the office remained closed for four days.Earlier, the authorities had reduced the number of online appointments to nearly half in order to maintain social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/registering-and-licensing-authority-adds-2-more-counters-to-ensure-social-distancing-in-chandigarh-139922
12-09-2020||---||Bar Association says no to online elections||Chandigarh, September 11The Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana’s request for holding online elections of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association has failed to find favour with the lawyers’ body. The Bar Association has shot off a communiqué to the Bar Council unanimously declining its request to participate in online elections.The Bar Association asserted it had received a notification regarding holding of online elections of the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association by the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana on September 30.In view of this, a meeting of the election committee was convened through video-conferencing. The agenda was thoroughly discussed in the meeting, attended by no less than 13 out of 16 members of the election committee. The members stated that there was no provision in the Advocates Act or the Rules, which authorised the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana to suo motu conduct the elections of any Bar Association without the request of the Bar Association concerned. Also, there was no emergency for holding online elections.“In this hour of the Covid-19 pandemic, almost all work in the courts stands paralysed and no physical appearance in any court is allowed. Moreover, most of the advocates, who are voters of the Bar Association, have gone back to their villages and cities and there is no online infrastructure in the villages....”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bar-association-says-no-to-online-elections-139925
12-09-2020||---||Hit by SUV, biker hurt in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 11A motorcyclist suffered injuries after being hit by a recklessly driven SUV near the Transport light point in Sector 26 here yesterday. The youth and his friends riding the SUV fled from the spot leaving the vehicle behind.Driver bookedThe victim was shifted to the GMSH in Sector 16. The police impounded the vehicle and registered a case against the SUV driver at the Sector 26 police station.According to the police, complainant Ankit Mishra, a resident of Mohali, reported that the SUV being driven by a youth hit his motorcycle. The driver and his friends fled from the spot after the accident.The police were informed about the accident. The victim was shifted to the GMSH in Sector 16. The police impounded the vehicle and registered a case against the SUV driver at the Sector 26 police station.Sources said a mobile phone, ladies sandal and a liquor bottle were recovered from the SUV.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-suv-biker-hurt-in-chandigarh-139923
12-09-2020||---||Army man assaulted in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 11An Army man was assaulted by unknown persons at Ram Darbar, Phase I, here.According to the police, Naik Harender Pal was driving an Army truck. He was heading to DRDO Dihar Base Lab near the 3BRD Air Force station.On reaching near the Air Force turn in Phase I, Ram Darbar, he found some persons standing on the roadside. The Army man asked them to get aside.The police said the suspects entered into an altercation with the complainant and smashed the truck’s glass with a stone.When the complainant got down from the truck, the suspects thrashed him and fled from the spot.The complainant, who suffered injuries, was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.The police were informed about the incident following which a case under Sections 323, 341, 332, 353, 427 and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 31 police station and an investigation has been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/army-man-assaulted-in-chandigarh-139918
12-09-2020||---||Con man also duped Maloya resident of Rs 4K||Chandigarh, September 11The 27-year-old con man, who used to dupe people while posing as a Punjab Police official, had also duped a Maloya resident on the pretext of getting his driving licence (DL) made.The police had arrested con man Rajvir Singh of Amritsar, who was demanding money from a Zirakpur resident on the pretext of getting him recruited as a Home Guards volunteer in Punjab.The police said the con man had duped the Maloya resident of Rs4,000 while posing as a motor vehicle inspector. The accused had promised him that he would get his driving licence made.The Maloya resident, however, didn’t file a complaint against the accused.The police said Rajvir also duped several other persons of small amount in Punjab. However, they didn’t lodge a complaint with the police.He had also duped a woman actress while posing as a Punjabi singer. “The accused had made the woman believe that he is a famous singer and made her transfer a sum of Rs2,000,” said a source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/con-man-also-duped-maloya-resident-of-rs-4k-139919
12-09-2020||---||Babla seeks action against private labs, writes to Governor||Chandigarh, September 11Congress Councillor Devinder Singh Babla has sought strict action against private laboratories for discrepancies in Covid test reports.In a letter to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Babla stated that private Covid testing laboratories were giving wrong reports and had turned it into a money-spinning business. “These labs are deliberately declaring people positive so that their family members and contacts also get themselves tested and the business of labs blooms. If these labs declare them negative, no more people will come for tests,” he alleged.Giving an example, Babla said a pregnant woman, who was tested for coronavirus at a private laboratory (mandatory test before delivery), was reported positive on September 8. She was again sampled at another private laboratory where her report came out negative on September 10.“Imagine the harassment, trauma, despair, turmoil, stigma and frustration the family had to go through apart from dishing out money,” he said.Babla urged the Administrator to promote government-operated testing facilities such as making testing more localised within Sector dispensaries, community centres, charitable clinics in temples and gurdwaras.He requested the Administrator to look at the plight of the needy, poor and less fortunate citizens who are made to go through all this harassment and stigma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/babla-seeks-action-against-private-labs-writes-to-governor-139920
12-09-2020||---||Data entry operator booked for meddling with exam sheets in Panchkula||Panchkula, September 11The police have filed a case against a data entry operator (DEO) of HARTRON for allegedly meddling with type test sheets of State Eligibility Test in Computer Appreciation & Applications (SETC) exam.The SETC exam is a requisite qualification for clerks, steno typists, junior scale stenographers and senior scale stenographers for grant of first annual increment for newly appointed/recruited employees and for the promotion from the post of Class-D and Restore.The exam was conducted between August 4 and August 19 at the HARTRON Bhawan, Panchkula.On the complaint of a personal assistant of a HARTRON senior official, the police booked Deepak Kundu, who lives in Dhakoli at present, but is a permanent resident of Jind.“As per the practice, type test sheets of applicants having qualified speed on the basis of SETC test conducted from August 4 and August 19 were compared randomly with password protected documents stored in computer system. During the random checking, it was found that printed type test sheet of one candidate, Deepak, was different from the password protected documents stored in computer system, along with different signature of the applicant. Accordingly, all type test sheets of the applicants, who were observed passed in the type test (second part of SETC typing test), were checked. After checking, it was found that seven printed type test sheets were different from the password protected documents,” the FIR read quoting the complainant.“After investigation, it was found that altercations in type test sheets were made by DEO Kundu. We recovered all seven original type test sheets printed from the password protected documents and duly signed by the respective applicants from him. Results of these seven applicants have been withheld. Kundu also revealed that he had been indulged in such practices since August 2019,” the complainant further said.A case was registered against Kundu under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120 of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/data-entry-operator-booked-for-meddling-with-exam-sheets-in-panchkula-139930
12-09-2020||---||Work to install lights at unlit parks to be delayed in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 11The work of installing 6,000 lights at unlit parks in the city, which has been hanging fire for one-and-a-half years, is likely to be delayed further.Earlier, the Municipal Corporation (MC) had asked Energy Efficient Services Ltd (EESL), a public sector undertaking, to carry out lighting work at dark spots, but the project did not materialise. The MC will now be floating a fresh tender in a day or two to complete the lighting work.Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Associations’ Welfare FederationThe MC has erected poles in parks. Not much progress has been made thereafter for one and a half years. Residents want the civic body to fix bulbs on poles to light up parks. No one visits parks after 6:30 pm as overgrown grass hinders walking in the monsoon season. Residents have complained of illegal activities in unlit parks during late evening hours. They fear going in public parks when it gets dark.“The MC has erected poles in parks. Not much progress has been made thereafter for one-and-a-half years. Residents want the civic body to fix bulbs on poles to light up parks. No one visits parks after 6:30 pm as overgrown grass hinders walking in the monsoon season,” said Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Associations’ Welfare Federation (CRAWFED).Residents, especially in southern part of the UT, have complained that unlit parks are a safe haven for those consuming drugs or involved in other illegal activities.“In Sector 56 park, the scene is gloomy after evening. Lights must be installed in the park as soon as possible. Why no action has been taken against the EESL for delaying the lighting work,” said Satvir Singh, a senior citizen.A senior MC official shared that Rs 17 crore lighting work at parks was to be completed by the EESL. But, the company only managed to erect poles through a private contractor by spending Rs 11 crore, he added. Also, the company did not install fittings on poles, he said.The MC Superintending Engineer (SE), horticulture and electricity wings, Krishan Pal Singh, said, “We will float a tender for the project in a day or two. The remaining work of fitting 6,000 garden lights will be completed soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-to-install-lights-at-unlit-parks-to-be-delayed-in-chandigarh-139924
12-09-2020||---||BJYM protests against Maharashtra Govt||Chandigarh, September 11The local unit of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) under the leadership of its state president Vijay Rana held a symbolic funeral rally of Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and the Maharashtra Government and burnt their effigies. The protest was held to oppose the Maharashtra Government’s highhandedness against actress Kangana Ranaut in Mumbai.Rana said the action being taken by the Maharashtra Government was vindictive and motivated by malicious objectives. He said Kangana Ranaut had only spoken the truth so that justice could be done in the Sushant Singh Rajput case. He asked why the ruling party in Maharashtra has problem with Kangana raising the issue of Bollywood mafia and the drug racket active in Mumbai.He said the way Kangana was being threatened and intimidated by the Maharashtra Government and the ruling party leaders was totally condemnable and was an evidence of the shelter given to the mafias by the state government.He said the entire country was with Kangana and watching the misdeeds of the Maharashtra Government. The way Kangana was being attacked was clearly a direct attack on the honour and dignity of every women and the BJYM stands strongly with Kangana in this fight.He said the Congress and the NCP were equal shareholders in power and they could not escape their responsibility by remaining silent on the misconducts of the state government.State BJP president Arun Sood also issued a statement saying that the action of the Maharashtra Government was totally illegal and against the spirit of the Constitution. He asked why the BMC demolished Kangana’s office when the Bombay High Court had already prohibited any kind of demolition till September 30 due to Covid-19. Finally, the High Court had to again step in to prohibit the vindictive action.He said the media, regarded as the fourth pillar of the democracy, was also being targeted by the Maharashtra Government for exposing the truth. It’s totally strange that a case was filed against Kangana on just saying ‘Tu’ but those who hurled abuses at her are enjoying patronage of the state government. He said Uddhav Thackeray had lost every moral right to remain the Chief Minister for even a single moment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjym-protests-against-maharashtra-govt-139926
12-09-2020||Zirakpur||Nagla residents stage sit-in Zirakpur||Representatives of a group of housing societies in Nagla here today staged a sit-in for several hours outside Ajay Gelatin Products Private Limited. They protested against the factory for emanating foul smell and polluting the surroundings.The protesters claimed that if the administration did not take action against the industry, they would not only intensify the stir but also stage a protest on the National Highway.Representatives of housing societies such as Motiaz Royal City, Aero Homes, Escon Arena, Maya Garden City among others sat on a protest led by Sukhdev Chaudhary, president of Joint Account Committee City.They alleged that Ajay Gelatin Products Private Limited is releasing hazardous smoke, which is causing problems and people are suffering from respiratory diseases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nagla-residents-stage-sit-in-zirakpur-139927
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Register for engineering courses from September 15 in Chandigarh||The online registrations for admission to engineering courses in various city institutes will begin on September 15 and close on October 1.The Joint Admission Committee (JAC) will conduct the admissions to BE, BArch, Integrated BE (Chemical) and MBA courses for the 2020-21 academic session.The UT will consider JEE (Main) scores for engineering courses at five institutes —Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology (CCET), Chandigarh College of Architecture (CCA), University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), University Institute of Chemical Engineering (UICET) and UIET at the Hoshiarpur regional centre. Three rounds of online counselling will be followed by the spot round.The candidates are required to register online at chdenggadmissions.nic.in and pay the registration fee, which is refundable. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/register-for-engineering-courses-from-september-15-in-chandigarh-140094
12-09-2020||---||126 pupils of Indo-Swiss Training Centre, Chandigarh get diploma||Chandigarh, September 11The Indo-Swiss Training Centre (ISTC) here hosted its 55th convocation online.Prof Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh, was the chief guest.He advised the students to embrace excellence and do their best in the chosen field. He said they should be quality conscious.He also encouraged them to be honest and ethical.Prof SA Ramakrishna, Director, Central Scientific Instruments Organisation, distributed diplomas among students. Addressing the students, he said they had an immense responsibility as their actions would impact the pride and prestige of the institution.A total of 126 students, including 19 four-year advanced diploma courses, received their diplomas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/126-pupils-of-indo-swiss-training-centre-chandigarh-get-diploma-140093
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 40, Chandigarh murder case: Accused’s bail plea rejected||A local court has rejected the bail plea of an accused in a murder case.The accused, Harpreet Singh Laddi, had allegedly attacked Amit Katoch (27) with a soft drink bottle at the Sector 40 Mini-Market on June 28, 2019. Later, Katoch had succumbed to his injuries.Laddi was arrested after a complaint was lodged by Sumit Katoch, brother of the deceased, a resident of Sunny Enclave, Kharar. Sumit Katoch told the police that he got a call from a friend of Amit from the PGI around 12.30 pm on June 28, 2019, that one Rajat Tiwari and some of his accomplices had attacked his brother with swords and knife in the market of Sector 40-A where Amit had gone to meet some friends.A case against the accused was registered under Sections 302, 147, 148, 149 and 34 of the IPC at the Sector 39 police station.Sumit alleged that a few months ago, his brother and accused Rajat Tiwari had entered into a scuffle. That’s why, his brother was attacked.The counsel for the accused claimed that the accused was neither named in the FIR nor in inquest report.The public prosecutor said the accused had hit the victim’s head with the bottle and the incident was recorded in a CCTV camera.After hearing the arguments, the court denied bail to the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-40-chandigarh-murder-case-accuseds-bail-plea-rejected-140092
12-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Education Department plans Class XI compartment exams||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 11The Chandigarh Education Department is planning to conduct the Class XI compartment exams before Class IX.Yesterday, the schools were asked to update the department about the preferred mode — online or offline — for conducting the Class IX, XI compartment exams. The schools have been asked to send details on the number of students opting for online compartment exam, those opting for the offline mode and also those who opt not to take compartment exams and want to repeat the previous class. The schools have been asked to submit the information by September 13.The department has asked the schools to make sure that the students opting for online examination must have a good connectivity and a device such as smart phone or laptop at home.Rubinderjit Brar, Director, School Education, said: “We are considering conducting compartment exams for Class XI after taking consent from parents. We will consider conducting the compartment exams for Class IX only after the Class XI exams are conducted successfully.”Meanwhile, the Education Department released a statement on Friday stating that: “All schools of the UT have prepared an individual Google form to seek consent from parents regarding reopening of schools. Parents may also respond through a WhatsApp message or text message so that the final list of students interested in coming to the schools can be compiled and arrangements can be made accordingly.”According to the Centre’s guidelines, students from Classes IX to XII may be permitted visiting schools on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from their teachers, subject to the consent of their parents/guardians.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-plans-class-xi-compartment-exams-140087
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court stays 5% fee hike by Panjab University||Acting on a petition filed by students against Panjab University and other respondents, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed the five per cent fee hike. The direction will remain in force till October 5 at least, when the case comes up for further hearing.The direction by Justice Jaishree Thakur came on a petition filed by Sachin Galav and other petitioners. They were seeking directions to the respondents to adjust six-month semester, hostel and examination fee already paid to the university by the petitioners/students in advance in the next semester fee.This, the petitioners contended, was required keeping in view the fact that from the last five months, neither online classes were conducted nor were facilities such as library, internet, hostels, laboratories, electricity and water used by the petitioner-students due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Directions were also sought to be given to the respondents to waive all other charges, except minimum tuition fee. The petitioners added that directions were also required to be issued to the respondents to reduce the tuition fee in view of the financial crisis faced by public due to the pandemic.The petitioners also prayed for issuance of directions for restraining the respondents from charging five per cent fee hike in the academic session 2020-2021, as the petitioners/students and their parents were already suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-stays-5-fee-hike-by-panjab-university-140088
12-09-2020||Panchkula||Fortuner looted at gunpoint in Panchkula||Four unidentified miscreants robbed a man of his SUV, a Fortuner, at gunpoint near the Rally village market in Sector 12-A here in broad daylight today. The SUV, bearing registration number CH 01AD 0486, is owned by his employer Kunal Goyal of Sector 12-A.The incident took place around 3.20 pm when the victim, Suresh Kumar, who has been working as a driver for the past 10 years, parked the vehicle on the footpath alongside the road and went to buy tissue paper from the market.“Upon returning after 10-15 minutes, as soon as I entered the vehicle, four unidentified persons came and one of them pulled out a gun and aimed it on my temple. After pulling me out the driver’s seat, they pushed me away. They threatened to shoot me, asking me to step aside and then sped away in the vehicle,” he said in his statement to the police.A case has been registered at the Sector 14 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fortuner-looted-at-gunpoint-in-panchkula-139932
12-09-2020||Panchkula||Two women die in Panchkula, 180 fresh Covid-19 cases||The district today reported 180 new coronavirus cases, the highest single-day spike. The case tally now stands at 3,812. The district also witnessed two deaths, taking the fatality count to 40.A 47-year-old woman from Sector 4, who was suffering from chronic kidney disease, and a 60-year-old woman from Sector 20, who was suffering from hypertension, succumbed to the disease.Among the fresh cases, 18 are from Pinjore, 13 each from Kalka and Sector 4, 10 from Sector 21, eight each from Sector 20 and 28, six each from Sector 14, 8 and 9, five each from Amravati Enclave, Sector 10, 12, 12-A and 6, four each from Sarakpur, Sector 11 and 25, three each from Khatouli, Raipur Rani, Sector 15, 2, 26, 29 and Surajpur, two each from Barwala, the MDC, Sector 5, Marranwala, Ramgarh, Sector 15, 17, 18, 19, 27 and 7 and one each from Badona Khurd, Bhainsa Tibba, Bir Ghaggar, Budhanpur, Khera Sita Ram, the MDC, Sector 6, Nada Sahib, Mouli, Nanakpur, Police Lines, Rajiv Colony, Rehna, Sector 25 and Toka.According to the Health Department, 1,264 cases are still active, while 2,508 people have been cured or discharged. Panchkula has so far conducted 50,820 Covid tests. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-women-die-in-panchkula-180-fresh-covid-19-cases-139934
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Two caught stealing mobiles in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-caught-stealing-mobiles-in-chandigarh-139928
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Monitoring cell at civic body office in Chandigarh||As a preventive measure, a monitoring cell has been constituted in the office of the Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, where councillors can call and help in the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. KK Yadav, Commissioner, MC, said the cell was set up on the directions of UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.In the cell, two telephone numbers — 9815704434 and 0172-5000717 — have been activated and councillors can call on these numbers and intimate critical cases, Covid cases, containment area requests and coordination between hospitals for Covid patients’ admission.Yadav said the cell would forward these requests to the Director, PGI, Director, Health Services, GMSH, Sector 16, and Director-Principal, GMCH, Sector 32, and sub-divisional magistrates for action at their level. This arrangement would continue till further orders, he added. — TNSCouncillors to report cases on these numbersIn the cell, two telephone numbers — 9815704434 and 0172-5000717 — have been activated and councillors can call on these numbers and intimate critical cases, Covid cases, containment area requests and coordination between hospitals for Covid patients’ admission.200 Covid beds at Infosys SeraiChandigarh: To meet the shortage of Covid-19 beds for sick patients in city, the UT Administration has asked the PGI to convert Infosys Serai into an infectious disease hospital for coronavirus patients. The PGI has been asked to dedicate 200 beds at the serai to Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-monitoring-cell-at-civic-body-office-in-chandigarh-139909
12-09-2020||---||Chandigarh lifts weekend curbs at Sukhna Lake||Chandigarh, September 11To break the chain of transmission of coronavirus, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed that 10,000 additional antigen kits may be procured for enhancing testing in the city. The UT Administration has also decided to discontinue with the weekend closure of Sukhna Lake.Residents reactThe decision of the UT Administration to discontinue with the weekend closure of Sukhna Lake is in contrast with the Covid-19 situation in the city. The UT should have waited for the number of cases to come down before doing so. — Maninder Singh, a resident of Mani majraSince the government has opened most of the establishments, there is no ground for prohibiting the entry of residents to the lake on weekends. Now, residents have to be more careful to keep themselves safe from the deadly coronavirus. — Anita Duggal, a sector 4 residentDuring a review meeting on containment of the Covid-19 pandemic, Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said people staying in containment zones would be first tested with antigen kits on priority. The antigen test detects certain proteins in the coronavirus and can produce results in minutes. As these tests are faster, experts recommend the antigen test for large numbers of people.Cops to ensure social distancing at lakeNow, Sukhna Lake will remain open for visitors on weekends too. During a meeting, the UT Administration has decided to discontinue with the weekend closure of the lake. However, the police authorities will strictly enforce wearing of masks and social distancing.The lake was closed for visitors on Saturdays and Sundays on August 14 following a sudden increase in the number of coronavirus cases in the city.Initially, the UT had procured 5,500 antigen kits and started the test in the first week of August.Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, said they had tested 1,142 samples today, of which 718 were antigen tests.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said they had 10 plasma units ready, which could be given to any Covid patient, whenever needed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-lifts-weekend-curbs-at-sukhna-lake-139910
12-09-2020||---||Mohali sees one death, 204 Covid-19 cases, 271 recoveries||Mohali, September 11The district today reported one Covid-19 death and 204 new cases. As many as 271 patients have been discharged from various hospitals in the last 24 hours.A 66-year-old man from Nayagaon died at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, Chandigarh.For the fourth consecutive day, the number of recoveries far exceeded the number of new cases reported in a day. The new cases surfaced in Mohali urban (79), Dhakoli (36), Gharuan (35), Kharar (27), Lalru (10), Boothgarh (nine), Dera Bassi (four) and Kurali (four).As of now, the district has reported a total of 6,060 Covid cases, of which 2,067 are active. As many as 3,867 patients have been discharged from various hospitals. With one more death today, the toll rose to 126.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-one-death-204-covid-19-cases-271-recoveries-139911
12-09-2020||---||Three deaths, 305 cases, 269 recoveries in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 11The city reported 305 new coronavirus cases and three fatalities in 24 hours, taking the UT case tally past 7,000 and toll to 83.Two of the three fatalities reported today were of patients aged above 65. All three had pre-existing health conditions. An 83-year-old woman from Sector 32, who was a diabetic and had hypertension, died at Grecian Hospital in Mohali.A 68-year-old man from Sector 48, who was a diabetic and suffered from hypertension and heart and kidney diseases, also died at Grecian Hospital.The third fatality was of a 59-year-old man from Sector 50, who was diabetic and had hypertension. He died at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.The city reported 269 recoveries today.The UT has been reporting a significant spike in coronavirus cases since the beginning of the month when it began reporting over 200 infections a day. It has added just under 3,000 new coronavirus cases — 40 per cent of its total infections — and 27 deaths to its tally in just 11 days since September 1.Over 35 per cent of the cases in the city are still active. The UT has reported 4,600 recoveries so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-deaths-305-cases-269-recoveries-in-chandigarh-139912
12-09-2020||---||Infant’s body exhumed for postmortem in Panchkula||Panchkula, September 11The body of a one-and-a-half-month-old child from Rajiv Colony in Sector 17, who died yesterday after an injection was administered to him, was exhumed today from the grave in Vikas Nagar, Chandigarah, for a postmortem in the presence of a senior police official, Tehsildar and a team of doctors.The family had alleged that their child’s condition deteriorated after he was administered a wrong injection.The family had performed the last rites yesterday.Alleging foul play, the family had submitted a police complaint demanding the child’s postmortem to know the exact cause of his death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/infants-body-exhumed-for-postmortem-in-panchkula-139913
12-09-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Recoveries outdo Covid-19 cases in Mohali for 4th day||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 11For the fourth consecutive day, the number of recoveries is more than the new cases reported from the district but the doctors say the surge has not yet ebbed. With the increased testing, the number of new cases has gone up, and so has the number of recoveries.Today, the district reported 271 recoveries and 204 new cases. On September 10, the number of recoveries were 293 and new cases 275; on September 9, the figures were 351 and 307, respectively; and on September 8, 317 and 168, respectively.A majority of the discharged patients are those who have been in home isolation for the past 10 days and have shown improvement in their condition. Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said, “They are further asked to stay in isolation for seven more days as a precautionary measure. The same applies to patients at hospitals.”“The number of patients being admitted to the hospitals and getting discharged is same,” he added.While the authorities are trying hard to cope with the surge of patients in hospitals and home isolation, the positivity rate of 10 per cent too has been on the upward swing. “Private laboratories involved in Covid testing are providing us the data on positive cases and not the total samples tested. We have asked them to give complete data. Once we start getting it, we will get the true picture on the positivity rate,” said the Civil Surgeon.In the tricity, Mohali has the maximum number of deaths (126) so far. Mohali stands fifth in the list of districts with maximum Covid cases and deaths in Punjab.In numbers80 persons have volunteered for plasma donation in the past two weeks10 plasma donations have successfully been made in the district4 plasma banks in the district — Fortis Hospital, Max Hospital, Ivy Hospital and Grecian HospitalPlasma donation procedureA vehicle with a medical team is sent to the donor’s home to collect the blood sample. The sample is examined for the presence of requisite amount of antibodies. The donors of the suitable samples are subsequently contacted for plasma donation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/recoveries-outdo-covid-19-cases-in-mohali-for-4th-day-139914
12-09-2020||---||Kunwar Preet aces  JEE (Main) in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 11Kunwar Preet Singh has topped the city in the JEE (Main). The results were declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) late this evening.Kunwar Preet, a student of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Senior Secondary School, Sector 35, scored 99.99 percentile. City girl Kashish Kaushal scored 99.65 percentile in the exam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kunwar-preet-aces-jee-main-in-chandigarh-139916
12-09-2020||---||Pay through the nose for water in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 11Amid the economic slowdown, residents will have to shell out more for water supply in the city as the UT has increased the water tariff ranging from 50 per cent to 200 per cent for various slabs.As per a notification issued by the Local Government Department, UT, the water consumed for domestic use in residential premises will be charged at Rs3 per kilolitre (kl) for 0-15 kl, Rs6 per kl for 16-30 kl, Rs12 per kl for 31-60 kl and Rs24 per kl for above 60 kl.A flat Rs25 per kl will be charged for water consumed in establishments such as educational institutions and hostels attached thereto, hospitals or clinics, but excluding shops and other commercial establishments, PGI and hostels attached thereto, community centres or clubs recognised by the Administration, charitable institutions and hostels attached thereto, residential buildings or any part thereof being used for professional purposes (doctors, architects, dentists), dhobi ghats approved by the Administration, coaching centres and career institutes. Also, water used in government and semi-government offices will be charged at Rs25 per kl.However, water used in industrial, semi-industrial and commercial establishments or for construction or renovation will be charged at Rs30 per kl.For unmetered water supply in urban area (EWS houses only), a flat rate of Rs500 per connection, per month, per family till meters are fixed in colonies and villages (in the existing houses) and EWS houses will be charged.The water supply through tankers will be charged at Rs600 per tanker (free water supply for religious functions). The MC will charge Rs30 per kl for drinking or potable water used for irrigation of lawns (metered).However, if anybody is found misusing the drinking water, he or she will be challaned and fined at Rs5,000 for default, which will be included in his or her regular water bill and will be charged at double the prescribed tariff.The minimum rates for commercial have been fixed at Rs1,500 for booths (fast food or dhaba), Rs1,000 for SCOs or SCFs, bay shops (general trade), Rs2,000 for SCOs/SCF/bay shops (water consuming business) and Rs5,000 for hotels, cinemas and shopping malls.However, a water cess of Rs20 per month per connection will be charged for maintenance of public parks and green belts within the MC limits.All charges will be automatically hiked by 3 per cent on the basic rate on the first day of every financial year, beginning April 1, 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pay-through-the-nose-for-water-in-chandigarh-139917
12-09-2020||Mohali||Antigen test to cost Rs 250 at private clinics||The Punjab Government has allowed private hospitals/clinics/labs to conduct the rapid antigen test for Covid-19 after getting empanelled with the Health Department.The Mohali Deputy Commissioner said the kits would be provided free of cost by the department to these empanelled institutions. The department would empanel private hospitals/clinics/labs willing to offer testing to people.The empanelled private hospitals/labs can charge a maximum of Rs250 from a patient. The private hospitals/labs must have a separate isolated area for suspected Covid patients where the sample will be taken.The person taking samples will have to don the personal protective gear. The institution should have an arrangement for the management of biomedical waste generated by the test as per the guidelines.The Deputy Commissioner said all rapid antigen test results must be entered in the ICMR portal using the login ID credentials provided by the Health Department. — TNSWhat the DC says||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/antigen-test-to-cost-rs-250-at-private-clinics-138965
12-09-2020||---||2 more deaths in Panchkula, 143 cases||Panchkula, September 9The district has reported 143 new Covid cases and two deaths. The tally of cases in the district now stands at 3,458, with 1,266 active cases and 38 deaths.A 52-year-old man from Raiwali village in Barwala, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, and a 67-year-old woman from Sector 19, who was suffering from chronic kidney disease, succumbed to the disease.Among the fresh cases, 21 are from Pinjore, 12 each from Sector 15, Sector 17 and Sector 20, nine from the ITBP, eight from Sector 8, six from Kalka, five from Raipur Rani, four each from Sector 11, Sector 16 and Sector 19, three each from Bhainsa Tibba and Sector 10, two each from the Industrial Area, Nanakpur, Rajiv Colony, Sector 12, Sector 23, Sector 4, Sector 7, Sector 8 and Surajpur, and one each from Abheypur, Barwala, Haripur, Batwal, Fatehpur, Kharag Mangoli, Moginand, the MDC, Sector 5, the MDC, Sector 4, Nada Sahib, Old Panchkula, Rajipur, Sector 12-A, Sector 14, Sector 18, Sector 2, Sector 25, Sector 24, Sector 3, Sector 21, Sultanpur and Tagra Kaliram.Panchkula has conducted 48,268 Covid tests so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-deaths-in-panchkula-143-cases-138966
12-09-2020||---||No let-up, 8 more fall prey to virus in Mohali||Mohali, September 9The district today reported eight Covid-19 deaths and 307 positive cases. As many as 351 patients have been discharged from various hospitals in the last 24 hours.A 45-year-old man from Majatri village and a 57-year-old woman from Sohana succumbed at the GMCH, Patiala. The woman was suffering from a kidney disease, diabetes and hypertension.A 70-year-old woman from Phase 4 and a 59-year-old woman from Balongi reportedly died at Grecian Hospital, Mohali. A 58-year-old man from Sahora, who was diabetic, died at the District Hospital, Mohali. A 48-year-old man from Banur breathed his last at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.A 66-year-old man from Gillco Valley died at the GMCH-32, Chandigarh. He also had a liver disease. A 59-year-old man from Zirakpur died at Ivy Hospital.The new cases were reported from Mohali urban (157), Dhakoli (65), Kharar (45), Gharuan (25), Dera Bassi (10), Boothgarh (two), Lalru (two) and Kurali (one).So far, the district has seen 5,581 cases of Covid, of which 2,154 are active. As many as 3,303 patients have been discharged till now. With eight deaths today, the district toll mounted to 124. Yesterday, three deaths and 168 new cases were reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-let-up-8-more-fall-prey-to-virus-in-mohali-138967
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Councillors’ help sought for early detection||Expressing concern over the increasing cases of Covid, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has asked MC Commissioner KK Yadav to take assistance from area councillors for early detection of symptomatic persons. He also directed the MC chief to set up a control room where councillors could report suspected cases in their areas to facilitate their testing, quarantine and transportation and admission to hospitals.Yadav said the control room would be made functional by Thursday. The decision was taken in a war room meeting, presided over by Badnore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/councillors-help-sought-for-early-detection-138968
12-09-2020||
||7 stolen two-wheelers recovered from Panchkula youths||Chandigarh, September 9 The arrest of two vehicle thieves has led to the recovery of seven two-wheelers. A team of the Mani Majra  police station  had nabbed Vishal (18) and Chirag (18), both residents of Sector 12-A, Panchkula, for allegedly stealing an Activa scooter from the parking of Shivalik Garden, Mani Majra. The police said investigation revealed that both youths had committed vehicle thefts in  the tricity, Dera Bassi and Ambala. During the police remand, the suspects confessed to having committed thefts in the tricity and six more two-wheelers, which they had parked at different places, were recovered.  Both youths are school dropouts and used to commit thefts for joyrides.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-stolen-two-wheelers-recovered-from-panchkula-youths-138969
12-09-2020||---||PGI puts recruitment of candidates on hold||Chandigarh, September 9The PGI has put the recruitment of candidates for the trials of the Oxford vaccine on hold as approval for the safety of the first 100 participants from the Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB) is awaited.The primary responsibility of the DSMB is to periodically review and evaluate the accumulated study data for participants’ safety, study conduct and progress.Over 400 registrations receivedA statement issued by the PGI read, “This is to inform you that for the time being, the recruitment of candidates for the trials of the Oxford vaccine is on hold because we are awaiting approval for the safety of the first 100 participants recruited till now from the DSMB.”The clinical trial of the Oxford University-Astra Zeneca Covid-19 vaccine (Covishield) was to begin by the first week of September after recruiting volunteers. The institute has already received over 400 registrations for the vaccine trials.The Serum Institute of India, Pune, is conducting the vaccine trials in India and the PGI is among the trial sites listed in the study, which will involve administering the vaccine to 1,600 healthy adults across 17 trial sites.Late-stage studies of Astra Zeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate are on temporary hold as the company investigates a recipient’s “potentially unexplained” illness. In a statement issued last evening, the company said its “standard review process triggered a pause to vaccination to allow the review of safety data”.Earlier today, the Serum Institute of India, while commenting on the recent reports on Astra Zeneca halting the trials in the UK, said, “We can’t comment much on the UK trials, but they have been paused for further review and they hope to restart soon. As far as the Indian trials are concerned, these are continuing and we have faced no issues at all.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-puts-recruitment-of-candidates-on-hold-138970
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||2 deaths, 332 cases in Chandigarh||The city today reported 332 new coronavirus cases. This is for the second consecutive day that that UT has witnessed over 300 cases. The tally now stands at 6,704, 37 per cent of which are still active.Chandigarh also reported two deaths today, taking the toll to 77.A 30-year-old man from Dhanas died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 today. He had tubercular meningitis and hemiparesis, a condition characterised by weakness of a one side of the body.The second fatality was of a 76-year-old woman from Khuda Jassu, who was diabetic and had hypertension. She died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-deaths-332-cases-in-chandigarh-138971
12-09-2020||Panchkula||Gangster Sukhpreet Budha tests positive||Gangster Sukhpreet Budha, who is in the custody of the local crime branch, tested positive for Covid today. He underwent the Covid test at the Civil Hospital on Tuesday.Inspector Karambir, in-charge, CIA-II, said, “The gangster has been isolated at the crime branch office in Sector 19. Cops exposed to the gangster have isolated themselves and will undergo the Covid test.”The gangster was brought on a production warrant from the Sangrur jail in connection with the 2018 Bhupesh Rana muder case. He was produced in a court, which sent him to three-day police remand. A police official said a separate Covid care centre for infected prisoners would come up in Sector 12 soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangster-sukhpreet-budha-tests-positive-138972
12-09-2020||Amit Bathla||Property tax survey under way in Panchkula amid discrepancy charges||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 9Facing resentment over discrepancies in property tax bills, the Panchkula Municipal Corporation (MC) is undertaking a new property tax survey.The survey is being conducting by a private agency, Yashi Consultancy Private Ltd of Jaipur, and around 50 per cent of the work has already been completed, the civic body said.The MC, in an order available on its official website, urged citizens to provide documents to the agency as per requirement for updating the property tax records.A public notice by the MC Executive Officer stated, “A property tax survey has been started in Panchkula. Agency surveyors will go to each house, shop, commercial building and plot in the city. It is mandatory for owners to provide valid information/ documents pertaining to their properties to the surveyors. No fee should be paid to the surveyor. A show-cause notice will be served on those defying the order.”The exercise is being undertaken amid the charges of ‘unfair and disproportionate’ property tax charged by the MC.Sanyam Garg, Joint Commissioner of the MC, said, “Around 50 per cent of the survey has been completed. We have asked the agency to expedite the work.”On discrepancies in property tax bills for the financial year 2020-21, Garg said they had set up a help desk in Sector 4 to redress grievances. “We have also updated the property tax software system,” he added.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, in July this year, had ordered an investigation into the “arbitrary” property tax notices received by residents of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-tax-survey-under-way-in-panchkula-amid-discrepancy-charges-138973
12-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Outstation patients occupying majority of beds at PGI, GMCH||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 9The issue of outstation patients occupying Covid beds at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and the Government Medical and Hospital College, Sector 32, has become a predicament for the city residents and UT officials.The PGI Director, Dr Jagat Ram, said the institute had 251 Covid patients in Nehru Hospital Extension (NHE), of whom 79 belonged to Chandigarh, 82 to Punjab, 43 to Haryana, 27 to Himachal Pradesh and eight to Uttar Pradesh.Despite the PGI reserving 300 Covid beds for Chandigarh patients, most of these beds have now been occupied by patients coming from outside Chandigarh. The problem faced by the PGI authorities is that many non-Covid patients report to emergency, but later become positive following which they have to be shifted to the NHE.The institute has been requested to give priority to Chandigarh patients and regulate admission keeping in view the increase in the number of Covid cases in Chandigarh, particularly this week.The Government Medical and Hospital College, Sector 32, is also receiving many patients from outside Chandigarh, leaving less space for local patients.There are a total of 200 Covid beds at the GMCH and the Civil Hospital, Sector 48, of which 130 beds have already been occupied. Of these, one-third of the bed have been occupied by patients from Punjab.There is a provision of around 700 beds for moderate and severe patients in the PGIMER, the GMCH-32 and the GMSH-16. Of around 381 occupied beds, 162 are being used by Chandigarh patients.“Unlike Mohali and Panchkula, Chandigarh does not have many private hospitals, which can be reserved for Covid patients of Chandigarh. Many local residents are demanding that all medical beds available in Chandigarh should be reserved for them. However, the same is not possible,” said a senior officer.251 Covid patients in Nehru Hospital Extension||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/outstation-patients-occupying-majority-of-beds-at-pgi-gmch-138974
12-09-2020||
||Scolded by aunt for talking on phone, girl leaves home, returns||Chandigarh, September 9 A 13-year-old girl left her house on September 7 after her aunt scolded her for talking on mobile phone. The police had registered a case of abduction, However, the girl returned home the next day. The minor girl, who stays with her uncle and aunt at servant quarters of a house in Sector 15, had left the house after being scolded by her aunt. Her uncle informed the police about the incident, following which a case was registered at the Sector 11 police station. The police said the girl had gone to her friend’s place in Nayagaon and returned home the next morning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scolded-by-aunt-for-talking-on-phone-girl-leaves-home-returns-138975
12-09-2020||---||Panjab University releases final instructions for exams||Chandigarh, September 9Panjab University (PU) today released final instructions to the students appearing for the blended (online/offline) examinations starting on September 17.The students of regular college/department/regional centres will get their admit card from their respective colleges/departments/regional centres from September 12 onwards. Private students or those of University School of Open Learning (USOL) will be able to download their admit card from examination website after login from September 12 onwards. The candidates are required to send an email to ugexam@pu.ac.in or pgexam@pu.ac.in, if they unable to download their admit cards.Question paperThe students of regular college/department/regional centres will receive the question paper as per date sheet for a particular day from their respective college/department/regional centres using different electronic modes. If any student does not remember his/her password, the same can also be downloaded from the home page the examination website by entering details. Private/USOL students will be able to download question paper as per date sheet for a particular day in similar manner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-releases-final-instructions-for-exams-138976
12-09-2020||---||Chandigarh Housing Board plans high-rise towers for staff||Chandigarh, September 9The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has proposed to build high-rise towers up to 11 floors under the Employees Housing Scheme, 2008. The Administration has started exploring proposals for construction of flats.The UT plans to offer more floor area ratio and charge only for built-up area of the flat instead of the total area, which includes land for road and green belt.A meeting, chaired by Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, was held through video-conferencing last month. UT Adviser Manoj Parida and other officials were present in the meeting.Deliberations to resolve the issue regarding rates of flats of the UT Employees Housing Scheme was held during the meeting. It was decided that the calculation of rates be made for different categories again by applying various factors such as floor area ratio (FAR), collector rate, plot area, etc, in consultation with representatives of the employees.The CHB had floated the special housing scheme for employees in 2008. The draw of lots was held on November 4, 2010, and over 3,900 employees were successful. Under the scheme, 336 three-bedroom flats, 888 two-bedroom, 564 one-bedroom and 320 one-room flats were to be built.“As per the directions of the High Court, a meeting was chaired by the Union Home Secretary on August 19 through video-conferencing. As per discussions in the meeting, the CHB is exploring various options to reduce the tentative price of flats, which also include reducing requirement of land by going for high rise. Thereafter, all these options will be considered by the UT Administration about its suitability before the next meeting at the Union Home Secretary level. Representatives of the beneficiaries of the UT Employees Housing Scheme will also be consulted in the process,” said Yashpal Garg, CEO of the CHB.About the schemeThe Chandigarh Housing Board had floated the special housing scheme for employees in 2008. The draw of lots was held on November 4, 2010, and over 3,900 employees were successful. Under the scheme, 336 three-bedroom flats, 888 two-bedroom, 564 one-bedroom and 320 one-room flats were to be built.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-plans-high-rise-towers-for-staff-138977
12-09-2020||---||Man loses Rs1.47L in credit card fraud||Panchkula, September 9A 44-year-old man from Sector 12-A here was duped of Rs1,47,500 in a credit card fraud.According to the police, the victim, Ramesh Kumar Thakur, received a call from a woman claiming to be a manager of a bank on January 4 this year. She informed the victim that this call was for increasing the limit of his credit card.The caller asked the victim about his credit card details. Initially, he was hesitant to reveal the details. However, the caller made him believe that this was just for verification.“She told me that I will receive an OTP, which I will have to share with her for confirmation. I did the same as per her instructions. Before I could react or question her, I lost Rs1,47,500 in five transactions. I tried calling her back on the same number, but to no avail,” the complainant mentioned in the FIR.On the complaint of Ramesh Kumar Thakur, a case was registered under Sections 406 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 14 police station.Sought card details over phoneThe caller asked the victim about his credit card details. Initially, he was hesitant to reveal the details. However, the caller made him believe that this was just for verification.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-loses-rs1-47l-in-credit-card-fraud-138979
12-09-2020||---||Municipal Committee teams confiscate 500-kg plastic bags||Mohali, September 9Teams of the Kurali and Kharar municipal committees have confiscated over 500 kg of plastic bags in surprise checks conducted in the respective areas under their jurisdiction. They also issued challans and fined violators.After getting reports about the usage of plastic carry bags in various parts of the district, the teams were asked to make surprise checks.The Kurali MC team issued five challans under the Punjab Plastic Carry Bag Act at the Main Bazar and the Railway road, Kurali market. It confiscated 82 kg of plastic carry bags and collected a fine of Rs7,000.Earlier, a team of the Kharar MC raided bulk plastic distributer Singla Traders in Sunny Enclave, Kharar, and confiscated 250 kg of plastic bags. It also seized 220 kg of plastic carry bags from Kingsway Company, Desumajra colony road.As per Section 7 of the Punjab Plastic Carry Bags (Manufacture, Usage and Disposal) Control Act, 2005, the state government has completely prohibited manufacturing, stocking, distribution, recycling, sale and use of plastic carry bags in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/municipal-committee-teams-confiscate-500-kg-plastic-bags-138980
12-09-2020||Patiala||‘Tree for Gun’ scheme launched||Patiala Divisional Commissioner Chander Gaind launched the ‘Tree for Gun’ scheme in Barnala.Gaind said anyone who wanted a new arms licence or renewal of an existing one would have to plant 10 and five saplings, respectively. He said one would have to submit a selfie with each planted sapling at the time of filing of an application. He said after one month before moving the application for police clearance, the applicant needed to furnish the fresh status of the planted saplings by submitting new selfies with the grown up trees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tree-for-gun-scheme-launched-138982
12-09-2020||---||Sector 15 residents protest Chandigarh Administrative move||Chandigarh, September 9Residents of Sector 15-D here today held a protest against the move of the UT Administration to put up barricades outside their houses as part of the containment zone.The residents said there was no Covid-19 positive case in their lane, still it was sealed. “There is a positive case in the back lane, not in the front lane. It has been wrongly declared a containment zone,” said former area councillor Saurabh Joshi.Joshi raised the matter with the local authorities following which the area duty magistrate came to the spot to take stock of the matter.“He assured us of doing the needful after consultation with the senior authorities concerned,” shared the BJP leader.‘+ve case in back lane’“There is a positive case in the back lane, not in the front lane. It has been wrongly declared a containment zone,” said former area councillor Saurabh Joshi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-15-residents-protest-chandigarh-administrative-move-138983
12-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Coaches unhappy with Punjab Sports Department’s decision||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 9Punjab Sports Department’s decision to conduct refresher courses in various disciplines has not gone down well with many state coaches amid Covid-19 scare in the state.The department will conduct refresher courses from September 15 to October 9 at the Sector 63 Sports Complex.As per the schedule, coaches of judo, swimming, gymnastics and hockey will attend this course from September 15 to 19. Kabaddi, volleyball, athletics and table tennis coaches will attend the course from September 21 to 25. In the third phase, coaches of volleyball, football, handball and shooting will be trained from September 28 to October 2. In the last phase, coaches of wrestling, weightlifting and badminton will go through this detailed programme from October 5 to 9. The course is organised for regular, outsourced and Punjab State Institute (PIS) coaches.Earlier, a workshop was organised at the Sector 78 Sports Complex wherein coaches from various districts of the state participated. “It’s a good initiative, but what is the need for conducting such courses amid the pandemic,” said a coach from Jalandhar. Meanwhile, sources in the Sports Department said five-day course for each game would be organised following social distancing norms.Seven-day camp beginsThe department is conducting a refresher course for state boxing coaches under the guidance of Cuba’s Blas Iglesias Fernandez, the first foreign coach to be given Dronacharya Award. The seven-day camp started at the PIS centre in Mohali today. Coaches from Mohali, Patiala, Roopnagar, Sangrur, Barnala and Bathinda are participating in the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coaches-unhappy-with-punjab-sports-departments-decision-138984
12-09-2020||Mohali||Eatery inspected at Mataur village||The inspection was conducted at the eatery on a complaint by a customer who alleged that he had found a cockroach in biryani. Kaur refused to talk to the media saying she had inspected the dhaba and a report would be sent to the department soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eatery-inspected-at-mataur-village-138997
12-09-2020||Mohali||54 from Dubai land at airport||Six booked for taking ‘goonda tax’Dera Bassi: The police have booked six persons on the charge of levying ‘goonda tax’ on traders bringing carcasses to meat plants. Assistant Inspector Satinder Singh said they received information that Bittu Gajjar, a resident of Kheri Gujran, and Gopi, from Mahmadpur village and their unidentified accomplices were collecting ‘goonda’ tax from suppliers who brought carcasses to meat plants. On Tuesday night, ASI Satveer Singh and his team raided the spot, but the suspects fled from the scene, leaving their motorcycles behind. The police have seized three bikes and have begun investigation. TNSPSPCL lauds field officersPatiala: PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad on Wednesday appreciated the services and role of field officers/officials of the PSPCL for providing uninterrupted 24X7 power supply to healthcare institutions, hospitals and quarantine centres since the lockdown. The CMD said despite Covid-19, the PSPCL had been providing eight hours uninterrupted power supply to its 14 lakh agricultural tubewell consumers during paddy season. TNSTribune founder rememberedChandigarh: The Tribune Employees Union paid respects to the founder of The Tribune, Sardar Dyal Singh Majithia, on his 122nd death anniversary here on Wednesday. The function was held virtually, with a majority of the employees of The Tribune Group joining in through a live session on a social media platform. Office-bearers of the union paid floral tributes to the great philanthropist. TNSVirtual roundtable discussionPatiala: Chitkara University on Wednesday organised a virtual roundtable discussion “Recalibrate 2020 — Getting the youth of Punjab industry ready for the post-Covid world”. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh chaired the discussion. Officials said the one-hour discussion revolved around ideas to prepare graduating students of the state for the post-Covid world. TNSStone laid for panchayat gharsMohali: Balbir Singh Sidhu, Health and Family Welfare Minister, Punjab, laid the foundation stone for panchayat ghars to be constructed in five villages — Bakarpur, Kurri, Saneta, Gobindgarh and Mauli Baidwan — at Rs1.25 crore under the Rashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyan. Sidhu said each modern panchyat ghar would be constructed in 2,300 sq ft area and will have a hall, sarpanch’s office, IT room, kitchen and pantry among others. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/54-from-dubai-land-at-airport-138998
12-09-2020||Actor Kangana Ranaut heads towards the Chandigarh international airport to board a flight for Mumbai on Wednesday. She travelled to the city by road from Mandi along with her sister. Tribune Photo||Kangana Ranaut boards flight from Chandigarh airport||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kangana-ranaut-boards-flight-from-chandigarh-airport-139157
12-09-2020||‘A dance is poem of which each movement is a word’— Mata Hari||Kathak  is her life||And for Kathak, it stands valid since kathakars are nothing but storytellers, quite literally. At the age of five, Kanhari Pinge was introduced to Kathak by her parents. Initially trained by her mother, Kanhari soon caught up with all that her mother had to impart. Then, she found her mentor in Yogesh Sharma, son of Guru Kanhiya Lal Sharma.Being inclined to a particular dance form all her life, it never occurred to her to try out other things. She says, “When I was young, I saw so many children learning Kathak but they drifted away. I have been lucky that my parents have been constantly motivating me to follow this dance form. Having said that, I don’t mean I have not hit the saturation point. We all do in life. But to overcome it and start enjoying it again is what makes you successful.”Excited to be selected for the National Institute of Kathak in Delhi, she explains, “Delhi is the hub for all art-related activities. All the major classical concerts happen there and I always had this desire to be exposed to various cultural events to have a deeper understanding of art forms.”About Chandigarh, she adds, “Although there are few events that take place in the city, but various activities at Tagore Theatre have opened up my mind towards recitals, art, theatre and other things.”She is trained under the Jaipur Gharana of Kathak. Under Yogesh Sharma’s guidance, she has been regularly performing and participating at various events and competitions. At the age of 18, she has carved a niche for herself in tricity.Kanhari has participated in the 59th All-India Dance and Drama Competition held at Shimla and stood second. She was also a part of the ballet Radha ki Unkahi Kahaani, conceptualised by Dr Sameera Koser, which aired on Doordarshan.She says, “The form of Kathak that I am mastering focuses on footwork (tatkara) and chakkar. I still have to master the art of facial expression. Perfection in facial expressions comes with age. I admire Aditi Mangaldas, the famous Kathak dancer for she blends traditional Kathak with contemporary dance forms.”Kanhari also took to theatre for she believes theatre and Kathak complement each other. A spinal tumour detected last year compelled her to put a pause to her Kathak practice, yet she presented a classical recital choreographed and conceptualised by her mother Pallavi Pinge on the 55th Sarvajanik Ganeshotsva Festival held at Maharashtra Bhawan-Chandigarh. —Sheetal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kathak-is-her-life-139166
12-09-2020||Rishina Kandhari||Rishina Kandhari on attitude of gratitude||She says, “During the pandemic, I was devastated by the conditions of the daily wage workers and so I decided to help them with food and groceries along with my husband. People started panicking and buying things in bulk and the groceries went out of stock. That is when we decided to turn our studio into a kitchen for the underprivileged.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rishina-kandhari-on-attitude-of-gratitude-139167
12-09-2020||---||Panchkula reports 174 fresh Covid cases; district tally reaches 3,632||Panchkula, September 10Panchkula on Thursday reported 174 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the district tally to 3,632.The new patients include 22 from Pinjore, 17 from Sector 15, 14 from Sector 19, 13 from Sector 8, 11 each from Kalka and Sector 20, 10 from Sector 10, 8 from Sector 25, 7 from Sector 21, 6 from Sector 16, 5 from Sector 12A, 4 each from Barwala, Amravati Enclave and Rajiv Colony, 3 each from MDC Sector 5, Raipur Rani, Sector 4  and Sector 9, 2 each from Khatola, Sector 11, Sector 17, Sector 26, Sector 27, Sector 6 and Tipra, one each from Abullapur Bhareli, Haripur, Chownki, Karanpur, Sector 14, Sector 18, Sector 2, Sector 28, Sector 7, Sector 26 and Sector 1.According to the health department, 1,187 cases are still active, while 2,407 people have been cured or discharged.To date, Panchkula has conducted 49,653 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-174-fresh-covid-cases-district-tally-reaches-3-632-139239
12-09-2020||---||CTU to resume inter-state bus service on 8 routes each in Punjab, Haryana from Sept 16||Chandigarh, September 10The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will resume inter-state operation initially on eight routes, each in Punjab and Haryana, from September 16.In Punjab, the buses will cover major destinations such as Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Amritsar, Patiala, Mehatpur, Ludhiana, Dina Nagar and Bathinda. In Haryana, the buses will run for Panipat, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Jind, Hisar, Sirsa, Hansi and Delhi (up to Kundli border).The official spokesperson said the tickets could be purchased online on CTU website http://ctuonline.chd.gov.in or through the mobile app, “CTU Musafir”, dedicated for the purpose. Tickets can also be purchased in the bus through conductor during the journey.The buses will be operated with 50 per cent passenger occupancy keeping in view of the social-distancing norms and as per guidelines issued by the Chandigarh Administration from time to time.Following the nationwide lockdown, the CTU had suspended the bus services on March 23. However, the CTU briefly resumed the inter-state bus services to neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab from June 10 but suspended immediately after a few days over the sudden rise in coronavirus cases.The CTU has a total strength of 514 buses — 361 buses run on local or suburban routes and 153 buses run on inter-state routes covering Punjab, Haryana, Himachal, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir.Before the lockdown, the CTU buses used to travel nearly 1.20 lakh km per day and approximately two lakh commuters used to commute daily in the CTU buses.Names of routesOn Punjab sideChandigarh-Hoshiarpur and backChandigarh-Pathankot and backChandigarh-Amritsar and backChandigarh-Patiala and backChandigarh-Una up to MehatpurChandigarh-Ludhiana and backChandigarh-Dina Nagar and backChandigarh-Bathinda and backOn Haryana sideChandigarh-Panipat and backChandigarh-Delhi up to Kundli border and backChandigarh-Sirsa and backChandigarh-Hansi and backChandigarh-Rohtak and backChandigarh-Yamunanagar and backChandigarh-Jind and backChandigarh-Hisar and back||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-to-resume-inter-state-bus-service-on-8-routes-each-in-punjab-haryana-from-sept-16-139249
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||3 deaths, 283 new cases of COVID-19 reported in Chandigarh||Three people died of COVID-19 while 283 new cases of coronavirus were reported in Chandigarh on Thursday.The total number of cases in the city has reached 6,987 of which 2,537 are active cases while the death toll has reached 80.A total of 191 patients have been discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic as per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare guidelines.The three persons who died were suffering from co-morbidities.A 46-year-old male resident of Manimajra with bilateral pneumonia, hypertension and acute kidney injury with sepsis, and a 66 year old male resident of Sector 48 with diabetes mellitus died at GMCH-32.A 59-year-old female resident of Sector 22, a case of pneumonia, died due to Type 4 respiratory failure at Grecian Hospital, Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-deaths-283-new-cases-of-covid-19-reported-in-chandigarh-139258
12-09-2020||Mohali||One death, 275 new cases of COVID-19 in Mohali district||One COVID-19 death and 275 new cases were reported from Mohali district on Thursday.As many as 293 patients have been discharged from various hospitals in the last 24 hours. A 64-year-old male from Phase-VII, Industrial Area, Mohali, died in PGI today. He was a diabetic and suffering from a kidney disease. Most of the cases reported today were from Mohali urban (92), Kharar (40), Gharuan (43), Dhakoli (59), Dera Bassi (31), Boothgarh (9) and Lalru (1). For the third consecutive day, the number of patients discharged from the hospitals is more than the new positive cases reported.The total number of cured cases too has gone significantly higher than the active cases but doctors warn that the number of new cases may rise in the coming days. As of now, there are a total of 5,856 cases, of which 2,135 are active. As many as 3,596 patients have been discharged from various hospitals till now.With one death today, the toll in the district has touched 125. Yesterday, eight deaths and 307 new cases were reported. Total cases 5,856Active-2,135Cured-3,596Deaths-125||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-275-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-mohali-district-139287
12-09-2020||Kolkata||My preferred batting slot is opening the innings: Shubman Gill||Shubman Gill has the repertoire of strokes to bat at any position but given a choice, the next big thing in Indian cricket would prefer to open regularly in the shortest format of the game.Gill, one of the batting mainstays of Kolkata Knight Riders, spoke to PTI on a range of issues, including the pressure of expectations, his interactions with team co-owner and Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan and his mentor Yuvraj Singh's contribution during the off season. "If I was given an option, I would prefer to open the innings," the 21-year-old answered when asked if he would like to go out there at the start with the flamboyant Sunil Narine.A batsman to look forward to in the post Virat Kohli-Rohit Sharma generation, Gill is considered one of the finest talents among his peers even keeping his U-19 captain Prithvi Shaw in mind.Does it weigh too much when he is out there in the middle? "I don't think it really weighs on me that much, because when I go in to bat the only thing that stays in the mind is how I would score runs in a particular situation.”"In my mind, the only goal is to win matches for whichever team I am playing," said the Mohali lad, who has an impressive strike-rate of nearly 135 from 37 T20 games.Gill feels that the UAE tracks will have some kind of similarity with Indian pitches and the bat speed won't change much considering the slow nature of the wicket. The IPL begins September 19."No, I don't think we need to change to any kind of specific bats (in terms of weight), because in India we are used to playing on slow pitches. You need to adapt and I believe I can play on all kinds of surfaces," he said.Before joining his team in the UAE, Gill did his pre-season training at the Punjab state team nets under Yuvraj Singh's mentorship.In fact, Gill is excited that the two time World Cup winner is making a comeback to competitive cricket."I think it will really be helpful for the Punjab youngsters...We spent a couple of weeks with Yuvi Paaji. We were training with him and we also practised (nets) with him,” he said."There were a lot of things that we talked about not just on the field but, you know, some things off the field. It was overall a really good experience for us," Gill, who attended the sessions along with Punjab teammates Abhishek Sharma, and cousin Anmolpreet and Prabh Simran Singh.KKR principal owner Shah Rukh Khan is known to be a great motivator. So what has he told Gill that has stayed with him?"I think when I first met him (SRK), and I think I was about to make my IPL debut in that match, he just came and told me 'just go out there and express yourself'."For any youngster, if owner of the team is telling you to express yourself without having the fear of being dropped or getting dropped. It's a really big thing," he concluded. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/my-preferred-batting-slot-is-opening-the-innings-shubman-gill-139288
12-09-2020||---||3 deaths, 283 cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 10Three Covid patients from the city breathed their last today, taking the UT toll to 80. Besides, 283 fresh cases were reported from the city, raising the tally to 6,987.Among those who died was a 46-year-old man from Mani Majra. He was suffering from bilateral pneumonia, hypertension and acute kidney injury with sepsis. He had tested positive for Covid and died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 (GMCH-32) today.A 66-year-old man from Sector 48 with diabetes mellitus succumbed to the virus at the GMCH-32 on September 6.A 59-year-old woman from Sector 22, who was suffering from pneumonia and tested positive for Covid, died due to Type 4 respiratory failure at Grecian Hospital in Mohali on September 4.Meanwhile, 191 patients defeated the virus and were discharged today. There are 2,573 active cases in the UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-deaths-283-cases-in-chandigarh-139541
12-09-2020||---||64-year-old man dies in Mohali, toll 125||Mohali, September 10One death and 275 new cases of Covid-19 were reported from the district today. As many as 293 patients have been discharged from various hospitals in the past 24 hours.A 64-year-old man from the Industrial Area, Phase VII, died at the PGI today. He was a diabetic and suffering from a kidney disease. The new cases were reported from Mohali urban (92), Dhakoli (59), Gharuan (43), Kharar (40), Dera Bassi (31), Boothgarh (nine) and Lalru (one).For the third consecutive day, the number of recoveries is more than the new cases reported from the district.The Mohali district tally stands at 5,856, of which 2,135 are active. As many as 3,596 patients have been discharged from various hospitals.With one more death today, the total number of Covid-19 fatalities in the district is 125.Yesterday, eight deaths and 307 new cases were reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/64-year-old-man-dies-in-mohali-toll-125-139542
12-09-2020||---||Panchkula sees 174 fresh cases||Panchkula, September 10The district today reported 174 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 3,632.Among the new patients, 22 are from Pinjore, 17 from Sector 15, 14 from Sector 19, 13 from Sector 8, 11 each from Kalka and Sector 20, 10 from Sector 10, eight from Sector 25, seven from Sector 21, six from Sector 16, five from Sector 12-A, four each from Barwala, Amravati Enclave and Rajiv Colony, three each from the MDC, Sector 5, Raipur Rani, Sector 4 and Sector 9, two each from Khatola, Sector 11, Sector 17, Sector 26, Sector 27, Sector 6 and Tipra, and one each from Abullapur Bhareli, Haripur, Chownki, Karanpur, Sector 14, Sector 18, Sector 2, Sector 28, Sector 7, Sector 26 and Sector 1.According to the Health Department, 1,187 cases are still active in the district, while 2,407 people have been cured and discharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-174-fresh-cases-139544
12-09-2020||Saurabh Malik||Women advocates are successful mothers: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10Women advocates are successful mothers, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted. Justice Augustine George Masih of the High Court also made it clear that labelling them as careless was utterly unacceptable and any attempts to describe them as incapable of taking care of the child was an imaginary tale woven by a contaminated mind.Women lawyers are not only successful in their professional endeavours but have also proved to be bold, brave and successful mothers. The plea of the petitioners, therefore, with regard to the inability of the mother to look after the welfare of the child because she is an advocate by profession is unacceptable.Rs— Justice Augustine George Masih Justice Masih was hearing a petition filed by the paternal grandparents of a three-year-old. Among other things, the grandparents claimed they had been taking care of the minor, as both advocate-parents remained busy with their practice.Referring to their stand that the parents, being advocates, were incapable of taking care of the child and his welfare, Justice Masih described the same as “fiction of a polluted mind” where a working woman was looked down upon as a careless and carefree person ignoring the fact that she also was the child’s mother.Branding women lawyers as irresponsible class was unacceptable. As such, the welfare of the child, which includes moral and ethical values, was least expected to be protected and secured by such grandparents having a narrow outlook towards life and society.“Women lawyers are not only successful in their professional endeavours but have also proved to be bold, brave and successful mothers. The plea of the petitioners, therefore, with regard to the inability of the mother to look after the welfare of the child because she is an advocate by profession is unacceptable,” Justice Masih added.In his detailed order, Justice Masih referred to the observations made by an HC Division Bench that the primary and dominant question before the court was the welfare of the child in a case of minor’s custody. It could not be measured by money or by physical comfort alone, “which probably appears to be a consideration on the part of the petitioners, overlooking the factum of the love and affection and the natural affinity of the parents to a child”.Justice Masih added that the court found that the effort on the part of the petitioners in connivance with the respondent-father was to delay the proceedings in the petition preferred by the respondent-mother, who was making all efforts to get the custody of the child, who has been separated from her.Before parting with the order, Justice Masih directed the trial court to make an endeavour to complete the pending proceedings within three months from the next date of hearing before it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/women-advocates-are-successful-mothers-hc-139547
12-09-2020||Amit Sharma||Khaki warriors bear brunt of virus, 44 infected so far||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10As many as 44 police personnel, including a DSP, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh so far.Moving out and working closely with society is part of our job due to which the risk of getting infected is more. However, police personnel are given necessary instructions to keep themselves safe. — Charanjit Singh Virk, spokesperson, UT PoliceCops are among the frontline Covid warriors, who have been working in the field since March.The police said a DSP, an inspector, three sub-inspectors, five ASIs, seven head constables and 27 constables had tested positive.Recently, police personnel posted at the public window at the Police Headquarters and four cops at the crime branch had tested positive for Covid. The reports of few more cops at the crime branch are pending.DSP (East) Dilsher Singh Chandel, who had tested positive on August 21 and was under home isolation, has recovered and joined back duty today. UT SSP Vineet Kumar welcomed him on joining back.UT police spokesperson Charanjit Singh Virk said, “Besides sanitising the offices from where corona cases are reported, the Police Department regularly issues necessary directions to police personnel regarding sanitising their hands and wearing masks.” “Moving out and working closely with society is part of our job due to which the risk of getting infected is more. However, police personnel are given necessary instructions to keep themselves safe,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khaki-warriors-bear-brunt-of-virus-44-infected-so-far-139555
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||ASI creates scene in fit of rage||High drama was witnessed when an ASI of the UT police, a psychiatric patient, suffered a fit of rage while on duty at the vegetable market in Sector 17 today.Admitted to GMSH-16Sources said the cop started arguing with vegetable vendors that led to high drama. The police were informed following which a PCR vehicle rushed to the spot.The ASI also stopped vehicles moving out of the bus stand and started harassing people on the pretext of checking the vehicles. Wipers of an Eco Sport were also broken by the ASI.The incident led to a long queue of vehicles moving out of the bus stand.It took several cops to control the ASI after which he had to be forcibly picked up and made to sit in the PCR vehicle.The ASI also allegedly manhandled the PCR staff. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asi-creates-scene-in-fit-of-rage-139559
12-09-2020||---||2 hurt as SUV, car collide||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10Two persons sustained injuries when an SUV collided with a car on the road separating Sector 20 and 33 on the intervening night of September 9 and 10.Sources said the SUV hit the car. Two persons, including a girl in the car, were left injured in the mishap.The injured were taken to the GMCH, Sector 32.An investigation has been initiated at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-hurt-as-suv-car-collide-139561
12-09-2020||---||CTU buses to ply on 8 routes each in Punjab, Haryana||Chandigarh, September 10The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will resume inter-state services initially on eight routes each in Punjab and Haryana from September 16.In Punjab, the buses will cover major destinations such as Hoshiarpur, Panthankot, Amritsar, Patiala, Mehatpur, Ludhiana, Dina Nagar and Bathinda. In Haryana, bus stations such as Panipat, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Jind, Hisar, Sirsa, Hansi and Delhi (up to Kundli border) will be covered.A spokesperson said tickets could be purchased online on CTU website: http://ctuonline.chd.gov.in or through mobile app “CTU Musafir”. Tickets could also be purchased on the bus from the conductor during the journey.The buses will operate at 50 per cent passenger occupancy keeping in view the social distancing norms and other guidelines issued by the UT Administration from time to time.Following the nationwide lockdown, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) had suspended the bus services on March 23. However, it briefly resumed the inter-state bus services to neighboring states of Haryana and Punjab from June 10, but suspended these after a few days over the sudden rise in coronavirus cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-buses-to-ply-on-8-routes-each-in-punjab-haryana-139563
12-09-2020||---||Couple among four held with Rs 9.18L fake currency||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 10The Mohali police arrested four persons, including two women, and recovered fake currency of Rs9.18 lakh from them.The suspects have been identified as Jagtar Singh Taari, his wife Parvati Devi, alias Bholi, both residents of Sirhind, Jaspreet Singh, alias Jassi, a resident of Ludhiana, and Kamlesh Sharma, alias Aantra Kalia, a resident of Sirhind. They allegedly duped a large number of people. They used to print and circulate fake notes, the police said.The police also recovered a printer/scanner, two scales, two cutters, a chemical and a plastic tray used by the suspects in the scam.SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said following a tip-off, a team of the Kharar police nabbed the prime suspects, Taari and Bholi, from Daun Majra village here on Tuesday. The police had recovered fake currency of Rs6.26 lakh from them. The couple was in the illegal activity for the past couple of years and several cases were already registered against them at various police stations, said the police. The couple was produced in a local court, which sent them to five-day police remand.During their interrogation, it came to the fore that more persons were involved in the scam following which the police arrested Jassi and Aantra.Jassi was nabbed from Sante Majra village on the Landran-Kharar road on Wednesday. Fake currency of Rs1.56 lakh, along with a printer, was recovered from him. A Kharar police team led by Inspector Sukhveer Singh today arrested Aantra from her house in Sirhind. Fake currency of Rs1.36 lakh was recovered from her possession, said the SP (Rural).Jassi was sent to four-day police remand by a local court today. Aantra would be produced in the court tomorrow, said the police.Kharar DSP Pal Singh said, “The suspects used to lure people by offering them more money for exchanging currency. For example, they used to offer a currency note of Rs2000 denomination in exchange of a Rs1000 currency note. They gave the fake notes mostly during the night time to avoid being caught. We have started an investigation. Some more persons involved in the scam might be arrested soon.”A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 489-B and 489-C of the Indian Penal Code at the Sadar Kharar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/couple-among-four-held-with-rs-9-18l-fake-currency-139567
12-09-2020||---||MC orders probe into gardeners’ extortion charge||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10MC Commissioner KK Yadav has marked an inquiry into an allegation that a contractor was charging Rs2,000 per month from the salary of the gardeners in a Sector 29 nursery.The contractor provides manpower to the MC. Chief Engineer Shailender Singh has been asked to inquire into the matter.AAP organising secretary Vikram Singh Pundhir had received complaints from the MC ‘maalis’ that the contractor was forcing the contractual employees to pay him Rs2,000 per month or he would sack them. The employees had no option but to pay the amount to save their jobs.A similar incident was recorded by AAP volunteers on Saturday at a Sector 33 garden.“MC contractors collect money from contractual employees and the money was then distributed among some officials and councillors,” alleged Prem Garg, city AAP president, who had also met Yadav in this regard.Garg demanded dissolution of the MC immediately and an investigation by the CBI into the working of the corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-orders-probe-into-gardeners-extortion-charge-139606
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||10 yrs on, cops  catch up with PO||A 37-year-old man, who was declared a PO in two snatching cases around 10 years ago, has been arrested by the operation cell of the UT police.The PO, Gurpreet Singh, alias Sunny, a native of Ambala, was arrested from a house in Zirakpur, where he was residing these days.The police said a case was egistered against Gurpreet in April 2006 on a complaint of Karamjit Kaur, a resident of Sector 7, who had reported that while going to Sector 8, two scooter-borne miscreants had snatched her purse. A case was registered at the Sector 3 police station and later Gurpreet was arrested. Gurpreet was released on bail. However, he escaped and was declared a PO in August 2010.In another case registered against Gurpreet in February 2006, complainant Saroj Uppar, a resident of Sector 22, had reported that while she was going on a rickshaw, two miscreants riding a scooter had snatched her purse. A case was registered at Sector 17 and Gurpreet was arrested. Gurpreet was later released on bail after which he escaped following which he was declared a PO in February 2011.The police produced Gurpreet in a court today, which remanded him in judicial custody. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-yrs-on-cops-catch-up-with-po-139607
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Con man faking as cop nabbed||The UT police arrested a con man, who duped several people while posing as a Punjab Police official.A team of the Sector 17 police station had received information that a man wearing a Punjab Police uniform and claiming to be an Inspector is demanding money from a person to get him recruited as a Home Guards volunteer in the Punjab Police.The police said the man had taken Rs5,000 from Ankush of Zirakpur for getting him recruited as a Home Guard. He was demanding Rs1 lakh more from Ankush.Cops laid a trap and a team led by Inspector Ram Rattan arrested the suspect, identified as Rajvir Singh of Amritsar.A police uniform and three fake name plates have been recovered from him.Sources said the suspect also used to call people while posing as an SP of the Punjab Police to dupe them.“The suspect had duped several people in Punjab. They did not report the matter to the police,”said sources.A case under Sections 420 and 171 of the IPC has been registered against the suspect at the Sector 17 police station and an investigation has been initiated into it.Had phone number of UT copsThe police said the suspect had phone numbers of several UT cops stored in his mobile phone. He used to influence the victims by claiming that he knew all police officials in Chandigarh. He had reportedly made calls to several UT cops to take favours while posing as an SP of the Punjab Police.—TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/con-man-faking-as-cop-nabbed-139608
12-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Education Department to seek parents’ consent online||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10In the wake of Centre’s decision allowing schools to open from September 21, the UT Education Department has decided to seek consent from parents before taking any decision regarding opening schools and conducting compartment exams.When the number of Covid cases is at an all-time high, it is insane to open schools as children are a high-risk group. Neither the schools are willing to take the responsibility nor are parents willing to send children to schools. - Head, Chandigarh Parents' AssociationDistrict Education Officer Alka Mehta said: “We have decided to take consent from parents with the help of Google forms before reopening the schools. As far as compartment exams are concerned, we will need the consent from parents for conducting exams in the offline or online medium.”In line with the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines, the Education Department has decided to call 50 per cent staff to schools. As per the guidelines, activities in schools can be partially resumed for Classes IX to XII from September 21 on a voluntarily basis.However, parents in the city are not much unwilling to send children to schools.The Chandigarh Parents’ Association president said: “When the number of Covid cases is at an all-time high, it is insane to open schools as children are a high-risk group. Neither the schools are willing to take the responsibility nor are parents willing to send children to schools.”City private schools are awaiting the UT Education Department’s nod before taking any decision to reopen the schools.Reema Dewan, Principal, Delhi Public School, said: “We have been trying to find ways to start schools amid the pandemic. It is certain that we will not allow more than 10-12 children in one classroom. We have also set up isolation rooms in the school and tied up with the nearest hospital in case of an emergency.”“However, an integral part of the SOPs shared by the Centre is the parents’ consent. We are waiting for the UT Education Department orders before taking any decision,” said Dewan.HS Mamik, president of the Independent Schools’ Association, said: “We don’t want to jump the gun until the department takes a decision. Every necessary arrangement will be made.”Funds sanctioned to the UTThe Centre has sanctioned Rs33.85 lakh (elementary level) and Rs12.72 lakh (secondary level) to the UT for school safety and security activities to encourage teachers to function as the first-level counsellors for dissemination of basic information about Covid-19 under the “school safety programme”. Further, an amount of Rs57,000 @ Rs500 per school has been estimated for safety and security measures in all schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/education-department-to-seek-parents-consent-online-139609
12-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Great boxers an outcome of zealous training: Cuban coach||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 10Cuban boxing coach Blas Iglesias Fernandez, the first foreign coach to be honoured with the Dronacharya Award, believes refresher courses are a must for coaches, especially from Punjab, for nurturing the talent available in the state.The Punjab Sports Department started a seven-day refresher course camp on Wednesday at the Punjab State Institute of Sports (PIS).Coaches from Mohali, Patiala, Roopnagar, Sangrur, Barnala and Bathinda are participating in the event. “Such courses should be organised at least once a year. I believe this is the right time for conducting such courses as coaches are less burdened. In the pre-Covid times, they remained under the pressure of conducting championships, coaching pugilists and many other things,” said Fernandez.Fernandez laid emphasis on the scope for learning always. “At 63 also, I come across several new things everyday. Improvement is the key to sustain in any field. In the seven days, our coaches will get theoretical and practical training. If implemented in the right manner, results can be really good,” added Fernandez. The go-to veteran coach for boxers and coaches, Fernandez has a spent a long time at the Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports in Patiala.“I am always impressed with the talent here (Punjab). I wish to start a platform for youngsters. However, updating coaches’ knowledge is another challenge — I am working on it. Great boxers are an output of zealous training. If coaches are keenly interested, the results can be really good,” explained Fernandez.On the language barrier between him and the coaches, Fernandez burst into a laughter and commented: “Ours is an action sport, talking isn’t for boxers. Nevertheless, I am fluent in English and so are other coaches. If I happen to learn some Punjabi, it will be wonderful.”Meanwhile, Capt Amar Deep Singh, Director, Administration & Training (PIS), said all social distancing norms were being followed. “It’s a great initiative by the department and the state Sports Minister. Coaches are adhering to the social distancing norms. Only one coach has been put in one room. This is once in a lifetime opportunity for them,” said Singh.Besides boxing, the department is also conducting short refresher-course camps for other disciplines from September 15 to October 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/great-boxers-an-outcome-of-zealous-training-cuban-coach-139610
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||No entrance likely for Postgraduate courses||The standing committee for conducting exams held an online meeting today.Sources said the decision regarding not conducting any entrance test may be extended to the postgraduate courses due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Recommendations in this regard are yet to be received by the Vice-Chancellor’s office.“In a meeting held on September 3, it was decided to scrap all entrance tests for all courses and the same as been agreed upon for postgraduate courses. Though there has been no official confirmation on this. The matter is still under consideration and the office of the VC is yet to receive the minutes of the meeting,” said a source.The final decision is likely to be taken before September 15 on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.No NOC for campus pupils“Panjab University (PU) campus students will not need a no objection certificate (NOC) before taking the exams starting from September 17,” said the Controller of Examination.After the authorities announced the need for an NOC before taking the exams, campus students, who don’t stay in Chandigarh, had raised concerns.“No NOC is required for campus students as per the orders of the DUI. We’ll let students appear for exams and any changes may be looked into during the declaration of results,” said Parvinder Singh, PU, Controller of Examination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-entrance-likely-for-postgraduate-courses-139611
12-09-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Minister takes stock of Covid facilities||As directed by the Punjab Chief Minister, Cabinet Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who is also the in-charge of the district, today held a review meeting with health officials and visited the Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Hospital, isolation centre at Sirhind and community health centre, Bassi Pathana, to take stock of Covid facilities.Addressing the officials, he said the state government was concerned about the safety of its citizens and making all efforts to prevent the spread of Covid.He expressed satisfaction over the arrangements made by the district administration to deal with the pandemic. He directed the administration to launch a special campaign to create awareness among people about preventing Covid, testing and taking precautions.Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra said the Punjab Government was not taking any chances in the war against Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-takes-stock-of-covid-facilities-139612
12-09-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Man booked for threatening health staff||On a complaint of Amloh SDM Anand Sagar Sharma, the Mandi Gobindgarh police have booked Jasvir Singh, a resident of Badinpur village, for allegedly misbehaving with a team of the Health Department.The SDM said last evening, the Health Department team, consisting of a health worker, panchyat secretary and Asha worker, went to the village to quarantine a person at home.He said as soon as they reached his house, one of the members of the family — Jsvir Singh — started misbehaving with the team, threatened them and pelted stones at them. The SDM said the team informed him in this regard and he immediately reached to the spot and the police were also informed.A case under Sections 188, 353, 186 and 606 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act was registered.He called upon people to cooperate with the health teams. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-threatening-health-staff-139613
12-09-2020||---||Notice to CBI on suspended cop’s plea||Chandigarh, September 10The CBI court today issued a notice to the CBI regarding the regular bail application filed by suspended inspector Jaswinder Kaur, who is currently lodged at Model Jail, Burail, in a corruption case.Jaswinder Kaur has filed the bail application under Section 439 of the CrPC claiming that she was falsely implicated in the case.Jaswinder Kaur, former SHO, Mani Majra, was booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding Rs5 lakh as bribe from a resident, Gurdeep Singh, for not registering a cheating case against him.In her application, she said due to the pandemic, the normal functioning of courts has been affected.Under such circumstances, the possibility of starting the trial in her case is nil.She has also claimed that she is suffering from various ailments, including heart problems, and was undergoing treatments for them. Besides, co-accused Bhagwan Singh has already been released on a bail. She has given an undertaking that she will not meet any person or witness concerned with the case.She has also promised to abide by any condition imposed by the court if released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/notice-to-cbi-on-suspended-cops-plea-139614
12-09-2020||Panchkula||1.5-month-old dies, kin cry foul||A one-and-a-half-month-old infant from Rajiv Colony died on Thursday after he was given an injection by an ANM at the Sector 16 dispensary.Family alleged that their child’s condition deteriorated after he was administered a wrong injection. “We then took him to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital as his body temperature was very high, but doctors declared him brought dead,” said infant’s family. The family performed his last rites today.Alleging foul play, the family submitted a police complaint demanding child’s post-mortem to know the exact reason of his death.Brij Pal, in-charge, Sector 16 police post, said: “We have received a complaint. The child’s body will be exhumed tomorrow for a post-mortem.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-5-month-old-dies-kin-cry-foul-139615
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||778 units of blood collected||As many as 778 units were collected at blood donation camps held at 10 locations in the tricity to mark the 57th birthday of BJP leader Sanjay Tandon.The camps were organised in collaboration with the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, Laghu Udyog Bharati and National Corruption Control and Human Welfare Organisation at Zakir Hall and Blood Bank, PGI, Rotary Blood Bank, Sector 37, Shiv Manas Mandir, Industrial Area, Phase II, Chandigarh Community Centre, Sector 43, Mauli Jagran dispensary and offices of Competitive Synergy and Stan Professionals in Mohali.All blood donors were given certificates, mementoes, bottles of sanitisers and masks on the occasion.Piyush Goyal, Union Minister for Railways, Commerce and Industry, virtually inaugurated camps in the presence of the BJP national spokesperson for economic affairs, Gopal Krishna Agarwal, Sanjay Tandon and his wife Priya Tandon.Goyal also launched the website sanrays.me, which has a collection of inspirational stories of Sanjay Tandon and his wife Priya Tandon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/778-units-of-blood-collected-139616
12-09-2020||Amit Bathla||Outsiders flock to Panchkula for Covid test||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 10With Panchkula leading the tricity in Covid-19 testing, the district is attracting outsiders to get themselves tested at sampling centres.At least 373 ‘outsiders’, who gave samples in Panchkula, were found Covid positive between September 3 and 8 as per the analysis of daily bulletins. On the other hand, 914 locals tested positive for the disease during the same period.Of the total 235 found positive on September 9, 92 were outsiders, which is almost 40 per cent of those, who contracted the virus.Dr Manish, in-charge, CHC, Nanakpur, located in the border area, said, “A large number of people living in Baddi district of Himachal Pradesh come for Covid-19 testing at the centre.”1,300 tests per dayTill date, Panchkula has conducted 49,653 Covid tests, which is highest in the tricity in terms of testing per million population.Health officials claimed they were conducting 1,300 tests each day with rapid antigen kits being used aggressively to diagnose coronavirus.Despite half of the staff at molecular lab at the Civil Hospital, Panchkula has maintained its testing capacity. Meanwhile, 43,701 Covid samples have been collected in Chandigarh and Mohali has done around 60,000 tests.Promoting walk-in samplingAdmitting the fact a senior health official at the Civil Hospital said, “Many outsiders, including from Zirakpur, Dhakoli and Baddi, undergo Covid testing in Panchkula as we have substantially better facilities for sampling in the tricity. We are promoting walk-in sampling at testing centres throughout the district. We have 21 sampling centres now. Even aggressive use of RATs, which give results in 30 minutes, attracts people from other areas to Panchkula due to non-availability of facility there.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/outsiders-flock-to-panchkula-for-covid-test-139617
12-09-2020||---||HC gives interim bail to accused in firing case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10Less than three months after retired Navy officer Narinder Verma was shot at in Jal Vayu Apartments in Sunny Enclave, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted interim bail to accused Rajesh Malik.The Bench, among other things, took note of the fact that details of treatment given to the petitioner-accused were not furnished despite specific orders.Malik, through senior counsel Bipan Ghai and advocate Paras Talwar, had alleged that he was waylaid by the complainant and his companions. As a result, he sustained serious injuries, including fractures of ribs and left shoulder. His licensed revolver was also snatched. In the process, “The fired shot went off hitting the complainant and the petitioner acted in his right of self-defence,” Ghai told the Bench.Ghai said the complainant-party had a motive to implicate the petitioner in the present case owing to election rivalry in society. The petitioner had already deposed against the complainant before an inquiry officer.Taking up the matter, Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted perusal of a status report showed that it was conspicuously silent about injuries sustained by the petitioner. In view of order dated August 10, the respondent State was required to place on record the details of treatment given to the petitioner from June 27 onwards till his discharge from the hospital. But, the same had not been done.“This is the state of affairs even after granting last opportunity to the respondent State vide order dated August 27,” Justice Raj Mohan Singh added. “At this stage, without forming any opinion on the merits of the case and in view of the medical status of petitioner, it would be appropriate to release him on interim bail till the next date of hearing,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-gives-interim-bail-to-accused-in-firing-case-139618
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Three assault cases reported from Chandigarh||Three assault cases were reported from different parts of the city.Sanjeet (20), a resident of Burail, Sector 45, reported that on September 7, he was returning from work along with his brother-in-law and three friends when Sanju with around 10 persons stopped him near Sector 34 and assaulted them with rod. All victims were injured and admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.The police said that the complainant had an altercation with Sanju on August 30, following which the latter assaulted him. A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station.In another case, complainant Aipa (32), who is a rag picker, alleged that Naresh, a rickshaw puller, entered into an altercation with him and assaulted him in the parking of the Sector 38-D market. The victim was hit with a stick following which he got injured and was admitted to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.A case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station.The third case was registered at the Maloya police station on the complaint of Hemraj (20), a resident of Dadu Majra Colony, who reported that on September 8, he was returning home from market when Babrik assaulted him with a sharp weapon. The victim got injured and was admitted to the GMSH-16. The case is being investigated by the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-assault-cases-reported-from-chandigarh-139619
12-09-2020||---||43 ex-CTU employees approach CAT for ‘salary enhancement’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10The Chandigarh Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has directed the Transport Secretary, Chandigarh, to consider and decide on legal notices sent by 43 retired employees of the CTU about salary enhancement on the pattern of the Punjab Government within three months from the date of receipt of a copy of the order.These retired CTU employees had approached CAT for issuing directions to implement a letter dated February 4, 1969, of the State of Punjab and many other judicial pronouncements for revision of the pay scale. They had also made the Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, Administration and Divisional Manager, Chandigarh Transport Undertaking, party in the case.The Bench, in its order, said if the applicants were found to be similarly situated, they should be extended due benefits, else a speaking and reasoned order be passed and conveyed to them in writing within indicated time. However, the court clarified that the disposal of the application might not be construed to mean expression of any opinion on the merits of the case.The counsel for the applicants submitted that as per the notification issued by the Government of India, the Administration followed the rules of the Punjab Government about service and pay scales for the employees of Chandigarh. The Government of Punjab had enhanced pay scales of the technical staff of the transport department from time to time, but the same had not been implemented for the CTU employees. He said the petitioners had submitted various legal notices in the past on this issue, which remained unanswered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/43-ex-ctu-employees-approach-cat-for-salary-enhancement-139620
12-09-2020||---||NHM creates new post to ‘adjust’ senior doctor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 10Amid economic slowdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the National Health Mission (NHM), Chandigarh, has created a new post of Director (Administrative).Sources said the post was created to adjust a senior doctor who is retiring soon.In a public notice issued by the mission, the post is reserved for the general category and the selected candidate will be appointed for a period of one year on a contract basis. As per the qualification, the candidate should be of the rank of Deputy Director (Health) from Punjab, Haryana or other states retired or retiring by October 31 and the selected candidate will get last pay drawn minus pension (in case of retiring or retired) per month.Objecting to the creation of the post, Hind Mazdoor Sabha vice-president Kashmir Chand said, “The Central Government has imposed a ban on creating any new post on August 28, 2020, but officers of the UT Administration want to adjust a senior doctor who is retiring soon.”The walk in interview for a newly conceived post of Director (Administration) in the National Health Mission, Chandigarh, was scheduled for September 23, 2020, he said and added that the NHM never created or needed such post ever since its inception a decade ago. The responsibilities of this post were with the Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, till date, he said. “Creating a side post is nothing, but a step creating conflict of interest apart from financial burden,” he said.This was in contrast to the meagre salary of outsourced and contractual employees of the NHM, he added. Chand said he would write to the Prime Minister in this regard.Circular regarding engagement of retireesMeanwhile, the Department of Personnel, UT, has issued a circular regarding engagement of retirees or pensioners on contract basis in various departments. According to the order, the retirees or pensioners, who are covered under the NPS scheme or who are not covered under any pension scheme, shall be paid remuneration equivalent to 50 per cent of the last basic pay drawn before retirement plus DA as applicable from time to time. No other allowance, whatsoever, shall be payable to him or her. However, he/she will continue to draw separately any pension sanctioned to him/her and shall retain any other form of retirement benefits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nhm-creates-new-post-to-adjust-senior-doctor-139621
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man held for bid to steal two-wheeler||The police have arrested a Dhanas resident for trying to steal a two-wheeler and threatening its owner.According to the police, complainant Amrit Lal, a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, reported that on the intervening night of September 8 and 9, he noticed that someone was trying to steal his motorcycle parked near the house.The complainant raised the alarm and tried to catch the suspect. However, he managed to escape from the spot. The complainant identified the suspect as Deepak, a resident of EWS Colony.The police said the next morning, the suspect visited the complainant’s house and threatened him. A complainant informed the police following which a case was registered at the Sarangpur police station and a team, led by Inspector Jasbir Singh, nabbed the suspect.The police said Deepak was already convicted in a case of robbery and trial in two other cases registered against him was going on in a court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-bid-to-steal-two-wheeler-139622
12-09-2020||---||Chandigarh admn discontinues weekend closure of Sukhna Lake||Chandigarh, September 11The Chandigarh Administration has decided to discontinue the weekend closure of Sukhna Lake.The lake was closed for people on Saturday and Sunday due to sudden rise in coronavirus cases in the city.The order was issued by Adviser to UT Administrator Manoj Parida. The police authorities will, however, strictly enforce wearing of masks and social distancing among visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-discontinues-weekend-closure-of-sukhna-lake-139791
12-09-2020||Hyderabad||Doctors perform India's first double lung transplant on Covid patient from Chandigarh||In a first of its kind procedure in India, doctors at the Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) here successfully performed double lung transplant surgery on a Covid-19 patient.The 32-year-old patient from Chandigarh, who received lungs from a brain-dead person in Kolkata, was discharged from the hospital on Friday.The team of doctors was led by Sandeep Attawar, considered a pioneer in heart and lung transplant surgeries in India.Rizwan alias Monu was suffering from sarcoidosis that affected his lungs significantly, leading to fibrosis of the lungs. The doctors said his condition deteriorated rapidly and double lung transplant was the only permanent option for cure.The situation worsened when the patient contracted coronavirus while awaiting for his double lung transplant. His oxygen requirement increased from 15 liters/minute to 50 liters/min for the last eight weeks."The patient was a severe case of lung sarcoidosis, and Covid-19 only complicated the precarious lung condition. Fortunately, a match to his lungs was found in a person declared brain dead in Kolkata, and the harvested lungs were airlifted to Hyderabad to save the life of the patient," said Attawar.According to him, the procedure was complex and had little scope for errors and only a timely transplant of lungs helped save the patient. "What is more important is that good outcomes are difficult to achieve as these patients are extremely sick, under nourished and bed-ridden before the transplant. Post discharge, he will need close monitoring, bio bubble environment and careful drug control for at least six weeks," he said.A veteran in the field of transplant surgeries with an experience of over 24 years, Attawar has so far performed over 12,000 heart surgeries, and over 250 transplant surgeries for lungs, heart, and artificial heart implants (LVAD).IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctors-perform-indias-first-double-lung-transplant-on-covid-patient-from-chandigarh-139794
12-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports new high; 180 new cases take tally past 3,800||Panchkula reported 180 new coronavirus cases on Friday -- the highest single-day spike in infections the district has seen yet.The district also witnessed two deaths, taking the fatality count to 40.Panchkula’s cases now stand at 3,812.Two women---a 47-year-old woman from Sector 4 suffering from chronic kidney disease, and a 60-year-old woman from Sector 20 with hypertension---died of COVID-19 on Friday.Eighteen of the 180 new cases were from Pinjore.Kalka (13), Sector 4 (13), Sector 21 (10), Sector 20(8), Sector 28 (8), Sector 14 (6), Sector 8 (6), Sector 9 (6), Amravati Enclave (5), Sector 10 (5), Sector 12 (5), Sector 12A (5), Sector 6 (5), Sarakpur (4), Sector 11 (4), Sector 25 (4), Khatouli (3), Raipur Rani (3), Sector 15 (3), Sector 2 (3), Sector 26 (3), Sector 29 (3), Surajpur (3), Barwala (2), MDC Sector 5 (2), Marranwala (2), Ramgarh (2), Sector 15 (2), Sector 17 (2), Sector 18 (2), Sector 19 (2), Sector 27 (2), and Sector 7 (2), Badona Khurd (1), Bhainsa Tibba (1), Bir Ghaggar (1), Budhanpur (1), Khera Sita Ram (1), MDC Sector 6 (1), Nada Sahib (1), Mouli (1), Nanakpur (1), Police Line (1), Rajiv Colony (1), Rehna (1), Sector 25 (1) and Toka (1), all reported new cases.Thirty-three percent of Panchkula’s cases are still active.Panchkula numbersTotal: 3,812Active: 1,264Deaths: 40||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-new-high-180-new-cases-take-tally-past-3-800-139798
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Over 200 coronavirus cases push Mohali’s tally past 6,000||Mohali reported 204 new coronavirus cases on Friday, numbers released by the office of Mohali’s Civil Surgeon said---a development that takes the district tally past 6,000.The district also reported one death, 66-year-old woman from Nayagaon who died in Chandigarh’s Sector 16. Mohali’s COVID fatality count now stands at 126.This takes Mohali’s tally to 6,060---a quarter of which are still active cases.Mohali urban continues to make up the highest of the district’s infection numbers, reporting 79 cases on Friday.  Kharar (27), Gharuan (35), Dhakoli (36), Dera Bassi (4), Boothgarh (9), Lalru (10) and Kurali (4) all reported new cases.Meanwhile, 271 people were discharged from hospitals after they made recovery.Mohali numbers  Total: 6,060Active: 2,067Deaths: 126||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-200-coronavirus-cases-push-mohalis-tally-past-6-000-139801
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to procure 10,000 additional Antigen kits for enhancing testing in city||After a continuous rise in coronavirus cases, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed that 10,000 additional Antigen kits may be procured for enhancing testing in the city. Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, stated that the people staying in containment zones will be first tested with Antigen kits on priority. The administrator decided to hand over Infosys Sarai to PGIMER, so that they can utilise it for creating 200 additional beds for Covid patients.  The Infosys Sarai will now be utilised as Infectious Disease Hospital, till further orders. Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, stated that they have 10 Plasma Units ready, which can be given to any Covid patient, whenever needed. Dr G Dewan, Director Health Services, stated that they have tested 1,142 samples, out of which 718 were Antigen tests.He also mentioned that 5,000 wellness kits comprising vitamins and medicines have been issued for distribution among home quarantined and Covid Care Centres.  A decision was taken in the War Room to discontinue weekend closure of Sukhna Lake.  However, the administrator directed the police authorities to strictly enforce wearing of masks and social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-procure-10-000-additional-antigen-kits-for-enhancing-testing-in-city-139809
12-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adds 305 more coronavirus cases; tally stands past 7,000||Chandigarh reported 305 new coronavirus cases and three fatalities in a span of 24 hours, an administration issued medical bulletin said on Friday---developments that pushed the union territory’s numbers past 7,000 with 83 deaths.Two of the three fatalities on Friday were over 65. All three had pre-existing health conditions.An 83-year-old woman from Chandigarh’s Sector 32 who was diabetic and had hypertension died at Mohali’s Grecian Hospital on Thursday. A 68-year-old man from Sector 48 who was diabetic and suffered from hypertension and heart and kidney diseases also died at Mohali’s Grecian Hospital on Thursday.  The third fatality was a 59-year-old man from Sector 50 who was diabetic and had hypertension. He died at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Chandigarh’s Sector 32 on Thursday.Chandigarh also reported 269 recoveries on Friday.The UT has been reporting a significant spike in coronavirus cases since the beginning of the month, when it began reporting more than 200 infections a day. Chandigarh has added just under 3,000 new coronavirus cases---40 per cent of its total infections---and 27 deaths to its total tally in just 11 days since September 1.Thirty one percent of that number---about 920 new infections---has been added since September 8, when the UT first began reporting over 300 cases.Over 35 per cent of Chandigarh’s cases are still active. The UT has reported 4,600 recoveries so far.The development comes on a day when Mohali reported 204 new COVID cases and Panchkula reported 180.  The Tricity’s single-day case tally stands at 689.Chandigarh’s uptick in cases is part of a larger pattern of rise in Tricity’s cases---the Tricity has seen a 165 per cent rise in coronavirus cases since the beginning of September.The Tricity’s total case tally now stands at 17,164---34 per cent of which are still active.Where Tricity standsTotal: 17,164ChandigarhTotal: 7,292Active: 2,606Deaths: 83MohaliTotal: 6,060Active: 2,067Deaths: 126PanchkulaTotal: 3,812Active: 1,264Deaths: 40Tricity cases since September 1Total:  6,818Chandigarh: 2,946Mohali: 2,290Panchkula: 1,582||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adds-305-more-coronavirus-cases-tally-stands-past-7-000-139814
