13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Newborn among Chandigarh’s five new coronavirus cases||A six-day old baby girl from Bapu Dham Colony is among Chandigarh’s five new coronavirus cases reported on Saturday, officials said.Three of Saturday’s new cases were from Sector 47, where a 40-year-old woman and two children, ages 13 and 2, tested positive for COVID-19. They were family members of a 45-year-old man who tested positive for coronavirus two days ago.The last case was a 14-year-old girl from Khudda Jassu.The development took the union territory’s coronavirus tally to 350. The UT has 50 active cases now, and has seen five deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/newborn-among-chandigarhs-five-new-coronavirus-cases-98719
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 16 man’s contact chain penetrates UT’s three villages; officials worried||A 35-year-old man who tested positive recently has set off a chain of COVID-19 cases, worrying UT authorities.   The patient, whose father owns a medical shop in Sector 16 and tested positive on June 9, is believed to have infected as many as 14 people---nine family members and five workplace contacts have so far tested positive.But it isn’t just the number of people who were infected from just one case---it is also that the infection has now spread to three densely populated villages in the union territory, Dhanas, Khudda Jassu and Khudda Lahora.What UT officials are most worried about is the challenge of social distancing in such densely populated areas.   UT Health Secretary, Arun Gupta said: “It is worrying to see infection penetrating in villages. We need to be more cautious if the positive cases come from densely populated areas than the sector areas as maintenance of social distancing is difficult to follow and enforce”.Joint Commissioner Anil Garg said: “One case has infected 14 persons in his chain. The trend is worrisome of course but the infection is only limited to families of positive cases till now. The rest will be seen as symptoms develop in other contacts”.Of the five secondary contacts, the first one to test positive was a 34-year-old man from Khudda Jassu, who in turn is believed to have passed on the infection to four members of his family, including an 18-month-old baby girl.The source of infection in the Sector 16 case remains unclear, but the patient’s father and mother had recently travelled to Sangrur.As of Friday, the positivity rate of Sector 16 stood at 15 per cent. Authorities have sent 44 samples for testing in the area, of which seven have come back positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-16-mans-contact-chain-penetrates-uts-three-villages-officials-worried-98716
13-06-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Education Dept to release notice for admission in govt schools after receiving requests to shift wards from pvt schools||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 13After receiving over hundreds of requests for shifting children from private schools to government schools by parents, the UT Education Department has decided to begin the process of admission from June 15 onwards.The Director School Education, Rubinderjit Brar, said: “I have been receiving a lot of calls from parents that they want to shift their kids from private schools to government schools. But an actual picture can only be known when the schools reopen and then we will issue a public notice for admissions.”Multiple requests have been received by schools and the District Education Office that parents are preferring government schools over private schools.Karam Bullar, a parent said: “Due to the lockdown and the COVID-19 crisis, there is a lot of apprehension about job security. I was looking for my daughters’ admission in government schools to cut down my expenses.”Another parent, Bhupinder Singh Bhandari, said they were paying around Rs 5,000 per month for their daughter who is studying in kindergarten and since the income had decreased drastically due to pandemic, they would not be able to pay the hefty amount.“We are ready to receive more students who want to seek admission in government schools and maybe give directions for principals for admissions. We will make a strategy for how to grant admissions amid the pandemic,” said District Education Officer, Alka Mehta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-dept-to-release-notice-for-admission-in-govt-schools-after-receiving-requests-to-shift-wards-from-pvt-schools-98711
13-06-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 11 new COVID-19 cases||Mohali reported 11 new coronavirus cases, officials said.The number includes five children.Eight of those testing positive on Saturday were from the densely populated Mubarakpur Camp near Dera Bassi.Three women, ages 47, 35 and 25, and five children--- ages 4, 8, 7, 12 and 14---tested positive there. All patients were contacts of a 43-year old-man who tested positive after his return from Delhi last month, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said.Three other patients were from Baltana, the doctor said.All 11 patients have been admitted to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in BanurDr Manjeet Singh said district authorities had sealed off the affected area of Mubarakpur village. People living in the area have also been directed to stay indoors, he said.District authorities say this brings the number of coronavirus cases in Mohali to 160, with 40 active cases.The state COVID-19 tally however puts the district’s infections at 154.There is usually some disparity between numbers given by district and state authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-11-new-covid-19-cases-98698
13-06-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Rain brings respite from heat in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 13Light rain coupled with strong wind was witnessed in parts of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula on Saturday, bringing much respite from the stifling heat.The humidity level was high as temperature had soared up to 40 degrees Celsius in the tricity over the past few days.The mercury is expected to drop in the next few days as moisture-laden easterly winds due to the low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal are expected to bring showers in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-brings-respite-from-heat-in-chandigarh-98638
13-06-2020||---||Cops nail suspect in Sector 9 firing||Chandigarh, June 12The UT police have arrested one of the suspects in the firing at a liquor vend in Sector 9 here.‘Deepu was told to carry out 4 crimes’Sources said Lawrence Bishnoi had asked Deepu to carry out four crimes, including firing at the house of liquor contractor Arvind Singla, brother of hotelier Rakesh Singla, in Sector 33 and at a liquor vend in Sector 9. The motive was to reportedly intimidate the victims for extortion.The police claimed that the firing, which took place two days after the firing at hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33, was carried out at the behest of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi.The motive behind the attack, they said, was to intimidate the liquor store owner to extort money from him.Sewak involved in firing outside Sec 26 clubSewak, alias Guri, who was arrested for providing a car to the shooters to carry out the firing in Sector 33, has also been found to be involved in the firing outside a night club in Sector 26. Sewak and his accomplice had opened fire outside the club, Playground, on November 30 last year after they were denied entry into the club.Deepak, alias Deepu, who was brought on a production warrant from Ambala jail, had reportedly confessed that he had orchestrated the firing incidents in Sector 33 and Sector 9.Deepu provided the names of both shooters, which led to the arrest of one of them, identified as Vainkat Garg, a resident of Channan Colony, Ambala. He was arrested from Naraingarh.The police said Vainkat also provided shelter to other suspect. “He also arranged the weapons that were used in the crime,” said a police official.The suspect was produced before a court, which remanded him in four-day police custody. Two miscreants had opened indiscriminate fire at employees of the liquor store. The police said five bullets were fired, leaving three employees injured. The suspects had arrived in a white Honda Amaze car, which was parked on the main road. They escaped in the vehicle after committing the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-nail-suspect-in-sector-9-firing-98491
13-06-2020||---||24-day-old among 11 new cases in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12A 24-day-old baby from Daria village is among 11 fresh Covid-19 cases reported from the UT today, taking the tally to 345. Three cases each have been reported from Khuda Jassu and Daria village while four cases are from Bapu Dham Colony and one from Khuda Lahora.Two Bapu Dham patients dischargedTwo residents of Bapu Dham Colony have been discharged from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College & Hospital. They have been shifted to Sood Dharmshala, a post-discharge quarantine facility. At present, there are 45 active Covid cases in the city..The Khuda Lahora patient is an auto driver and community contact of a Covid patient from Khuda Jassu, a worker at a medical shop in Sector 16. The 28-year-old had taken the latter in his auto-rickshaw to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Three new cases reported from Khuda Jassu are the family contacts of the medical shop worker. They are a 35-year-old woman, an eight-year-old girl and an 18-month-old child.Three family contacts of two brothers from New Delhi, who were found positive for Covid on a visit to Daria village, have also contracted the infection. Two women, aged 48 and 26, and a 24-day-old girl are the new patients.Besides, two men, aged 63 and 34, a 27-year-old woman and a five-year-old girl from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 have been found infected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24-day-old-among-11-new-cases-in-chandigarh-98492
13-06-2020||Mohali||Six contract virus in Mohali, district tally 149||Six more Covid cases were reported from Mohali today, taking the district tally to 149.Those infected include a 22-year-old youth from Togan village in Kharar and a 45-year-old man from Bhabat village in Zirakpur. Both were working at a medical store in Chandigarh, where a person had earlier tested positive for the virus. They have been admitted to a Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.The other patients are a 30-year-old man and a 25-year-old woman from Janata Colony in Nayagaon and a 53-year-old woman from Adarsh Nagar in Nayagaon. They have also been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital.The sixth patient is a 68-year-old woman, a resident of Swastik Vihar in Zirakpur. She had recently gone to Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh to meet her daughter.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said she was admitted to Fortis Hospital in Mohali on June 10 after she complained of breathlessness. She was later shifted to the Banur hospital. The district now has 30 active cases, whereas 116 patients have recovered and three have died due to the disease.Meanwhile, panic gripped residents of Bhabat village where the wife of the 45-year-old patient runs a provision store as many villagers have come in her contact. The Health Department has sealed the area to check the spread of the virus. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-contract-virus-in-mohali-district-tally-149-98493
13-06-2020||Panchkula||Six test +ve in Panchkula, five of them outsiders||Six cases of Covid were reported from the district today. However, only one case was added to the district tally as the other patients were not from Panchkula.2 More areas now containment zonesDeputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Friday issued an order declaring certain areas of Group Housing-1, Tower E, Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5; and house number 289 to 290-A and 290-B and house number 373-A and 373-B in Abheypur village of Sector 19 as containment zones after Covid cases surfaced in these residential areas.“Four members of a family from Delhi, who had come to visit their relatives in Sector 27, tested positive for Covid. They are a 44-year-old man, his wife (42) and their sons (17 and 19). The other two cases were of a 33-year-old man from Sector 21, who had given a local address but belongs to Ahmedabad, and a 21-year-old youth from the Industrial Area,” said Dr Rajiv Narwal, Covid nodal officer for the district.The district Covid tally now stands at 48.The immediate contacts of the positive cases have been quarantined and will be tested for Covid, health officials said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-test-ve-in-panchkula-five-of-them-outsiders-98495
13-06-2020||Mohali||Weekend curbs in Mohali district||Amid apprehensions of community spread of Covid-19, stricter lockdown on weekends and public holidays will be observed in the district.All citizens, except for medical staff and essential service providers, will be required to download e-pass from the COVA app in order to move out.The industry, however, will be allowed to function normally on all days.DC Girish Dayalan said all shops and malls would remain shut on Sundays and could be opened till 5 pm on Saturdays and gazetted holidays. Shops selling essentials can operate till 7 pm on all days. Restaurants (for take home/home delivery only) and liquor shops could be opened till 8 pm on all days, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weekend-curbs-in-mohali-district-98497
13-06-2020||---||No inter-state bus service till June 30||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12In view of the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration has decided to suspend the inter-state bus service till June 30. All passengers reaching the city by trains, domestic flights and road have been advised self-quarantine for 14 days.On June 10, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) had started its inter-state bus service on select routes in Haryana and Punjab after over two and a half months.During the daily review meeting, it was noted that most new cases were of those who had come from outside or their immediate contacts.After discussions with senior officials and medical experts, the Administration decided that till the end of the lockdown on June 30, the CTU will not operate its inter-state buses. The consent given to other states for operating inter-state buses will be withdrawn. Buses operated by Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana in the tricity will, however, continue to ply.The Administration has also decided that all passengers coming by trains will be screened on arrival and advised self-quarantine for 14 days. They will have to download the Aarogya Setu app.Similar arrangements will be applicable to passengers coming by domestic flights and by road.The UT has also decided that persons coming to Chandigarh by road must carry a self-generated document, which can be downloaded from the website of the Administration.However, government or private employees coming to the office will be allowed entry on production of identity cards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-inter-state-bus-service-till-june-30-98498
13-06-2020||Naina Mishra||First to get plasma therapy at PGI cured||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12A 60-year-old man from Haryana, the first Covid-19 patient in the UT to receive the convalescent plasma therapy, was discharged from the PGI after recovery today.The patient, a resident of Kurukshetra, was admitted to the hospital on June 1 in a serious condition with pneumonia, requiring oxygen therapy.In just three days, he was taken off the oxygen therapy and gradually his condition improved with the help of plasma therapy and supportive care. The patient has been asymptomatic for five days.The PGI has so far given the therapy to three patients. The PGI Director, Dr Jagat Ram, said, “The results have been encouraging as the patient recovered in less than usual time. The plasma given to other patients has also shown no side-effects. The exact outcome will be known after the conclusion of the trial.”The PGI is one of the centres for the ICMR national trial on the convalescent plasma therapy for Covid patients. The therapy entails using plasma taken from patients who have recovered from Covid to treat other patients. It uses antibodies developed within an infected person. The patients, who have recovered from the Covid infection, are eligible to donate plasma.Prof Pankaj Malhotra, Department of Internal Medicine, said, “The process was strenuous. We conducted various tests and received the ICMR nod after which the therapy was given to the patient. The plasma was given to him in batches for two days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-to-get-plasma-therapy-at-pgi-cured-98499
13-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Panchkula dental students allowed to take exams||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court has allowed students of the BRS Dental College and Hospital, Panchkula, to take exams, scheduled for later this month.What the court saidJustice Jaishree Thakur of the Punjab and Haryana High Court said, “The academic year of the students should not be put to jeopardy for no fault of theirs. As an interim measure, this court proposes to allow the students to undertake exams.”The directions by Justice Jaishree Thakur came on a petition filed by Ramavtar and other petitioners against the state of Haryana and other respondents. In the petition, the students claimed that classes were allegedly not being held since July 2019 due to the ongoing tussle between the management and teaching staff. It followed alleged non-payment of salaries to the non-teaching staff and faculty since October 2018, they said.Justice Thakur’s Bench was told that the college functioned smoothly till 2018. Thereafter, a dispute arose on account of the non-payment of salaries. It was further contended that the college had taken advance fee for the 2019-2020 session, but the students were not given receipt at that time. They had been left in the lurch as classes were not being conducted.Justice Thakur observed, “In the writ petition, the students have also sought relief of being transferred to other dental college so that their academic year is not spoiled.” Justice Thakur also took the note of rival submissions that the petitioners’ stand was false to the extent that no classes were conducted since July 2019. Besides, there was also the issue of the non-payment of fee by petitioner-students.Justice Thakur said the Dental Council of India had earlier stated that the matter regarding transfer of students to some other dental college was pending before the Centre. Their counsel submitted that the council was to carry out the college’s inspection, but the exercise could not be undertaken following the Covid-19 outbreak.The college was directed to forward the list of students, who were to take exams, to the university concerned. The students were asked to deposit the fee with the university directly and they would be entitled to take exams. But the result would not be declared and kept in a sealed cover only to be disclosed on court order.“Mere fact that the students are being allowed to take examination would not hold them automatically eligible for promotion to the next session or being eligible for a degree.... This interim order is being passed wholly as a measure to try and save the academic year of the students,” Justice Thakur added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-dental-students-allowed-to-take-exams-98502
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Posing as cousin, swindler dupes woman of Rs 3 lakh||The police have booked a man for allegedly duping a Sector 22 resident of Rs3 lakh by impersonating as her cousin in London.The police said the fraudster approached the victim, Sabina, through WhatsApp. The swindler claimed that he had some emergency and needed money following which the victim transferred the money in his accounts with the SBI and ICICI Bank.The incident took place on May 29 and 30 after which the victim submitted a complaint to the UT police, who forwarded it to the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell.A police official said investigation revealed that the fraudster was operating from the Delhi-NCR and one of the bank accounts in which the money was transferred was of a Mumbai branch. “The victim became suspicious when she received a call from one of the banks to confirm if she was aware about the money being transferred from her account. She then called the fraudster on WhatsApp, but he didn’t reply,” the official added.By the time she realised that she has been cheated, the money had already been transferred. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/posing-as-cousin-swindler-dupes-woman-of-rs-3-lakh-98504
13-06-2020||Panchkula||Unidentified body found||Khattar visits shrines in KalkaPanchkula: Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar offered prayers at Kali Mata temple and Gurdwara Pehli Patshahi in Kalka on Friday. The gurdwara authority also honoured him with a siropa. He was accompanied by Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria. Earlier, Khattar paid a visit to Chandi-Ka-Bas temple in Morni and Balaji temple in Kalka. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa and BJP district president Deepak Sharma were also present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unidentified-body-found-98505
13-06-2020||Aditi Tandon||Covid-19: Chandigarh, Punjab lead in recovery rate||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 12Chandigarh and Punjab are currently leading in the country on the key parameter of Covid-19 recoveries, posting the highest and the second highest cure rates, respectively, in the country.While Chandigarh’s cure rate is the best in India at 87.42 per cent as of the latest state-wise data available with the Health Ministry, Punjab follows at 79.70 per cent.The national recovery rate is 49.47 per cent with the number of discharged continuing to outstrip active Covid cases. However, J&K and Haryana have registered recoveries below the national average. J&K’s cure rate is 34.65 per cent as against Haryana’s 34.69 per cent. HP’s cure rate is 54.23 per cent.Government sources said the cure and mortality rates were the best indicators of the quality of state’s Covid response and management.“These two indicators determine the response to the pandemic since the virus is here to stay and a vaccine or a drug is not in sight,” VK Paul, member health, NITI Aayog, said.A growing recovery rate means cured persons progressively outnumber the infected and the proportion of persons susceptible to the virus decreases. Once this proportion decreases considerably the pandemic curve will start to drop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-punjab-lead-in-recovery-rate-98462
