13-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali: Unknown man snatches bike after threatening cop and biker with gun||High drama was witnessed in Phase 10 market when an unknown person pointed a gun at a food delivery boy to snatch his motorcycle and also threatened a cop with his gun.As per the information obtained from ex-councillor Gurmeet Singh Walia, the miscreant was stopped by PCR party opposite housing flats in Phase 10 this evening. The cop and the person exchanged heated arguments before the latter sped away on his Baleno car.After some time, he was again asked to stop near Phase 10 main market by the cops but on seeing them, he came out of his car and fled from the spot towards showrooms leaving behind the vehicle. Then the miscreant pointed his gun at a food delivery boy and snatched his bike.When the cop tried to nab him after chasing him, he also pointed the gun towards the cop and sped away on the bike.According to the sources, the snatched bike was later recovered near Burail jail in Chandigarh.SP (investigation) Harmandeep Hans said, “At present, nothing is clear about what had happened in the market. We are investigating the matter. The Baleno has been taken in police custody. Nothing suspicious found from the vehicle yet. We are also rounding up few persons for questioning.”The police was also scrutinizing the footages of CCTV cameras installed in the market.Inspector Jagdeep Singh, SHO of Phase 11 police station, did not respond to the calls despite several attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-unknown-man-snatches-bike-after-threatening-cop-and-biker-with-gun-112450
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports 31 new coronavirus cases, tally crosses 400||Mohali reported 31 new coronavirus cases on Monday, officials said---a development that makes it the highest single-day spike in cases and takes the district’s number to 423.Three elderly people were among those who tested positive for COVID-19.The district has been seeing a surge in cases this past week, reporting 83 new COVID-19 cases in the past four days alone.All new patients are being treated at the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that health teams were now tracking and isolating their contacts for testing.The district has 152 active COVID-19 cases and has reported seven deaths from the virus..||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-31-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-crosses-400-112383
13-07-2020||---||GMCH-32 security guard beaten to death in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 13A security guard at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, was thrashed by a few persons accompanying a patient on Sunday night, which reportedly led to the security guard’s death.The victim had an altercation after he stopped the suspects from entering the emergency and asked them to wait outside.The victim has been identified as Shyam Sundar (51). Shyam was admitted to the hospital, where he later succumbed to the injuries.The police have registered a case and initiated investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-32-security-guard-beaten-to-death-in-chandigarh-112355
13-07-2020||---||Mohali PNB robbery cracked, 3 arrested||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 12Over three weeks after a daylight robbery at an all-woman branch of Punjab National Bank (PNB) in Phase 3A here, the Mohali police cracked the case with the arrest of three suspects, who had allegedly robbed Rs4.79 lakh on June 17.The suspects have been identified as Sandeep Khurmi (28), alias Sunny, a resident of Mehtapur village in Jalandhar, Sonu (28), a resident of Sector 45, and Ravi Kothari (28), a native of Hisar who stays in Mani Majra. All three are matriculates.Had looted Rs 4.79 lakh, over Rs 3 lakh recoveredBriefing mediapersons here today, Mohali Senior Superintendent of Police Kuldeep Singh Chahal said all three suspects had a criminal background. He said two of them had been released from the Ambala jail in view of the pandemic. He said they had recovered over Rs3 lakh from them of the Rs4.79 lakh looted by them with the help of an air gun from the PNB.Chahal said Sandeep and Sonu had gone inside the bank during lunch time, while Ravi remained outside. He said they had also recovered a Skoda car (CH 03T 3190) used in the crime and a knife. He said Sandeep and Sonu were released from the Ambala jail in March this year due to Covid-19. They ran out of money and decided to commit crime to "make easy money". Ravi conducted a recce of various places in Mohali city and found that in Phase 3-A, there was no security guard, he said.An investigation team comprising Harmandeep Singh Hans, SP (Investigations), Gursher Singh Sandhu, DSP, Inspector Rajesh Arora, in-charge, Crime Investigation Agency (CIA), and Rajeev Kumar, SHO, Mataur police station, cracked the case.Chahal said around 20 cases of robbery, snatching, murder and under the Arms Act were registered against Sandeep in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula, while four cases of snatching and looting were registered against Sonu. Three cases of snatching, looting and under the Arms Act were registered against Ravi.Gursher Singh Sandhu, DSP, said after the bank robbery, all three went in different directions and later burnt their clothes in a bid to hide their identity. He said they were arrested from Mohali and would be produced in a court tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-pnb-robbery-cracked-3-arrested-112199
13-07-2020||Mohali||Another spike, 26 +ve in Mohali||Mohali district recorded the highest-ever spike of Covid-19 cases with 26 persons testing positive for the virus today, taking the tally to 392.The persons affected with the virus include three women, aged 25, 26 and 29, from Nayagaon village. A 33-year-old woman from Shivjot Enclave, Kharar, a 54-year-old woman from Gillco Valley, Kharar, a 58-year-old woman and a 34-year-old man from Shivalik Homes, Kharar, and a 41-year-old woman from Sunny Enclave, Kharar, also tested positive for the virus.Three men, aged 43, 63 and 41, from Dhakoli, a 30-year-old woman, an eight-year-old girl and a 55-year-old man from Sunny Enclave, Zirakpur, also contracted the virus. Two women, aged 22 and 24, from Sohana, a 67-year-old woman from Sector 97, a 69-year-old woman from Dera Bassi, and a 65-year-old woman and a 20-year-old man from Jhanjeri village were also found infected.A 20-year-old woman, a six-year-old girl and a 34-year-old man from Kurali tested positive for Covid-19. A 30-year-old man and a 30-year-old woman from Ward No. 4, Kurali, were also found suffering from the contagion.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said all patients had been admitted to a Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital. Health teams had been deputed to trace their contacts and collect the samples of their family members. Dr Manjit said there were 114 active cases with seven deaths reported from the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-spike-26-ve-in-mohali-112200
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||10 more contract virus in Chandigarh||As many as 10 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the city today, taking the tally to 559. Six patients are the family contacts of already diagnosed cases. These include four of a family from Sector 45, including two women, aged 30 and 50 and two men, aged 58 and 28.4 PGI staffers test +ve, not in UT tallyThree employees, one each from the Histopathology, Parasitology and Engineering departments at the PGI, tested positive for the virus on Sunday. They are not from Chandigarh. An employee of the PGI blood bank was also found infected. Six employees from the Histopathology, 10 from the Engineering and two from the Parasitology departments have been home-quarantined. They have not been added to the UT tally.A 45-year-old woman and a 23-year-old man from Sector 21 have also contracted the infection from their family members. A 58-year-old man, a resident of Delhi, was also found infected. He is the contact of previously positive cases of Delhi. At present, he is residing in Sector 7 here.A 39-year-old man from Sector 32, a 60-year-old man from Sector 19 and a 54-year-old woman from Sector 63 were also found suffering from the virus. The health authorities have not disclosed their source of infection. The authorities have begun isolating and testing their contacts.4 patients dischargedMeanwhile, three patients from Mani Majra and one from Sector 21 here were discharged from hospitals after defeating the virus on Sunday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-more-contract-virus-in-chandigarh-112201
13-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||Refund for cancelled bookings at community centres in fortnight||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12Residents, who have been waiting to get refund for their cancelled bookings at community centres for April and May due to the Covid-19 restrictions, will get their money in the next 15 days.As many as 493 applicants gave their bank account details to the Municipal Corporation to get the refund. A sum of around Rs80 lakh will be returned to the people.“The payment is ready. We are only waiting for the audit. The amount will be released in the next 15 days. It will be directly transferred to the bank accounts of the applicants. A sum of around Rs66 lakh is the licence fee, while Rs10 lakh is the security fee, which will be returned," said a senior officer, privy to the development. Officials said it took some time due to formalities. After the decision of the MC General House, its resolution was approved on June 26. Later, it will go for audit following which the payment will be released. The civic body had allowed bookings for community centres from June 4. There are 42 community centres in the city. Barring seven, all were thrown open for booking. The community centres in Sector 23-D, 47-B, 49, Sarangpur, Dhanas and two in Maloya are reserved as quarantine/isolation facilities.The centres are allowed to be booked only for marriage and bhog ceremonies. A maximum of 50 persons can participate in a marriage function, while 20 persons will be allowed in bhog ceremony. The participants are supposed to wear a face mask and follow social distancing norms. A community centre can be booked at a cost ranging between Rs29,000 and Rs50,000 depending upon the category and the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/refund-for-cancelled-bookings-at-community-centres-in-fortnight-112202
13-07-2020||Amit Bathla||After Covid, 50-yr-old Panchkula man now battles stigma||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 12Even though Hari Krishan (name changed), a migrant, has already completed the mandatory home isolation period after his treatment at BRS Dental College in Barwala on June 27, the 50-year-old, who successfully defeated Covid-19, now battles the stigma attached to the infectious disease.He is not being called back to work by his employer in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, mounting his financial struggles. As per the discharge slip signed by the Medical Officer, Primary Health Centre, Kot, he was asked to isolate himself for seven days between June 28 and July 3. On July 4, he attained a medical fitness certificate from the Civil Hospital that mentioned that he was fit to join duty from July 6.I have been associated with the firm for years; it’s heartbreaking how they are treating me. I have been struggling to make ends meet. I don't know for how long I can survive on borrowed money.— Krishan (name changed)He went to his office, where officials told him to wait for some more time to join duty. On July 8, he again underwent a Covid test and the result came out to be negative. He approached the company, but again met with disappointment.Was sampled after return from BiharThe Bihar nativee was sampled at the flu corner in the Civil Hospital on June 16 upon his return from his home state, where his family lives. He was asymptomatic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-covid-50-yr-old-panchkula-man-now-battles-stigma-112203
13-07-2020||Mohali||18-yr-old girl ended her life, confirm cops||A day after confusion prevailed over the cause of the death of an 18-year-old girl at Mataur village, the police today confirmed that she had committed suicide at her house.The caseAfter the girl died, the family members took her body to the cremation ground in Balongi. On seeing a mark on the victim’s neck, the priest stopped the family members from performing her last rites and informed the police.After she died, the family members took her body to the cremation ground in Balongi. On seeing a mark on the victim’s neck, the priest stopped the family members from performing her last rites and informed the police.The police sent the body for a post-mortem examination at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 here. According to the police, the victim committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Mataur village here on Saturday. The girl took the extreme step when she was alone at the house.Inspector Rajiv Kumar, SHO of the Mataur police station, said: “The post-mortem conducted by doctors indicated that the girl had committed suicide. We have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.”The victim’s father, Anil Kumar, a vegetable vendor, in his statement to the police, said he, along with his wife and other children, went outside for some work, leaving the girl behind at home on Saturday. When one of his children returned home, the door of the house was found locked. The victim’s parents rushed home and entered inside by breaking open the door with force. They found her hanging from the ceiling fan.SI Amandeep Singh said: “No suicide note was recovered from the room. The exact cause of her death will be known after receiving the post-mortem report. The victim’s parents informed us that she was not under any stress. She was not having a cell phone. Bandna used to do stitching work at her home.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/18-yr-old-girl-ended-her-life-confirm-cops-112204
13-07-2020||---||13-yr-old boy ends his life||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, July 12A 13-year-old boy from Swastik Vihar reportedly hanged himself to death from a ceiling fan here today. The victim was a student of Class VIII and mentally distressed for the past sometime. At 4 pm, the boy locked himself in his room and took the extreme step. His elder brother saw him first and rushed him to the GMCH, Sector 32, where he was declared brought dead.‘Was watching Sushant's clip’We have checked his phone and have found some clips he had been watching. One of them is of film actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who committed suicide a few days ago.—  Ramesh Lal, ASIThe police have taken his mobile phone into their possession and have begun an investigation. The postmortem will be conducted tomorrow.“We have checked his phone and have found some clips he had been watching. One of them is of film actor Sushant Singh Rajput, who committed suicide a few days ago. However, the reason behind the extreme step will be clear only after a thorough investigation,” investigating officer Ramesh Lal, ASI, said. The victim's father is a sports coach, who is posted in Kullu. The victim, the younger of two brothers, was living with his mother, a homemaker.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-yr-old-boy-ends-his-life-112205
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Man duped of Rs 48K, 1 booked||A Haryana resident has been booked for allegedly cheating a man of Rs48,000 on the pretext of installing a mobile tower in Zirakpur.According to the police, Harmeet Singh reported that Dheeraj, a resident of Karnal, took the money from him in November 2019 on the pretext of installing a mobile tower at his plot in Manakpur in Mohali district.The complainant alleged that the suspect neither installed the tower nor returned his money.The police said the suspect had impersonated himself as a representative of a mobile company. The police have registered a complaint under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 34 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-duped-of-rs-48k-1-booked-112206
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Biker killed in hit-and-run||A motorcyclist was killed after an unknown vehicle sped away after hitting him at Raipur Kalan. The victim has been identified as Angrej Kumar, a resident of Modern Enclave, Baltana, Zirakpur.The police said the victim's motorcycle was hit by an unknown vehicle on July 10. The victim was rushed to the GMCH, Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead. The victim was a shopkeeper in Zirakpur. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-killed-in-hit-and-run-112207
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 45.8-mm rainfall, expect more showers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-45-8-mm-rainfall-expect-more-showers-112208
13-07-2020||Are the MC staff equipped to handle rain-related civic & health issues||Found wanting, civic body should work full throttle||Ccurtail holidays, Increase work daysThe MCC has sufficient manpower, but its proper utilisation has been a casualty. The number of ghost/absentee employees is high. Almost all employees rarely work from 9 am to 5 pm. Working days should be increased by curtailing holidays. Salary of each official should be linked to monthly performance. Field workers should be provided safety gear to guard against Covid-19 hazards in working areas.KC Rana, ChandigarhTake help of sector residents’ forumWith the MC staff in the tricity busy in controlling Covid-19 pandemic, it is of paramount importance to take the help of sector citizen forums to control the spread of water-borne diseases. The MC should supply anti-malaria insecticides and equipment to sector residents’ forums for spraying at places where water stagnates. All drains/gully traps should be cleaned by the MC. It’s duty of every citizen to help the civic authorities in the present crises to control problems arising in monsoon.Col TBS Bedi (Retd), ChandigarhPay contractors for civil works on timeCompletion of civil work on time and prompt payments are two sides of the same coin as it leads to a win-win situation for both the MCs and contractors. The non-maintenance of road gullies and stormwater drains, no repair of potholes, lack of dewatering pumping systems, shortage of manpower and flooded roads in residential areas create apathy and misery for the population. The reason is delayed payments to contractors by those in power. The monsoon will come in full fury soon. Streets turn into streams leading to traffic jams and clogged roads in Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali. Long power cuts due to snapping of power lines add to residents’ woes.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurDeploy staff in full strengthWhen the work of recarpeting city roads has already been kept in abeyance till the monsoon is over and without exaggerating the condition of many stretches is miserable the need of the hour is to deploy MC workers in full strength for clearing choked drains to prevent accidents and outbreak of water-borne diseases. Low-lying areas are to constantly guarded by trained civic body staff, equipped with all necessary tools, who should also assist motorists trapped in rainwater.Hardeep Singh, MohaliMonsoon exposes lack of preparednessMonsoon in the tricity has once again exposed the lack of preparedness of the MCs concerned. Roads caving in, water entering residential and commercial areas and frequent power cuts inconvenience public. Unending traffic jams, potholed roads and diversions add to woes of commuters moving from Chandigarh to satellite towns. Office-goers almost take double the time to reach their destinations. There is no improvement in drainage of rainwater. Why don’t the MC authorities get stormwater drains cleaned before the arrival of monsoon.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliCleaning of drains has lost tempoIt appears monsoon preparedness of the UT MC is shoddy. Some ground staff of the MC is diverted to sanitsation drive in various areas, but cleaning of drains and roadside gullies did lose tempo in June. Flooding of low-lying areas is likely during monsoon. Due to initial flaw in drainage of water from the railway under bridge, inaugurated by the MP last year, residents of the Modern Housing Complex and the adjoining area have a tough time crossing the stretch as it gets slushy after a few minutes rain. Nothing has been done to mitigate their sufferings despite complaints by the RWA. Let’s hope the needful is done in the next few days.SC Luthra, ChandigarhAnother challenging phase for employeesIt is really pitiable that the Municipal Corporation staff, who have been toiling day and night in their fight against Covid-19, will have to face another challenging phase with the onset of monsoon in the tricity. Issues like waterlogging and water-borne diseases are reported every year. But this year, it will be difficult for the Municipal Corporation staff in the tricity as they are already stretched to their limits during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. They are the true warriors. With the support and encouragement of citizens, they will be at our service. We all must pray for the earliest abatement of the deadly Covid-19 and other things will fall in their place with the passage of time.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhDon’t expect much in this hour of crisisOur City Beautiful has expanded over the period of time. Many colonies have developed around the UT. Mohali, Panchkula and district headquarters have added to the population. Pressure on roads and flyovers has increased. Our MC has not been able to increase its staff strength in the same proportion. Moreover, the Covid-19 pandemic has added to existing problems. As such, it would not be right to expect much from our existing staff to control rain-related civic and health issues. The Central Government should pump in more of funds for MC as its income has come down due to non-payment of power bills, poor parking fee and GST collections. On the other hand, expenses have increased. Initial Budget allocation for our city is also on the lower side.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhReflects poorly on efficacy of officialsGone are the days when all work to address rain-soaked civic issues was done by the MC staff. Now, their job is limited to arranging funds, lining up agency/contractor for the execution of work, monitoring quality and schedule and most importantly, releasing payments. Seasonal afflictions and havoc unleashed by rains on civic amenities are repetitive, which reflects poorly on the efficacy of officials, who are ill-equipped and wanting to curb it ab initio. The culprit is the soft corner that officials have for contractors and suppliers. Need of the hour is to devise foolproof mechanism for accountability of officials and contractors. Short-circuiting by ‘netas’ and vested interests further adds’ to woes of public during monsoon.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaDo better than past yearsMonsoon has set in. Every year rainy season comes and goes, but the MCs in the tricity do not stand to the occasion. Most areas get choked due to rainwater thus putting lives of commuters at risk. Moreover, blocked sewerage and waterlogging in low-lying areas is an invitation to mosquito breeding. Let the MC staff be on toes and do better than past years. High officials of the MC must keep a watch on the staff working to full capacity as per requirement as rain also affects health of tricity residents.MR Bhateja, ChandigarhCreate awareness on water-borne diseasesWe all know that whole world is suffering from the Covid pandemic. Development work in Chandigarh has slowed down because of the shortage of labour. So planning has to be on a war footing to prevent the outbreak of water-borne diseases in this rainy season. Waterlogging is a severe problem every year during monsoon. It is still not too late. The civic authorities should implement schemes for the safety of residents. Campaigns should be organised to make people aware about water-borne diseases.Nakhpreet Kaur, SangholGear up to handle monsoon issuesThere is already enough delay by the MC for getting prepared to handle monsoon-related issues in the wake of pandemic. The MC should gear up its staff to clean manholes, roadside grass and fill potholes on roads to prevent injury to commuters. The MC should start checking coolers to stop breeding of mosquitoes and spray insecticide to prevent the spread of water-borne diseases. Create awareness through electronic and print media regarding water-borne diseases among the masses.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliCannot finish work on timeIt is a fact that the Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, has never in the past nor in the present or in the future will be capable of finishing work on time. Leave aside waterlogging and talk about health issues, what initiative has been taken by the MC in this regard? Even fogging has not been conducted so far. Many good suggestions will be offered, but what after that? Nothing will happen. No suggestion will be considered by the authorities concerned for betterment and things will move at the same pace. We are governed by a system, which is not answerable to anyone unless an RTI is filed.Gurpreet S Malotra, ChandigarhCareless approach aggravates woesIt is understandable that due to Covid-19 pandemic and arrival of monsoon the workload of the MC has increased. The MC is at crossroads today. The careless approach of the engineering staff and lack of preparedness multiplies the plight of residents. Though the task in hand is not easy, at this critical juncture, the authorities should find areas prone to waterlogging and clear sewer channels. On the face, it seems difficult to tackle rain-related civic and health problems, but the MC must plan to save lives and prevent flooding. The challenge lies in striking a balance between the two.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaPrevention is better than cureThe tricity doesn’t seem ready to face monsoon. Open drains, uncovered manholes, potholed roads and blocked gullies have made residents lives hell. Monsoon showers bring the city to a halt as most roundabouts, parking lots and streets are flooded with rainwater. The MCs tall claims have proved hollow. Road gullies have to be cleaned to prevent waterlogging. Infections and rainy season go hand in hand. The issue of water-borne diseases is more about prevention than care. Clean water should be available to residents. It will solve most water-related issues. Boil water before drinking. Avoid eating food from street vendors.Dr Shruti K Chawla, ChandigarhUnwise to burden civic body employeesThe monsoon season would be different this time amid the dreaded pandemic. With the Municipal Corporation (MC) staff already engaged in fighting a battle against the Covid-19, it would be unwise to burden them any further to address various rain-related health and civic concerns. The MC authorities need to look beyond the existing staff and infra and mull over ramping up both. Already ill-equipped staff are working full throttle to defeat the killer virus. They won’t be able to handle health concerns of the people, especially in an alarming situation when the city continues to see sharp surge in coronavirus cases. The authorities need to go into a huddle to hammer out a middle path so that it becomes easier to effectively deal with citizens’ rain-related worries without overburdening the department staff.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhThere is a remedy for everythingThe Municipal Corporations in the tricity could not make arrangements to deal with monsoon-related issues during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic as there was shortage of labourers. Now, people will face civic and health issues. However, there is a remedy for everything. All gutters and road-gullies should be cleaned. Patchwork should be done on roads where necessary. The Health Department should take steps to prevent the spread of dengue and malaria. A survey should be conducted on health problems before the onset of monsoon.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliGive preference to coloniesFollowing pandemic and subsequent lockdown the MC workers may have not been able to do much with regards to pre-monsoon preparations. Potholed roads, blocked sewer lines and poor sanitation can create problems, which should be managed urgently. To avoid contracting infection, residents should keep their surroundings clean especially during the rainy season. The MC should give preference to colonies, more prone to water-borne diseases.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliEnsure presence of medical staffAs usual, the Municipal Corporations are ill-equipped to handle various issues that typify problems in the tricity such as waterlogging and water-borne diseases. But, the authorities concerned will conveniently blame financial constraints and be back to square one. However, the best that civic bodies can do under the circumstances is to focus on areas that get waterlogged frequently. For tackling water-borne diseases, the MCs should ensure that doctors and supporting medical staff are present on duty and dispensaries have adequate stock of medicines.DR SS Bhatti, ChandigarhRWAs step forwardDuring the coronavirus pandemic the MC authorities are puzzled. So, it’s time for citizens and resident welfare associations (RWAs) to step forward and look into monsoon problems. The RWAs should get things ready before hand and start creating awareness, otherwise coronavirus and water-borne diseases will together create a mess in the City Beautiful.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhConstitute teams to do workMake two different teams of people from the city. First team could be asked to help in monsoon-related work. The second team could work for Covid-related issues. The authorities can also increase the number of members in a team by hiring more people. This way the MC will get its work done and unemployed will get jobs.Vasundhara Chaudhary, MohaliThings could have been betterThe MC has done good work this year before the onset of monsoon. In some pockets, the quality of work is lacking as gullies have not been cleaned. Inspite of the lockdown, the MC staff was seen working full throttle. Water at some places is stagnating. These areas should be earmarked for requisite repair work. Backlanes have not been cleaned for the past many months. During rain, foul smell will emanate from backlanes and these will become breeding grounds for mosquitoes resulting in spike of malaria and dengue cases.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhTake difficult situation in strideNatural calamities are beyond the control of human beings. Unfortunately, the Covid-19 is extending unendingly. Governments, the local authorities and officials are usually well-trained to handle emergency situations, besides doing their normal duties. So far, the authorities have done well in handling the dreadful disease. They are already on toes and will be able to control rain-related civic and health issues. The Public Health Department is already spraying chemicals to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. Citizens need to take difficult situation in their stride. If possible, help the authorities concerned.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliDivide MCs in two departmentsAs monsoon season has arrived danger of water-borne diseases looms large in the tricity. The MCs should be divided into two departments. First should handle pandemic and the second should take care of water-borne diseases. Both should take proactive steps. The MCs have to conduct defogging drives and create awareness about diseases emanating from stagnant water. The civic bodies should ensure that water does not stagnate anywhere in the tricity.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhQUESTIONThe tricity, particularly Mohali and Chandigarh, is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases that are no longer confined to limited areas, but spread over all sectors/phases. Do you think the authorities concerned need to enforce some strict measures again in order to prevent the situation from getting out of hand?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/found-wanting-civic-body-should-work-full-throttle-112209
13-07-2020||Naina Mishra||Methylprednisolone PGI choice for critical cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12Despite the fact that dexamethasone has been approved by the Ministry of Home and Family Welfare (MoHFW) as an alternative to methylprednisolone and is a cheaper drug, the PGI continues to bank on the latter one “due to its proven efficacy in treating severely-ill Covid-19 patients at the ICU wards of the institute”.Dexamethasone is given to patients who are not admitted to ICUs and do not have severe hypoxia (low oxygen in tissues). — Prof GD Puri, Head, Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, PGIBoth methylprednisolone and dexamethasone have been in use to treat patients who develop inflammation in lungs due to the body’s reaction to the immune system. Both these drugs are steroids (corticosteroids) with anti-inflammatory and immune-suppressants.Recently, according to revised protocol of MoHFW dexamethasone can be used as an alternative to methylprednisolone.However, the PGI has already been using methylprednisolone since April when the institute formulated a protocol for clinical management of Covid-19.Prof GD Puri, head of the Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care at the PGI, said: “We have been using methylprednisolone from the beginning because it has an established role in calming the inflammatory response in the body. Dexamethasone is, undoubtedly, a cheaper drug, but methylprednisolone works better on severely-ill Ccovid-19 patients in ICUs and is more efficacious.”Prof Puri added: “However, as blood sugar levels can get disturbed with unmonitored use of methylprednisolone, that’s why, dexamethasone is widely being prescribed as general medicine. However, as we have been monitoring patients every hour after giving the steroid (methylprednisolone), our doctors are in control of the situation.”He said: “Dexamethasone is given to patients who are not admitted to ICUs and do not have severe hypoxia (low oxygen in tissues). Earlier, the use of steroids was not encouraged as it was believed that they can exaggerate viral pneumonia. Being anti-inflammatory as well as immunosuppressant, steroids may lead to increased secondary infection. In Covid-19, the inflammation or excessive inflammatory response (cytokines storm) is the cause of all problems. Use of steroids early in treatment may prevent problems and complications. However, steroids should not be used before oxygen saturation drops.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/methylprednisolone-pgi-choice-for-critical-cases-112223
13-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||PU Syndicate to dwell on conducting exams||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12Various issues, which were not listed in the agenda, related to tackling Covid-19 on the campus are likely to be discussed during the PU Syndicate meeting slated to be held tomorrow.As per Syndics, the authorities failed to ensure smooth functioning of the PU during this tough time. They will also propose formation of a committee to assess the further course of action regarding examination, starting of the academic session, future preparations of the university and others.“In the last meeting, the Vice-Chancellor was given the authority to look after the proceedings for discussing any future course of action. However, nothing has happened so far. There have been many incidents where lapse on the part of authorities were witnessed,” said one of the Syndics. “We will demand formation of a committee to look into all possibilities. The issue of conducting examinations is also important and it will be discussed. We need to know about the preparations at our hostels and other arrangements for providing students with safe environment. Though all these are not in the agenda, they need to be discussed.”Meanwhile, items listed in the agenda include appointment of DSWs, conducting entrance exams and assignment of facilities to Prof Ravinder Singla, Dean University Instruction, execution of an MoU between the PU and the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research, examining a proposal for granting an additional unit in BA LLB (Hons) from academic session 2020-21, LLM one-year course in morning shift and discontinuation of certain courses at Guru Nanak Educational Trust, Ludhiana.Discussion on science labThe matter regarding a science laboratory set up at the Sophisticated Analytical Instrumentation Facility (SAIF)/ CIL Building of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Computer Centre, which was recently highlighted by Chandigarh Tribune, will also be discussed. The existence of lab has not gone well with the staff as they believe that it’s a virology/vaccine laboratory and may put their lives at risk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-syndicate-to-dwell-on-conducting-exams-112228
13-07-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Illegal fruit, veggie markets mushroom in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 12Illegal fruit and vegetable markets are mushrooming in Mohali in the absence of any vending policy due to which the number of street vendors in the district has increased manifolds.One such site is in Phase XI where a park in front of the HIG houses has been converted into an illegal fruit and vegetable market, causing resentment among the residents of the locality.Councillor Sukhdev Singh Patwari said the Municipal Corporation (MC) had announced to implement the Street Vendors Act and organise street vendors, but till date, they had not been able to implement the policy.He said this had resulted in the increase in the number of street vendors. One could find vendors stationed on roads outside houses.MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “Some sites were identified by the MC and the list was sent to the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) for approval. They are somehow not satisfied with the proposed sites and a fresh joint survey is already underway to identify new sites so that the same can be allotted to vendors.”The MC had issued identity cards to 200 of the 973 vendors, but they are yet to be given a designated place to carry out their trade. During the survey, the MC had earmarked around 15 sites in Phase X, XI, VII, 3B1 and 3B2, but GMADA has turned down its proposal, terming it unlawful as per the land-use policy. This will further delay the process of rehabilitation of street vendors in Mohali.The land where the MC wants to allot sites to vendors under the Street Vendor Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vendor Act, 2014, belongs to GMADA and the MC can use it only after the consent of the authority.A senior officer in the town planning section of GMADA said the MC list did not fulfil the legal aspects and were unlawful as per the land use policy. The officer said vending sites in parking zones was not lawful as the place was for public parking as per the master plan of Mohali. If such a site was allotted to a vendor, it might be challenged in the court by the public, the officer added.In January 2018, the MC had decided to issue licence to 973 vendors registered under the Street Vendor Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vendor Act, 2014. The MC had divided Mohali into four zones to relocate vendors. The civic body had hired a private company to carry out the survey and 2,295 sites were identified. But the MC House found anomalies in it and ordered a fresh survey, following which 973 moving and stationary sites were earmarked in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-fruit-veggie-markets-mushroom-in-mohali-112233
13-07-2020||Chandigarh||Good response to medicinal plants||Residents throng in a large numbers to the places where UT Forest Department vehicles visit to distribute medicinal plants these days.“We have received a good response from residents due to the awareness about the medicinal plants. In no time, all plants are taken away by locals at different sites,” said a forest department official.The forest wing is distributing 75,000 medicinal plants among the city residents for boosting their immunity in the wake of Covid-19. Each resident is given five plants such as aloe vera, ‘neem’, curry leaves, ‘patharchatta’, ‘giloy’, ‘tulsi’ and ‘ashwagandha’. The department is delivering plants on doorsteps. The details regarding their visit to different sectors is updated on the department’s website. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/good-response-to-medicinal-plants-112237
13-07-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Toy train to Shimla — A  journey being missed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12Declared a heritage site by UNESCO, the Kalka-Shimla toy train enjoys a special place in the hearts of city folks. During the summer and winter vacation, it becomes the choicest means of transport to Shimla for city people. However, the train will not be operational this summer because of the extended halt on regular trains till August 12 in view of the pandemic.In 2018, the Ambala Division of the Northern Railways had introduced the vistadome coach to the toy train, considering the growing influx of tourists from across the country and abroad.“I have been taking my family to Shimla on the toy train for a couple of years now,” says Manpreet Singh, who works in a private bank here. “This year, though the summer vacation is still on, we are confined to our homes. The children look forward to our annual trip in the toy train. My 6-six-year old daughter loves the tunnel. We are missing it already,” he says.Supriya Vaishishta, an educator and a mother to twin daughters, gets her 13-year-old to recount her memory of the train. “I got mum to book the tickets this year, but she had to refund it,” says Mannat, a student at Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, Sector 26. She adds: “The pandemic has kept us from our plans.”Divisional Railway Manager GM Singh is aware of the train’s popularity. “We run five pairs of trains on the Kalka-Shimla route. During the peak season, we would even run six pairs because of the rush. Now, we aren’t running it at least till August 12, as per the orders,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/toy-train-to-shimla-%E2%80%94-a-journey-being-missed-112244
13-07-2020||---||Consumer courts to take up only urgent matters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12It may take at least two more months before normal functioning of the consumer courts resumes.The State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, decided to defer the hearing of all routine cases till October. Sources said an order in this regard has been issued by the commission considering the prevailing situation due to the outbreak of Covid-19. All cases fixed for hearing in July before have been deferred to various dates in September and October. While the cases fixed for hearing on July 13 have been adjourned to September 14, those listed for July 31 have been adjourned to October 29. Now, only urgent matters will be heard through video-conferencing on every Monday and Thursday till July 31.Routine cases deferredCases fixed for hearing on July 13 have been adjourned to September 14 and those listed for July 31 have been adjourned to October 29.Pankaj Chandgothia, consumer activist and advocate, said the court work had suffered the worst due to the pandemic. “Consumer cases, which are supposed to be decided within three to five months as per the Consumer Protection Act, have mostly been adjourned for several months,” he said.Even the National Lok Adalat that was to be held in consumer courts on July 11 has been cancelled as per the orders of the Chandigarh State Legal Aid Authority.Chandgothia said the Lok Adalat paved a way for quick settlement of all disputes and put an end to the litigation. With the cancellation of Lok Adalat, chances of settlement have weakened and these cases will now be taken up by the court for regular hearing on August 24.The commission has provided a schedule for the next dates of hearing on its official website and notice boards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consumer-courts-to-take-up-only-urgent-matters-112253
13-07-2020||---||Those tested negative told to monitor health for a week||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 12The UT Administration has asked those with negative Covid report to monitor themselves for over a week and report to the health facility if symptoms develop.The orders by Principal Secretary Health, Arun Gupta, read: “As a precautionary measure, it has been decided that if a person has tested negative in RT-PCR test, he/she may self-monitor his/her health for one more week and if any symptoms develop he/she may report to the health facility. However, there is no need for a home or institutional quarantine during this period.”“It is possible that the patient tested negative did not have viral load enough to test positive but may developed symptoms later. This will help us track cases faster,” said Gupta.Dr Mini P Singh, nodal officer, Covid laboratory services, and professor at the virology department said: “As per the ICMR’s guidelines, the asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case are to be tested once between 5 to 10 days of coming into contact i.e. point of exposure. The problem is that many people do not know their point of exposure as so many cases are being reported from almost everywhere now. It may be possible that the person being tested negative may be incubating the virus at the time of testing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/those-tested-negative-told-to-monitor-health-for-a-week-112254
13-07-2020||Mohali||175 evacuees reach Chandigarh||The sixteenth evacuation flight carrying 175 stranded Indian passengers from Kuwait arrived at the Chandigarh international airport today evening.The GoAir flight arrived at 7.40 pm. All repatriated persons, mostly belonging to Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives.Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport with efforts of the authorities and agencies from Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, CISF, Immigration, Customs and Punjab Police. The Health Department spokesman said precautions were taken during the screening of passengers. He said no passenger was found suffering from fever, cough or cold. All passengers were impressed upon by the Health Department teams deployed at the airport to take all precautions such as cover their face with a mask. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/175-evacuees-reach-chandigarh-112255
13-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Vehicle thieves’ gang busted||The district police claimed to have busted a gang of vehicles lifters and arrested four members of the gang at a naka. The police also seized three stolen motor cycles and a scooter. One of the suspects is still at large.Harpal Singh, SP (Investigation), said on the directions of SSP Amneet Kondal, the police had been putting up nakas for arresting Covid-19 guidelines violators. He said the suspects were identified as Ajit Singh of Kharar, Ajay Kumar of Malakpur village. The motorcycle they were riding bore a fake number. He said three of their other accomplices were identified as Balwinder Singh of Badali Ala Singh, Prince Deep Singh and Varinder Singh, both residents of Nadiali village. He said Balwinder Singh and Varinder Singh were also arrested. He said Prince Deep was still at large. The suspects used to steal Bullet motorcycles in Chandigarh and Mohali. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vehicle-thieves-gang-busted-112256
13-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Public dealing halted at DAC in Fatehgarh Sahib||Taking a precautionary measure due to the sudden increase in Covid cases in the district, the civil and police administration have halted all types of public dealing at the District Administrative Complex (DAC) in Fatehgarh Sahib.Two separate orders were issued in this regard by the DC and the SSP. Instead of appearing personally anyone could email complaint on ID dpo.fth.police@Punjab.gov.in, said SSP Amneet Kondal. If anyone faced problem he could call on the number 01763-509645, SSP added.“The public can send their complaints on the email ID rajesh22fgs@gmail.com, seemac1397@gmail.com, eabranchfgs@gmail.com, mabranch88@gmail.com and plabranchfgs@gmail.com,” said Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/public-dealing-halted-at-dac-in-fatehgarh-sahib-112257
