13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hits new high of 449 coronavirus cases; one death reported||Chandigarh recorded an alarming 449 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, a medical bulletin said---a development that makes this the largest single-day spike in COVID cases the union territory has seen yet.The number is over 70 more than its previous record of 377 cases reported on September 8---the first time the UT reported over 300 cases in a single day.The development takes the UT’s cases to 7,991---about 45 per cent of which have been recorded in this month alone.The UT recorded one death on Sunday--- a 56-year-old diabetic man from Sector 47 who died at the Sector 48 Hospital.This takes Chandigarh’s death toll to 90.Chandigarh’s COVID cases as well as fatalities have been significantly high this month. The UT has reported 3,645 new cases since September 1, when it first began reporting over 200 cases a day--- a 183 per cent rise in infections.For comparison, Chandigarh had reported 791 new COVID cases in the first 13 days of August, and 294 new cases over the same period in July.The city’s fatality count has also been markedly higher this month, registering 34 deaths in less than a fortnight, in comparison to 12 deaths recorded over the first 13 days of August.The UT began seen a new spike in cases on September 8, and has recorded 1,619 new cases in less than a week since then.Just over 34 per cent of the UT’s cases are still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-hits-new-high-of-449-coronavirus-cases-one-death-reported-140752
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Youth held with fake currency||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-with-fake-currency-140523
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Four booked for murder bid||Man duped of Rs14 lakh on FBChandigarh: The Chandigarh Police have booked an unknown person for cheating a man of Rs14 lakh on Facebook on pretext of helping the needy. The complainant, Sadho Singh, reported that an unknown person contacted him through Facebook messenger and cheated him of Rs14,62,730. A case under Section 420 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 19 police station. TNS3 booked for muder bidChandigarh: The police have registered a case against three unknown persons for attacking a man near a club at Sector 9. The complainant, Rohit Singla, alleged that three unknown persons came in an i20 car and attacked him near a club at Sector 9 on Wednesday, leaving him injured. A case was registered under Sections 307 and 34 of the IPC at the Sector 3 police station. TNSFour killed in road accidentAmbala: Four persons, including a minor girl, were killed, while four persons received injuries after a three-wheeler they were travelling in overturned after being hit by a bus here on Saturday. The deceased have been identified as Sabri, Insa, Nasreen and Ram Avtar Singh, whereas the injured have been identified as Kavita, Pranshu, Himanshu and Gulfasa. A case has been registered against the unidentified bus driver under Sections 279, 337, 338, and 304-A of the IPC at the Baldev Nagar police station. TNS1.10L to get smart ration cardMohali: The smart ration card distribution for the National Food Security Act (NFSA) families was launched on Saturday. More than four lakh persons from 1.10 lakh families from the district will benefit from the smart ration cards. The biometric authentication ensures food grain distribution among actual beneficiaries. The intra-state portability feature of card empowers the beneficiary to collect ration from the fair price shop of his/her choice. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-booked-for-murder-bid-140522
13-09-2020||---||Panjab University conducts technical run for online exam||Chandigarh, September 12Panjab University (PU) successfully conducted a technical run by uploading question papers for the forthcoming exit semester exams, starting from September 17, informed Prof Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examination (COE).“An advisory will be sent to colleges for downloading question papers through different modes. Besides, broadcast list will be connected with WhatsApp so that there is no hitch in the transmission,” the COE added. It was also decided that sufficient time should be given as paper uploading procedure would be completed half-an-hour before the scheduled examination, the COE said.“Special technical team has been deployed to conduct online exams smoothly. The PU will be conducting online examinations for the first time. Inputs/feedback from principals of colleges have been considered to improve the process of conducting online examinations. The support staff has also been appointed for all exam centres,” the COE added.Colleges, departments can download admit cardsAll colleges, departments and regional centres will be able to download admit card/s in PDF format course wise from college admin portal of the UG and PG exams website http://ugexam.puchd.ac.in/ and http://pgexam.puchd.ac.in. Colleges, departments and regional centres have been advised to upload the same file on the website of their respective centres.Process to download admit cardsLog in college admin portal of the UG and PG exams http://ugexam.puchd.ac.in/ and http://pgexam.puchd.ac.in. Click on download the admit card option and select class and semester and click on go button. A combined file will be generated containing admit card/s of all eligible students of that course. The same file may be uploaded on the website of their respective colleges, departments and regional centres.New emails for data transmission“New emails with terabyte space have been activated for smooth transmission of data. It will help around 20,000 private/USOL candidates to submit their answer sheets at the university secrecy branch: ugexam@gmail.com and pgexam@gmail.com,” said the COE.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-conducts-technical-run-for-online-exam-140435
13-09-2020||
||PU issues SOPs to check Covid spread||Chandigarh, September 12  Panjab University (PU) issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. The authorities announced to make face mask mandatory inside campus. On non-compliance of order, a person can be booked under Section 188 of the IPC, along with a fine of Rs500.  It has been advised that employees at higher risk, including those above 65 years, pregnant women and those having underlying medical conditions like uncontrolled diabetes, chronic kidney disease and organ transplant should take extra precautions.  All meetings should be held through videoconferencing. Individuals have to maintain a minimum distance of six feet at public places and on the office premises.  High-risk exposure contacts will be quarantined for 14 days. These persons will undergo testing as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocol. Low-risk exposure contacts will continue to work and closely monitor their health for next 14 days. Closure of workplace, if one or two cases are reported and disinfection procedure will be limited to places/areas visited by patient in the past 48 hours.  It has been mentioned in SOPs not to close the entire office building/halt work in other office areas. Work can be resumed after disinfection as per the laid down protocol. However, if there is a larger outbreak, the building/block will have to be closed for 48 hours after thorough disinfection. All the staff will work from home till the building/block is adequately disinfected and is declared fit for re-occupation.  Office spaces, including conference rooms, should be cleaned every evening after working hours or early in the morning before these are occupied.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-issues-sops-to-check-covid-spread-140436
13-09-2020||
||Firm refutes housing societies’ charge of releasing effluents||Mohali, September 12  After a group of housing societies alleged that a gelatin-making unit was releasing hazardous smoke and effluents near Nagla in Zirakpur, Ajay Gelatine Products Pvt Ltd, has refuted the charge.  The makers of technical gelatine and protein collide for defence/ordnance factories, claimed that they had all the statutory licences like SSI registration, GST certificate and CLU to run their unit lawfully.   “The factory houses an effluent treatment plant as per the Punjab Pollution Control Board specifications,” said Sharanjit Singh, the owner of the unit.  A group of housing societies have been complaining against the factory for emanating foul smell and polluting the surroundings. On Friday, protesters claimed that if the administration did not take action against the factory, they would not only intensify stir, but also stage a protest on the National Highway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firm-refutes-housing-societies-charge-of-releasing-effluents-140437
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Syndics give 3-day ultimatum to VC to call House meeting||A few Panjab University (PU) Syndicate members have written to the Vice-Chancellor giving an ultimatum for calling a meeting of the House within three days.   The letter stated , “This is in reference to our previous communication and meeting of few Syndicate members regarding an immediate House meeting to decide or ratify some important decision taken by you (VC) in anticipation of Syndicate’s approval.”  “Though assurances were given, inaction and silence in this regard indicates that you intend to ignore Syndicate, the executive government of the university and competent authority. And want to force us (Syndicate) not to approve any decision taken, leading to greater administrative and financial difficulties,” the letter added.  “Therefore, once again your are requested to convene a meeting of the House within three days, falling which you alone will be responsible for any harm to the university and its reputation,” the letter stated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/syndics-give-3-day-ultimatum-to-vc-to-call-house-meeting-140438
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Venkaiah Naidu congratulates PU on winning MAKA trophy||Vice-President and Chancellor of Panjab University (PU) M Venkaiah Naidu congratulated the university and its sportspersons for winning the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad (MAKA) Trophy for the second consecutive year. While calling for an urgent revival of sporting culture in India he said games, sport, yoga or any physical activity must become integral to people’s daily routine for good health and a stress-free life.He lauded coaches, management, staff and students for achieving sporting excellence along with academic brilliance. “It requires iron clad will power to become an exceptional sportsperson with strong body and strong mind,” said Naidu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/venkaiah-naidu-congratulates-pu-on-winning-maka-trophy-140439
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar on increasing concentration||A webinar was organised at girls’ hostel No. 6, Panjab University, on the topic “How to increase concentration power”. The aim of the webinar was to create awareness among students regarding medical techniques to improve concentration power and stress releasing methods during exam time.Dr SK Tomar, DSW, PU, was the chief guest on the occasion. Main speaker Dr Navneet Joshi, professor, Lal Bahadur Shastri Central University, Delhi, explained about mind channelising techniques. He also conducted a 10 minutes mind-relaxing practical session with active participation of the audience. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-on-increasing-concentration-140441
13-09-2020||---||Got 161 plaints at one-stop centre for women: Panchkula DC||Panchkula, September 12“The one-stop centre (OSC) for women affected by violence in the district has received 161 complaints till date,” said Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, Deputy Commissioner, Panchkula.At least 90 complaints of domestic violence were disposed of through proper counselling.Set up in 2019, Panchkula’s OSC runs from new building of the Mini Secretariat in Sector 1.The centre offers integrated support and assistance to women affected by any kind of violence in their private and public spheres.“The OSC not only ensures medical assistance to violence affected women, but provides them police assistance too. The victims are provided proper mental and physical support and they can also avail temporary shelter at the OSC for a maximum period of five days,” said Ahuja.“The centre offers support in cases of domestic violence, dowry and sexual harassment, child marriage, kidnapping, cyber-crime and other types of violence against women. The centre is integrated with a helpline number: 181. Besides, victims can also lodge their complaints at 0172-2586600,” Ahuja added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/got-161-plaints-at-one-stop-centre-for-women-panchkula-dc-140442
13-09-2020||---||GMCH-32 begins online OPD services||Chandigarh, September 12In order to provide top-notch medical services to the people of Chandigarh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab, a free consultation service has been started by the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, Chandigarh.The National Teleconsultation Service of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is first of its kind online OPD service offered by the government to its citizens.It aims to provide quality healthcare services to patients at home. The service enables safe and structured video-based clinical consultations between a doctor in a hospital and a patient in the confines of his/her home.For consulting medical experts of the GMCH, a person needs to log onto www.esanjeevaniopd.in and click on patient login and enter mobile number. Thereafter, an OTP will be sent to the registered number. Upon entering the OTP, the details of the patient need to be entered.Then after choosing the speciality from among the six medical specialities such as dermatology, ophthalmology, ENT, orthopedics, psychiatry and dental, the details will have to be submitted.Thereafter, a token number will be sent to the registered number, which will have to be entered following which the patient concerned will receive a call. A person needs a laptop/desktop with webcam, mic and speakers and Internet having 2 mbps speed or download esanjeevaniOPD app from the Google Play Store and login.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-32-begins-online-opd-services-140447
13-09-2020||
||Chandigarh BJP plans activities for PM’s 70th birthday||Chandigarh, September 12 The local unit of the BJP has planned several activities to celebrate the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The event named “Seva Saptah” will be celebrated from September 14 to September 20 in Chandigarh. In a virtual press conference today, city BJP chief Arun Sood said he had appointed state general secretary Rambir Bhatti as convenor for organising the programmes. Apart from this, state office-bearers have been appointed as coordinator of programme along with appointment of district and mandal coordinators. The party will donate 20 wheel chairs, 15 ear machines, 25 walkers and 10 sticks to differently abed during a programme to be organised on September 20 from 11 am to 5 pm on occasion of birthday of the PM. Similarly, on September 19, free eye glasses will be distributed among 70 needy people at the community centre in Sector 43.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bjp-plans-activities-for-pms-70th-birthday-140431
13-09-2020||
||Veggies go out of common man’s reach||Chandigarh, September 12 Prices of vegetables have seen a steady increase in the past few days, hitting the common man hard. Residents complained that vendors were charging higher than the rates set by the Market Committee. Tomatoes are available at Rs70 per kg whereas ginger costs around Rs70 per kg and potatoes Rs40 per kg. Onions are sold for Rs35 per kg and garlic Rs120 per kg. The rates have not seen much fluctuation in the past few days. Residents said the vendors, who supplied vegetables door-to-door in various sectors of the city, were charging around Rs10 more for every item. “Today, there was a slight fall in prices. Hopefully, the situation will improve in the coming days,” said a committee official. Meanwhile, the vegetable and fruit market, which is temporarily operating from the bus stand in Sector 17, will be shifted back to Sector 26 from Tuesday. The sabzi mandi was shifted to Sector 17 due to a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Bapu Dham Colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veggies-go-out-of-common-mans-reach-140432
13-09-2020||---||Chandigarh residents oppose increase in water tariff||Chandigarh, September 12A day after the UT Administration notified a steep hike in water tariff ranging from 50 per cent to 200 per cent for various slabs, Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) here today reacted strongly to it and sought a review of the decision.“The hike in annual charges is without any basis. It should be decided on merit after getting departmental techno-commercial advice,” said Vinod Vashisht, Convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations.“Hike in water tariff is unreasonable and unwarranted. Chandigarh is primarily a city of middle-class people. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, people have already suffered a setback in their business and jobs. In private sector, many employees have lost their jobs, while several others have faced pay cuts. They are finding it hard to earn their livelihood,” commented Pankaj Gupta, chief spokesperson for the Federation of Sectors Welfare Associations of Chandigarh.Raising the issue of water wastage, Ashok Nabhewala, chairman, CHB Residents’ Welfare Federation, said: “Thousands of litres of potable water is getting wasted every day, especially due to leakage in pipes, illegal connections, free taps at colonies and unmetered water supply. Instead of checking the wastage of this scarce resource, the Municipal Corporation is busy in imposing taxes on residents. The entire machinery should be made more accountable first. The corporation should control its excess expenditure and put minimum burden on residents. People are yet to get water supply with pressure on upper floors.”“The hike is too much. Residents are already under pressure due to imposition of property tax and losses in jobs and business. The Administration could have waited for some more time,” felt Maj DP Singh (retd), patron of the Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED).Hitesh Puri, chairman of CRAWFED, said: “Increase in water tariff at this time is not justified. In case, there is a loss to the exchequer, it can be reduced by checking wastage of water and recovering pending dues. Moreover, it is not necessary that every government department should show profits. Water is the basic necessity of every resident irrespective of his status and income. We appeal to the Administrator to reconsider the hike in water tariff.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-oppose-increase-in-water-tariff-140433
13-09-2020||
||High drama as Covid patient’s kin receive ‘wrong death’ call||Mohali, September 12 High drama prevailed in Grecian Hospital, Sector 69, today after family members of a Covid patient from Dera Bassi received a call from the hospital saying that the patient had died. It was later found that the nurse had mistakenly dialled a wrong number. The case pertains to former Mohali Truck Union president Ranbir Singh Dhillon, a Covid-19 patient, whose son Raju Dhillon was informed about his father’s death around 7:30am. When the family members reached the hospital and were about to clear the dues, the staff apologised to them. “We admit our mistake. Probably, the nurse dialled the wrong number from the list. We are working in a high-pressure situation where mistakes do happen. We will be careful in future,” said Vinay Verma, Medical Director, Grecian Hospital. Tempers remained frayed throughout the day when family members of the patient were peeved at the hospital authorities’ deployment of ‘bouncers’ in safari suits outside the building. Kin receive ‘wrong’ body In another case, Sandeep Verma, a relative of a patient, who died due to Covid, created commotion in the hospital and alleged that they received the body of a different patient. ASI Rakesh Kumar, Phase VIII police station, said when his team reached the spot, the matter was already resolved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-drama-as-covid-patients-kin-receive-wrong-death-call-140434
13-09-2020||Punchkula||Bhavan’s Kartik tops tricity in JEE (Main)||Kartik Sharma of Bhavan Vidyalaya in Panchkula emerged as the tricity topper in the JEE (Main), the result of which was declared by the National Testing Agency on Friday evening. He scored 99.998 percentile to secure the all-India rank 42.“I used to devote seven-eight hours to studies apart from my coaching sessions. A planned approach is the key to success. I tried not to be stressed and took regular breaks,” he said. The topper, who had been preparing for the engineering exam for the past two years, wants to pursue BTech in computer science either from the IIT-Delhi or the IIT-Bombay.Kartik had scored 98.8 per cent in the Class XII exams.His father Harish Chander is the Chief Manager in SBI and mother Sarita Sharma is a mathematics lecturer.The JEE (Advanced) will be conducted on September 27. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhavans-kartik-tops-tricity-in-jee-main-140427
13-09-2020||---||Himachal woman dies as car veers off road in Morni||Panchkula, September 12A woman was killed while two others suffered injuries when their car skidded off road to go six to seven feet down the hill near Mandhana village in Morni here today.The incident took place around 7.30 am when the victims were travelling from Chandigarh to Morni in a taxi. The driver lost control of the vehicle, which was being rashly driven, while negotiating a turn, the police said.The victim, identified as Neha (26) of Kangra in Himachal Pradesh, died on the spot, while Kamal Garg (29) of Mani Majra, who was driving the car, and Mandeep Saini (29) of Sector 63, Chandigarh, sustained injuries. They were rushed to the Civil Hospital. In his statement to the police, Mandeep said his friend Kamal Garg, a taxi driver, picked him around 1.15 am from his house. “Neha was sitting in the front seat of the car. After having noodles near the ISBT in Sector 17, we decided to leave for Morni. Throughout the journey, Kamal was driving the car rashly even as we made repeated requests to drive slow. Suddenly, he lost control of the vehicle while negotiating a turn and it subsequently hit an iron pole and skidded off the road,” stated the FIR, while quoting Mandeep.A case was registered against Kamal under Sections 279, 337 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/himachal-woman-dies-as-car-veers-off-road-in-morni-140428
13-09-2020||---||Chandigarh retains 2nd rank in AMRUT implementation||Chandigarh, September 12The UT retained the second rank in effective implementation of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) in the country.In the national rankings released by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Chandigarh is placed second, Haryana 12th and Punjab 26th. Odisha topped the list.The scheme was launched in 2015 in 500 cities with a focus on water supply, sewerage and septage management, storm water drainage, green spaces and parks and non-motorised urban transport.During an online review meeting with senior officials of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, UT Adviser Manoj Parida informed Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, that Chandigarh had awarded contracts for all 12 projects of the approved State Annual Action Plan of Rs57 crore.Appreciating the progress made by the UT, Mishra advised the Administration to complete all projects by March 31 next year to avail Central assistance. Thereafter, the UT would have to complete the projects on its own.Under the project, Chandigarh has met the target of 20,000 tap connections and as many new sewer connections. Also, the UT Administration has replaced 43,853 street lights with LEDs under the Centre-sponsored scheme.On online building permission system, the UT assured that it would be implemented by September 30, 2020.The works undertaken under the scheme include laying of new water supply lines in Deep Complex (Hallo Majra), new water supply lines in rehabilitation colony at Dadu Majra, shifting of water supply lines in Indira Colony and laying of additional sewerage system in Ram Darbar Colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-retains-2nd-rank-in-amrut-implementation-140429
13-09-2020||Chandigarh||Six more fall prey to virus in Chandigarh, toll 89||Six persons died of Covid in the city today while 250 contracted the virus, taking the UT toll to 89 and tally to 7,542.The youngest of the victims is a 17-year-old girl from Dhanas, who was suffering from typhoid, vitamin B12 deficiency, anaemia and pneumonitis. She was brought dead at the GMSH-16.A 59-year-old man from Maloya, a case of diabetes mellitus and severe acute respiratory illness, died of Covid at the GMSH-16. A 54-year-old man from Sector 39, who had tested positive, breathed his last at a hospital in Sector 48. He was also suffering from diabetes mellitus.A 66-year-old man from Sector 56 succumbed to the virus at the PGI today. He was suffering from chronic subdural haemorrhage. A 48-year-old woman from Behlana, who suffered from hypertension, severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and acute kidney injury, and a 43-year-old man from Maloya, a SARI patient, died at the GMCH-32. The city saw 264 recoveries today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-more-fall-prey-to-virus-in-chandigarh-toll-89-140430
13-09-2020||Mohali||2 die in Mohali, 307 fresh cases||Two persons died of Covid-19 in the district today, taking the toll to 128. Meanwhile, 307 fresh coronavirus cases were reported today, taking the district tally to 6,367. A 67-year-old man from Zirakpur died at the PGI, while a 53-year-old woman from Dera Bassi died at Grecian Hospital.Most of the cases reported today were from Mohali urban (114), Gharuan (57), Kharar (50), Dhakoli (53), Boothgarh (10), Dera Bassi (seven), Kurali (four), Lalru (one) and Banur (one).Meanwhile, 257 patients were discharged from various hospitals after being cured in the past 24 hours.As of now, the district has reported a total of 6,367 Covid cases, of which 2,115 are active. As many as 4,124 patients have been discharged from various hospitals. With two more deaths today, the district toll rose to 128.As of now, Mohali has recorded the maximum number of deaths in the tricity. Mohali is fifth in the list of districts with maximum number of confirmed cases in Punjab.Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain tested positive yesterday. He is in home isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-die-in-mohali-307-fresh-cases-140450
13-09-2020||Panchkula||1 death, 178 new cases in Panchkula||Panchkula today reported another Covid death and 178 fresh cases. While the overall infection count rose to 3,990, the toll stands at 41.A 74-year-old man from Dharampur Colony in Pinjore succumbed to the disease. No details regarding the co-morbidities or underlying medical conditions of the deceased were given in the daily media bulletin.Of the new cases reported today, 20 were from Pinjore, 14 from Kalka, 12 from Sector 15, 11 each from Sector 12 and 19, 10 from Sector 12-A, eight from Sector 8, seven each from Sector 11 and 2, six each from Nanakpur and Sector 10, five each from Sector 16, 20 and 21, four each from Chandimandir and Sector 27, three each from Buddanpur, Mansa Devi Complex (MDC), Sector 5, Sector 17, 26 and 28, two each from the Industrial Area, Phase 2, Kharak Mangoli, Ramgarh, Sarakpur, Sector 24 and 4 and Tangra Kali Ram and one each from Amrawati, Bhagwanpur, Kundi, Majri Chowk, MDC, Sector 4, Nada Sahib, Saketri, Sector 14, 25, 30, 7 and 9, Surajpur and Tipra.According to the Health Department, 1,284 cases are still active in the district and 2,665 people have recovered from the disease so far.Panchkula district has so far conducted 51,922 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-death-178-new-cases-in-panchkula-140452
13-09-2020||---||Over 15,000 to appear for NEET in Chandigarh today||Chandigarh, September 12As many as 15,931 candidates will appear for NEET (UG) at 32 centres in the city tomorrow.To avoid crowding at the centres, candidates will be given staggered time slots for reporting. They will report in batches from 11 am onwards (as per the staggered time slot mentioned in admit card).Candidates having temperature above 99.4°F will be taken to an isolation room. The process of frisking and document verification will be done after 15 to 20 minutes. If the temperature of any candidate does not come down, he/she will have to take the examination alone in a separate room.Tricity coordinator Anuja Sharma, Principal of DAV School, Sector 15, said: “The National Testing Agency has sent an email to all students asking details about their Covid status.It has been intimated to the examination centres for further action. This does not mean that there is no need for isolation rooms at the centres. Any candidate found suffering from fever will be sent to the isolation room to take the exam.”Sharma said: “The isolation room will be given to a student as per the fever criterion. The candidate’s temperature will be checked after 15 minutes. If the student’s temperature is found same, then he/she will be shifted to a separate room. The invigilator will stand in the corridor and keep a check on the student.”“There will be different criteria for asymptomatic students. There will be 12 candidates in one room accompanied by two invigilators. In case an invigilator is required to help a candidate in resolving any issue, he/she will have to sanitise the hands before and afterwards,” she said.What’s permittedIsolation roomCandidates having body temperature above 99.4°F will be taken to the isolation room. The process of frisking and document verification will be done after a period of 15 to 20 minutes. If the temperature of any candidate does not come down, he/she will be allowed to take the examination alone in a separate room.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-15-000-to-appear-for-neet-in-chandigarh-today-140453
