13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: 80 booked for not wearing masks in Chandigarh||As many as 80 people have been booked so far for not wearing masks at public places in Chandigarh amid the coronavirus outbreak, police said on Monday.Last week, Chandigarh Police had made wearing three-ply masks mandatory in public places and warned that violators would be arrested and booked under section 188 of the IPC.Stating that the curfew was being implemented strictly, Chandigarh Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal said 80 cases have been registered against people moving in public places without wearing masks.He further said that 150 people had been detained for loitering outdoors.So far, 3,622 vehicles have been impounded and 306 people have been detained for curfew violations, he further said in a release here.Meanwhile, the city administration has declared summer vacations in all government and government-aided schools from April 15 till May 15.No fresh coronavirus case has been reported in the city, the official said.The total count of confirmed cases stood at 21 while seven have been cured, the medical bulletin said.A total of 296 samples have been tested in Chandigarh so far of which 261 tested negative and reports of 13 are awaited. ---PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-80-booked-for-not-wearing-masks-in-chandigarh-70628
13-04-2020||---||Chandigarh admn declares summer vacations in govt schools from April 15 to May 15||Chandigarh, April 13The UT Administration has declared summer vacations in all government and government-aided schools from April 15 to May 15 in view of Covid-19 pandemic.However, the private schools will be advised to synchronise with the same.This was decided in a meeting presided over by VP Singh Badnore, Administrator, UT, in the war room here today.The Administration has also decided to defer the recovery of cess charges in electricity bills, payment of water charges and the recovery of property tax imposed by the Municipal Corporation till further orders.During the meeting, the Administrator stressed upon the need of a common approach in the Tri-city regarding Covid-19.He stated that neighbouring districts of Mohali and Panchkula must follow the restrictions strictly, so that it may be possible to restrict infection in the Tricity. “Since the entire area is geographically contagious and many residents move from one place to other in connection with the works and shopping, it will be difficult to hub variant policies in the Tricity,” he added.Manoj Parida, Adviser, stated that he had requested the Chief Secretary, Haryana, not to allow too many officials to attend offices in Chandigarh and to restrict their entry in curfew. He also stated that the UT was running with skeleton staff and officers are mostly working from home.The Administrator congratulated the doctors of PGIMER for the quick and efficient performance in treating a police Assistant Sub-Inspector from Patiala, who was injured in an unfortunate incident.KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, informed that 67 teams, including 21 mechanical teams, are sanitising the whole city regularly.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar stated that 55,954 cooked food packets have been distributed among the destitutes and the needy people in various parts of the city. He also informed that a sum of Rs 1.53 crore has been received as donation to the local Red Cross Fund for fighting corona.Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, stated that the screening teams have covered a total of 4,76,000 persons in the areas such as Bapu Dham Colony, Dhanas and Hallomajra.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, mentioned that Maloya and Faidan villages have been checked through medical teams.The Administrator directed the health and MC officials to improve sanitization and fogging in all areas. He also directed the Deputy Commissioner to restrict the issuance of passes, so that the implementation of curfew remains effective.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-declares-summer-vacations-in-govt-schools-from-april-15-to-may-15-70624
13-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||Mohali woman meets elderly mother after much struggle||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12A 93-year-old woman, who is staying with her servants in Sector 33 here, finally met her daughter as the latter got a movement pass after much struggle today.Before the curfew, Savrinder Sodhi, wife of a retired wing commander, who lives in Mohali, used to meet her mother daily for two hours. “Due to the curfew, my wife could not visit her mother. We tried to apply for permission in Mohali, but we didn’t find an appropriate category in the online application,” said Savrinder’s husband Harjeet Singh Sodhi.He said, “All these days, my wife has been talking to her mother over phone. We have not told her that it’s curfew outside and there is Covid-19 spread. Today, when she started crying, we approached the authorities in Chandigarh to issue us the pass.”Meanwhile, RK Garg, president of a senior citizens’ association, said “It took about four hours to get the pass in such circumstances. I contacted home secretary, Chandigarh DC and nodal officer, who further asked me to contact the Mohali DC. The UT Administrator then called for coordination among officials of the tricity. Why can’t the authorities in city coordinate the case with their Mohali counterparts in sensitive places. UT officials could have issued a pass at their own level.”He said the Mohali DC acted swiftly after he did not get any desired response from Chandigarh and issued them the pass.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-woman-meets-elderly-mother-after-much-struggle-70374
13-04-2020||The states need to evoke a sense of morality where the existing provisions of law fail or fall short. Any attempt at overregulation and application of a law where its applicability is expressly or impliedly barred||WhatsApp ‘group admin’ can’t be punished for perceived crimes of others||The move to implicate WhatsApp ‘group admin’ in criminal cases for the acts inferred as “crimes” of others comes as an exemplar of replacing much-needed morality with laws, where the existing edits are inapt to deal with the situation effectively.The police of a state only recently issued orders prohibiting the circulation of fake news or distorted information on social media platforms in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. To say that the order is inappropriate will only amount to a clear-cut departure from the actuality. There is nothing wrong with the order legally and otherwise.Section 505 of the IPC makes “statements conducing to public mischief” an offence. Among other things, it says whoever makes, publishes or circulates, any statement, rumour or report with an intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the state or public tranquility will be punished with imprisonment and fine.But that is just one part of the order. It adds that the person designated as ‘group admin’ will be held personally liable if such misleading stuff is found circulating. They were also advised to change settings to ‘admin mode only’. They were further asked to change to a ‘single admin’ setting, in case of multiple administrators.The advisory has gone viral and has generated apprehensions among the users and the administrators all over. Its impact has been enormous in the country, where the messaging app is believed to have about 200 million users.Trepidations, since then, are being expressed and discussed by the users and the administrators regardless of the fact that the decision is limited to the jurisdiction of the place where it was taken. It is neither by the Central Government nor a court decision. As such, it lacks nationwide impact.The question, however, travels beyond the jurisdictional aspect and is about the powers of the police to hold one person responsible for the action of others in a matter having trappings of a criminal case. Can the state shoot the messenger and also the bystander-admin whose only role is to unwittingly bring him on a platform? The issue that needs to be seen here is whether the police can initiate criminal proceedings against a person for someone else’s post and is being administrator, default or original, a ground enough to put restrictions on a person’s freedom by arresting him?In its zeal to do a great right, the states cannot be seen indulging in an act that fails to fall within the parameters of law. A democratic setup certainly does not encourage “to do a great right, do a little wrong” concept of justice.The justice delivery system has the power and jurisdiction to ignore little harmless wrongs, primarily technical in nature, for doing a great right principally when the courts are dealing with not just public interest litigation, but also social legislation. But the standard of proof in criminal law is more demanding than other matters.The state needs to remember that the imposition of excessive rules and regulations, and enforcement of a law where it cannot be put in force, has the potential of ending up in a situation that is repugnant to individual freedom guaranteed under the Constitution.The issue of a group administrator’s accountability has already been answered by the Delhi High Court in the case of ‘Ashish Bhalla v/s Suresh Chawdhary and Others’. The Bench held: “Similarly, I am unable to understand as to how the administrator of a group can be held liable for defamation even if any, by the statements made by a member of the group. To make an administrator of an online platform liable for defamation would be like making the manufacturer of the newsprint on which defamatory statements are published liable for defamation”.“When an online platform is created, the creator thereof cannot expect any of the members thereof to indulge in defamation and defamatory statements made by any member of the group cannot make the administrator liable therefor. It is not as if without the administrator’s approval of each of the statements, the statements cannot be posted by any of the members of the group on the said platform.”The law on the issue is clear. To say that a person has committed an offence, there has to be motive, intention, preparation and attempt. The police, issuing such warnings, need to answer how an administrator can be held vicariously liable for the post of other group members?The fact that mens rea is must for the constitution of a criminal offence is the basic principle of criminal jurisprudence. Both criminal act (actus reus) and intent (mens rea) must be together to constitute a crime.It must always be kept in mind that a law cannot do what morality can. Where the law fails to act as a deterrent or a persuasive force to curb menace, morality is required to plug in the gaps.BENCH MARKLaw & OrderWarrants required only for removing legal hurdlesby Saurabh MalikThe Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that warrant of arrest during course of investigation cannot to be issued in routine. An application by the police merely stating that the accused was evading arrest was not sufficient. Warrants were required to be only for removing legal hurdles, if any. The Bench ruled that a magistrate cannot in a routine manner invoke power to issue warrants of arrest of an accused on the application moved by a police officer. The magistrate has to exercise his discretion in a judicial manner. Referring to a Supreme Court judgment, the Bench asserted it was unequivocally held that a police officer was required to record reasons regarding his satisfaction on the necessity to arrest a person before proceeding against him on the allegations of committing a cognisable and non-bailable offence punishable with imprisonment up to seven years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/whatsapp-group-admin-cant-be-punished-for-perceived-crimes-of-others-70370
13-04-2020||Preventing spread of covid||Extend curfew for effective fight against invisible enemy||Keep national policy in mindAlthough Covid cases are well under control in Chandigarh, before taking any decision regarding lockdown extension the position in the tricity should be taken into consideration. UT is surrounded with many villages of Mohali and Panchkula. So, decision should suit all. National policy should also be kept in mind. The fight against corona should aim at eliminating virus from the country. Relaxations are solace to citizens.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, Chandigarh-----------------------------Going easy will be harmful.We should not think as daredevil when it comes to fight against dreadful virus. Even developed nations well equipped with medical and health facilities are on their toes. Only social distancing can stop further spread of this pandemic. Hopefully, with the passage of time the impact of virus will diminish. The need of hour is to follow advisories and prastise social distancing. For this lockdown and curfew has to be extended.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, Mohali---------------------Life more precious than livelihoodDeadly Covid-19 has swept through more than 200 nations. There is no vaccine/medicine to combat it. The only solution is social distancing. The law enforcing agencies and public should cooperate in this crisis. A complete lockdown/curfew has to be extended till April 30. Thereafter, the situation should be reviewed. Although it will have serious ramifications on economy, yet life takes precedence over livelihood. Besides, inter-state boundaries must be sealed allowing only emergency movement and that too with thermal scanning to ensure maximum prevention.SS Arora, Mohali----------------------Don’t leave anything to chanceIn the wake of no fresh positive case in Chandigarh, at no stage there should be complacency over the matter of lockdown in the tricity hust because Panchkula and Mohali have seen rise in Covid cases. There is community transmission of the pandemic in some states. Some cases without any foreign travel history have tested positive for the disease. Since tricity is the route and centre of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, every care should be taken to follow government advisories strictly. Lockdown should also continue leaving nothing to chance.Capt Jagdish Verma (retd), Chandigarh---------------------------Prevention is better than cureLockdown has been successful due to meticulous planning in tandem and concerted efforts of the UT Administration and residents’ cooperation. Although there are few Covid cases in the tricity, we must bear in mind that the disease has not reached its peak. Therefore, it requires extraordinary foresighted judgment to decide when to lift the lockdown/curfew. The advice of medical professionals must be sought and strictly followed in decision making. Extending lockdown/curfew in the tricity to prevent infection would be a wise choice. However, this extension should not be a mere formality. Precautionary measures already in place or the ones updated due to new diagnostic and curative findings must not be relaxed under any circumstances. The old adage “prevention is better than cure” has a perennial validity and still has pragmatic applicability.DR SS Bhatti, Chandigarh----------------------------Restart OPD consultation for senior citizensAny relaxation at this time may increase Covid infection risk in the tricity. Improving and strengthening home delivery of essentials, ensuring smooth functioning of supply chain, helping daily wagers and supporting poor families is more important. There is a need of partial restart of OPD consultation for non-Covid patients, especially senior citizens and residents suffering from serious diseases. The UT Administration and the governments of Punjab and Haryana should support hospital preparedness for managing Covid patients and plan isolation facilities. Tricity residents must adhere to the curfew guidelines. Medical staff on high risk duty should be provided accommodation and food at nearby places.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), Chandigarh----------------------------Lifting lockdown will be counter-productiveEach and every citizen of the country is standing behind the government in the run up to defeat the killer corona pandemic. There is no denying that Covid-19 pandemic could make much impact in the country in terms of the number of cases tested positive and those succumbed to the killer virus. People also deserve applause for minding the lockdown curbs by maintaining social distancing, using safety masks, sanitisers and to cap it all staying indoors. Nonetheless, the number of Covid-19 cases has risen, which is a cause of concern. Keeping all this in mind, mulling relaxation in curfew/lockdown restrictions would surely than not prove counter-productive in our mission to defeat the pandemic.Ramesh K Dhiman, Chandigarh------------------------------Govt can use coercive measuresCorona control is the need of the hour because this monster has swallowed progress in the world. The government and other organisations, especially NGOs, are making people aware of the virus through the electronic and print media during the lockdown period. No doubt, lockdown must be extended because we know it well that major contribution is made by the illiterate and people, who are ignorant about virus. People can understand gravity of situation if apprised about Covid-19. It is sole responsibility of the government to use coercive or persuasive measures to control the disease. There is no problem, which cannot be solved. Obviously, such pandemics can set people on the right track.Anita Tandon, Chandigarh---------------------------------------------UT admn has to be strictChandigarh has emerged strongly against Covid-19. The city has strictly followed lockdown. The authorities have been monitoring those, who live in close clusters. Mohali and Panchkula are still in tense due to spurt in Covid cases. The UT Administration has to be more strict to implement norms for the prevention of the virus transmission. No doubt, lockdown will adversely affect economy. At present, the priority is to prevent transmission. Citizens are cooperating with the authorities. The administration should ease some restrictions on opening few shops for six hours with strict implementation of preventive measures. The authorities should take advice from medical experts for giving limited relaxation in movement and following social distancing till normalcy is restored. Entry to Mohali and Panchkula districts should be restricted. Hopefully, good old day will be back soon.Sukhpal Singh, Chandigarh------------------------------Past gains will fritter if curfew is relaxedThe Covid-19 threat is far from over. All past gains in combating its spread will fritter away if we relax vigil and get complacent on social-distancing and self-isolation, that need to be hammered into minds of every individual as new norm. Habit formation requires 40 days of forced regulation. Many a black sheep did flounder the current diktats of government leaving much to be desired. The likes of Nizamuddin super spread proved explosive where follies of the few fanatics resulted in colossal loss of scarce resources and lives. As one size does not fit all, broad consultations and consensus will boil down to equitable mix of restrictions and relaxations in the best interest of India and its citizens. It is incumbent on all citizens to abide by government directives.Lalit Bharadwaj, Chandigarh---------------------------------States favour existing curbsCovid-19 cases are increasing as some people do not follow lockdown. Many state governments are in favour of retaining existing curbs. According to study, in the absence of lockdown one person can infect 406 individuals in 30 days. There is a need to take some proactive action. We should learn a lesson from the present crisis and follow directions of lockdown if we want to live long.Vidya Sagar Garg, Chandigarh------------------------------Ensure complete safety of citizensLockdown should be extended in the tricity to ensure complete safety of each and every citizen residing here. Considering the present global scenario, coronavirus should not spread further. If the citizens are given freedom to move out of their houses, it would be ry risky. People may not behave responsibly in such a situation. They would start taking part in large gatherings giving scant regard to government advisories. Only strict orders by the government can ensure total eradication of the virus. The decision regarding the lifting of the lockdown should be taken only after taking into account Covid-19 cases at the state and national level.Archana Sharma, Chandigarh-----------------------------No handshake, only Namaste will sufficeLess Covid patients is bliss for tricity residents. Let us be saviour by adhearing to advisories issued by the government. Keep your house and surroundings neat and clean so that all members of your family are safe. Only one member of the family should venture out for buying essentials. No handshake with anyone only ‘Namaste’ will suffice. Try to help the poor in difficult period. If no Covid case is reported during the lockdown/curfew then worry not the administration will not extend restrictions. Workers, who are striving day and night to serve the mankind, deserve applause.MR Bhateja, Nayagaon----------------------------Private hospitals have closed doors to patientsI am in favour of extending lockdown so as to completely wipe out the virus. It is for everyone’s safety otherwise there many, who won’t sit at home and create mess. The Chandigarh Administration is doing a good job by sanitising sectors, markets and public places. The police is stopping violators. No words to thank the Police Department, which is working 24x7 in this hour of crisis. Only problem is private hospitals, which have closed their doors to Covid patients. The Administration should ask private hospitals to provide doctors and vans to take care of such patients.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, Chandigarh-------------------------------------Keep a check on price of essentialsThe restrictions, steps and legal actions initiated by the Administration have been successful in controlling the spread of Covid 19 till date in the UT. Lockdown should be extended to control the virus. Food, vegetables and medicine should be provided to citizens at door step. Prices of all commodities should be controlled. Medical facilities should be increased to deal with unexpected spread of virus. More ventilators should be provided at government hospitals. People should stay indoors. Work done by doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, safai karmacharis, police and social organisations is praiseworthy.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), Mohali---------------------------------Lockdown is necessary to maintain sanctity of controlled situationSocial distancing is necessary to eradicate Covid pandemic. That is possible only by imposing lockdown/curfew. People make lame excuses to step out of their homes. Therefore, to maintain the sanctity of the present controlled situation of the Covid-19 cases, lockdown in the tricity should be extended. The government has to take care of supply of essential commodities to the public and food to the needy. It should give relaxation in curfew/lockdown in case of medical emergency. Private companies should be ordered not to retrench and pay full salary on time to their employees in this critical situation.Abhilasha Gupta, Mohali--------------------------------------------------Give sector wise relaxation in curfewI appreciate the UT Administration on account of strict enforcement of law in our city. We expect the same spirit to continue till we win this battle. Curfew should be relaxed sector wise on different dates in a week. More important is that our senior citizens above 80 years are facing difficulty because they cannot go to market on foot as instructed by the Administration. They should be allowed to go to market on cars. Owners of chemist shops should be allowed to deliver medicines at doorsteps.Tarlok Singh, Mani Majra---------------------------------------------------Status quo should continue till April 30An exit strategy is needed for a smooth end to the lockdown period. Keeping the prevailing scenario in view and catalytic action of a section of people, it would be prudent to extend the lockdown period till April 30. Some relaxation may be given to citizens to avail essential services, but gatherings at public places should be prohibited. The status quo should be maintained lest we will lose what we gained during last 21 days. Covid-19 is likely to diminish by April 30.Madan Gupta Spatu, Chandigarh-------------------------Extend lockdown only in emergencyThe Chandigarh Administration and the police have done a commendable job by strict implementation of curfew/lockdown to keep the spread of Covid-19 under check. Lockdown/curfew should be extended only in dire emergency. Otherwise, lockdown should be lifted in phases. It is adversely affecting the lives of the poor and downtrodden. Daily wagers are the worst hit, as they do not have any means to earn two meals a day. The decision to extend curfew/lockdown should only be taken after a thorough review of the situation.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, Chandigarh-------------------------Tricity lockdown best way to fight CovidThe only weapon to defeat coronavirus is social distancing and staying inhume. For the pro bono publico lockdown must continue. The Administration must supply essentials to public. Migrants should be provided food at doorsteps. Distribution of dry rations is not effective. Besides, there is no fuel to cook dry rations. The government and the Administration must divert money spent on advertisements to providing food to the needy. Gaushalas must be provided fooder for cows, who can’t speak.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar (retd), Mohali-----------------------------------------Tricity residents will not take risksThanks to the effective steps taken by the UT Administration and enforcing the compliance of lockdown norms, which has kept Covid cases under check. So far, so good. It does not suggest that sudden lifting of lockdown despite the fact there is no hotspot in the region will benefit in any way. Tricity residents are knowledgeable and and will not like take risks involved in sudden lifting of the lockdown despite daily inconvenience. They know well that safety is prime concern in this crucial period. Lockdown should not be lifted. A phased lifting of lockdown can be considered to prevent the spread of Covid.SC Luthra, Chandigarh---------------------------If not curfew, lockdown must be thereHere in Chandigarh, the four hours relaxation in curfew every dauy is just doing more harm than good. People, especially youngsters, are seen on roaming unnecessarily on roads without any specific purpose, which can prove dangerous. Yes, no doubt, that tricity has fared well in keeping the spread of coronavirus under check as compared to other states of our country, but it does not mean that we should start taking things casually and ignore preventive measures. Social distancing and staying indoors is still required to eradicate this disease. This can only be done if either curfew is extended for some more days. If not curfew then lockdown be imposed in the tricity to keep people indoors during this fight again Covid-19.Gurpreet S Malhotra, Chandigarh--------------------------¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬¬Extend curfew/lockdown after breathing timeYes, Chandigarh is doing well in keeping the coronavirus down. People here are educated and take all kinds of precautions seriously. After the curfew/lockdown ends, people should get some breathing time to complete all pending works. Markets, banks and shops should open. If required, lockdown should be imposed after May 1 for a limited period with some relaxation.RK Kapoor, Chandigarh----------------------------No laxity on part of the administrationThe Administration is working, but Covid-positive cases are rising with each passing day. There is no laxity on the part of the Administration. If lockdown lifted people will start roaming, which again will spread the virus. The government till date has allowed essential goods and services, which is a good step. The city borders should be sealed. If the government does not allow sale of consumables people will break rules. Also, black marketing will increase in the city.Avinash Goyal, Chandigarh------------------------------------------City might have black sheepThough Chandigarh has reported less cases of Covid-19, there might be black sheep in the city and other places like Tablig-ul Jamat, who might not have disclosed the virus symptoms. Sooner or later they might prove dangerous for society. Keeping in view the danger of the disease immediate lockdown/curfew should continue till further orders. The UT Administration has taken various steps for the supply of daily essentials to the people and has solved their day-to-day problems. However, the lockdown should continue in Chandigarh. Schools and colleges should not open till May 30. Essential services should, however, continue.HC Bhora, Chandigarh-----------------------------Its too early to relax curfewThe City Beautiful is fortunate to have lesser number of Covid-19 patients/suspects and foreign returned as compared to the neighbouring states. Still keeping in view the magnitude and seriousness of the problem and the city’s small size and good connectivity within, it would be too early to relax curfew/lockdown. The police, Administration and health care facilitators mainly government hospitals in the UT deserve appreciation for handling the crisis. The Administration must go slow and give relaxations in a phased manner and that too after consulting experts and studying overall position of the neighbouring areas and the country.Rakesh Chopra, Chandigarh----------------------------------------What will we achieve by relaxations?Should Chandigarh stand out with a daily relaxation allowing persons to move out daily for shopping from 11 am to 3 pm. Despite online deliveries of all food items and medicines going out of the home is a must. What will we achieve by all such relaxations? Will people visit far away markets on foot to buy selected food items and groceries. Why cannot Chandigarh have a blanket sit at home mandate like entire Punjab, Haryana, Himachal, J&K and Delhi? Why should Chandigarh be different? Would it not be better to improve and strengthen the home delivery system? Curfew passes are available for emergency. Why then daily relaxation? Are we heading to innocuously promoting indirect spread of grade 3 Covid-19 by social contact in public places during curfew relaxation hours? Residents of Chandigarh must introspect. Will the relaxation in curfew flatten the curve or add to number of Covid infectious. Only time will tell.Anil Malhotra, Chandigarh------------------------------Staggered easing only solutionThe exit from the current lockdown should be staggered and the pace needs to be influenced by the success of the containment over the next few days. All places of large public gatherings should be shut. Lockdown should be lifted on alternate days. Only residents of Panchkula and Mohali districts and UT should be allowed this facility. All borders around these the two districts and the UT should be sealed. Autos and buses should remain off the road. Only yellow plate taxis and vehicles should be on roads with maximum two persons, including driver of the vehicle. No vehicle registered outside the tricity should be allowed on the road. Heavy penalties should be imposed by area magistrates, who should hold mobile court. This can help the public and the administration win the battle against Covid.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, Zirakpur-----------------------------Continue lockdown till zero case situationAlthough five corona patients were discharged from the GMCH-32, the City Beautiful can’t heave a sigh of relief. The circumstances are far from normalcy. There are certain mindless people, who do not lose an opportunity to defy the lockdown norms. They, probably are not aware of what went wrong in Italy/Spain/France and the US. It is undoubtedly imperative to continue with the present lockdown/curfew in the tricity for a few more weeks until Covid-19 zero positive case situation is achieved. After reaching zero level across tricity relaxations should be announced to work within the tricity premises. Each house to be issued need based one/two passes. Under no circumstance residents be allowed to roam in markets or public places.OP Longia, Chandigarh-----------------------------Curfew extension is necessaryIt’s too early to relax lockdown/lockdown. By April 16 we will know whether the city has entered a steady phase or still vulnerable to the disease. Strict implementation of the lockdown is crucial. Residents must remember it’s better to spend some days at home rather than getting admitted to hospital.Anmol Kaur Mongia, Mohali----------------------------------Extend lockdown for three weeksSocial distancing is the only way to prevent the spread of deadly Covid-19, which has claimed precious lives. There is a big park in front of my house where people used to come for morning walk and doing exercises on an open-air gym. In order to safeguard the lives of the people the park development committee has locked the entry/exit gates of the park. However, some people still enter the park after scaling its boundary walls thus posing a risk to the lives of others. I am of firm opinion that the lockdown/curfew period should be extended for another three weeks.Gopal Mittal, Panchkula-----------------------------Decision to bring life to standstill is goodAn epidemic is always a little ahead of us. For its one day of growth, we need more than one day lockdown to bring the infection down to starting level. Twenty-day lockdown will not work. The decision to bring life to a standstill is a good, but the labour class and the poor have to be prepared. Biggest challenge is how to break the chain of Covid transmission. The only answer is lockdown to keep people indoors till the last person of Covid-infection in the tricity is cured. People who don’t follow lockdown and move around in parks should be rounded-up by the police. The whole city must be disinfected.Vijay Malia, Chandigarh-------------------------------UT admn doing good jobThe Chandigarh Administration is appreciated for doing its round-the-clock job to check the spread of Covid-19. But some people in the city are still violating curfew orders. The UT Administration should take strict legal action against them. Lockdown should be extended in the tricity to prevent the spread of the disease.Lakhwinder Wazir Bhullar, Chandigarh--------------------------A serious threat to live so peopleAs we all know that Covid-19 was declared pandemic by the WHO in March, 2020. It’s very serious threat to lives of the people around the globe. Though everyone wants to get back to his/her routine, looking at the seriousness of the present circumstances and the number of deaths within four months since origin of virus in China in December, 2019, the lockdown should be extended till April 30.Naveen Gupta, Chandigarh------------------------------------No need to extend lockdownThe tricity has fared well in keeping the spread of Covid-19 under check. The lockdown isn’t necessary. The UT must opt for strategic reopening of places, but prevent mass gatherings. Adequate measures like distribution of masks and hand sanitisers should be undertaken. If the lockdown continues, it would disrupt daily schedule of the masses. Covid-19 spread due to people with travel history. Now, if international flights have been stopped, the UT Administration can restore normalcy within its territory.Shobhna Kalra, Chandigarh-------------------------Lift lockdown in phased mannerCovid has a tendency to start a chain reaction even if a single person is affected. The decision to recall the lockdown should be taken only after elimination of last case rather than decline in the number of infected patients. However, to restore normalcy, the government must lift lockdown in a phased manner. It is impractical to revoke all restrictions at once and then try to control the situation that might go out of control. Essential public and private sector services should be allowed to continue with minimum number of employees. A trial of two-three days can be undertaken to ascertain the exact situation before taking a final call on revoking lockdown.Shashank Parmar, Panchkula----------------------------Stay home, stay healthyContinuous lockdown of 49 days is the best way to reduce Covid-19 cases to zero. People should support the government by staying indoors and maintaining social distancing. We Indians with our collective strength will win battle against Covid-9. Stay home, stay safe and stay healthy.JS Bajaj, Mohali-----------------------------------------Extend curfew till it’s completely safeIn view of the Covid-19 outbreak, prevention is the best cure for the deadly disease. It will always be better to keep people locked up in their respective houses for another few weeks. The lockdown/curfew must be extended till the curve of coronavirus cases is flattened at the top instead of the present trend of rising. Social distancing is the key to contain virus. Hardwork done by the government should not go wasted. No administration or state government should be in hurry to end curfew/lockdown till clearance is given by the Union Government as any carelessness will lead to disaster. Businesses and offices will run only if people survive in this pandemicSANJAY CHOPRA, Mohali----------------------------------------------------------------Don’t extend lockdown in tricityLockdown/curfew should not be extended further in the tricity. Apart from economic losses, it is affecting daily wage earners and depriving them of their two-time meals. How long will the government and social bodies feed people and fulfil their daily necessities. However, side by side doorstep testing of suspected cases for coronavirus may be increased by involving private sector.Col TBS Bedi (Retd), MohaliYes, I beleive the lockdown is one of the best measures that has helped curb the spread of disease. The lockdown should be extended as it has played a key role in maintaining social distance. If it is lifted, the situation may worsen. Public should accept it as a sole measure for the containment of Covid-19.—Daler Multani, former civil surgeonThe curfew should be extended as India with 1.3 billion population is in a better position than many developed countries. If it is lifted, all gains would be lost. With increased testing, true picture will emerge. The virus is spreading through communities. Lifting the curfew could trigger a fresh wave of infections.—Purandhi Gupta, sector 51 residentAlthough the curfew/lockdown creates difficulties for people from all sections of society, these are necessary to overcome Covid-19 crisis. It is also necessary for the success of the hard work of corona warriors on the frontline. The Administration and social institutions are solving problems and saving the public from sufferings through restraint.—Subhash Papneja, sector 16, PanchkulaThe curfew should be changed to lockdown in the City Beautiful. The lockdown should be extended till April 30. All category of transport vehicles should now be allowed to ply. I think the UT Administration has done a good job so far. Few complaints are there. Not everyone can be satisfied under the present circumstances.—Prem Garg, President, AAP, ChandigarhThe tricity is still safe with less number of Covid cases. The credit goes to our doctors, nurses, police and the Administration for effective implementation of the curfew. Moreover, tricity residents follow government advisories. On the safer side, it is better to extend the lockdown, but with some relief for common man.—Deepanshu Bansal, Law studentQUESTIONA large number of people are being rounded up daily for violation of the curfew in the city. Do you think the UT police should act stricter to rein in such persons to enforce the curfew in the fight against Covid-19?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/extend-curfew-for-effective-fight-against-invisible-enemy-70369
13-04-2020||---||Youth arrested for misusing ambulance||Mohali, April 11The police arrested a youth for using an ambulance of a hospital for carrying passengers in the local area amid lockdown.The suspect has been identified as Mohammad Sajid (25), a resident of Dadu Majra colony, Sector 38 (West), Chandigarh.According to Inspector Harmanpreet Singh, SHO of the Mullanpur police station, Mohammad was illegally using a hospital ambulance for picking and dropping passengers in the areas of Mullanpur Garibdas and Dadu Majra colony for the past few days.He said the suspect was a driver of an ambulance and was misusing it by flouting the curfew norms. On getting information, the police nabbed him at a naka.The police also impounded the vehicle. A case has been registered against the suspect under Section 188 of the IPC at the Mullanpur Garibdas police station. The suspect was later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-arrested-for-misusing-ambulance-70368
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||311 rounded up for violating curfew||Cover syllabus by May 9: PU panelChandigarh: A committee of Panjab University (PU) on Sunday said that May 9 would be the last date to cover the syllabus of all subjects for colleges, regional centres, constituent colleges and university departments. The decision was taken during an online meeting chaired by PU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar. The chairpersons of university teaching departments, principals of constituent colleges, director/coordinator of regional centres were asked to make an online group of faculty like WhatsApp to interact with them for timely completion of syllabus. TNSPU dept backs #dilse thank youChandigarh: The Department of Art History and Visual Arts of Panjab University (PU) #dilse thank you — a click a selfie initiative. It is not a competition, but a humble way of thanking all those who are working relentlessly to help us as a society, including health workers, cleaners, milkmen and grocery-store workers. The initiative has been conceived and curated by Dr Tirthankar Bhattacharya who intends to make a photograph montage of all selfies received and put it online as a mark of gratitude. TNS1st online national theatre workshopChandigarh: The first-of-its-kind online national theatre workshop on ‘Basics of light design’ is being organised by the Department of Indian Theatre, Panjab University, from April 11 to April 15. The objective is to motivate students of drama or theatre from various universities of India. Dr Navdeep Kaur, organiser and chairperson of the department, said the workshop would connect the students of various universities. Around 100 students and research scholars from different regions such as Punjab, South India, MP, UP, Delhi, Maharashtra, Assam, West Bengal and Bihar have enrolled for the workshop. TNSCU gives masks, sanitiser to AIIMSChandigarh: Under its ‘CU-AID campaign’, Chandigarh University (CU) with the support of the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India, has delivered 500 litres of hand sanitiser and face masks to the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi. The alcohol-based sanitiser has been prepared by the students and staff members of the University Institute of Applied Health Sciences (UIAHS). While another CU team headed by Dr Pawan Kumar, scientist ‘E’, DST, handed over 100 litres of sanitiser to Punjab police personnel in Khanna. TNSCollege donates Rs1Lakh to Covid fundPatiala: Aryans Group of Colleges, Rajpura, today donated Rs 1 Lakh to the Chief Minister COVID Relief Fund. The donation was handed over to Patiala DC Kumar Amit by Dr Anshu Kataria, chairman, Aryans Group. The faculty members of Aryans Engineering, Law, Pharmacy, Nursing, Management, Agriculture, Polytechnic and Education College have also decided to donate one day’s salary to the CM COVID Relief Fund. The DC thanked the institution for their financial support. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/311-rounded-up-for-violating-curfew-70366
13-04-2020||---||Panjab University students demand fee waiver||Chandigarh, April 12PUCSC president Chetan Chaudhary has asked the university authorities to waive hostel fee of students for the month of June and to provide them with seed money for purchasing things of daily use.He said though the general trend in the university’s hostels was to collect fee till May, this year due to the Covid outbreak, many students were stuck in hostels and were not able to unite with their families.Chaudhary had requested the Dean, Students Welfare (DSW), yesterday to adjust the fee of all professional courses in the university and said he was assured that a decision regarding this would be taken after the lockdown was lifted. Chetan has also requested the authorities for letting the students stay in hostels free of cost for the month of June.Nikhil Narmeta from UIET, who was contesting for the post of president from the NSUI, said, “We all are in a tough situation where what all we can do is just to sit at home, but this situation can't be same after lockdown as we will be asked to pay our fee for the next semester. But why should we pay the fee for the next semester when we have already paid for this semester? We paid for six months, of which we have attended the varsity only for a little more than one month,” he said.A PU official said, “Right now, we haven’t taken any decision on this matter and will decide when the time is ripe.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-students-demand-fee-waiver-70365
13-04-2020||80-year-old among three women test positive for virus||Jawaharpur adds 3 more to Mohali district count||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 12With the surfacing of three more Covid positive cases in Jawaharpur village of the Dera Bassi block of Mohali district, the total number of patients in the village rose to 37 and the district 54.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said three more cases from Jawaharpur village came to light today. All three were women, aged 80, 55 and 17 years, and immediate family of already positive cases, he added.Dayalan said, “The district administration is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring extensive contact tracing and sampling, which is leading to more cases being traced. This will help in having a clear assessment of the situation and the formulation of a comprehensive strategy to combat the disease.”It is worth mentioning that on Saturday, the husband of the 78-year-old woman from Kharar had also tested positive. However, the samples of their six family members tested negative. They all were home-quarantined. The district administration has already sealed Jawaharpur, along with other villages, including Devigarh and Mehmudpur, deploying 75 cops with three PCR vehicles to ensure no movement of people.None of the 37 patients in the village has any travel history. Most of them were asymptomatic and detected only though testing. Some Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed in the village, but left before anyone could get information about them.As of now, the total number of positive cases in the district has reached 54. Out of these, 37 cases are from Jawaharpur. Those died of Covid are two while five persons have been cured and gone home. The number of active cases is 47. The reports of two samples, which had been sent again due to some confusion, are awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jawaharpur-adds-3-more-to-mohali-district-count-70363
13-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Doctors at PGI reimplant Patiala cop’s severed hand||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12The reimplantation of the left hand of an ASI from Patiala was carried out by a team of doctors at the main OT (plastic surgery) of the PGI here today. The surgery took seven and a half hours.ASI Harjit Singh’s hand was reportedly chopped with a sword during an attack by Nihangs at a vegetable market in Patiala this morning.“It was a technically very complex and challenging surgery, which was successfully done. It was evaluated at the end of the surgery that the hand is viable and warm with good blood circulation. We pray to God for his fast recovery,” said Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI.A phone call was received from Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta by Dr Jagat Ram around 7:45 am today, apprising him of the assault on the policeman.The Director alerted the emergency team at the Advanced Trauma Centre and assigned the responsibility to Prof Ramesh Sharma, Head, Department of Plastic Surgery, to organise admission and the surgery of the injured cop.The 50-year-old patient had an amputation through the proximal wrist of the left hand. The official statement of the PGI reads, “The reimplantation was started around 10 am after initial preparation of the amputated part. Both radial and ulnar artery, the vena commitantes and an extra dorsal vein were anastomosed. All flexors and extensor tendons were repaired. All nerves at the wrist repaired bony fixation done using three K-wires. The approximate time taken was seven and a half hours.”The plastic surgery team comprised consultants, including Dr Sunil Gaba and Dr Jerry R John.The senior residents involved were Dr Suraj Nair, Dr Mayank, Dr Chandra and Dr Shubendu. The anaesthesia team comprised consultant Dr Ankur, Dr Abhishek and Dr Purnima. The nursing team comprised Arvind, Sneha and Arsh.The incidentASI Harjit Singh’s hand was reportedly chopped with a sword during an attack by Nihangs at a vegetable market in Patiala on Sunday morning..||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctors-at-pgi-reimplant-patiala-cops-severed-hand-70358
13-04-2020||---||Panjab University Professor's 8-yr-old daughter, mother-in-law test positive||Chandigarh, April 12Two close contacts of 40-year-old assistant professor of Panjab University have tested positive for Covid-19 today.The Sector 37 resident’s eight-year-old daughter and 55-year-old mother-in-law were found infected with the virus when their samples were tested at the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16.The PU faculty member’s mother-in-law, a resident of Delhi, was in Chandigarh to take care of her daughter’s pregnancy and post-delivery. The Covid patient’s 21-day-old baby has tested negative for Covid. The professor’s wife has been re-sampled at the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, and her reports are awaited.Of the 110 community contacts of the Covid patient, three primary contacts have been sampled and tested negative. These included a milkman from Sangatpura, the owner of a shop in Sector 37-C and an employee of Indus Hospital.Two more community contacts of the patient have been sampled for the virus testing.With the two new cases, the number of confirmed Covid patients in the city has risen to 21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-professors-8-yr-old-daughter-mother-in-law-test-positive-70356
13-04-2020||---||135 contacts home-quarantined, source of transmission unknown||Chandigarh, April 12As many as 135 persons, who came in touch with the PU assistant professor found Covid positive, have been home-quarantined in two days even as the source of the virus transmission remained unknown.Of these, four are household contacts of the Sector 37 resident and remaining community contacts — primary, secondary and remote.The samples of his 20-day-old infant tested negative while his wife, who too was found negative following the Covid-19 test, is, however, a suspected case. “She is being tested for the second time after her eight-year-old daughter and mother were found positive,” said a senior officer.Officials today home-quarantined more staff members (about 12) of Santokh Hospital where his wife had delivered a baby on March 17. Besides, the family’s maid, a resident of EWS Colony in Sector 38 (West), has been quarantined.Some of his friends and relatives were also quarantined today. The owner of a chemist shop in Sector 37, doctors and nurses are already home-quarantined.“We are checking his telephone contact details to trace those whom he met recently. We are in a process of doing sampling of those who were his primary contacts,” said an official.Meanwhile, the Sector 37 resident’s source of transmission could not be traced yet. “It seems to be a case of community spread, but we are on the job to try to identify the source from which the PU faculty got infected,” added the official.Infant tests negativeThe samples of the PU professor’s 20-day-old baby test negative while his wife, who too tested negative for Covid-19, is a suspected case. She is being tested again as her other daughter and mother tested positive..||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/135-contacts-home-quarantined-source-of-transmission-unknown-70355
13-04-2020||---||16 villages declared containment zones in P’kula||Panchkula, April 12As many as 16 villages where Tablighi Jamaat persons had stayed after returning from several states, including Maharashtra and Rajasthan, have been declared containment zones to control the spread of Covid-19.These villages include Karanpur, Khokra, Jholuwal, Kherawali, Kandiala, Chiken, Meerpur and Bakshiwala.Various officials, ranging from Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur to the sarpanches of the villages concerned have been asked to carry out the orders of containment. As per the orders, the DC will ensure sufficient deployment of police force to restrict the entry and exit of persons in the containment zones and also by way of nakas to check vehicular movement. The Civil Surgeon will ensure deployment of sufficient number of teams for conducting door-to-door medical screening of persons having flu symptoms.The sarpanches will make the necessary arrangements for the disposal of solid waste.The order comes after three Jamaatis, who had returned to Banoi Khuda Baksh in Pinjore block, were found positive for Covid-19.They were picked by the Health Department from the village and taken to a quarantine facility at Nada Sahib Gurdwara on April 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/16-villages-declared-containment-zones-in-pkula-70354
13-04-2020||Mona||Shakespeare, penning down short film keep Rani Balbir Kaur going||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12Just having finished a short film, actor and theatre person Rani Balbir Kaur is now penning down another one.She looks at the lockdown as a time for each one of us to come to terms with ourselves and use the period to plan a brighter future for everyone. “It’s time for introspection, catharsis, learn a lesson and not waste this time at all,” she says.“Look at the results of the lockdown – air is purified, rivers are cleaner. It is something we couldn’t achieve even after spending crores. Now is the time to reflect on what we are doing to the world – our lifestyle, modern living. Nothing comes without a cost.”As progressive as devout, she quotes Guru Nanak: “Moot paliti kappar hoye, de sabun layeye oh dhoye, bhariye mat papan ke sang, oh dhope naame ke rang (If we soil our clothes with dirt, we wash it with soap, but when mind gets corrupted...it needs to be cleaned with meditation or prayers).”She believes if we all get in touch with our true nature, this time may turn into a blessing in disguise.An early riser, Rani starts the day with ‘Gurbani’. Chores take over next — from cooking and cleaning to tending to her daughter who is a cancer survivor and recovering from a surgery. Then she finds time to catch on writers she had missed. “I am constantly trying to find writers I haven’t read and also going back to Shakespeare, Brecht and Girish Karnad.”“Now is not the time to call for a nursing assistant, I have learnt to give injection to my daughter, who is also diabetic. I love caressing each corner of the house.”Time for reflection, she deems this period to be. “Gurbani also says that ‘sab ek sutar ch piroye hoeye ne (we all are the links in the chain). From the mightiest of the nation to the poorest – each is facing the same music. In fact, India is doing better than many supreme powers.” She takes it as a cue to going back to our roots and preserve life-sustaining practices. “I have travelled around the world. Indian doctors and professors are dominating medical colleges across the globe. It’s about time we identity our strengths and bounce back stronger.”Through these grim times, she likes to keep informed. “I am keeping tabs on each country. Most of my family is in the US, my brother is in New York which is a Covid hotbed and his son is a doctor. I keep in touch and am praying for everyone.” Also, she is grateful to the media for providing the country with real news. “The media is going great lengths to keep the residents informed. I am getting The Tribune copy each day.”Staying positive through these morbid times doesn’t come easy, she agrees. “But one cannot give in to negativity at the moment. It is time to summon inner strength and stay afloat.” She is looking forward to connecting with the loved ones when time permits. “As soon as the lockdown is lifted, I want to go to my temple; I am as much into Buddhist chanting as Gurbani. Also, I will visit Panjab University to meet and greet my students and staff. I am in touch with mostly everyone through phone. Let’s just stay positive and use this time being productive and creative,” she signs off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shakespeare-penning-down-short-film-keep-rani-balbir-kaur-going-70353
13-04-2020||---||Close contacts of 2nd positive case in Patiala test negative||Patiala, April 12In a big relief to the city residents, all samples of the close contacts of the second Covid-19 positive case of the district were tested negative, said Health Department officials.Those included in patient’s close contacts were his brother, wife and daughter.As many as seven high-risk contacts were tested for Covid-19, however, none tested positive. Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said after the close contacts of the positive patient tested negative for the COVID-19, and were discharged from the isolation ward of the Government Rajindra Hospital.He said that though the close contacts had been discharged, however, they would be under surveillance for the next 14 days.First positive case tests negative||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/close-contacts-of-2nd-positive-case-in-patiala-test-negative-70352
13-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Anupama aims to break into top-50||Tribune News Service Panchkula, April 12 Having achieved her highest BWF career ranking —- 63rd in the World junior girls’ singles category —- 15-year-old Panchkula shuttler Anupama Upadhyaya is determined to break into the top-50 by the end of the year. Anupama is also ranked 13th in the Badminton Association of India (BAI) U-19 rankings, and to improve her standing she is eager to finish on the podium in the Senior National Championship. The event was scheduled to be held in Lucknow from April 27-May 2. However, the tournament is under the cloud due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  “A podium finish in the national championship will surely help me in improving my rankings. I am eager to win more titles at the national level, which will enable me to compete in more international tournaments,” said Anupama, who won a silver medal in the Kenya International Series in Mombasa at the start of this year. Asked about the virus threat to the tournament, Anupama said: “It has affected the entire world… I am staying indoors and watching some old videos and making a note of the mistakes that I committed in those matches. I am also taking online fitness classes.” Anupama, who had earlier won a bronze medal in the Ugandan International Series in Kampala, also informed that she was eager to make the cut for the next edition of the Kenya International Series. “It is a BWF approved tournament. The top performers on the national circuit will be allowed to play in this championship,” she said, adding: “I have more championships lined-up for August and September.” Anupama has been shortlisted for the Khelo India programme and trains at the Shining Star Academy in Bahadurgarh, Haryana. Earlier, the promising shuttler won a bronze in the President Cup Nepal Junior International Series in Kathmandu and finished third in Pembangunan Jaya Raya Junior Grand Prix in Indonesia. She has also represented India in the Sub-Junior Asian Badminton Championship in Surabaya.  On the domestic circuit, Anupama has won the 33rd Sub Junior National Badminton Championship held in Bhubaneshwar and bagged a bronze medal in the 44th Junior National Badminton Championship in Rajamundry, Andhra Pradesh. She also secured the third position in Dr Jakkampudi Rammohan Rao Memorial 44th Inter-State Zonal Junior National Badminton Championship at Rajamundry. However, the most memorable victory for the youngster remains the women’s singles title at the North Zone Inter-State Badminton Tournament in Panchkula. “Winning at home… it was special,” said Anupama. “Soon after, I also won the North Zone Inter-State Zonal Badminton Tournament in Panchkula,” she recalled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anupama-aims-to-break-into-top-50-70351
13-04-2020||Karam Prakash---||Doctors demand tax exemptions, incentives||Tribune News Service Patiala, April 12 To boost their morale in the fight against Covid-19, doctors in Punjab today demanded tax exemptions and incentives from the state and the central governments.  They had already appealed to Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief Minister, Punjab, and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to exempt them from income tax for the fiscal year 2020-21. Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers’ Association (PSMDTA) has demanded total exemption from payment of income tax for the current financial year throughout the country. Dr Mridu Gupta, president, PSMDTA, said the amount of income tax government doctors pay annually is equal to their salaries of three months. The doctors’ association said the Haryana Government had already decided to double the salary of all healthcare officials and workers who are tackling the Covid-19 outbreak. The Association had appealed to CM Capt Amarinder Singh to pursue the matter personally with the Central Government.   Dr DS Bhullar, general secretary, PSMDTA, said the government should announce incentives for the doctors, who are at the forefront of the fight against coronavirus. He said, “The best option is to give full insurance coverage to the government doctors and other para-medical staff. Keeping in view the reported incidents of assault on doctors, the state government should also ensure full protection to the doctors on duty.” To donate one-day’ssalary to Covid fund Meanwhile, doctors working in medical and dental colleges, under the state government, have decided to contribute at least their one day’s salary to Punjab Chief Minister Covid-19 Relief Fund to supplement the state government efforts to combat Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctors-demand-tax-exemptions-incentives-70349
13-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Government schools may be used to quarantine slum-dwellers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12The Chandigarh Administration has decided to make use of government school buildings and community centres as quarantine centres for residents of colonies at the event of a mass outbreak of Covid in the city.Though most of the persons coming in contact with the confirmed cases are proposed to be quarantined at their homes only, keeping in view densely populated colonies, the UT Administration is of the view that quarantining of such persons in their small houses was not feasible.The health contingency plan reads, “All such persons may need to be taken out of their colonies and housed in quarantine centres. There are community centres and government schools in almost all sectors of the city. Also, there are covered stadiums in some sectors. Such schools, community centres and stadiums are proposed to be used as quarantine centres.”Besides, the quarantine centres that were identified earlier have been proposed to be used as Covid care centres for confirmed patients with mild symptoms. Every Covid care centre will be mapped to dedicated Covid health centre and dedicated Covid hospital for referral. Every centre will have a dedicated ambulance for safe transport to higher facility if the symptoms progress from mild to moderate or severe. Lodging and food arrangement for these centres will be looked after by the Deputy Commissioner in consultation with the Municipal Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/government-schools-may-be-used-to-quarantine-slum-dwellers-70348
13-04-2020||Amarjot Kaur---||Curfew violators perplex UT cops with hilarious excuses||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 12 Guarding the city’s curfew gates, the UT police personnel are encountering hilarious excuses from lockdown violators — ranging from a man going to the bank on a Sunday to a youth trying to pass the barricades by showing a year-old medical prescription. While sometimes the violators are penalised, the cops have been lenient in situations where the reason is genuine. Most recently, a cop posted near Sector 44 had to impound the two-wheeler ride of a Maloya man. Requesting anonymity, the officer on duty said: “Imagine a man coming all the way from Maloya for a bank-related work, that too on a Sunday. I mean which bank is open on a Sunday?” Another violator told the cops that he had reached the barricade while looking for chicken. “At 5 pm, two hours past the shopping deadline, a young man tried to reason with us so that he got through the checkpoint. He said he’d been looking for chicken all day long and had been touring the city as he was bored of eating vegetarian meals,” another cop said. Stationed at various checkpoints across the city, the cops on duty have come across bizarre explanations from the curfew violators. At a police post in Sector 32, a cop said, “A young boy, who was without the curfew pass and was carrying a year-old prescription, demanded that he be allowed to buy medicines for his parents. Another cop said, “A boy wanted to get through the barricade to go for a job interview. I could do little, but laugh at the explanation. When I requested him to go back, he smiled and agreed.” However, cops let senior citizens pass if the explanation is believable. “Though not many senior citizens venture out, considering the hazard Covid-19 poses to their health, but if they come out to buy medicines or visit a doctor, we don’t trouble them. For youngsters, who give a believable excuse, we ask them to park their vehicles on their side of the sector and walk the distance,” said a cop. Chandigarh SSP Nilambari Jagdale said, “We told the cops of one thumb rule: the broad guidelines must be followed, but at the same time, they must apply their common sense in all situations. There was an incident where a man said that his wife was pregnant and admitted to a hospital, but when the cops asked him to make a call to his pregnant wife, his bluff was caught. Our job is to determine who’s genuine and who’s not, so we are running all necessary checks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curfew-violators-perplex-ut-cops-with-hilarious-excuses-70347
13-04-2020||Khamano||Samples of 10 test negative in Khamano||Samples of 10 persons - 3 health workers and 7 others - tested negative giving respite to Khamano area residents. The samples of 10 persons - three health workers attending to patients and 7 persons from Maneli village - were collected and sent for testing. These all tested negative, said Paramjit Singh, Khamano SDM. Dr Naresh Kumar, an official of the Health Department, Khamano, gave information that report of eight persons whose samples were taken yesterday was awaited. He said they would collect more samples of residents of Maneli, Sanghol and Khamano tomorrow. NK Agarwal, CMO, Fatehgarh Sahib, said till now 32 samples had been taken from the Khamano area. Of this, two women of Maneli village with Jamaat link had tested positive a few days ago. They were undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital, Rajpura. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/samples-of-10-test-negative-in-khamano-70346
13-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Administration may ramp up per day sampling facility||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 12The sampling capacity in the worst-case scenario may have to be ramped up to 200 samples per day facilitated by the upgraded bed facility at the PGIMER, GMSH-16 and the GMCH-32.Though there are currently two VRDL labs in the city, the testing facility at the PGIMER is partly available as the institute is also catering to the adjoining areas of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh for testing the samples.The existing sampling capacity in two shifts of the PGIMER and the GMCH is about 300 and 190 samples per day, respectively. However, about 300 samples of Chandigarh can be tested in both these labs.“As per the established medical protocol, each tested person will be given an earmarked room during his stay in the hospital/sampling centre. Hence, in extreme cases, about 200 samples can be collected in the upgraded bed facility in three hospitals (PGIMER, GMSH and GMCH) by following the protocol of providing the separate rooms,” reads the plan.As per the contingency plan, the sampling facility needs to have isolation beds, preferably independent rooms, for about 12 hours between the collection of sample and receipt of the testing report. However, if the sampling is to increase beyond 200 samples, then the number of persons in each room has to be increased by giving one bed to one suspected person.It has also been suggested that ENT specialists and their interns need to be involved in the sampling process to ensure that correct nasal or throat swab sample is taken.Mohali tests more samples than UTEven though Mohali has the highest number of positive cases (52) in the tricity, the positive rate in both Chandigarh and Mohali is 7 per cent.An expert from the PGI explains, “The positivity rate depends on how common is the disease in the population and criteria used for sampling. If both the factors are the same, the positivity rate will be the same.”The contingency plan of the UT has brought forth apprehensions of infection from adjoining districts. Experts have noted that the number of cases indicate that measures of social distancing have been able to create an impact of containing spread till now. However, Chandigarh, being surrounded by Panchkula and Mohali, faces the danger of cross-border infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-may-ramp-up-per-day-sampling-facility-70345
13-04-2020||---||Spraying disinfectants to keep infection away||Panchkula, April 12Rajesh, who usually works in the encroachment wing of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation, these days sprays disinfectants in different parts of the city.The 30-year-old man, who wasn’t given any sort of training for this task, has picked up some skills as it is similar to spraying pesticides in agricultural fields.“Phone calls to the Municipal Corporation to spray disinfectant have multiplied from various localities as Covid-19 cases are increasing with each passing day. Our team coordinates with the Fire Department. Our superintendent forwards us the complaint after receiving them from the civic body office,” he said.In full protective gear, Rajesh says he also performs duties at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Mauli village where a quarantine facility has been set up.When asked if he is worried of being infected, he said he takes all required precautions and complies with orders from seniors. He earns Rs 14,000 per month for his 8-hour daily duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spraying-disinfectants-to-keep-infection-away-70344
13-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Kin of differently abled soldiers pitch in to make green masks||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 12At a time when social organisations and philanthropists are providing food and other essentials to the poor, the families of the differently abled soldiers are doing their bit by making green masks to help shield sanitation workers, cops and many others from Covid-19.Till date, they had distributed over 3,000 protective masks among the locals and cops for free. About 10 women were involved in this endeavour.Talking to The Tribune, Col (retd) Gurkirat Singh Nagra, director, Paraplegic Rehabilitation Centre (PRC), said we are making 400 green masks daily. Now, we have decided to give 1,000 masks to the defence forces at the Western Command.Colonel Singh said the PRC inmates have also been manufacturing uniform pullovers for students of Army Public School, Dagshai, and Sainik School, Kunjpura. The profit earned from the sale of these items will be distributed among the inmates, he added.He said at present there are 170 persons, including the 30 differently abled soldiers, their families and the PRC staff. He said since the lockdown was announced in the state no one was being allowed to move out of the centre and added that everyone had been observing social distancing. He said they had been getting the raw material and gas cylinders at the centre for preparing food for the people in the centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kin-of-differently-abled-soldiers-pitch-in-to-make-green-masks-70343
13-04-2020||---||Both manual, e-passes valid, says Mohali District Magistrate||Mohali, April 12  Dispelling doubts being raised on the validity of manual restricted/emergency movement passes issued for movement during the curfew period, the district administration today announced that both manual and e-passes were valid till the date mentioned on these. District Magistrate Girish Dayalan said it has been noticed that during checking, objections were being raised on the validity of manual passes. So, formal orders have been issued for considering both the manual as well as the e-passes valid. Those carrying the manual passes must not be harassed, reiterated Dayalan. Notably, in the initial days of the lockdown, the district administration had issued manual passes to the people involved in delivering essential services such as milk vendors, vegetable sellers, newspaper hawkers, garbage collectors, sanitation workers etc but with the gradual shift to e-passes, they were facing difficulty in justifying the legitimacy of manual passes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/both-manual-e-passes-valid-says-mohali-district-magistrate-70342
13-04-2020||---||Cigarette vendor held for curfew violation in Sector 26||Chandigarh, April 12 The UT police arrested a cigarette vendor for selling tobacco products in Sector 26 here. The suspect was selling products in the market posing as a security guard to ensure nobody questions him. Police officials said cops were on patrolling when a person was found roaming in the market. The person claimed he had come to purchase ‘bidi’ from a person who is selling it at a higher price. The police visited the spot and nabbed a person, identified as Gaury, a resident of Shastri Nagar, Mani Majra. The police recovered 800 cigarette packets, 2,500 pouches of chewing tobacco, 100 pan masala packets and 50 packets of ‘bidi’. He has been booked under Section 188 of the IPC at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cigarette-vendor-held-for-curfew-violation-in-sector-26-70341
13-04-2020||---||City police hold meet with J&K, Ladakh association members||Chandigarh, April 12 The UT police today held a meeting with members of various associations hailing from Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, at the Police Headquarters, Sector 9, here, today. Police officials said the meeting, which was chaired by UT SSP Nilambari Jagdale, was called to address the grievances and issues faced by these people following lockdown due to Covid-19. The police said issue of allowing people from their state and community to leave was raised during the meeting. The SSP said as per the government guidelines, they were not allowed to leave the city. However, they might leave Chandigarh in case of an emergency after obtaining necessary permission. The police said the representatives were also provided with mobile numbers of nodal officers deputed by the Administration, who could be contacted in need of ration and food. “They can call on 112 for any sort of assistance required. They were also advised to follow the protocol i.e. maintaining social distancing, wearing mask and using sanitiser,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-police-hold-meet-with-jk-ladakh-association-members-70340
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Christians celebrate Easter at their home||Amid the lockdown in the tricity, members of the Christian community celebrated Easter at their home. Priests prayed from their Churches for the entire community. They also prayed for the healing of Covid-19 sufferers in the entire world and for the peace and harmony in our country. Sharing the importance of this day, All-Churches Council president Anil Masih said: “Easter is the most festive event of Christians celebrated all over the world. It signifies the remembrance of Jesus Christ resurrecting from death after his crucifixion as we’ve all read in the Bible”. “Easter is celebrated in the joy of Lord Jesus being resurrected after the gruesome crucifixion and sacrifice he gave for his people. The devotees believe that Lord Jesus fought with death, defeated it and rose to glory from his grave on third day. It happened on a Sunday. So we celebrate Easter on a Sunday,” he said. Churches are decorated and filled with cheer and joy during this time. But this year, all Christian community members stayed back at their homes for the prayers due to the Covid-19 pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/christians-celebrate-easter-at-their-home-70339
13-04-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Sanitising tunnel at Dera Bassi hospital, Zirakpur Municipal Council||Dera Bassi, April 12 Manpreet Singh Bunny Sandhu, vice-chairman of Punjab Agro Industries Corporation, Chandigarh, and a local Congress leader, here today donated sanitisation tunnels to the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, and the Zirakpur Municipal Council. The tunnels will help in sanitising medical, paramedical staff and visitors to the hospital and the MC office to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Bunny said in the wake of Covid pandemic, installation of disinfectant sprinkler system to sanitise people entering and exiting the premises had become imperative. He said fumigation tunnel or sanitiser room would reduce the risk of infection. Manpreet said the tunnel could disinfect a person fully from head to toe in just three seconds and the solution used was completely harmless. The tunnel could screen one person at a time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitising-tunnel-at-dera-bassi-hospital-zirakpur-municipal-council-70338
13-04-2020||Chandigarh||Check supply of NCERT books: Parents’ association||The Chandigarh Parents’ Association (CPA) submitted a representation to the UT Adviser demanding to streamline the supply of NCERT books to students, if the Administration was planning to deliver syllabus books on the doorstep of students in the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. On Saturday, the Administration hinted to start the process of delivering books to students. CPA members, however, alleged that some private schools might take advantage of this and deliver books of private publishers instead of regulated NCERT books. “When the syllabus is uniform across the country, the set of textbooks should also be uniform across schools to break the monopoly,” said Nitin Goyal, president, CPA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/check-supply-of-ncert-books-parents-association-70337
13-04-2020||---||Arhtiyas seek clearance of pending dues||Patiala, April 12 Arhtiyas in the state have threatened to boycott government purchase of wheat over their demands for medical insurance policies for labourers, clearance of payment of Rs 131 crore and permission to pay farmers by deducting advance payments.  Commission agents said they would consequently be cut out of business after the state government recently demanded details of farmers and quantity of wheat produce during the previous season to ensure crop purchase amid curfew. The government has  already notified amendment in the Agriculture Produce Markets Rules 2020.  Agents under the banner of Arhtiya Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, formed by Punjab Arhtiya Association on April 10 said they would boycott government purchase of wheat crop. Pippal Singh, chairman, Arhtiya Sangharsh Committee, said, “We want the government to provide insurance policies for arhtiyas, munims and labourers as they are equally vulnerable to Covid-19 just like doctors, cleanliness workers and others. They should be treated at par with other people, who are working in such circumstances.” “Workers are reluctant to go to mandis fearing infection,” he added.  Harjit Singh Sheru, senior vice president, Punjab Arhtiya Association, said, “The state government is yet to clear payments of arhtiyas amounting Rs 131 crore of previous paddy season. Moreover, farmers have collected money from us in advance, which we want to be deducted from their payments for the produce and pay them through cheque.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/arhtiyas-seek-clearance-of-pending-dues-70336
