13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adds five more coronavirus fatalities, 71 new cases||Five more coronavirus fatalities took Chandigarh’s death count to stand at just under 200, health officials said on Tuesday.The city also reported 71 new cases to its tally, taking the union territory’s infection count to 13,331.Four of the five fatalities were over 60.A 76-year-old woman from Sector 56 died at Sector 32’s Government Medical College and Hospital. She had kidney problems and died of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome, a medical bulletin said. The second death at GMCH was a 96 year old man from Sector 43 who had hypertension.Three people died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research---a 61 year old woman from Sector 8 who was diabetic and had hypertension, a 55-year-old man from Vikas Nagar (Mauli Jagran) who was diabetic and an 81-year-old man from Sector 45 who had heart problems. The UT also reported 109 recoveries.Chandigarh now has 1,324 active cases. Chandigarh statusTotal: 13,331Active: 1,324Deaths: 197||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adds-five-more-coronavirus-fatalities-71-new-cases-155219
13-10-2020||---||One more fatality due to Covid in Mohali district||Mohali, October 13Mohali district witnessed one more fatality due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours taking the toll to 209 while 44 fresh positive cases surfaced.Out of the total 44 positive cases, two each were from Dera Bassi, Kharar and Lalru, and 35 from Mohali urban.Meanwhile, 60 patients were cured and discharged from the hospital.As of now there are 11,517 Covid cases and out of these 10,394 patients were cured. There are 914 active cases with 209 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-more-fatality-due-to-covid-in-mohali-district-155194
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration bans hookah bars from operating in city||The Chandigarh Administration on Tuesday imposed a ban on hookah bars.  In an order issued by District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar, under Section 144 of the CrPC, “no hookah shall be served for smoke/consumption in hotels/restaurants/taverns/bars/hookah bars, etc”.The hookah bars are thus banned to operate in Chandigarh with respect to their offering hookahs to the visitors, the order said.The order also said that it has been made to appear that hookah bars are operational in Chandigarh in a clandestine way, which are serving flavored hookahs including tobacco molasses containing nicotine, which is highly injurious to health of people and at times there is a suspicion that apart from tobacco, other harmful narcotic chemicals are also mixed with tobacco molasses served in these hookah bars.Whereas, the hookah in many of these bars is being smoked/consumed by the people/customers through a common bowl, pipe and a hose having mouth piece, which is susceptible to physical mouth to mouth touch of many persons, thus posing danger to human life, health and safety by becoming a cause of as well as leading to the transmission and spread of pandemic COVID-19 in Chandigarh, it said.Any person violating this order shall be punished under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-bans-hookah-bars-from-operating-in-city-155162
13-10-2020||Panchkula||47 infections in Panchkula, no death||The district today reported 47 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 6,640.The fresh cases include five each from Bhainsa Tibba, Police Lines, Sector 16 and Sector 27, four from Sector 7, three each from Power Colony and Sector 20, two each from Pinjore, Sector 15 and Sector 17, one each from Nanakpur, Rajiv Colony, Sector 10, Sector 12, Sector 12-A, Sector 25, Sector 4, Sector 6, Sector 8, Sector 9 and Surajpur. The district did not witness any death due to the virus today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/47-infections-in-panchkula-no-death-154807
13-10-2020||---||Gurlal Brar's murder: Assailants identified, bike found||Chandigarh, October 12The UT police have identified the assailants who had shot dead Gurlal Brar (26) outside City Emporium Mall in Industrial Area, Phase I, on Saturday night. The motorcycle used in the crime has been recovered by the police.Gurlal, former state president of Student Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU), was shot dead by three motorcycle-borne assailants outside City Emporium Mall while he was waiting for his friends in his SUV on the roadside.The UT SSP, Kuldeep Singh Chahal, confirmed that the suspects had been identified and the motorcycle on which they arrived at the spot had also been recovered.Meanwhile, a few persons were questioned by the police at the crime branch, Sector 11.Sources said several teams had been dispatched to raid the possible hideouts of the assailants in Punjab.The police are investigating the rivalry between the Bishnoi gang and the Davinder Bambiha group. “The FB post, reportedly uploaded from the profile of Davinder Bambiha, is also being investigated,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurlal-brars-murder-assailants-identified-bike-found-154808
13-10-2020||Amit Sharma||FB easy platform for cyber war of gangsters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12Social media, especially Facebook, has turned out to be a platform for the so-called gangsters to issue threats to their rivals and claim responsibility for killings carried out by them.A day after Gurlal Brar was murdered, a Facebook post was uploaded from one of the profiles of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi that says: ‘It is start of new war”. A picture of Gurala with Bishnoi was also shared with the post.There are multiple social media accounts of student leader-turned-gangster Bishnoi which are updated on a regular basis.For three recent murders reported in Chandigarh, gangsters or their groups claimed the responsibility through Facebook posts, barely a few hours after the killings.In September last year, Rajveer Singh, alias Sonu Shah, was shot dead by four assailants inside his office at Burail village, Sector 45. The assailants had pumped 10 bullets into Shah’s body. His two colleagues, who were present at his office at that time, had also suffered bullet injuries. A day later, a post was updated on a Lawrence Bishnoi’s Facebook profile claiming the responsibility for the murder.Later when Bishnoi was brought by the Chandigarh police on production warrant, he revealed that the Facebook post claiming responsibility for Sonu Shah’s murder was posted by one of his henchmen.In March this year, Surjit Singh, a bouncer-turned-financier, was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne persons near his house in Sector 38 (West). He was returning home in his car when the assailants opened fire at him.Within a few hours after the murder, an unidentified person updated a post on the Facebook page of gangster Davinder Bambiha, stating that Lucky has avenged the killing of Amit Sharma who was shot dead at Saketri, Panchkula in 2017.Gangster Bambiha was killed in a police encounter at Gill Kala, near Rampura, Punjab, in 2016. However, Facebook profiles with his names and photos are updated frequently.Similarly, two Facebook profiles on Bambiha’s name were updated a few hours after 26-year-old Gurlal Brar, an acquaintance of Lawrence Bishnoi, was shot dead outside City Emporium Mall in Industrial Area, Phase I.The posts state Lucky had avenged the murder of Lavi Deora. Lavi was killed at Kotkapura, Faridkot, allegedly by the Bishnoi gang.Police sources said many gangsters had been operating mobile phones from within jails of Punjab and Rajasthan. “They have been ordering killings from inside the jails,” said a policeman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fb-easy-platform-for-cyber-war-of-gangsters-154809
13-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Best scorer of Khelo India Games works as labourer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12From being one of the top scorers of the third Khelo India U-21 Games to performing small-time labourer job, an 18-year-old ace hockey striker, Harpreet Singh, had never thought of doing anything like this out of desperation.A former trainee of the Chandigarh Hockey Academy (CHA) and a Class XII student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 37-D, Harpreet is working as a labourer in two shifts to earn Rs800 a day and bring home bread and butter for his family.He practises hockey from 4 am to 6 am before attending his first job of the day as a paving and surfacing labourer from 8 am to 5 pm. Later, he works as an unloading labourer at a local vegetable market or at local rice mills from 8 pm to 2 am.Having played 11 nationals from Chandigarh and several local-level championships, Harpreet is one of the unlucky talents to skip the eyes of national selectors. He had scored eight goals to remain the highest scorer of the Khelo India Games held in Guwahati in January this year and was also adjudged the best player of the 2016 Nehru Cup.A resident of Mangarh village in Amloh, Fatehgarh Sahib, Harpreet was inducted in the Chandigarh Hockey Academy in 2015.“I don’t know how I skipped getting a call for the Indian junior probable squad. The more shocking was not getting selected for the Khelo India scheme. I was expecting to get some kind of scholarship to improve my hockey skills and help my family. But these were back-to-back setbacks,” said Harpreet.His father works in a hotel, while mother accompanies him to paving and surfacing labourer job. “I work twice a day to earn Rs800. In Chandigarh, I get support from coaches and friends, but here I have to work to earn money. I don’t know if I will return to complete Class XII. If the hockey academy opens, I will surely be going to practice there. I was in similar situation in the pre-Covid times,” he said.Last hope for scholarshipThe ace striker said he was eager to comeback and join hockey training to get some kind of scholarship. “Playing for India is always a dream, but performing consistent is what I focus on. With the labourer job, I am not able to concentrate on my game. Mental stress and lack of diet are suppressing my body. I just wish to come back soon and find some place in the scholarship scheme. I don’t know if I will be able to pass my higher education,” said Harpreet. “I am unaware what went wrong with him. He is not made for working as a labourer. One should see him playing. He is natural but needed support or else he will end up as a lost soul,” said CHA coach Gurminder Singh.Practises hockey from 4 am to 6 amHarpreet practises hockey from 4 am to 6 am before attending his first job of the day as a paving and surfacing labourer from 8 am to 5 pm. Later, he unloads goods at a vegetable market or at rice mills from 8 pm to 2 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/best-scorer-of-khelo-india-games-works-as-labourer-154810
13-10-2020||---||No stopping trigger-happy youths||Chandigarh, October 12Three shots were fired outside a night club in Sector 9 following a fight between two groups who had come to the club last night. A 22-year-old youth, who is popular on TikTok and Instagram for making short videos, suffered a gunshot wound.According to the police, the complainant, Akash, a resident of Zirakpur, reported that he, along with his friends Sourav Gujjar and Kunal, reached the EskoBar club around 9.30 pm. The trio was sitting on a table while the suspect, Mouvis Bains, along with four others, was sitting on the other table.After sometime, members of both groups started dancing on the dance floor. While dancing, Sourav and Mouvis exchanged heated words when the latter threw money before him apparently as a reward for his dance moves. When Sourav asked a worker of the club to pick up the money, Mouvis slapped him.The bouncers intervened and both groups came out of the club where they again quarrelled.According to the complainant, one of Mouvis’ friends opened fire at Sourav and his friends. Three gun shots were fired. One hit Sourav near the waist.The suspects fled the spot after the incident. The police were informed about the incident around 11.40 pm, following which a team rushed to the spot. Meanwhile, Sourav was rushed to the PGI.The police scrutinised the footage of the CCTV cameras installed outside the club.A case under Sections 307 and 34 of the IPC and 25/27/54/59 of the Arms Act has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. The police said raids were being conducted to nab the suspects. “Two teams have been sent to Ludhiana and Kharar to nab the accused,” said a police official. Sourav (22) is famous on TikTok and with background music.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-stopping-trigger-happy-youths-154811
13-10-2020||---||ITI student electrocuted||Chandigarh, October 12A 20-year-old youth was electrocuted on the road separating Sector 56 and Maloya yesterday. He has been identified as Mandeep (20), a resident of Sector 56. He was pursuing ITI from an institute in Mohali.Sources said Mandeep, along with his friends, was going to Maloya to play football. Mandeep was electrocuted when he touched a light pole while crossing the road.He was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Phase VI, Mohali, from where he was referred to the PGI. He died in the wee hours today. The police have launched investigation into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/iti-student-electrocuted-154812
13-10-2020||---||Man succumbs to Covid in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 12The city today reported 98 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 13,260. The UT also saw a death due to the virus, taking the toll to 192.A 70-year-old man from Sector 50 died at the GMCH-32. He was also suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension.A total of 111 patients were discharged after being cured. The total number of cured patients stands at 11,898. The recovery rate in the city stands at 89.7 per cent. The UT has 1,170 active cases. As many as 1,334 persons have been sampled in the city in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-succumbs-to-covid-in-chandigarh-154813
13-10-2020||Mohali||Mohali recovery rate touches 90 per cent||The district has witnessed over 90 per cent recovery rate. A total of 11,473 Covid cases have been reported from the district and 10,334 of these have been cured till Monday.As many as 58 more persons contracted the infection in the district today, taking the tally to 11,473. Meanwhile, 144 patients defeated the virus and were discharged from the hospital.Among the fresh cases, 42 were reported from Mohali (urban), seven from Kharar, six from Dera Bassi and three from Kurali. The district did not witness any death due to Covid-19 today.So far, 11,473 persons have tested positive in the district and 10,334 of them have been cured and discharged from hospitals. There are 931 cases with 208 deaths in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-recovery-rate-touches-90-per-cent-154814
13-10-2020||Vijay Mohan||Mohali centre develops technology for aquaponic cultivation of plants||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12The Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC), Mohali, has developed the technology for aquaponic cultivation of plants, which is not only environment-friendly but also has high socio-economic benefits for the farming community.Aquaponics is an emerging technique in which both fish as well as plants complement each other to sustain and grow. The fish waste provides organic food for plants and plants naturally filter the water, which is used to replenish the fish tank. There is no requirement for the use of soil and fertilisers.“The process is completely organic, increases productivity of the given land, saves water and also augments the farmers’ income,” said Dr PK Khosla, Director, C-DAC. “The technology has been developed and suitable protocols have been evolved for scientists and farmers,” he said.The process is completely organic, increases productivity of the given land, saves water and also augments the farmers’ income. The technology has been developed and suitable protocols have been evolved for scientists and farmers. —Dr PK Khosla, Director, C-DACA pilot project to develop the technology was awarded to the C-DAC by the Ministry of Information and Technology and a budget of Rs1.60 crore sanctioned for it. A plant has been set up at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana, which is scheduled to be inaugurated on October 13. Scientists from GADVASU as well as Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, are also being associated with the project.Water from fish tanks is made to flow through horizontal pipes that are fixed on a framework one on top of the other with the required gap to accommodate the plants. Holes are made in the pipes into which small perforated cups containing plants are laid. Roots of the plants draw nutrients from water flowing through the pipes. The pipes can he stacked up to a reasonable height, thereby drastically reducing the area required for the same number of plants to be cultivated.Aquaponics is suitable to cultivate lettuce, spinach, capsicum, coriander, broccoli and some other leafy plants without the use of soil, pesticides and fertilisers. The area where plants grow is enclosed in a glasshouse-like structure.According to a scientist at the C-DAC, three water tanks with a combined capacity of 54,000 litres containing three kg of fish have been installed at the pilot project. The fish would further multiply. This quantity is sufficient to sustain 2,000 plants.Though aquaponics is a relatively new field in the country, it is being used in several parts of the world as it offers a diverse and stable poly-culture system that allows farmers to grow vegetables and raise fish at the same time. While it is ecologically sustainable, aquaponics also reduces pressure on land and cuts down operational costs. About AquaponicsAquaponics is an emerging technique in which both fish as well as plants complement each other to sustain and grow. The fish waste provides organic food for plants and plants naturally filter the water, which is used to replenish the fish tank. There is no requirement for the use of soil and fertilisers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-centre-develops-technology-for-aquaponic-cultivation-of-plants-154815
13-10-2020||---||Two more arrested in murder case of a Himachal native in Zirakpur road rage||Zirakpur, October 12Two more suspects, including a woman, have been arrested by the Mohali police in connection with the murder of a Himachal Pradesh native in a road-rage incident. The male suspect has been identified as Lovepreet Singh, alias Love, a native of Muktsar.A silver Fortuner, which had a fake registration number, and a red Swift belonging to the suspects have been impounded.Earlier, the police had arrested Ramesh Lal, a Chamba native, in the case. “We have formed teams to trace the other accused. Soon, they will be caught,” said a police official.The incident happened on the night of Friday when a Faridkot native, Happy Brar, reportedly shot dead Anil Thakur (35), a native of old Mandi, who resided in Kharar with his wife and 10-month-old son. The two groups had a fight over overtaking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-arrested-in-murder-case-of-a-himachal-native-in-zirakpur-road-rage-154816
13-10-2020||Naina Mishra||Parents in Chandigarh unwilling to send their kids back to school||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12In the responses received by the UT Education Department on reopening of schools after October 15, it has come forth that only a few parents have given consent to send their children to schools. However, the exact data is yet to be disclosed by the department.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “We will wait for the Central Government’s decision on Navodaya and Kendriya Vidyalaya schools. We are in no hurry to take any decision and will see what the adjoining states have decided. From the responses received so far, it is clear that a lot of parents are not in favour of the opening of schools. The UT Administration will make a decision a few days.”Teacher-Parent discussions on the cardsThe school heads were asked to have a discussion with both teachers and parents regarding re-opening of schools and supply class-wise information of the number of parents and teachers that are interested and uninterested in the opening of schools.UT District Education Officer Ravinder Kaur said, “Parents are unwilling to send their children to school and it seems that they are contented with the present system of online classes. Even students of classes IX to XII, who are coming to us voluntarily, have to attend online classes in the evening. A report has been submitted to higher authorities for them to make a decision.”We will wait for the Central Government’s decision on Navodaya and Kendriya Vidyalaya institutions. We are in no hurry to take any decision and will see what the adjoining states have decided. From the responses received so far, it is clear that a lot of parents are not in favour of opening of schools. —Manoj Parida, UT AdviserOnly 15% parents agree in private schools: SurveyEven private schools are not in favour of the opening of schools as they had received poor response in the partial reopening phase, said UT District Education Officer Ravinder Kaur.HS Mamik, president, Independent School Association, said, “We conducted a survey in private schools and found out that only 10 to 15 per cent of parents have agreed to come to schools and the remaining have not given consent.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-in-chandigarh-unwilling-to-send-their-kids-back-to-school-154817
13-10-2020||---||Toilets at toll plaza raise a stink||Dera Bassi, October 12Public toilets at the Dappar Toll plaza are in a shambles. These stink badly due to poor water supply inside and irregular cleaning. Garbage was also seen scattered outside the toilet.Baljeet, one of the users, said the public toilets are in such bad shape that it’s nearly impossible to use them. Another user Harjit Pal added, “Even outside the toilet, one can not stand due to the foul smell coming from inside. It is shameful that authorities collect huge amount at toll plaza but they have failed to maintain the public toilets.” Commuters claimed that no regular cleaning was done here. They said the authorities concerned should take stock of the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/toilets-at-toll-plaza-raise-a-stink-154818
13-10-2020||---||Employees protest non-release of DC rates||Chandigarh, October 12The Coordination Committee of Government and MC Employees and Workers UT, Chandigarh, held a protest at the DC’s office against the UT Administration for not releasing the DC rates and strongly condemned the decision of the administration to not revise the salary of outsourced workers.The protesters submitted a memorandum to Sachin Rana, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Chandigarh.Satinder Singh, president and Rakesh Kumar, general secretary, said over 12,000 outsourced workers under the UT Administration and MC are continuously being exploited by the contractors of the GeM portal by ‘illegally’ deducting their salaries. At the time of change, the contractor demands 15 to 20 thousand for their re-engagement. Also, 15 casual leaves are also not granted as per the agreement of Gem portal also not implementing labour laws. On the other hand, the administration was not taking any action against the corrupt practise.Recently the administration initiated a vigilance inquiry against the contractors of the GeM portal but suddenly administration stopped the process of inquiry without any reason. Now, the administration was not revising their salaries. Revision of DC rates was due since April 1, 2020 but the administration decided to freeze the DC rates till further decision.A delegation the co-ordination committee also submitted representation pertaining the issues/problems and revision the salary of outsourced workers to Rana .The committee warns that if the administration does not take appropriate action against contractors of GeM portal a similar protest would be organised on October 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/employees-protest-non-release-of-dc-rates-154819
13-10-2020||---||Class XI admission: 3rd round of counselling begins tomorrow||Chandigarh, October 12The UT Education Department has decided to hold third round of counselling for candidates who could not take admission during the first and second round of counselling for admissions in Class XI from October 14.The application form is available on the website of the department i.e. www.chdeducation.gov.in .Form Availble OnlineAfter downloading and filling in the form, a scanned copy should be submitted online on admissionxiut@gmail.com from October 14 to 16 till 5 pm.The candidates will have to mention five preferences/options from the schools/streams.The scanned copy of the detailed marksheets needs to be sent through mail. To facilitate the students, helpdesks would be set up in three schools, i.e. GMSSS, 19, GMSSS, MHC, Mani Majra and GMSSS, 40. These help desks would function from October 14 to 16 (9:00 am to 1:30 pm).Students who are unable to mail the admission form can visit these schools and submit a copy of the same in these schools. Only those candidates who have not been able to get a seat in any of the two previous counsellings are eligible to apply in third round of counselling.Preference would be given those candidates who have passed Class X from government schools of Chandigarh. No request for change of school or stream will be entertained in this round.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/class-xi-admission-3rd-round-of-counselling-begins-tomorrow-154821
13-10-2020||---||Webinar on New Education Policy||Chandigarh, October 12A webinar on National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 was organised by the Chandigarh NCC unit to discuss the salient features of the policy.Dr Rakesh Thakur from Post Graduate Government College, Sector 11, explained the proposed 3+5+3+4 structure of education, provision of Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE), bridging the gap between the curriculum and co-curriculum activities, attaining functional literacy and numeracy and introduction of 360 degree assessment for learning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-on-new-education-policy-154822
13-10-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chhatbir Zoo may open next month||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, October 12Closed since March due to the Covid-induced lockdown, Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, commonly known as Chhatbir Zoo, is expected to be thrown open to public next month.The authorities said they would send detailed SOPs to the state government in the next 10 days to seek its permission to open the zoo.An official said though the Centre had allowed opening of zoos, approval from the state government would be taken in this regard. The authorities are also taking no chance as a tiger in a US zoo had tested positive for Covid-19.Online Entry TicketsM Sudhagar, Field Director of Chhatbir Zoo, said: “We will send SOPs to the state government in the next 10 days. The decision to open the zoo will be taken after getting permission from the government.”The authorities have planned online bookings for entry ticket, parking ticket, tiger safari and video camera. They are also planning to make online booking for food items in canteens on the zoo premises.Other arrangements such as sanitisation, cleaning and putting up barricades to maintain distance between visitors and animals will be made. Officials will also keep an eye on any sudden change in the behaviour of animals.As per the Centre, there should be isolation and quarantine facilities available for animals.Rs4.5 cr ‘loss’ since MarchChhatbir Zoo faced a ‘loss’ of around Rs4.50 crore due to the lockdown. Official said they do not see it as a loss as the zoo was not run like some industry, whose aim was to make profit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chhatbir-zoo-may-open-next-month-154823
13-10-2020||Panchkula||Fix rates for door-to-door garbage collection: RWAs||Residents welfare associations (RWAs) have urged the Municipal Corporation to introduce uniform rates for door-to-door garbage collection.SK Nayar, chairman, Citizen Welfare Association (CWA), has requested MC Administrator-cum-Commissioner Mahavir Singh to initiate steps to introduce the scheme for the better interests of residents and the civic body.Nayar said the MC has time and again assured associations to implement fix door-to-door garbage collection rates in view of the ‘unfriendly’ attitude of private garbage collectors in each sector, but to no avail.Nayar said neighbouring cities, including Chandigarh and Mohali, had already implemented the uniform rates for door-to-door garbage collection to provide better facilities to residents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fix-rates-for-door-to-door-garbage-collection-rwas-154824
13-10-2020||Mohali||Flight brings home 84 stranded abroad||An evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 84 passengers from Sharjah landed at the Chandigarh International Airport, Mohali, on Monday.The IndiGo operated Air Bubble flight arrived at the local airport at 7.30 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per government guidelines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flight-brings-home-84-stranded-abroad-154825
13-10-2020||---||Induction programme held||Chandigarh, October 12KBS Sidhu, Special Chief Secretary, Punjab and Director General, Mahatma Gandhi Punjab State Institute of Public Administration, Chandigarh today inaugurated online student induction programme of the first batch (2020-22) of the AICTE approved PGDM Course of PML SD Business School, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/induction-programme-held-154826
13-10-2020||Naina Mishra||Experts warn of second Covid wave in winter, festive season||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12After Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Sunday announced that the onset of winters could lead to a spurt in coronavirus cases, experts too here warned of another wave in the winter season, if standard protocol was not followed.From the past three weeks, active cases have started to decline in the city as daily recoveries are surpassing new cases. The city is witnessing a declining trend with 0.8 per cent growth rate.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, said, “We have to stick to the standard protocol for keeping epidemic surge at bay, especially during the winter season, as respiratory viruses thrive better in cold weather and low humidity conditions.”We have to stick to the standard protocol for keeping epidemic surge at bay, especially during the winter season, as respiratory viruses thrive better in cold weather and low humidity conditions. —Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI“If precautions are not taken, the situation can go out of hand with sudden rise of Covid-19 cases. Besides, people need to be extra cautious during the festival season and practice social distancing,” he added.The UT Administrator on Monday also directed Deputy Commissioner to ensure that festivals were celebrated by the people while strictly following the Covid-19 protocol.He instructed that necessary guidelines should be issued while giving permissions for public celebrations.Prof JS Thakur, the Department of Community Medicine and Public Health, said, “In the absence of any vaccine, mask is the only inoculation. People should wear mask all the time. For any change in season, the viral infection is common among people. How the virus behaves in winter needs to be seen, but there is already second wave in other countries and a similar trend can be expected here too.”“Residents must also avoid crowded places and gatherings during the festival season. They should try to go to market when there is less crowd,” he added.The Union Health Minister had stated, “During winter, there is a tendency of overcrowding in residential dwellings, which may increase transmission. So, in the Indian context, it will not be wrong to assume that the winter season may see an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases.”The minister also cited examples of the European countries, especially the United Kingdom, where the number of infections has gone up with the advent of winter.Recently, the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had recommended in a document that Delhi should prepare for a daily surge of approximately 15,000 positive cases and make arrangements for patients’ admission with moderate and severe disease.Meanwhile, Manoj Parida, the UT Adviser, said, “We will make proper market arrangement for residents during the festival season and issue guidelines for social distancing and safety protocol. We have adequate infrastructure for the surge expected in the winter season as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experts-warn-of-second-covid-wave-in-winter-festive-season-154828
13-10-2020||Panchkula||Sans job, banker kills self at Panchkula hotel||A 34-year-old man from Daria in Chandigarh ended his life by consuming poisonous substance at Hotel Shiraaz in Sector 10 here.The victim, identified as Lovekesh Kumar, was mentally disturbed as he was fired from his banking job on the charge of committing financial fraud. He had been missing since Saturday and his car was found parked in the parking lot of the hotel.Thereafter, police officials found the door of his hotel room locked. Upon entering the room, he was found dead.He reportedly checked into the hotel on Saturday and most likely consumed poison on the same day, police officials said.A suicide note was recovered from the spot wherein the victim blamed senior bank officials for taking the extreme step. The victim, in the note, further stated that several bank officials were involved in the alleged fraud.He was terminated from his job around eight to 10 months ago, much before the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown. A case under Section 306 (abetment of suicide), IPC, has been registered at the Sector 5 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sans-job-banker-kills-self-at-panchkula-hotel-154829
13-10-2020||---||Owner, five others booked for partying at Sec 38 house||Chandigarh, October 12The police have registered a case against six persons for partying at a house in Sector 38 in violation of the Covid-19 guidelines.According to the police, Munish Gupta had organised a party at his house where guests were not wearing masks and social distancing was also not observed. Loud music was played at the party, the police added. Officials met Mahesh, the complainant, at the spot, who alleged that persons identified as Sarwan Singla, Chetan Munjal, Kanu Sharma, Rinku and Peeta Talwandi, assaulted him at the party, the police said.A case under Sections 188, 269, 270, 323, 506 and 34, IPC, and under Sections 4 and 5, Noise Pollution Act, has been registered against Gupta and five others at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/owner-five-others-booked-for-partying-at-sec-38-house-154832
13-10-2020||Mona & Sheetal||Shooting incidents put Chandigarh night life under a cloud||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12A man shot dead in a road rage incident on Friday night at Zirakpur, former SOPU Chief shot outside Emporium Mall in Chandigarh on Sunday night to TikTok star Sourav Gujjar fired on Sunday night. The three back to back incidents tell about the troubled law and order situation in the tricity. That the two out of these three incidents happened outside night clubs - Gujjar was attacked post a tiff on the dance floor of Eskobar, Sector 9, has brought the city night life under the cloud yet again.It's not the first time that night clubs have become spot of scuffles. Last year too there was firing near Play Ground, a discotheque in Sector 26 over entry being denied. A police commando was shot dead post a brawl at point blank range outside Walking Street Club and Disc, on August 4, 2019.Arising firing cases in UtDo party goers feel safe in the light of these incidents?Keshav Awasthi, who works at an IT company in Mohali, was out with his friends on the night Gurlal Brar was shot dead in cold blood. "I was with my friends in Sector 17. Through some friends and their Instagram stories, we came to know how someone fired bullets near Playboy Club. It is true that things are worsening in the city with each passing night," says Awasthi."Earlier, we used to think girls are not safe at night in Chandigarh, but with this incident and more like it in the past, it would not be wrong to say that even boys are no longer safe. One bullet can cost us our life which is why, I will abstain from partying at clubs or at the least will avoid places where there's riskier crowd," he added."Ladies night has become a big no in Chandigarh for a year now, at least for me," says Nikita Mehta, a 25-year-old Panjab University pass-out. "Night life was much safer in my initial years in college. Brawls and firing incidents make regular headlines in papers. So, it has become tougher to convince parents," she added.Playground, Social and Molecule, are her favourites in terms of crowd and ambience, but now frequenting these has become an elusive dream, because of Covid-19 and also because of the latest incidents. After a hard day at work, 26-year-old Raghav Jaiswal, businessman, who runs an office in Industrial Area, Chandigarh, finds partying to be the best way to relax and catch up with his friends at night."I am aware of what happened over the weekend, but honestly one can easily figure out this was the result of personal vendetta. Had the assailant got a chance to kill him in daytime, he would have done it then too. No one else got hurt but the target," says Jaiswal.Having said that, he doesn't deny that it would definitely affect the way nightlife is seen in Chandigarh. "What is concerning is not nightlife, but the raging gun violence. What is the route to ensure safety? And how many roads would have to be dodged to finally realise that changing our route won't shorten the distance towards safer tomorrow be it day or night?" he added.Vipul Dua, owner Peddlers, puts forth, "As an owner of a pub, I and others alike, all believe in ensuring the safety of their patrons. At the same time, despite bouncers, police doing their duty, still there would be incidents that are not avoidable. It is the collective responsibility of owners and partygoers alike. The onus also falls on the way we conduct ourselves individually. Most of the times the crowd behaves responsibly, but there are good and bad people everywhere. I have always tried to make sure to provide a safe environment at our place."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shooting-incidents-put-chandigarh-night-life-under-a-cloud-154833
13-10-2020||---||Maid, 2 accomplices held for stealing gold jewellery||Panchkula, October 12A maid and her two accomplices were arrested by the detective staff of the city police for allegedly stealing gold ornaments from a flat in Sector 20 here.The suspects were identified as Soni Devi, aka Pinki, a resident of Bahadurgarh in Haryana, Rishi Kant, and Rahul Kumar, a resident of Delhi.They were arrested yesterday and produced ina local court today. The court sent them to five-day police custody.According to the police, the suspects committed theft on July 23, 2019, at the Sector 20 residence of a couple identified as Jaspal and Harjeet Kaur.The suspects committed the crime when Jaspal and Harjeet had gone to a hospital for latter’s treatment in the afternoon.When the couple returned, they found the door of the locker open and jewellery items, including three gold bangles, three gold necklaces, one bracelet for men and two pair of earrings missing. The maid was hired by the couple a day before the incident.A case under Sections 380 and 454 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the suspects at the Sector 20 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maid-2-accomplices-held-for-stealing-gold-jewellery-154835
13-10-2020||---||Hathras rape: United Akali Dal activists protest at Sec 17||Chandigarh, October 12The United Akali Dal (UAD) held a protest demanding action against officials in the Hathras case, at the Sector 17 Plaza today. The protesters also demanded that bottlenecks in providing scholarships for school and college students should be removed.They raised slogans against the authorities. The protesters tried to March from the Sector 17 Plaza to the Governor house. However, they were stopped by the police at Sector 17.The party president, Gurdeep Singh Bathinda, said, “We want that the Deputy Commissioner and Superintendent of Police in Hathras should be punished in this murder case.”“The Centre’s scholarship is not being properly given to students in the state,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hathras-rape-united-akali-dal-activists-protest-at-sec-17-154837
13-10-2020||Mohali||Betting racket: Suspects sent to three-day police remand||The two suspects arrested by the police involved in betting in IPL cricket matches and drug trafficking at Homeland Society in Sector 70 here, were sent to three-day police remand by the Mohali court today.Suspects Vipan Kumar and Rakesh Manchanda, alias Rinku, indulged in betting on the ongoing IPL matches.The Mohali SP (City), HS Virk, said, “Yesterday, the suspects were sent to one-day police custody and today the court extended their remand for three days. We are interrogating them to discover hidden facts of their scandal.”“Two other suspects in this case Tarush Dhawan and Malkit Singh are yet to be arrested. Raids are on to nab them,” he added.The police had recovered four laptops, 14 mobile phones, a phone landing machine and 570 gm of heroin worth Rs2.85 crore from their possession. Besides, four diaries containing records of betting were also recovered by the police during the raid.The Mataur police station SHO, Inspector Rajiv Kumar, said, “We are checking their diaries, which could reveal secrets behind their illegal business. Secondly, the police are also getting details of their properties. More information can be obtained after arresting the remaining two suspects in this case.”The police did not reveal the source from where suspects bought the drug and where they were selling it.On Saturday, the police received a tip-off that online betting was going on at a flat in Homeland Society, Sector 70, here. A police team conducted a raid on the flat and nabbed suspects betting on an IPL match. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/betting-racket-suspects-sent-to-three-day-police-remand-154839
13-10-2020||Mohali||Youth nabbed with 500-gm marijuana in Mohali||The Phase 1 police arrested a youth for possessing 500 gm of marijuana (charas) late last night. The suspect has been identified as Ashish Thakur (29), a resident of Solan district in Himachal Pradesh.He was produced before a local court today, which sent him to three-day police remand. Ashish was stopped by the police at a barricade near the new ISBT chowk in Mohali last night. During checking, 68 tablets of marijuana weighing 500 gm, were recovered from him.Inspector Manphul Singh said, “The suspect has revealed that he used to purchase marijuana from Himachal and sell it to the youth in the tricity.” A case was registered against the suspect under the NDPS Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-nabbed-with-500-gm-marijuana-in-mohali-154841
13-10-2020||---||UT Adviser launches Integrated Command & Control Centre||Chandigarh, October 12The Adviser to the UT Administrator, Manoj Kumar Parida, inaugurated Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) for the city at the Municipal Corporation building today.Explaining functioning of the ICCC, the Municipal Commissioner, KK Yadav, said, “This centre shall monitor smart field elements like CCTV surveillance cameras via a video wall. More than 20 cameras have been installed for real time surveillance of traffic junctions and other important buildings of the city.”“The city-owned optical fiber has been laid for the real time connectivity between on-field devices and command centre for live monitoring of the system,” Yadav added.Besides CCTV surveillance, adaptive traffic control system with a variable message signage has also been installed on a traffic junction to adapt to the real time traffic condition and provide maximum green timeto vehicles. —KK Yadav, Municipal Commissioner, Chandigarh“This system also includes advanced video analytics and generates automatic event alerts for events like abandoned baggage, illegal parking and crowd detection,” said Yadav.“The surveillance cameras with analytics have also been installed at the entry and exit of a parking lot, which not only helps in effectively monitoring its operation, but also provides vital inputs like colour, make and model of the vehicle entering and exiting the parking area. This information can be used to generate alarms for blacklisted vehicles and search them based on the attributes,” Yadav added.“The intelligent traffic management system (ITMS) wherein traffic rules enforcement, including red light violation detection, speeding, automatic number plate recognition, have been installed at two locations in the city. This will help in making roads safer and reduce traffic accidents in the city,” said Yadav .“Besides, public addressing system has also been installed to disseminate information among residents,” Yadav added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-adviser-launches-integrated-command-control-centre-154842
13-10-2020||---||Gangster Lawerence Bishnoi’s aide threatens murder witnesses||Chandigarh, October 12Gangster Lawerence Bishnoi’s aide Monty Shah has been booked by the Chandigarh police for threatening deceased Sonu Shah’s brother Parveen and his associate Tirath at their office in Burail, Sector 45, yesterday.Last year, Sonu Shah was murdered at his office at the behest of Bishnoi. Parveen and Tirath are witnesses in the Sonu Shah murder case.The police said Monty went to Parveen’s office and threatened him and Tirath at gunpoint yesterday. “Monty was holding two pistols,” said a police official.Monty was accompanied by around four persons who kept sitting in a car while Monty went inside Parveen’s office.Sonu Shah, who had a criminal past, was shot dead by four assailants in his office at Burail in September last year.Parveen, who runs a cable business, operates from the same office as Sonu did.The police have registered a case against Monty Shah and others at the Sector 34 police station and launched investigation. All accused have absconded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangster-lawerence-bishnois-aide-threatens-murder-witnesses-154843
13-10-2020||Zirakpur||Activa rider dies in road mishap||Two held with 7 stolen bikesMohali: The police have arrested two persons who were allegedly involved in two-wheeler thefts in the district for the past couple of months. The suspects have been identified as Gurvinder Singh, alias Gindi, and Netar Singh, alias Goldy, residents of Bariyali village here. The police have also recovered seven motorcycles from their possession. They had stolen these vehicles from different areas of Mohali. The duo was produced before a court, which sent them to three-day police remand. The suspects were arrested on Sunday following a tip-off. Several cases were already registered against the suspects in the recent past, said the police. A case has been registered against the duo under Section 379 of the IPC at the Phase 1 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/activa-rider-dies-in-road-mishap-154844
13-10-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Drive-through testing facility popular among residents||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 12The drive-through Covid testing centre at Sports Complex, Sector 78, Mohali, is becoming popular as more and more people were preferring the centre to government or private hospitals to get themselves tested.According to information, over 750 persons have already got themselves tested for Covid-19 in the past 15 days.Confirming the same, Jagdeep Sehgal, SDM, Mohali, said the idea of setting by a drive-through Covid testing centre was mooted by Mohali DC Girish Dayalan. He said the sports complex was selected as it has separate entry and exit points. He said the people hesitated in getting themselves tested not only at the government testing centres but also at private labs and hospitals.Sehgal said the visitors do not have to step out of their vehicles for tests and did not have to waste time on waiting in queue. He said tests were totally free whereas the private labs and hospitals were charging the fixed amount for testing. He said awareness was being created among the general public regarding the facility.Meanwhile, the district administration has urged the Covid patients, who are in home isolation, to update their health status whenever they receive the call from the Health Department.DC Girish Dayalan said monitoring of home isolation cases was required to be done efficiently and diligently to ensure they have proper information and are able to escalate any health related problems that they might face during the home isolation period.The DC informed that to streamline the effort 104 medical helpline was making daily calls from the numbers 9041901590 and 0172-4071400 to all home-isolation patients above 40 years of age to know about their well–being.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drive-through-testing-facility-popular-among-residents-154850
