13-11-2020||---||Mohali reports 124 fresh COVID-19 cases||Mohali, November 13Fresh 124 positive covid-19 cases surfaced in the Mohali district during the past 24 hours taking the total tally to 13435. No fatality has been reported in the district till Friday evening.Out of the total 124 positive Covid cases, 89 were reported from Mohali urban, two each from Lalru and Kurali, one each from Banur and Boothgarh, 9 each from Dera Bassi and Gharuan, four from Kharar and 7 from Dhakoli. Twenty-seven patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital. As of now, there are 13,435 positive Covid cases and out of these, 12,186 patients have been cured. There are 996 active cases with 253 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-124-fresh-covid-19-cases-170218
13-11-2020||Dera Bassi||3 die in explosion at Dera Bassi dhaba on Chandigarh-Delhi highway||Three persons died while one person was seriously injured in an explosion that took place at Rama Dhaba in Sarseni village, Dera Bassi on the main Chandigarh-Delhi highway.It is suspected that the blast took place during theft of oil from an oil vehicle.Three persons including the owner, Jaswinder Singh, Bablu and Vikram died in the incident. The deceased were aged around 35, 20 and 24 years respectively.Another person suffered more than 80 per cent burns and remains critically ill and is under treatment at PGI, Chandigarh. The driver of the oil tanker is also reported to have suffered burn injuries.Aashika Jain, Additional District Magistrate (ADM), and Kuldeep Bawa, SDM, reached the spot along with the SSP Satinder Singh. Given that the building had developed cracks, evaluation of the structural safety has been directed. Further inspections shall be carried out at all dhabas in the area to check the illegal activity of oil theft, by joint teams of police and civil officers.The SDM has been ordered to conduct an enquiry into the incident.“Strict criminal action shall be taken against those found violating the law,” said ADM Anshika Jain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-die-in-explosion-at-dera-bassi-dhaba-on-chandigarh-delhi-highway-170212
13-11-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'Ban on crackers will extend Chandigarh residents' lives by 2 years', claims UT Adviser||The Chandigarh administration on Thursday decided to continue the ban on crackers. Now, UT adviser Manoj Parida has shared a fact in regard to this.  Taking to the microblogging website, the UT Adviser claimed, that the "decision on banning crackers will lengthen the lifetime of Chandigarh residents by two years at least". Decision on banning crackers will lengthen lifetime of Chandigarh residents by two years at least☺️  This post comes after the UT adviser rejected the review petition to lift the crackers ban by traders. The ban was passed under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Meanwhile, the Central Pollution Control Board has notified this city as one of the non-attainment cities, or those whose air quality is worse than the prescribed standards.Also, on review of the Covid-19 situation, it was noted that the number of positive cases was rising in the Union Territory, reads the order. — With IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ban-on-crackers-will-extend-chandigarh-residents-lives-by-2-years-claims-ut-adviser-170169
13-11-2020||---||Capt writes to Vice-President seeking early polls to Panjab University Senate||Chandigarh, November 13Citing improvement in the state’s Covid situation, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has written to Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Chancellor of Panjab University, seeking early elections to the university senate, since the inexplicable delay in polling is “causing resentment” among various constituents of the institution.In a DO letter to the Chancellor, the Chief Minister has urged him to advise the Panjab University Administration and the Administration of the Union Territory of Chandigarh for proper and timely conduct of elections to the Senate of the university.Stressing that failure to conduct elections to the University Senate, whose current term ended on October 31, was not only annoying but was also against the canons of any good governance and the law, the Chief Minister said, “There is a substantial resentment among the teachers, professionals, technical members, graduates of the University and representatives of various constituencies for the Senate elections.”Besides, there are legislators from the Punjab State Legislative Assembly and ex-officio members, such as Chief Minister, Education Minister, and DPI (Colleges) of the State, who represent the Government of Punjab, he pointed out, adding that it was hence strongly felt that elections should have been held without any delay.Noting that the University Administration and the Centre felt that the situation was not conducive to holding elections due to the Covid pandemic, Amarinder said the situation had improved and elections to Parliament, Legislative Assemblies, and various other urban and rural local bodies had been held across the nation. “True, there is a need to ensure compliance of the protocol that has been evolved in the last few months to contain the pandemic and there should be no reason for the University administration and even the Administration of Union Territory of Chandigarh or the State Government not to comply with these,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/capt-writes-to-vice-president-seeking-early-polls-to-panjab-university-senate-170165
13-11-2020||Lovleen Bains||Educationists demand PU Senate elections||Doraha, November 12The postponement of Panjab University Senate elections has not done well among intellectuals and educationists.A group of educationists, including Dr Manmohan Singh, former secretary, Higher Education; JR Kundal, former principal secretary, Punjab; former GNDU Vice-Chancellor Dr SP Singh; Tarsem Bahia, former chairman, Punjab Educationists Forum, have doubted the intentions of the central authorities in this regard.Tarsem Bahia said “Any effort to snatch the control of the university from Punjab will have drastic consequences for the region.”Former Senate member Dr Inderpal Sidhu said vice-chancellor’s helpless presents a sorry state of affairs as everything is controlled by central powers.Jaipal Singh, former president, Government College Teachers’ Association, rued, “The election process was to be completed before October 31, since the term of the outgoing Senate came to an end on that date.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/educationists-demand-pu-senate-elections-170033
13-11-2020||---||IVCA Cricket Academy win  Suraj Bhan tourney||Dera Bassi, November 12IVCA Cricket Academy, Dera Bassi, defeated Green Valley Cricket Academy, Barnala, by 135 runs to win the Suraj Bhan Memorial U-16 Cricket Tournament at here today. Batting first, IVCA lads posted 219 runs before getting all-out in 37.1 overs. Abhinav Sharma (64), Puneet Kumar (51), Bikramjit Singh (26), Anubhav Kaushik (20) and Shoumik Dhanday (20) were the main scorers for the side.Shuby Singla claimed four wickets for the bowling side, while Karandeep Singh, Chanshu Garg and Niyush claimed two wickets each. In reply, Green Valley Cricket Academy boys bundled out for 84 in 26.3 overs.Paras of IVCA Cricket Academy was declared best all rounder as well as man of the series, while Abhinav Sharma was declared best batsman and Puneet Kumar was named best bowler of the tournament.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ivca-cricket-academy-win-suraj-bhan-tourney-169834
13-11-2020||---||Man accused of violating minor flees from custody||Panchkula, November 12A man accused of sexually assaulting a minor girl in his confinement escaped from the Chandimandir police station around 7 pm yesterday.The accused, Deepak, was arrested from Delhi on November 10. The victim was also rescued from his confinement in Dwarka in the National Capital.Both of them were brought to the Chandimandir police station in Sector 23.The police added Sections 366, 366-A and 376(2)(N) of the IPC and Section 6 of the POCSO Act in the FIR against the accused on the basis of the victim’s statement before the magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC. The 16-year-old girl had gone missing on September 19 this year and a case under Section 346 of the IPC was registered by the police on her father’s complaint.According to the police, while his questioning was underway, Deepak made an excuse to answer nature’s call.Policemen at the station, allowed him to walk to the restroom on the campus.However, to their utter shock, the accused fled by dodging the “santri” (guard).The police raised the alarm and tried to trace the accused in nearby slums, but in vain.A case was registered under Section 224 of the IPC against the accused at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-accused-of-violating-minor-flees-from-custody-169835
13-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Work on dark spots to miss another Diwali deadline||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12The promise of lighting up dark spots made during every Diwali for the past three to four years is proving to be a bad joke.Another Diwali is here, but the Municipal Corporation (MC) is still involved in the tendering process.“It has been four years now. Every year, the corporation claims that in the coming Diwali, the dark spots will be lit up. However, another Diwali is going to pass this month,” said the Leader of the Opposition in the MC House, Devinder Singh Babla.Hitesh Puri, chairman of the Chandigarh Residents Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), lamented, “Poles were erected in parks a year and a half ago. However, since then, bulbs have not been fixed on the poles. People stay away from visiting such dark parks in late evening hours. Southern sectors are more hit, leading to anti-social activities and petty crime.”Leave alone completion of work before Diwali, the long-drawn work of dark spots in unlit parks in the city will take about a month to start, that too if all goes well.Fittings and lights are to be installed on 6,000 poles, which have been erected a long time ago.“We will start getting the material in 20-25 days after which the LED lights will be installed. Of the eight companies in technical bids, three were found eligible. Now, the financial bids have been opened and the work will soon be awarded to a firm,” said MC Chief Engineer Shailender Singh.The poles were erected through a private contractor for nearly Rs11 crore. However, the work of fitting and putting up lights was not done. The MC had asked Energy Efficient Services Ltd (EESL), a public sector undertaking, to carry out the dark spot work, but the project did not materialise. The MC later had to float a fresh tender.The civic body had conducted a survey to identify dark spots way back in Feb-March 2017. Besides internal roads and neighbourhood parks, green belts and big parks were covered under the survey.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/work-on-dark-spots-to-miss-another-diwali-deadline-169836
13-11-2020||---||JCT among 16 defaulters||Mohali, November 12One of the old industrial unit – JCT – is among 16 main property tax defaulters. The firm has failed to pay Rs12 lakh tax to the Municipal Corporation (MC). JCT is among the 16 industrial units to be sealed in the city, which had not paid Rs26 lakh property tax to the MC.Giving more information MC inspector Avtar Singh Kalsi said in order to recover property tax they had decided to seal industrial and commercial units in the city. As many as 11 commercial and industrial units were sealed, he added. These units had to pay Rs14 lakh property tax, but their owners had failed to clear dues despite various notices sent to them, he said.Municipal Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg had issued orders for sealing establishments, which had not paid property tax, he added. Old industrial unit JCT was among the main defaulter as Rs12 lakh arrears were pending against it, he said.They would soon seal the remaining commercial and industrial units in the city, he added. On Wednesday, they sealed three commercial plots in Phase 7 while in Phase 9 two units were sealed, he said.The MC revenue had decreased due to non-payment of property tax during the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic across the country, he added.The MC had generated Rs28 crore on account of property tax in the 2019-20, which would likely go down this year. GMADA, Deputy Commissioner’s office and the Police Department are the major defaulters as they owe Rs 90 lakh, Rs 12 lakh and Rs one crore, respectively, as property tax to the MC.The civic body records show that Mohali has 52,678 properties. Of these, 41,082 are residential, 4,929 commercial, 1,683 industrial and 4,984 vacant plots. As many as 24,406 owners have paid their property tax and 7,826 are defaulters. The MC is yet to collect aproximately Rs6.5 crore as property tax dues from property owners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jct-among-16-defaulters-169797
13-11-2020||
||Those who joined Cong not from our party: BJP||Chandigarh, November 12 A day after the Congress claimed several women associated with the BJP joined the party, the saffron party today stated that none of them was its member. Yesterday, the city Congress president, Pradeep Chhabra, said, “BJP’s women activists have joined our party at the Chandigarh Congress Bhavan in Sector 35.” They left the party due to BJP’s ‘failed policies’, he added. In a press statement the BJP general secretary, Ramvir Bhatti, said, “No women leader of our party has joined the Congress.”  Chhabra was lying, alleged Bhatti. “None of them has held any party post. They are not even booth workers,” claimed Bhatti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/those-who-joined-cong-not-from-our-party-bjp-169799
13-11-2020||---||KPS Dhillon is DRT Bar Association president||Chandigarh, November 12Advocate KPS Dhillon took oath as president of the DRT Bar Association, Chandigarh, at a ceremony held today. The election of the DRT Bar Association was held on November 6. Other members of the Bar, who were elected as office-bearers, include Nitin Grover, vice-president, and Saurabh Bhardwaj, treasurer.Vinod Verma and Renu Sardana were elected general secretary and joint secretary, respectively, unopposed. Varinder Sood and Pancham Sharma were elected as the executive members of the association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kps-dhillon-is-drt-bar-association-president-169800
13-11-2020||
||Call for setting up ayurveda board, research wing||Mohali, November 12  “There is a need for an ayurveda board with all powers to decide and execute policy decisions. The Central Government must set up a dedicated research wing, which should be  vibrant and effective than the Indian Council of Medical Education and Research (ICMR), which carries out research and promotes quality teaching as well.” Acharya Manish, Ayurvedic Acharya, who has established Shuddhi Ayurveda, which has its corporate office at Zirakpur and over 150 Ayurvedic clinics pan India, stated this in a release to the media. “Ayurveda treatment should be on par with any other mode of treatment. Ayurveda practitioners should be treated as qualified doctors, which is not the case today though they have to study more to get the bachelor’s degree than other students to get the MBBS degree. This dichotomy has to be addressed,” he added. There was a need for the Union Ministry to engage practitioners and proponents of ayurveda in forging partnerships for promoting and developing the AYUSH system of healthcare, he said.  He called on the All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA), New Delhi, to prepare a long term vision document to carry out quality research and establish a journal of global standing. “A long-pending demand to amend or scrap the two archaic and anti-ayurveda medical laws have not met with a meaningful response from the powers-that-be. These are the 1897 Epidemic Act and the 1954 Magic Remedy Act,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/call-for-setting-up-ayurveda-board-research-wing-169801
13-11-2020||Mohali||Naib Tehsildar, 3 others sent to judicial custody||The four arrested suspects, including Naib Tehsildar Varinderpal Singh Dhoot, were sent to judicial custody by a local court today. AIG Ashish Kapoor said, “The suspects were arrested on November 2 and sent to judicial custody today. Their accomplices, who are absconding, will be nabbed soon. Further investigation is on.”Vigilance Bureau had arrested Dhoot, the then Naib Tehsildar of the Majri block, and other revenue officials, including kanungo Raghbir Singh, patwari Iqbal Singh and nambardar Gurnam Singh for fraudulently changing the ownership titles.The case dates back to 2017, when Dhoot was posted as Naib Tehsildar in Majri. He allegedly in connivance with subordinate revenue officials and private individuals fraudulently sold off 100 acres, leading to losses in crores to the government exchequer.Dhoot and other revenue officials illegally changed ownership of 100 acres out of 1,295 acres of the village land, naming people, who were not even residents of Seonk village in Mohali’s Majri block, revealed interrogation of the suspects.They then obtained general power of attorneys (GPAs) from these persons and sold the land at higher rates. The revelations come five days after the suspects were arrested by the Vigilance Bureau (VB) on November 2 for illegally taking over shamlat land (belonging to the panchayat) at Seonk village.People renamed as owners were not even residents of the village, a senior VB official said, adding that they had not been traced yet.Investigation was continuing on how the money from sale of land was spent and resultant losses to the exchequer. “We are also looking into details of properties and other financial transactions of the suspects,” the official said.Probe also revealed that while the ownership of 1,295 acres of shamlat land was being fraudulently transferred, boundaries of approximately 100 acres were altered, depriving 24 beneficiaries of their shares, said officials.According to the FIR, the suspects took undisclosed sums from people to get their names registered in the land records. In a statement to the VB, the block development and panchayat officer stated that according to the land records, the land in question from 1946 till 2000 was in the shamlat and not agricultural category and had no ownership. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/naib-tehsildar-3-others-sent-to-judicial-custody-169805
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to form panel for archiving drawings||The UT Administration will constitute a committee for archiving original drawings displayed at the Chandigarh Architecture Museum.   Presiding over the governing body meeting of Society for Tourism and Entertainment Promotion in Chandigarh (STEPS), UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the panel would be formed under the chairmanship of Director (Tourism), to coordinate with National Research Laboratory for Conservation of Cultural Property, Lucknow, for documentation of museum drawings. The Principal Secretary Home-cum-Tourism, DGP, DC, Special Secretary (Tourism), Director (Tourism), Chief Architect, Director (Public Relation), UT, were also present at the meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-form-panel-for-archiving-drawings-169806
13-11-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Dhanteras delight: Auto dealers eye robust sales||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12Despite the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy, automobile dealers in the tricity are likely to beat the odds in retail sale of passenger vehicles this Diwali season. They are getting a more-than-expected response this festive season. “We are expecting to sell nearly 2,000 two-wheelers and 700 four-wheelers in the tricity on Dhanteras,” said Pratap Hoon, president, Federation of Chandigarh Regional Automobile Dealers.He said every two-wheeler dealer in the tricity was likely to deliver between 150 and 200 motorcycles on the auspicious day. Parveen Singh, general manager, Harbir Automobiles, a dealer of Mahindra, said they had sold more than 70 passengers vehicles this month and were expecting to deliver 22-25 vehicles on Dhanteras. “This season, the demand has surpassed the supply,” he said, adding that customers had to wait for nearly 30 weeks to get the newly launched Thar off-roader. Also, due to the high demand, the buyers had to wait for nearly a month to buy a Scorpio and XUV 300 this season.A member of the federation said there was no impact of Covid-19 on the sale of vehicles, but the pandemic had affected the supply as manufactures were unable to meet the demand for the passenger vehicles this season.Deepak Joshi, a dealer of Hundai cars in Chandigarh and Mohali, said they were expecting to deliver nearly 60 vehicles on the occasion.“This festive season, the response is more than expected,” said Deepak Girdhar, GM (Sales), Modern Automobiles, a Maruti Suzuki dealer. He said people were even coming from surrounding areas of the tricity and the neighbouring state of Himachal Pradesh to purchase vehicles in the city.He said last year, they sold 39 cars on Dhanteras and this time they would deliver at least 62 four-wheelers. In the past three days alone, they had sold more than 150 vehicles and Vitara Brezza, Swift and Alto were in high demand, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhanteras-delight-auto-dealers-eye-robust-sales-169807
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Curbs imposed in six virus-hit areas of Chandigarh||The UT Administration today declared six Covid-affected areas as micro-containment zones in the city.The new micro-containment zones are house number 303 to 306 in Sector 9, house number 1061 to 1062 in Sector 24, house number 14 to 16 and 2111, 2111/1, 2111/2, 2112, 2112/1 and 2112/2 in Sector 19, house number 3440 to 3443 in Sector 40-D, house number 1190 and 1191 in Sector 43-D and house number 4405 and 4406 in Sector 46-D. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-imposed-in-six-virus-hit-areas-of-chandigarh-169808
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Admn no to relaxation, ban on sale, bursting of crackers stays||The UT Administration has refused to give any relaxation and decided to continue with the ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in the city.The Administration had on Friday imposed a complete ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in order to avoid a second wave of Covid.Rejecting a review representation filed by the Chandigarh Cracker Dealers’ Association, UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that an order issued on November 6 under the Disaster Management Act banning the sale and use of firecrackers needed no modification or relaxation.Yesterday, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had denied any respite to the association, which had challenged the UT Administration’s decision to ban the sale and bursting of crackers in the city. The High Court had told the dealers to approach the Administration with a representation of their grievance.In the order, which was a response to the representation, Parida stated, “The daily count of Covid cases is rising. The pollution caused by bursting of firecrackers is likely to aggravate the situation by adversely affecting the air quality. Despite time restrictions on bursting of crackers allowed on Diwali last year, the air quality was ‘very poor’ in Chandigarh.”Medical experts were of the unanimous opinion that pollution caused by burning firecrackers would further aggravate the Covid situation in the UT, added the Adviser.The traders had opposed the decision of the Administration to ban crackers just seven-eight days before the festival of lights. Traders had contended that they had already purchased crackers and the ban would cause a big loss to them. They stated that the Administration had already conducted a draw of lots for the allotment of 14 stalls for sale of crackers.Parida said, “While conducting the draw of lots, it was clarified that the allotment will be subject to the final decision of the UT Administration on imposing a ban on crackers. The applicants (association) were specifically asked not to go for advance purchase of crackers until November 6. A letter was also written to the president, Chandigarh Cracker Dealers’ Association on November 5 stating that the purchase of crackers should be kept on hold.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/admn-no-to-relaxation-ban-on-sale-bursting-of-crackers-stays-169809
13-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Firms turn blind eye to 10-min free parking at paid facilities||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12Even as parking for the first 10 minutes for pick and drop is free at all “smart” parking lots, visitors are asked to pay at majority of the facilities in the city. It is a violation of the MoU signed between the Municipal Corporation and the two firms managing the parking lots.While the parking charges are displayed at the lots, information about the 10-minute free parking facility is missing at most parking lots. It has been observed that most visitors are unaware of this parking fee exemption. By the time a vehicle reaches the cash counter, the parking slip is already generated.Info missing from rate display boardsDuring a visit to a parking lot in front of the MC office in Sector 17, an attendant told this correspondent that the facility was extended only to taxi drivers. The information about the exemption was not displayed in the front side of the lot.At a parking lot in front of the office of the Registering and Licensing Authority in Sector 17, an attendant said the 10-minute free facility was not available there. The rate display board at the parking lot too did not mention it.At a parking lot in Sector 35, the fee exemption was displayed, but the attendant still demanded payment. He relented after he was shown the board.At parking lots in Sector 22, information about the free facility was not displayed. On the other hand, it was also observed that those who knew about the facility like food-delivery boys or cab drivers were allowed to enter without issuing the parking slip.MC Additional Commissioner SK Jain said, “We will get the issue examined. We will also get the information about the free facility displayed at all parking lots.”At present, Rs5 and Rs10 are charged for parking of two-wheelers and four-wheelers, respectively, for one day. The fee may be charged on hourly basis from December 1, if the parking firms fulfil the criteria of smart parking by November 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firms-turn-blind-eye-to-10-min-free-parking-at-paid-facilities-169811
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Snatchers strike twice in Chandigarh, flee with phones||Two incidents of phone snatching were reported from Sector 54 here on Wednesday night. Four boys, aged between 15 and 20, were involved in both incidents.The first incident was reported by Amarjeet, a resident of Sector 56, who stated that he was returning home when four boys, who were on foot, stopped him and snatched his mobile phone near a petrol pump in Sector 54. The second incident was reported by Rajesh, a resident of Jagatpura, who stated that unidentified boys snatched his mobile phone.The police were informed about the incidents following which they initiated an investigation.“It is suspected that same boys were involved in both snatchings,” said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatchers-strike-twice-in-chandigarh-flee-with-phones-169812
13-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Internal inquiry into ‘out-of-turn’ house allotment pending, HC told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 12In a cop versus cops case, a police official has levelled allegations of “gross misuse of discretionary powers” by the UT Director-General of Police (DGP) while allotting government accommodations on an “out-of-turn” basis.Taking up the matter, Justice Raj Mohan Singh of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has fixed the matter for December first week after observing that an internal inquiry was pending before the Home Department — as submitted by the counsel appearing on behalf of the UT. As such, it would be just and appropriate to await the final outcome of the inquiry.The allegationsDescribing himself as a public-spirited person, petitioner Jagjeet Singh, through counsel Nitin Sharma, alleged “indifferent attitude” of the respondent, the DGP, while adopting a “pick-and-choose method” in allotting government accommodation.Sharma contended that the house allotment to UT police employees was done under a standing order dated December 9, 2013, and the procedure for the allotment was described in one of its paragraphs.The out-of-turn allotment of a house fell under the DGP’s discretionary jurisdiction and such power could be exercised when the allotment was on compassionate grounds or on medical grounds. In addition, the officer could allot police houses on an out-of-turn basis or accept the change request keeping in view the exceptional duties performed by the employee in public interest.The petitioner also alleged corruption at the instance of the DGP with the help of Avtar Singh, a retired inspector of the Chandigarh Police. He alleged that the DGP had accumulated “amount in crores by such allotment”. He also attached a list of 36 such cases, where houses were allegedly allotted to different persons on an out-of-turn basis.The counsel for the respondents, on the other hand, submitted that wrong exercise of discretionary power would not necessarily entail criminal prosecution. However, the issue was pending before the Home Department and there was every likelihood that it may take a decision at the earliest.The counsel further referred to Section 17-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, inserted vide Act No.16 of 2018. It was contended that the amended provision showed no police officer would conduct any inquiry or probe into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant under the Act, where the alleged offence was relatable to any recommendation made or decision taken by the public servant in discharge of his official function without the approval of the competent authority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/internal-inquiry-into-out-of-turn-house-allotment-pending-hc-told-169815
13-11-2020||---||Made by inmates of Burail jail, colourful candles up for grabs||Chandigarh, November 12Besides mouth-watering sweets, gel and wax candles made by inmates of the Burail jail are up for grabs at Srijan, the exclusive jail store in Sector 22, this Diwali.A team of around dozen inmates have come up with colourful candles, which have been made inside the jail.Virat, AIG (Prisons), said different types of candle had been made available at the store. “The rates are lower than that of similar products available in the market,” he added.Sweets, including khoya barfi, milk cake, besan barfi, rasgullas etc are also being sold at the store.The jail has a dedicated kitchen for making sweets and other food items, which are sold in the market.The AIG (Prisons) said keeping in view the demand for the jail products, three stalls would be set up in the city to sell candles.“These products will be sold at stalls, which will come up at Sukhna Lake, the Sector 18 market and outside the RLA office in Sector 17,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/made-by-inmates-of-burail-jail-colourful-candles-up-for-grabs-169816
13-11-2020||---||Gurlal Brar Murder: ‘Bambiha group wanted to avenge Lavi Deora’s murder’||Chandigarh, November 12The Davinder Bambiha group wanted to take revenge for Lavi Deora’s murder from the Lawrence Bishnoi group following which Gurlal Brar was gunned down by assailants outside a mall in the Industrial Area, revealed the interrogation of gangster Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba.Deora was killed in July 2017 at Kotkapura, allegedly by members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.Baba revealed the names of two shooters, Neeraj, alias Chaska, and Mani, alias Maan, both residents of Jaito in Faridkot, who had shot Brar.Baba was brought on a production warrant from the Sangrur jail to interrogate his role in the Brar murder case. Baba was confronted with Sukhpreet Singh, alias Budda, who was also brought on a production warrant to probe his role in the Surjit murder case that was reported earlier this year in Sector 38 (West).The police said during confrontation, Budda also corroborated the version of Baba that Gurlal Brar was shot dead by Neeraj and Mani, on the directions of Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, and Vinay Deora, who are members the Bambiha group.“The gangsters have revealed that Lavi Deora, younger brother of Vinay Deora, was allegedly shot dead by members of the Lawrence group. They claimed that Gurlal Brar was one of the suspects. However, he was not arrested by the Punjab Police following which they took the revenge by killing Brar,” said a police official.During Baba’s interrogation, the police managed to recover three weapons on his disclosure. “Two .32 bore pistols and a country-made pistol were recovered from near a nullah in the Industrial Area following which another case under the Arms Act has been registered against him,” said DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh.The police said Baba, before getting arrested in 2018, had bought a large consignment of arms and ammunition from Madhya Pradesh to take revenge from the Bishnoi gang.According to the police, both Bambiha group and Bishnoi gang were operating an extortion racket in the tricity. “The Bishnoi gang wanted to operate alone, which had further deepened the enmity between the two gangs, which is another reason behind the attack on members of the Bishnoi gang, including Brar,” the police added.Baba had over 50 cases against himOver 50 cases of murder, attempt to murder and other heinous offences were registered against Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, in Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurlal-brar-murder-bambiha-group-wanted-to-avenge-lavi-deoras-murder-169817
13-11-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali MC elections on mind, aspirants begin campaigning||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 12Even as political parties are yet to release the list of candidates for the coming elections to the Municipal Corporation, former councillors have started their campaigning in the city.Aspirants of both main political parties — the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) — have started campaigning in their respective wards.Sitting councillor from Ward No. 23 and senior Akali leader SS Dhanoa said sitting councillors would be contesting the elections on the party ticket. He said screening of candidates from the city was going on and the list would be finalised within 10 days. He said people in the city knew who had initiated development projects for the welfare of the people. He said they were sure that people would vote for their party candidates in the MC elections, likely to be held in January.Meanwhile, sitting Congress councillors and aspirants have also started their election campaign. Senior congress leader and former councillor Kuljit Singh Bedi said the list of candidates had already been prepared and it was being finalised by Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.Bedi said the party would field candidates with a clean image under the supervision of Balbir Singh Sidhu and claimed that the party would sweep the elections this time.Workers of the Aam Aadmi Party have decided to contest the elections as Independent candidates as the party has not taken a decision to select candidates for the elections to the Municipal Corporation and municipal committees in the state.The main issues in the city are lack of local bus service, proper parking arrangements in markets and reconstruction of narrow bridges near the PCA Stadium and the nature park in Phase 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-elections-on-mind-aspirants-begin-campaigning-169818
13-11-2020||---||Gangster Budda sent to  police remand||Chandigarh, November 12A local court has sent alleged gangster Sukhpreet Singh Dhaliwal, alias Budda, to one-day police remand. The UT police had brought him on production warrant to probe his alleged role in the bouncer Surjit Singh murder case.Budda, an alleged member of the Davinder Bambiha group, was produced in a local court today. The police sought his three-day remand. The alleged gangster’s counsels, Mandeep Kaushik and Amit Agnihotri, vehemently opposed it while claiming that Budda had nothing to do with the case. They said since the gangster had been in the jail, there was nothing to be recovered from him.Surjit Singh, a resident of Sector 38 (West), was known to provide bouncers in the tricity and had rivalries due to the profession. He was shot dead by two bike-borne assailants earlier this year while returning home from Sector 22.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangster-budda-sent-to-police-remand-169819
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Food subsidy transferred into accounts||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/food-subsidy-transferred-into-accounts-169820
13-11-2020||---||Panchkula MC collects Rs 6.48 L||Panchkula, November 12With the booking of 1,125 Diwali stalls, the Panchkula Municipal Corporation has collected an amount of nearly Rs6.48 lakh.The first-of-its-kind booking exercise is being conducted online through a dedicated portal – stallbooking.online.Spaces in front of SCOs, SCFs, bays and booths could only be booked by owner/lessee/tenant of the shop. In case the booking was made by persons other than owner/lessee/tenant of the shop, it would be rejected and the amount forfeited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-collects-rs-6-48-l-169822
13-11-2020||---||2 weeks on, report yet to be submitted||Panchkula, November 12It’s been two weeks since over 70 head of cattle lost their lives at Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham, a cow shelter run by the Panchkula Gaushala Trust, due to suspected food poisoning, but the three-member committee formed to looked into the mass death of bovines is yet to submit its report.The panel, headed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Panchkula Zila Parishad, was supposed to submit its findings within three days.Citing busy work schedule, Anil Banwala, Deputy Director, Anil Husbandry and Dairying (Haryana), said the “special panel” could not meet one more time to reach at conclusions for the report.Banwala, who is also on the panel, did not offer a fixed time period for the report to be submitted.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta, who had taken a serious note of the matter and had asked officials to take stern action if anyone was found guilty, said he would enquire about the delay in the report from the committee.On October 29, a day after the incident, the preliminary post-mortem report had hinted at food poisoning behind the mass deaths of cattle at the shelter, which accommodates around 1,500 head of cattle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-weeks-on-report-yet-to-be-submitted-169823
13-11-2020||---||Drug peddler held with pistols||Chandigarh, November 12A 32-year-old drug peddler, who used to supply arms to gangsters in Punjab, was today nabbed by the UT police with two pistols, six cartridges and 40 gm of heroin.A team, led by Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO of the Sector 17 police station, arrested the suspect, Vijay Rajput, a native of Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, who was at present residing in Ludhiana. He was nabbed at a naka in Sector 17.The police said Rajput was supplying weapons to gangsters. “We have recovered a .30 bore pistol, which was purchased by Vijay from UP, for Rs50,000 and would have been sold for Rs1 lakh. Meanwhile, another 32 bore pistol was purchased for Rs25,000 and was meant to be sold for Rs50,000,” the SHO said.The police said heroin was procured by Vijay from African nationals in Delhi. “He had come to supply drugs in the city when he was caught,” the police said.A case has been registered against the suspect under the Arms Act and the NDPS Act at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drug-peddler-held-with-pistols-169824
13-11-2020||---||Panchkula sees no death in 6 days||Panchkula, November 12The district today reported 72 fresh cases, taking the infection count to 7,783. No fresh death due to the virus was reported.Among the fresh cases, five each were reported from Kalka, the MDC, Sector 4, the MDC, Sector 5, Sector 12-A, Sector 16 and Sector 20, and four from Majra Mehtab.While 7,154 patients have defeated the coronavirus so far, 512 cases are still active.The recovery rate of the district stands at 91.9 per cent.Even though the daily cases are on the rise, the district has witnessed no Covid death in the past six days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-no-death-in-6-days-169825
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||109 new cases, 1 death in Chandigarh||The city today reported 109 fresh Covid cases, taking the case tally to 15,543. It also saw a Covid death. A 74-year-old woman from Mani Majra, who was also suffering from jaundice, died at the PGI. As many as 64 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/109-new-cases-1-death-in-chandigarh-169826
13-11-2020||---||One more arrested for duping delivery persons||Mohali, November 12The local police have arrested another suspect in connection with the duping of online delivery persons.The suspect, identified as Pankaj of Fatehabad, was produced in a court today, which remanded him in four-day police custody.Earlier, the police had arrested three persons for duping several delivery men of an online shopping platform by replacing the original articles with fake ones. The police had recovered nine airpods, one dongle, 54 SIM cards, four soap bars, three watches and four sealed parcels from the suspects Ajay Pokhar, Nishant Narang, both residents of Fatehabad, and Naveen Kumar, a resident of Dariyapur village.Inspector Manphul Singh, SHO, Phase 1 police station, said, “During the interrogation of the three suspects arrested earlier, we came to know about the role of Pankaj following which he was arrested after a raid was conducted at his residence in Fatehabad. Further investigation is on and more arrests would be made soon.”The suspects used to place orders for mobile phones online by providing fake addresses.On getting a call from the delivery man, they would call him in an open space and change the parcel with their fake articles, placed already in their vehicle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-more-arrested-for-duping-delivery-persons-169828
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Kirron Kher fractures arm, surgery performed||Local MP and Bollywood actor Kirron Kher was admitted to the GMCH, Sector 32, where a team of doctors, led by the Head of the Orthopaedics Department, Dr Sudhir Kumar Garg, operated upon her fractured left arm. The surgery was successful and the MP was recovering, said one of the doctors, adding that she was currently under medical observation and admitted to a private room.According to her close associates, Kher twisted her arm while getting up from her bed at her Sector 7 house around 11 pm yesterday, which caused a fracture. A doctor was called to the MP’s residence, but looking at her serious condition, Kher was rushed to the hospital, where doctors suggested her a surgery.Two years ago, Kher had slipped and had fallen on the ground at the Chandigarh airport when she went to receive then Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan. She had then suffered a minor shoulder fracture.Three years ago, she had suffered a hairline fracture in the leg after it got stuck in the carpet at a function. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kirron-kher-fractures-arm-surgery-performed-169829
13-11-2020||---||In Mohali, active cases up 49% in 8 days||Mohali, November 12Mohali district witnessed a 49 per cent increase in active cases in the past eight days. From 550 on November 3, the number of active cases rose to 822 yesterday.As per the details available, the recovery rate has declined in the district during the period. From 93.7 per cent, it has come down to 91 per cent.During a random survey of the markets in the city and other places in the district, it was found that people were moving around without wearing a mask, thus exposing themselves to the deadly virus. The health authorities have already warned people not to move out without a mask. Two more die, 132 fresh casesAccording to rough estimates, more than 25 per cent people without a mask are visiting the market.A senior health official said there was no spike in Covid cases and the increase was due to a large number of pending reports in the district. He said the number of pending cases had been more as compared to the tests conducted in a day.So far, 13,311 cases have surfaced in the district and 12,159 patients have been cured. There are 899 active cases with 253 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-active-cases-up-49-in-8-days-169830
13-11-2020||Chandigarh||Book to promote eco-friendly Diwali||Enactus team visits SamarthChandigarh: The Enactus team of Dr SSBUICET (Dr Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology), Panjab University, celebrated Diwali with residents of Samarth, a residential house for specially-abled children in Sector 15. Their aim was to spread smiles during the festive season and make it a memorable experience for special kids, said Prof Seema Kapoor, faculty advisor, Enactus team. The Covid-19 pandemic couldn’t hinder the team’s zeal of spending time with children at Samarth, she added. The team distributed diyas and sweets among children. Tanishq Munjal and Harmeet Singh, logistics heads, Enactus, said they all felt good while celebrating Diwali with special children at Samarth. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-to-promote-eco-friendly-diwali-169833
