14-05-2020||Chandigarh||No fresh COVID-19 case in 24 hours, 5 patients cured in Chandigarh||Five coronavirus patients, including a 62-year-old man and a 55-year-old woman, were discharged from hospital here on Thursday even as the union territory reported no fresh case, officials said.Of the total 191 patients in the city, 37 have recovered and three died, leaving 151 active cases.A total of 2,506 samples have been tested so far and of them, 2,299 samples are negative while the reports of 15 samples are awaited, according to a health bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-fresh-covid-19-case-in-24-hours-5-patients-cured-in-chandigarh-84797
14-05-2020|| ||Ram Darbar residents booked for violating social distancing while welcoming cured Covid patient||Chandigarh, May 14The UT police, on Thursday, registered a case against unknown Ram Darbar residents after a video went viral on social media, in which residents of Ram Darbar are seen violating social distancing by welcoming a man who returned home after recovering from COVID-19.Departmental action has also been recommended against the police officials who failed to disperse the crowd.The police officials said that a video was received through social media, in which a COVID-19 infected patient, resident of Ram Darbar, Phase II, returned back after being recovered and was welcomed by the residents with garlands and complete disregards to social-distancing norms.The police said the area where the patient lived was sealed to restrict the entry of the general public and police were already deployed there. The police also stated that the residents had already been briefed about the COVID-related directions issued by the UT administration.The video revealed that the residents of the said area had violated the social-distancing directions and gathered to greet the man.Police officials said the cops on duty in the area had failed to make any efforts to disperse the mob and did not intimate in the police station about the arrival of the said patient, which was a serious lapse, dereliction of duty and laxity on their part. “Department action has been recommended against the said police officials. Meanwhile, a case under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 34 of the IPC has been registered against the residents at Sector 31 police station. The investigation of the case is in the initial stages and the accused will be arrested accordingly,” a police official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ram-darbar-residents-booked-for-violating-social-distancing-while-welcoming-cured-covid-patient-84791
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Summer vacation in Chandigarh schools extended till further orders||The UT administration on Thursday has extended summer vacations in all government and government-aided schools in view of the coronavirus pandemic.The vacations will continue till further orders.Earlier, the vacations were from April 15 to May 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-summer-vacation-in-chandigarh-schools-extended-till-further-orders-84747
14-05-2020||Mukesh Tandon||Former Haryana MLA arrested in Chandigarh for liquor theft||Tribune News ServicePanipat, May 14The police arrested Satvinder Singh, former MLA of Rajaund constituency in Kaithal district, from Chandigarh on Wednesday night for his alleged involvement in liquor theft from a sealed godown in Samalkha.Satvinder Singh had contested the 2019 Assembly elections from Kalayat constituency in Kaithal district on a Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) ticket. He is considered to be close to Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala.Singh was arrested from Sector 3 in Chandigarh, near the MLA hostel, said SP Manisha Chaudhary.A crime team of Panipat police, under the supervision of DSP (Crime) Rajesh Phogat, nabbed the former MLA from Chandigarh on Wednesday night. The team had informed the Sector 3 police in Chandigarh about their raid.Accused Satvinder Rana had been arrested on the disclosure of another accused, Ishwar Singh of Shamri village, Sonepat district, who was arrested along with five other accused in a case registered in the Samalkha police station on May 10, the SP added.The case was registered on the complaint of Rajesh Rohilla, AETO of the Excise Department, on April 28.Notably, the CIA-2 team of the district police has arrested six persons, including the mastermind — Ishwar Singh — on Sunday night, allegedly for stealing liquor from a sealed godown in Samalkha of Panipat.It was revealed that during the interrogation of Ishwar that they had stolen 4,500 cases of liquor from the godown, and Ishwar and former MLA Satvinder Rana were partners in the L1-AB godown in Samalkha, which was sealed by the Excise and Taxation Department in 2016 after some irregularities found in the godown.It was revealed during the investigation that the owners of the godown had allegedly stolen the liquor cases along with their co-accused.“One of the accused — Constable Ajmer — who was arrested into the matter earlier, has been dismissed by the Jhajjar police after his arrest,” said SP Manisha Chaudhary.“I have also been directed to verify the connection of the accused arrested in the Samalkha case with accused Bhupender Singh of Sisana, who has been arrested by Sonepat police, allegedly in connection with the liquor theft from a sealed godown in Kharkhoda of Sonepat,” the SP maintained.Satish Vats, DSP Headquarter, said the CIA-2 team produced the former MLA in the court on Thursday and applied for three days police remand for further investigation. The court has allowed two days police custody on the request of the police, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-haryana-mla-arrested-in-chandigarh-for-liquor-theft-84725
14-05-2020||Panchkula||It’s a long way home for Panchkula labourers||These are desperate times for Nabeel Mia, a 45-year-old daily wage labourer living in a rented accommodation at Rally village in Sector 12-A here. He has been running from pillar to post to complete the formalities required before he can board a “shramik train” to reach his native village in West Champaran in Bihar.Read also: “Ham Internet par apna naam diya tha train se gaon jane ke liye. Uska abhi tak kuch malum nahin. Computer wala Rs 20 liya ek admi se form bharne ka (I applied on the online portal for boarding a train to my village, but there isn’t any update yet. We were charged Rs 20 per person by a nearby mobile shop owner for this),” he said.For the past several days, the migrant worker has been surviving on the money transferred by his family into his bank account.“We event went to the DC office and the police chowki in Sector 2, but they asked us to wait. The authorities are keeping us in the dark. If the government doesn’t arrange transportation facility for us soon, we will start the journey to home on foot,” the mason said.There are several others like him who have been forced to undertake arduous journeys to their native places on foot in the absence of any means of transport.Queues at Civil HospitalMany stranded labourers on Wednesday queued up at the Civil Hospital for medical screening. A doctor at the Civil Hospital said: “They show a permission slip from the DC office or an acknowledgement number generated online at the medical examination window. Our doctors screen them for Covid symptoms and give them a fitness certificate.”200 leave at nightAs many as 200 labourers reportedly left for their native places in Bihar on Tuesday night. They said they were forced to travel on foot as it was becoming difficult for them to survive.What the authorities saySushil Kumar, City Magistrate, Panchkula, said: “We are trying our best to check the migration of labourers out of Panchkula. We serve food to all those stranded in the district every day. But a bigger concern than food is rent for them. If anyone is found moving on foot, they are shifted to shelter homes.”As per official figures, 24,500 migrants have sought permission to move out of the district so far. Officials said applications had been received on the e-Disha portal and a committee would grant permission in this regard. Over 19,000 have applied to travel by “shramik trains”, 3,868 by buses, 1,263 by private vehicles and 479 by rented vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-a-long-way-home-for-panchkula-labourers-84473
14-05-2020||Zirakpur||Zirakpur labourers: ‘Won’t come back again’||On the Chandigarh-Ambala highway, it is difficult to ignore migrants without feeling a sense of collective failure.Those countless unknown faces that nurtured the City Beautiful with their blood and sweat for years are being conveniently orphaned.“We will never come back again,” warns Ajay (26), almost throwing a challenge to the city to survive without them.There are roughly 1,800 migrants from Zirakpur and 1,500 from Dera Bassi waiting to go to different parts of the country. Ajay is one of them — desperately waiting for an SMS from the Mohali administration to leave for Gonda (UP) by a special train.“After working as a dhobi for 15 years, I know each family in the 200 houses of this society but hardly one or two have reached out to us for help. It is our mistake that we started believing that we belonged here,” said Rajesh Kumar, who lives near Shiv Mandir on NK Sharma Road, Zirakpur.At the Radha Swami Satsang Bhawan on the Chandigarh-Ambala road, where medical screening for home-bound labour is being done, hundreds of helpless workers turn up every day in the hope of getting a ticket to home. There is no one to give them a bottle of water or a packet of biscuit to their hungry children. All they get is cops’ rebuke for crowding the place. So, with kids in tow, they walk on foot, cycle, hitchhike trolleys, tempos, trucks and virtually anything that takes them nearer home.On roads, police barricades greet them at every district borders. Hence, they take to railway tracks to avoid the police. “There is no hope here. We will not get work even after the lockdown is lifted. I doubt if anyone will give their clothes for ironing now,” said Babu Lal, who works as a washerman in Lohgarh.Dera Bassi Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Kuldeep Bawa said: “As many as 17 community kitchens in Dera Bassi and eight in Zirakpur were set up. They have now been stopped but alternative arrangements have been made. We have provided dry ration, cooked food to 52,000 people in 1,400 households for the past 45 days with the help of NGOs and state government fund.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-labourers-wont-come-back-again-84475
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||2 more cases in Chandigarh, tally 191||The city recorded two more Covid cases today, taking the total count to 191. At present, there are 156 active cases in the city.The new cases are two men, aged 32 and 36, both residents of Bapu Dham Colony. They are family contacts of a 62-year-old man from the colony who died of Covid last week.On May 9, the man had reported positive for Covid post-death at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. He was admitted to the hospital with complaint of loose stool on May 7. He was also a patient of heart disease. Meanwhile, six family contacts of a Covid patient of Sector 7 living in the same house have tested negative for the virus.Two patients were discharged from the PGI today, raising the count of recovered patients in the city to 32.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-cases-in-chandigarh-tally-191-84476
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||High Court puts Chandigarh on notice  on schools’ association plea||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice of motion to the UT Administration on a petition filed by the Independent Schools Association, Chandigarh, for quashing an order directing private schools to reschedule the last date to deposit fee and funds for the 2020-21 session.“It is hoped that taking into account the urgency, the respondent-authority shall take an appropriate call by the next date of hearing, after hearing the petitioners,” Justice Nirmaljit Kaur asserted in her order.As the petition came up for hearing through video-conferencing following the Covid outbreak, counsel appearing for the association against the UT Administration and other respondents pointed out to Justice Nirmaljit Kaur’s Bench that the order was without any basis and jurisdiction, besides being totally arbitrary. Elaborating, the counsel submitted that the petitioner-institutes were bound to pay and disburse the salary to the teachers and other staff. For the purpose, they needed to generate funds, which was possible only through the fee to be paid by students.The counsel added: “There is nothing that the parents of these children are not able to pay the fee or they have no source of income during this lockdown period”. Taking a note of the submissions, Justice Nirmaljit Kaur issued a notice of motion to the Administration and other respondents.The Bench also fixed May 22 as the next date of hearing in the matter. Also appearing before the Bench, standing counsel for the UT Madhu Dayal accepted the notice on behalf of the Administration and prayed for time to file a reply.“The reply be filed within one week from today with an advance copy to the counsel for the petitioners...,” Justice Nirmaljit Kaur added before parting with the order.In its petition, the association asserted that the reopening of schools was uncertain. In the meantime, the schools were required to disburse salary to the staff. However, they were running out of funds due to non-payment of fee.The schools had made huge investment in technological platforms for online classes and to prevent the students from suffering. Counsel Ashish Chopra added the schools had been making painstaking efforts for proving education and holding classes online. In fact, online timetable for classes had been made. The schools, too, were expected to continue to discharge their functions, including disbursement of salaries to the staff and disseminating education through online technology to their students, even in the current scenario.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-puts-chandigarh-on-notice-on-schools-association-plea-84477
14-05-2020||Mohali||Mother-daughter duo beats Covid||30-year-old husband of the woman is an employee of the PGI and had earlier tested negative. He is home-quarantined. Dayalan said as of now, the total number of positive cases was 105, with 45 being active. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mother-daughter-duo-beats-covid-84484
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Contractors may not renew liquor licence without relief in Chandigarh||Having received no relief, the local liquor contractors are unlikely to go for renewing their licences.Though the Punjab Government today announced to provide relief to the liquor contractors in the state by adjusting licence fee for losses incurred during the lockdown period, the UT Administration is yet to take a call on providing relief to the liquor contractors in the city.Sources said the Administration was instead likely to impose ‘cow cess’ on liquor, which has increased the worries of the contractors. A cess of Rs 5 is expected to be levied on a 750 ml bottle of country liquor, Rs 5 on a 650 ml bottle of beer and Rs 10 on a 750 ml bottle of whisky.The local vends were closed from March 22 to May 3 due to the lockdown and were re-opened on May 4.In the new Excise Policy, the UT Administration had decided to levy cow cess, which was to be applicable from April 1, 2020, but it could not be done due to the lockdown. However, sources said the Administration could introduce cow cess to generate revenue.“We have not received any compensation for the loss we incurred during the lockdown period. The Punjab Government has adjusted amounts of their contractors. The UT Administration should also do the same. We have already faced losses due to the lockdown and things ahead appear to be worse. If the Administration did not provide any relaxation in the licence fee, we will not be able to go for renewal of our licence,” said a vendor.The contracts of liquor vends were allotted from April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020, but due to the lockdown, the Excise Policy for the fiscal 2019-20 was extended from May 16 to June 30. Earlier, the Excise Policy was extended from April 1 to May 15.In the Excise Policy 2020-21, which was to be implemented from April 1, the Administration has expected revenue of nearly Rs 680 crore against Rs 617 crore it had estimated for the financial year 2019-20, an increase of nearly 10 per cent.Sources said due to the lockdown, the Administration had suffered a loss of more than Rs 80 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contractors-may-not-renew-liquor-licence-without-relief-in-chandigarh-84516
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Fogging machines in Chandigarh out of order, fear  of diseases looms||Amid the Covid-19 outbreak, fear of vector-borne diseases has also gripped city residents as fogging machines of the UT Health Department are lying out of order.Residents have been complaining of mosquitoes in their areas, but to no avail.The malaria wing of the department has two vehicle-mounted fogging machines. One of these machines is not working while the other is being used to its minimal capacity as it is also not in a good condition. Sources said: “There are about seven to eight hand-held fogging machines, which are used inside houses. Three such machines are also not working”.“Two vehicle-mounted fogging machines are too less for the entire city. The number of these machines should be raised to 10. We have been getting several complaints from RWAs that fogging is not being done. The authorities should ensure that machines are made functional as soon as possible,” said Dr Anish Garg, spokesperson, Chandigarh RWA Federation. Mamta Mishra of Sector 30 said: “Whether we get infected with Covid or not, mosquitoes are surely going to infect people here. Yesterday, two persons came for fogging here, but they seemed to be doing a mere formality as their machine was apparently not working properly. They just clicked selfies in the area for proof and left.”Fogging starts in April every year, but this time it has delayed inordinately.A malaria wing official said: “These machines need frequent servicing. Due to the lockdown, we are not able to find mechanics to get these serviced. Fogging was done in some areas like Sector 15.” A health official said: “Vehicle-mounted fogging machines will be repaired soon. While five hand-held fogging machines are working like previous year, we have not been using others. The machines developed some issues due to overuse, but our work is not suffering.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fogging-machines-in-chandigarh-out-of-order-fear-of-diseases-looms-84517
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||UIET team gets Rs 4L from MHRD||A seven-student team from the UIET has been given Rs 4 lakh by the MHRD for developing motion-sensing gloves.The UIET is the only team from North India to have been funded out of the 17 nominated from across the country. Prof Renu Vig, president, Institution’s Innovation Council (IIC)-Panjab University inspired the team — Jannat, Sahil, Vastvikta, Rashi, Varun, and Poojita — under the mentorship of faculty members — Dr Prashant Jindal, Dr Rakesh Tuli and Dr Mamta Juneja — to develop the innovative product. The device has been going through various design upgrades over the past one year in the Medical Devices & Restorative Technologies lab at the DIC, UIET. The team competed through multiple elimination rounds to identify as the most innovative and useful proof of concepts (PoCs) developed by engineering students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uiet-team-gets-rs-4l-from-mhrd-84518
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Online uploading of balance sheets flummoxes pvt schools in Chandigarh||The UT Education Department and local private schools are once again at loggerheads on the issue of uploading balance sheets and income expenditure on public platform.Deadline extended to comply with fee actWhile the Independent Schools Association (ISA) maintained that they annually submit the required documents with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) office and District Education Officer (DEO), the department claimed that not all schools follow the exercise.Both decide to extract information by approaching court, leaving parents wondering, who is at fault. “We submit all details pertaining to balance sheets and expenditure to CBSE and DEO office. Now, it’s hard to understand why they want us to make all these documents public. The administration is acting under pressure of some unrecognised association, which simply want to hog the limelight,” said HS Mamik, president, ISA. He further added, “We will surely take up the matter in court.”Meanwhile, officials in the DEO office claimed that not all schools follow the exercise. “We have been asking them to provide details under the Unaided Educational Institution Act, 2016. If they have some problem, they should approach the court to take stay orders. But as of now, we want details and schools falling to provide will face consequences,” said an official, seeking anonymity. “Not all schools provide details. There are only one or two. We have our legal option open,” said DEO Alka Mehta.The UT Education Department has sought reports on balance sheets and income expenditure of local private schools under the norms of the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institution Act, 2016. The balance sheets, to be made public to a clause in the Act, require the utilisation of funds for the betterment and development of the unaided educational institution. The department had set two different deadlines for schools to submit the above mentioned details, but till date only three schools have followed the instructions, informed a source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-uploading-of-balance-sheets-flummoxes-pvt-schools-in-chandigarh-84520
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||No supply by CTU buses from May 16||The Chandigarh Administration has decided to discontinue the supply of fruits and vegetables through Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) buses to various parts of the city from May 16.However, the supply to containment zones will continue.After curfew was imposed in the city on March 23, CTU buses were pressed into to service for supplying fruits and vegetables to various areas of the city at the fixed rates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-supply-by-ctu-buses-from-may-16-84521
14-05-2020||Kharar||3 brothers among 7 booked for murder in Kharar||Gagandeep Singh (15), a resident of Chanalon near Kurali who was grievously injured in a brutal attack near Khanur village in Kharar on May 8, died at the GMCH-32 on Tuesday.Bhagwant Singh, SHO, Kharar City police station, said the deceased was living with his mother in Chanalon village near Kurali. He along with his friends came to Khanpur village near Kharar on May 8.They entered into a quarrel with a resident of Khanpur over some issue and were attacked by a group of men near Khanpur Chowk. Gagandeep got seriously injured in the attack. His friends took him to the Civil Hospital, Kurali. On Tuesday, he was shifted to the GMCH-32, where he succumbed to his injuries. The police have registered a case under Sections 302, 148 and 149 of the IPC against Sukhwinder Singh, Gurpreet Singh and Manpreet Singh (three brothers) all residents of Khanpur village, Lucky of the same village and three unknown persons. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-brothers-among-7-booked-for-murder-in-kharar-84522
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||No exams for Semester VIII at Punjab Engineering College||The management of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has decided not to conduct examination for the semester VIII students due to the pandemic. It was decided to declare the students pass or fail on the basis of their semester VII CGPA and as recommended by an instructor. “The assessment will be based on students’ performance till March. While those who have failed their previous exams will undergo a test and those at the borderline will have to attend an online course,” said an official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-exams-for-semester-viii-at-punjab-engineering-college-84523
14-05-2020||Ambala||Murder case cracked,  wife, paramour arrested in Ambala||The Ambala police have claimed to solve the blind murder case of Ravi Kumar (35), a resident of Sarangpur village, whose body was recovered on Monday, with the arrest of two people including his wife, and her alleged paramour.The suspects have been identified as Dimple, Ravi’s wife, and Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Shahabad.Kewal Singh, in-charge, CIA-1, said, “Dimple and Sukhwinder had extramarital relations for the past four years. Both planned to get rid of Ravi so that they could get married. Knowing Ravi was an alcoholic, both planned to kill him after intoxicating him with heavy dose of liquor. On May 10, Sukhwinder entered the victim’s house, with the help of Dimple, and strangulated him in his sleep with a wire. The duo later smothered him to death using a pillow. After killing him, they took his body on a motorcycle and dumped it in a water channel near the village”, he added.Singh said, “They both have two children each. Sukhwinder had also planned to kill his own wife, after killing Ravi.”During the investigation, the accused duo confessed to their crime. They were produced before a court today which sent them to one-day police remand. The pillow, mobiles, wire, and motorcycle have been recovered,” the police official said. A case was registered under sections 302 and 34 of IPC at the Ambala Sadar police station. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/murder-case-cracked-wife-paramour-arrested-in-ambala-84525
14-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||‘Shramik train’ departs for  Manipur with 930 on board||Shramik train with 930 Manipur residents onboard chugged off from Sirhind railway station to Manipur. Fatehgarh Sahib Deputy Commissioner (DC) Amrit Kaur Gill and other government officials were present at the railway station to see off the passengers.The DC said the state government is bearing their entire travel expenses of the passengers, which amounts to approximately Rs 11 lakh. She added that all migrants were thoroughly screened before boarding the train. She said special buses were arranged to ferry the passengers to the railway station and all precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19 were ensured, including social distancing. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shramik-train-departs-for-manipur-with-930-on-board-84527
14-05-2020||---||High Court to hear PIL against curfew relaxations today||Chandigarh, May 13A city lawyer has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court challenging the relaxations implemented from May 3 midnight, claiming that the same were likely to play havoc with the life and liberty of citizens. The petition will come up for hearing tomorrow.Mentioning of zones ill-defined: PetitionerIn his petition, Pankaj Chandgothia alleged that the relaxations would undo the advantages of curfew imposition during the past 40 days.He said that Chandigarh had been declared a red zone by the Central government due to increase in the number of cases. The city has a small geographical area and a population of only about 12 lakh.Referring to the order issued on May 2 by the respondents declaring certain affected areas as containment zones, he said the mentioning of the zones was erratic and ill-defined and not as per parameters laid down in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines.Responding to the contentions, the UT Administration has asserted it was clearly entioned in the guidelines of the Chandigarh Administration that all malls, market complexes and big shops located on sector dividing roads would remain closed.The opening of internal sector markets (neighbourhood shops) has been done by the Chandigarh Administration to ensure that during the lockdown, the residents are not deprived of basic amenities and essentials commodities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-to-hear-pil-against-curfew-relaxations-today-84528
14-05-2020||Mohali||Youth booked for abducting minor girl||The police have booked a youth for allegedly abducting a minor girl on the pretext of getting married.The accused has been identified as Abhishek (22), who was staying at a PG accommodation in Sector 41, Chandigarh.According to the police, the girl left her home after informing her parents that she was going to attend a stitching class near Sohana village, but she did not return. The victim’s father told the police that his daughter had been missing from the past few days.According to the police, the girl was in relationship with Abhishek. “We have conducted two raids at the house of the accused, but he was not found there. During the preliminary investigation, it was discovered that the accused is a drug addict and was evicted by his parents. We will find them soon,” said Bir Chand, the investigation officer. A case has been registered at the Sohana police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-booked-for-abducting-minor-girl-84529
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||2,670 Chandigarh migrants leave for UP, Bihar||Two ‘shramik’ special trains chugged off to Purnia in Bihar and Basti, near Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh from the Chandigarh railway station today.As many as 1,458 passengers boarded the train to Bihar, which left at 2:30 pm, 30 minutes behind schedule. Another 1,212 boarded the train to Gorakhpur that left the station on scheduled time at 7 pm.The first CTU bus carrying Bihar migrants arrived at 10:15 am. For the train to UP in the evening, the buses started dropping off migrants at the station at 2:40 pm.Heavy rush at ISBT-43A large number of migrants gathered at the ISBT-43 in the morning, either looking for information or passage home. Officials on duty said only those, who had already registered themselves on the Administration’s website for the ‘shramik’ trains, were allowed to go. — TNSCRPF officer comes to aid of migrantsChandigarh: While the UT Administration has arranged trains to take migrants stuck in the city to their native places in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Manipur, arrangement for food and other essentials was lacking as thousands of them gathered at the ISBT, Sector 43, for screening on Wednesday morning. Dev Raj, second in command, CRPF, 51 Battalion, came to the rescue of the workers and their family members, by distributing nearly 5,000 packets of ready to eat food among them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-670-chandigarh-migrants-leave-for-up-bihar-84530
14-05-2020||Panchkula||11 injured  in clash at Chandimandir||A clash broke out between two groups in Khatauli village in the Chandimandir area, leaving 11 persons injured.The incident took place on Monday evening. According to the police, several youths entered into the clash using sticks and sharp objects over a group discussion on WhatsApp.The injured persons were taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 from where two of them were referred to the PGI, Chandigarh.Two FIRs were filed at the Chandimandir police station on the complaint of both groups.The police post in-charge, Barwala, said: “We have arrested four persons each from the two groups. Further investigation into the matter is still on.”Policemen have also been deployed at thevillage, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-injured-in-clash-at-chandimandir-84532
14-05-2020||Panchkula||Containment restrictions go in Sector 15, Panchkula||The Panchkula administration today lifted restrictions in Sector 15 here, which was declared a containment zone after nine members of a family tested positive for Covid-19.As soon as restrictions were lifted after a gap of 28 days, a large number of people were seen on the streets, throwing social distancing norms to the wind.On May 4, the Deputy Commissioner had kept just Housing Board Colony in containment zone while marking the remaining houses in buffer zone.Officials said there would no restrictions in public movement in the entire Sector 15.On April 14, a 44-old-year woman had tested positive for Covid. A day later, her husband also tested positive for the virus. The next day, seven other members of their family, residing in two houses in Sector 15, were found Covid positive. They all have cured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/containment-restrictions-go-in-sector-15-panchkula-84533
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid duty keeps this MC official on toes||From an easygoing 9 am to 5 pm job to 24X7 duty, life is quite hectic for this frontline warrior these days, but he goes on with a smile.Gagandeep Sharma, an official in the Municipal Corporation (MC), has handled several responsibilities, including establishment branch and legal cell, in the past. The latest is contact tracing and quarantining. His day begins at 4 am.“I ensure that the list of persons to be home-quarantined is ready for the quarantine teams in the morning,” says Gagan.The teams start visiting quarantined houses between 8 am and 8:30 am. Gagan coordinates with the team members throughout the day. In the evening, all teams submit reports and Gagan updates these details on the official website of the MC.“When the first positive case was reported from Bapu Dham Colony, I immediately called the patient for his address and other details. The teams were immediately deputed there. We got free around 1:30 am that day,” he recalls.“This all has been made possible due to the efforts of our nodal officer Anil Garg, who encouraged and guided the whole team,” adds Gagan. He and his subordinates Amit, Bhaskar Dhiman, Rahul and Robin have been on their toes since March 18.The professional dedication comes at some personal cost. “Sometimes my family, wife and children get disturbed due to my odd working hours, but it’s a war-like situation today and we understand our responsibility. We have to perform our duty, so why not do it with a smile.”Gagan has some disability in his left leg since his childhood. However, he has never let it become a hindrance in his work. “It only motivated me to do good in life,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-duty-keeps-this-mc-official-on-toes-84534
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||‘Covid care: Why just PGI, not other facilities?’||While Mohali and Panchkula have made their own arrangements to treat Covid patients, UT-run GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 are sending all their positive cases to the PGI, thus overburdening the hospital and increasing the chances of infection while transporting patients.In Panchkula, patients are treated at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6. In Mohali, Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Banur, is the isolation and treatment centre. But, two state hospitals in Chandigarh are not operational.The UT seems to be acting not only against its own rules, but also against the three-tier hospital guidelines of the Health Ministry.“There are two state hospitals and the PGI is a national institution. Why are these hospitals not working like those in Panchkula, Mohali or any other hospital in the country? The PGI gets critical cases from Punjab and Haryana and is being overburdened by the day. Every state has a right to the PGI, not just Chandigarh. Sometimes, we get complaints from other states if we do not admit their patients. Besides, it increases exposure to infection. When patients are shifted from the two hospitals to the PGI, there are chances of infection transmission to attendant, driver or any other person on the way,” said a senior PGI doctor on the condition of anonymity.However, PGI’s official spokesperson Dr Ashok said: “The PGI is efficiently managing the patient load. We are in touch with the UT Administration for sharing the mild and moderate Covid-19 patients. There are no chances of increasing the infection from the PGI.” Currently, the PGI has 101 active patients and of this, 96 are from Chandigarh.Health Secretary Arun Gupta said: “The PGI was chosen as the Covid hospital. It was decided that after its 200 beds are utilised, the Sector 48 hospital will be made operational. And if there is still shortage, then GMSH-16 or GMCH-32 will be used.”The government has divided hospitals into three categories — Covid Care Centres to treat very mild, mild and suspect cases; Covid Health Centres for clinically moderate level serious patients; and Dedicated Covid Hospitals for severe andcritical patients. The UT Administration also made its plan on these lines, but apparently, it is not being implemented properly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-care-why-just-pgi-not-other-facilities-84535
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Can’t wash away lockdown blues||Washermen or ‘dhobis’ of the city have weathered the blows of month-long lockdown blues. While some of them resumed work three days ago, others are still homebound.At the Modern Dhobi Ghat in Sector 15, Vikas Deep paints a grim picture. “There were no orders in April, but even the 40-50 orders, placed before the lockdown, are still with us. No one wants delivery and the money is due,” he says.We have lost our clients from hospitality industry, parlours, salons and Panjab University residents. The rental charge adds to their worries. In the 16-member society, called the Chandigarh Washermen Workshop Industry Cooperative Society, each member works individually, shares Vikas.“We pay Rs 13,000 monthly rent for this place. This month, we have not been able to earn anything,” he says. “The expenses are high and we only hope for the rent deadline to be extended,” he adds.In Sector 44-B, Rajesh Kumar opened ironing shack a few days ago. “I earn about Rs 200-300 daily. In April, I couldn’t earn a dime,” he says. “I have exhausted all my savings. Now, the only way ahead for me is hard work,” he says.Chottu in Sector 42-C echoes Rajesh, adding, “ I am going to work and make as much money as I can, but the business is slow.” The empty workstations inside tin-shed shacks on inner roads of Sector 33, 32 and 34 are a testimony to Chottu’s statement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cant-wash-away-lockdown-blues-84536
14-05-2020||Chandigarh||Thieves decamp with Rs 40K||Newborn’s body dumped in binChandigarh: The body of a newborn girl was found dumped in a garbage bin at Ram Darbar here on Wednesday morning. The police said a safai karamchari, who was on duty at Ram Darbar, spotted the body in garbage and informed the police. Cops said that the body was around five days old. A case under Section 318 (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) of the IPC has been registered against an unknown person at the Sector 31 police station and a probe has been initiated into it. TNSImmunity, yoga discussedChandigarh: The Interdisciplinary Centre for Swami Vivekananda Studies, in collaboration with the Department of History, organised a webinar ‘Immunity and Yoga: In the context of Covid-19’. TNSExpect light rain for 2 daysChandigarh: The local branch of the Meteorological Department has issued a rain forecast for the next two days. According to the weatherman, generally cloudy conditions are likely along with thundery development/light rain on Thursday and Friday. On Saturday, it will be a clear sky. “Light to moderate rain (1-3 cm) is likely in many parts of Punjab and some parts of Haryana during the next 48 hours. Thunderstorm, accompanied by lightning, gusty winds and hail, is also likely over some parts during this period,” read a Met update. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-decamp-with-rs-40k-84538
