14-04-2020||---||Panchukula woman tests positive, takes district coronavirus count to 6||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 14A 40-year-old woman in Panchuka’s Sector 15 tested positive on Tuesday, taking the district tally to six. Jasjit Kaur, the Civil Surgeon at the Sector 6-Civil Hospital, said the woman had flu-like symptoms for which she was being treated by a private doctor.On being informed, health workers home quarantined her and took swab samples.The woman is now in an isolation ward at the civil hospital. The civil surgeon said she had neither any recent history of travelling abroad, nor was there anybody with coronavirus symptoms in her immediate vicinity.Health authorities have isolated her family and the private doctor who was treating her, and will send their swabs for testing, the civil surgeon said. They will also track down her contacts to isolate and test.While the woman is Panchkula’s sixth coronavirus cases, Haryana has recorded some 162 cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchukula-woman-tests-positive-takes-district-coronavirus-count-to-6-71107
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh to remain under curfew till May 3||The Chandigarh Administration extended curfew in the city till May 3 on Tuesday in an attempt to stem the spread of coronavirus.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore said any more relaxations in the curfew would be considered only after April 20. UT Adviser Manoj Parida also said this in a tweet."War room decides no change in shopping timings till 20th April. Relaxation hours will continue to be from 11 to 3 pm," his tweet said.The announcement is along the lines of the nationwide lockdown that Prime Minister Narendra Modi extended on Tuesday. Modi said in his speech on Tuesday morning that the lockdown would continue until May 3, with possible relaxations only after April 20.Chandigarh Administration had previously announced that curfew in the union territory would last as long as lockdown continues across India.Chandigarh coronavirus tally currently stands at 21.The development also comes on a day when Punjab similarly extended its curfew restrictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-to-remain-under-curfew-till-may-3-71099
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Goods worth lakhs gutted in fire at furniture market in Sector 53||Furniture worth lakhs of rupees was gutted in a fire that broke out in the furniture market, Sector 53, late on Monday night.The fire department got the call regarding the incident at about 11 pm. Several fire tenders were pressed into service to control the fire.Officials said the fire could only be controlled at about 1:30 am.The reason for the fire could not be ascertained yet.“We returned home at 6 am today after the whole operation. We are preparing the report at present and are yet to compile its details,” said Anil Kumar, fire station officer, Sector 38 fire station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/goods-worth-lakhs-gutted-in-fire-at-furniture-market-in-sector-53-71086
14-04-2020||---||Chandigarh to declare results of classes IX and XI on April 20||Chandigarh, April 14The entire country is under complete lockdown because of COVID-19. In the wake of the same, the usual PTMs scheduled for 31st March 2020 could not be conducted.The Education Department, Chandigarh Administration, has declared the result of students from Classes I to VIII as per the RTE rules on 31st March and all the students were promoted to the next respective classes.However, the result of Classes IX and XI were withheld.Now, since the lockdown has been further extended to 3rd May, 2020, and the summer vacation has been preponed and scheduled from 15th April to 14th May, the Education Department has decided to declare the result of Classes IX and XI.The result criteria shall be circulated to all the govt schools in a couple of days. Subsequently, the result would be declared on 20th April.The result would be displayed on the website of the respective schools.It would also be conveyed to students through text messages and WhatsApp messages.The parents or students need not come to school for the same. They can call on the helpline numbers already circulated.Subsequently, the students can start their study schedule from the online teaching, an initiative of the Education Department already functional.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-declare-results-of-classes-ix-and-xi-on-april-20-71065
14-04-2020||Mohali||Coronavirus: Punjab's eight new cases takes state tally to 184||Punjab on Tuesday reported eight coronavirus cases, taking the state's case tally to 184.Pathankot, Mohali, Gurdaspur, and Jalandhar reported cases.Pathankot reported four cases, all contacts of already diagnosed patients. Gurdaspar reported its first case on Tuesday. A state health bulletin said later in the day that the person suffers from severe acute respiratory distress (SARI)---a phenomenon that occuress in the more serious cases of the deadly contagion. Mohali reported two more cases, taking the district's tally to 56---the district with the most number of cases.One of Tuesday's two cases is a  56-year-old woman from Jawaharpur village of Dera Bassi----the village that the state's authrities have marked as a cluster.The woman's family members had previously tested positive. She is believed to have tested positive in the second test. This makes the the total number of coronavirus cases in the village  to 38.  The other case is a 36-year-old woman from Mundi Kharar.She worked as a domestic help of a 78-year-old woman who had died of coronavirus at the civil hospital in Kharar on April 7. The deceased woman's husband had also tested positive.Both of Tuesday's cases have been admitted to the isolation ward of the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.None of Jawaharpur's 38 patients have a travel history. Most of them were asymptomatic, and were diagnosed only after testing. Some Tablighi Jamaat members had stayed in the village but had left before anyone could get information about them.Dr Manjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, said that teams had been deputed for the villages to take the samples of the women's family members and other contacts.Deputy Commissioner, Girish Dayalan, said that the district administration was undertaking extensively tracing contacts and sampling, which is leading to the identification of more cases."This would lead to their isolation in time and help in combating the coronavirus. The containment protocol is being strictly followed in the village," he added.In Kapurthala, 18 of 24 students at Lovely Professional University tested negative on Tuesday, officials said. Police are awaiting test results of seven people in the university, which includes that of a person working at the institutions mess who died on Monday. He is believed to have had jaundice.Jalandhar also reported one case, also a patient with actute respiratory distress. This takes the district tally to 25. The health bulletin also shows that Punjab's death tally currently stands at 13.Meanwhile, Sangrur district reported its third positive case on Tuesday. One person tested positive in Malerkotla, officials said.A Patiala city resident with no travel history tested positive on Tuesday, officials said. This makes it the third coronavirus case in the district.Neither the Sangrur nor Patiala case have been added to the state's official tally yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-punjabs-eight-new-cases-takes-state-tally-to-184-71031
14-04-2020||---||Six booked for violating curfew norms in Khamano||Our CorrespondentKhamano, April 13The police registered cases against six persons for breaking curfew norms and also impounded their four vehicles today. The suspects have been identified as Gurjeet Singh and Jagminder Singh, both residents of Bilaspur village, Sohan Lal and Gurmeet Singh, both residents of Sun City Colony, Khamano, Bhadar Singh, a resident of Goslan village, and Jaswant Singh, a resident of Shamshpur Singhan village.Giving more information, the Khamano SHO, Raj Kumar, said a police party led by ASI Parjinder Singh had laid a naka at Sua Pul to check curfew violations. Cops manning the naka stopped four riders on two Activa scooters and two other persons driving motorcycles. When cops asked two-wheeler riders to show curfew passes they failed to produce any documents.Six persons on four two-wheelers failed to show permission from any authority concerned for movement during curfew, the SHO said. Cases were registered against all six persons under Section 188 and their vehicles were impounded by the police, the SHO added.The suspects were released on bail after they furnished all required documents, the SHO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-booked-for-violating-curfew-norms-in-khamano-70768
14-04-2020||---||Two cops among seven test –ve for Covid in Khamano||Our CorrespondentKhamano, April 13The samples of seven persons out of eight, including two police personnel and six others, tested negative for Covid thus bringing respite to residents of the Khamano area. The sample of a woman constable was taken again today as there was some error in her report.The samples of three cops include one of women constable and two policemen, who were deployed at Victor Institute, Ranwan, a few days ago, were collected on Friday.Samples of four persons from Aurangabad with Delhi Jamat links, who were staying at Maneli village, while one from Khamano, who was providing food to the affected during their admission to the Civil Hospital, Khamano , were taken as a precautionary measure two days ago.Two policemen and five others tested negative for Covid, said the SMO, Khamano, Harbhajan Ram. The SHO, Khamano, Raj Kumar, said three police personnel were under quarantine at their respective houses. They were in good health and high spirits, Kumar added.Today, samples of 10 persons, including women constable, were collected and sent for testing, Kumar said. Their report was expected in the late evening tomorrow, Kumar added.The CMO, Fatehgarh Sahib, NK Agarwal, said, “Till now, samples of 92 persons have been collected out of which two have already tested positive while 80 have tested negative. The report of 10 persons is awaited.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-cops-among-seven-test-%E2%80%93ve-for-covid-in-khamano-70766
14-04-2020||---||Thikri pehras are helping combat Covid-19: Dayalan||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 13Amid the rising Covid threat, residents of many villages in Mohali district have sealed their areas and barred entry of outsiders by installing makeshift barricades. They rue that people were not following the curfew guidelines seriously and continued to defy the restrictions despite repeated notifications by the government and the administration.Sarpanches and members of the youth club of Bathlana and Malakpur villages in the district have put up barricades at entry points of their area. Also, they are guarding the entry and exit points of villages to restrict the entry of outsiders.Deputy Commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan said, “Thikri pehras are providing a significant helping hand in combating the coronavirus. Vigilant groups formed at the village level are keeping a strict eye on the entry of outsiders.”“There are 160 villages in 140 panchayats falling in the Kharar block. In Majri block, there are 108 villages. Dera Bassi has 93 villages,” the DC added.“In most villages, sarpanches as well as youth clubs have put up barricades at the entry points of their villages. This has been done to prevent the entry of outsiders and stopping villagers from going out,” the DC said.“In case of delivery of essential supplies such as vegetables, milk, groceries and medicines, entry is allowed with permission. Proper record is maintained so that in case any Covid-positive case emerges, source can be easily traced and preventive steps are taken,” the DC added.“Such initiatives act as the third eye of the district administration and ensure that coronavirus is effectively tackled. The sanitisation drive is also undertaken at regular intervals to prevent the spread of virus,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thikri-pehras-are-helping-combat-covid-19-dayalan-70765
14-04-2020||---||Drive to screen hostel inmates launched in Fatehgarh Sahib district||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, April 13On directions of the civil and the police administration the Health Department has launched a special drive for the screening of students staying in hostels of all institutions in the district.Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, said, “The Health Department has screened 134 hostel students and 41 employees of RIMT University, Mandi Gobindgarh, during the drive. At Desh Bhagat University, Mandi Gobindgarh, 30 hostel students and 95 employees have been screened. All have been found asymptomatic.”Besides, 10 samples of close contacts of two Covid-positive Jamaati women were taken at Khamano today, Aggarwal added. Thirty two Jamaatis came to district out of which two were found positive, Aggarwal said.Till now, 43 samples of close contacts of Covid-positive women were taken out of which 33 had tested negative, Aggarwal added. All their close contacts were home quarantined till April 17, Aggarwal said. No new fresh case was reported during the last one week, Aggarwal added.“There are only two Covid-positive cases in the district and both are Jamaati women activists belonging to Aurangabad. They have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur,” Aggarwal said.As many as 848 NRIs came to Fatehgarh Sahib district and all had been traced, Aggarwal added. Out of these NRIs, 848 passed 14-day home quarantine limit, Aggarwal said. There was no case of home quarantine in the district, Aggarwal added. Fifty-nine visitors from Hazur Sahib and 154 devotees, who attended Holla Mohalla, were home quarantined, Aggarwal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drive-to-screen-hostel-inmates-launched-in-fatehgarh-sahib-district-70763
14-04-2020||---||Two held for giving currency note to trader after spitting||Our CorrespondentKharar, April 13The city police have arrested two youths identified as Mohammand Nawaj and Abdul Hanan on the charge of not wearing masks and giving currency note to a trader after spitting.The Kharar City SHO, Bhagwant Singh, said, “A case under Section 188 and 269 of the IPC has been registered against the duo as per complaint lodged by Manoj, a local trader, who runs a dairy shop.”The complainant alleged that the suspects came to his shop in the late evening on Sunday and purchased sugar from him. He stated that they were not wearing any masks and gave a currency note to him after spitting on it.The police have booked the youths on the charge of disobedience to the orders issued by the Deputy Commissioner and the Negligent Act (Likely to spread infection).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-giving-currency-note-to-trader-after-spitting-70762
14-04-2020||---||Municipal Council sanitises Jawaharpur village for 3rd time||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 13Jawaharpur village was sanitised for the third time by the district administration. The village has become a hotspot after 37 Covid-positive cases were reported from the area. Now, Mohali district stand on top in the state with maximum Covid patients.Giving more information, the Dera Bassi SDM, Kuldeep Bawa, said they were paying special attention on one hand to trace contacts of Covid patients and collecting their samples. They were also sanitising Jawaharpur village at regular intervals as part of its efforts to combat the disease, the SDM added.They were strictly following the containment plan in order to check the spread of virus, the SDM said. Sanitisation was the most vital aspect of the plan, the SDM added.The Dera Bassi Municipal Council sanitised Jawaharpur village on Saturday evening. A fire tender sprayed sodium hypochlorite in every nook and corner of the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/municipal-council-sanitises-jawaharpur-village-for-3rd-time-70761
14-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||Baisakhi celebrations a low-key affair at gurdwaras in Mohali||Mohali, April 13First time in the history of Mohali district, historical and religious festival of Baisakhi was not celebrated at gurdwaras amid the nationwide lockdown.Baisakhi festival commemorates the formation of Khalsa panth by Guru Gobind Singh in 1699. Every year, it is celebrated at historical gurdwaras of the area, including Singh Shaheedan, Amb Sahib and Gurdwara Sahib Daun, with large footfall of pilgrims. ‘Nagar kirtan’ is taken out during the festival in the city. This time all gurdwaras in the city wore a deserted look.At almost every gurdwara, ‘Bhog’ of ‘Shri Akhand Path’ of Guru Granth Sahib was solemnised and ‘Ardaas’ (prayer) offered in the presence of ‘sewadars’ (workers).Meanwhile, cops also celebrated the festival of Baisakhi by offering prayers at different police stations of the district. Inspector Manphul Singh, SHO, Phase 1 police station, said they along with workers of Gurdwara Shri Kalghidhar Sahib, Phase 4, prepared around 2.5 quintal of ‘Karah parshad’, which was distributed among cops deployed at various nakas in the district.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member Paramjit Kaur Landran and Gurdwara Amb Sahib manager Rajinder Singh Tohra said they prepared langar on the occasion of Baisakhi, which was distributed among the needy in groups of 10 persons by maintaining social distance.Congress councillor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said majority of city residents prayed at their houses today on the appeal of Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.“We also offered ‘Ardaas’ at 11 am today. ‘Karah parshad’ was prepared by several residents at their houses. The outcome of CM’s message was positive as Mohali residents stayed indoors and offered prayers on the occasion of Baisakhi,” Bedi added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/baisakhi-celebrations-a-low-key-affair-at-gurdwaras-in-mohali-70760
14-04-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||I write regularly to stay positive, says comedienne-actress Savita Bhatti||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13Just like we factory reset our phone when it malfunctions, nature has pushed the reset button. Drawing this comparison is comedienne-actress-social activist Savita Bhatti.“Nature had been beckoning us to respond. Air pollution, water pollution, noise pollution, global warming and depletion of ozone layer, we weren’t taking any of this seriously so it decided to restore to its original setting.” Now that means being back to doing basic things we had forgotten, including dusting, cooking, cleaning and washing.Nature had been beckoning us to respond. Air pollution, water pollution, noise pollution, global warming and depletion of ozone layer, we weren’t taking any of this seriously so it decided to restore to its original setting.— Savita Bhatti“In pursuit of a successful profession, we were taking all these things for granted.” Today, according to her, we are trying to find the silver lining in these dark clouds hovering over us. “It’s different for different individuals. I’ve started with Mandala art. It is a great stress buster. Colouring geometrical designs not only keeps me calm, but it also tests ones brain-hand coordination.” This is besides the other obvious things like reading books, ‘Quaran-binging’ shows like Friends, Modern Family, listening to Punjabi music to keep things peppy, trying new recipes with daughter Rabiya.“To stay positive, I write regularly. I had started writing a book on Jaspal ji’s Nonsense Club. I’ve come back to it. Through the book, I want people to know him beyond TV and films. Here in Chandigarh they do, but there are many who could benefit from the person he was.” This ode to Nonsense Club and how she looks at it is a source of happiness but the biggest happiness for her was when old shows made it back on TV. “There are requests to bring Flop Show and Full Tension back too. This fills me with home and happiness.”While she seeks ways to fill herself with hope and gratitude, she also has worries that she turns into prayers. “My father is in his 90s. He recently recovered from two ICU admissions. My mother is in her late 80s, I am worried for them but I surrender to God and pray for their well-being. Then I tell myself, they are at least living in a comfortable space. There are those who must be in terrible circumstances.”Equating Covid-19 with a world war from history books, Savita says the only difference is that, “We are in it together.The whole mankind is facing it together, fighting for life and praying for mankind.”Another thing we all must do is to salute the administration, police, doctors, health workers and those providing the essential commodities. “Even when they were playing their role, they were invisible to us. Today, we can see the heroes they are, we must appreciate them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/i-write-regularly-to-stay-positive-says-comedienne-actress-savita-bhatti-70758
14-04-2020||---||Industry seeks relief package from Centre to tide over crisis||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13The local industry has sought relief package from the Centre to tide over the ongoing financial crisis. Several issues discussedCharanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said various issues being faced by the trade and the industry during the lockdown period were discussed with Cabinet Minister Piyush Goyal through video-conference on Monday.Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said various issues being faced by the trade and the industry during the lockdown period were discussed with Cabinet Minister Piyush Goyal through video-conference today. Members of various associations of the city participated in the video-conference organised by BJP leader Sanjay Tandon.He said a lot of points pertaining to the present business situation were discussed such as relief from paying full salary, interest-free EMI, exemption of interest by banks on c/c limits and loan accounts, waiver of rent of commercial buildings, exemption of fixed charges from electricity bills, provident fund relaxation for 12 months, early GST refund and many more points.He said the Minister assured that waiver of fixed charges was under process, a relief package for trade and industry was also under consideration and the issues discussed by various associations were likely to be included in the relief package.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/industry-seeks-relief-package-from-centre-to-tide-over-crisis-70757
14-04-2020||---||Masks, sanitisers distributed among sanitation workers in Sec 29||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13BJP councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali distributed masks, gloves and sanitisers among sanitation workers in Sector 29 here today.Devshali said he had requested Abhimanyu Singh, Ashu Singla and Gaurav Thakur of Dwaai Private Limited to provide masks, gloves and sanitisers to us.The company had also assured that if there is any such requirement in future, they will be happy to provide the same, Devshali said.Satbir Singh Thakur, Mandal president, appreciated the safai karmcharis for their efforts in maintaining the sanitation system in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/masks-sanitisers-distributed-among-sanitation-workers-in-sec-29-70756
14-04-2020||---||Ambala Railway Division records highest single-day freight revenue||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13The Ambala Division of Northern Railways, in order to ensure supply of essential goods across the country, loaded 23 rakes on April 9 comprising 20 food grains, 1 container rake and 2 rakes of fertilisers for which it has recorded highest single day revenue from freight operation amounting Rs 10.4 crore. It has thereby surpassed the previous record of 10.1 crore on January 21, 2019.Rakes refer to a line of coupled passenger coaches, or freight wagons, or railcars (excluding the locomotive) that typically move together. During the lockdown period, between March 22 and April 8, the division has ferried 204 rakes of food grains, 20 rakes of fertilisers, 30 rakes of container traffic and 2 rakes of de-oiled cake from the division.As the passenger services of Railways have been put on halt due to Covid outbreak, the division of Indian Railways is ensuring continuous supply of essential goods from northern part of the country to rest of India through its freight operation services.Gurinder Mohan Singh, Divisional Railway Manager, said: “The division has ensured smooth freight operation amid lockdown and curfew by close liaisoning with respective state authorities, rake hand contractors and motivating our esteemed staff to work with commitment in hour of crisis to serve the nation”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-railway-division-records-highest-single-day-freight-revenue-70755
14-04-2020||---||Ravi Dass Gurdwara in Mani Majra serves langar to 6K daily||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13Devotees of Gurdwara Bhagat Ravi Dass, Mariwala town, Mani Majra, have been serving langar to nearly 6,000 needy persons twice a day since March 23.The devotees have been serving food to daily wagers in various areas of Mani Majra such as Mariwala town, Shanti Nagar, Pipliwala town, Motor Market and Bank Colony.Gurdwara committee president Subash Singh said they were spending nearly Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 on langar every day.“Now, we are facing difficulty in continuing with this langar as donations have started dipping,” he said. Philanthropists should come forward at this time of crisis so that the poor people do not sleep hungry.In a meeting, Adviser Manoj Parida had asked them to continue the langar. He thanked the SHO of the Mani Majra police station for her coordinator in distribution of door-to-door langar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ravi-dass-gurdwara-in-mani-majra-serves-langar-to-6k-daily-70754
14-04-2020||---||100 PPE kits donated to Mohali hospital||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 13Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu handed over 100 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh at the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, here today.Sidhu said the state government was focusing on the containment plan to control the spread of Covid-19. The plan includes sanitisation at regular intervals, regular contact tracing and sampling, awareness campaigns exhorting people to stay indoors and complying with curfew norms.Sidhu said the state government was undertaking its best possible efforts to combat Covid-19. It would continue to do its best to provide top-notch healthcare to people in this time of crisis.Sidhu welcomed the initiative of NGOs - Joy of Living and Mohali Helpers - in donating the PPE kits to the hospital.Among others present on the occasion included Manish Taneja and Davinder Singh from Joy of Living and Dr Sunny Singh Ahluwalia, Kamalpreet Singh Bunny and Kamaljeet Singh from Mohali Helpers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-ppe-kits-donated-to-mohali-hospital-70753
14-04-2020||---||DGP lauds efforts of Joshi, Heart foundations||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13“Serving humanity should be the sole motivation of the masses to deal with this crisis,” said DGP Sanjay Baniwal, who joined Joshi Foundation and Heart Foundation for distributing free food packets among the needy under the “Jan Jan Bhojan — Feed The Needy” programme in Sector 15 here today.Around 4,000 free meal packets are cooked under the programme by Joshi Foundation and Heart Foundation in a kitchen setup at the community centre in Sector 15.The DGP joined the community service at 3 pm at the Sector 15 community centre today.“I must appreciative the efforts of Joshi Foundation and Heart Foundation who are helping the UT Administration in reaching out to the underprivileged and needy families by providing them food in this crisis time. It’s a sheer showcase of unity by both NGOs and the Administration to come forward and serve the humanity,” said Baniwal.The Joshi Foundation is distributing free cooked food packets among 4,000 persons on a daily basis. Out of the total prepared food, as many as 2,000 packets are distributed though the UT Administration, while the remaining packets are distributed in the nearby colonies, including, EWS small flats, Dhanas, and Kachi Colony, Dhanas. The community kitchen started on April 2.“We have been distributing 4,000 food packets daily from the Joshi Foundation platform under the “Jan Jan Bhojan — Feed The Needy” programme. On a daily basis, we are providing 2,000 packets to the UT Administration, while other 2,000 packets are distributed among people living in EWS/small flats, Dhanas, Kachi Colony, Dhanas, and at other places,” said Vineet Joshi, chairman Joshi Foundation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dgp-lauds-efforts-of-joshi-heart-foundations-70752
14-04-2020||---||Association gives PPE kits, masks to SSP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13Members of the Property Consultants Association, Chandigarh, today donated 40 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and 300 surgical masks to UT SSP Nilambari Jagadale.Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, chairman of the association, said: “A news report was published in Chandigarh Tribune a few days ago that the UT police need PPE kits. So, we decided to provide kits to the police personnel. We appreciate the efforts of the police in helping public in these tough times.”Kamal Gupta, president of the association, said they had already given N-95 masks and surgical masks to the PGI, and the civil hospitals in Mohali and Panchkula.Gupta said the association was trying to arrange more N-95 masks for distribution in the GMCH-32. Apart from Panchhi and Gupta, Naresh Sharma and Jatinder Singh were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/association-gives-ppe-kits-masks-to-ssp-70751
14-04-2020||A Correspondent||Punjab Minister meets senior health officials||Mohali, April 13To contain the spread of Covid-19 in the district, especially in Jawaharpur village near Dera Bassi, Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu presided over a meeting of senior health officials here today. ‘Find reason for outbreak in village’Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu asked the officials to strategise further contact tracing of the positive patients and find out the reason behind the outbreak in the village. The Health Minister asked the expert team to keep giving its suggestions and discuss about ways to prevent and control the disease more effectively and efficiently.On the request of Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, a team of four experts from the Government Medical College, Patiala, also took part in the meeting held at the Civil Surgeon’s office here.In the meeting, a government spokesperson said while addressing the health officials, Balbir Singh Sidhu said he was worried about the steep rise in Covid cases in Jawaharpur village, which needed to be checked at the earliest. While appreciating the untiring efforts of the District Health Department to tackle the unprecedented situation, Sidhu said public health experts of the Government Medical College, Patiala, were called so that they could share their opinion and suggestions to plan the next course of action to keep the pandemic under check.The minister asked the officials to strategise further contact tracing of the positive patients and find out the reason behind the outbreak in the village. The Health Minister asked the expert team to keep giving its suggestions and discuss about ways to prevent and control the disease more effectively and efficiently.District Epidemiologist Dr Harmandeep Kaur was also present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-minister-meets-senior-health-officials-70749
14-04-2020||Naina Mishra||PEC told to spare beds for Covid care centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13The Chandigarh Administration has written to Punjab Engineering College for requirement of 200 beds from the hostels of the college, which will be accommodated at a government school behind the PGIMER. What the notice saysThe notice reads, “The UT Administration has prepared a Covid-19 management plan in which a number of facilities are proposed as Covid-19 care centres in the worst-case scenario. One of these facilities will be created at a government school behind the PGIMER, Chandigarh. The school has a capacity of accommodating around 200 beds. So, the UT Administration will require 200 beds from your hostels.The notice reads, “The UT Administration has prepared a Covid-19 management plan in which a number of facilities are proposed as Covid-19 care centres in the worst-case scenario. One of these facilities will be created at a government school behind the PGIMER, Chandigarh. The school has a capacity of accommodating around 200 beds. So, the UT Administration will require 200 beds from your hostels.”“It may be possible that these may not be required in case situation remains under control. But, in case the position worsens, the Chandigarh Administration will require these at a short notice of about 2-3 days. Therefore, you are requested to plan for the same,” the notice further reads.Meanwhile, Panjab University has also been asked to vacate Panjab University International Hostel, Girls Hostel No. 8, Girls Hostel No. 9 Girls Hostel No. 10. A prior intimation at a short notice of three to four days will be given to the university for handing over the hostels to the Administration. It has been clarified that the hostels may not be required for the purpose in case situation remains under control. There are a total of 12 Covid centres with an overall capacity of 2,675 beds. These centres will be looking after patients with mild symptoms. The clinical criteria for mild patients would be confirmed cases with fever and/or upper respiratory tract illness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-told-to-spare-beds-for-covid-care-centre-70746
14-04-2020||---||Golf Club helps caddies with ration, money||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13The Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) management distributed dry ration and money to their caddies today. As many as 200 caddies are registered with the club and make a living while caddying for the members.The club has been shut due to the countrywide lockdown caused by Covid-19. “Most of these caddies belong to the lowest strata of society and have no other means of livelihood. The members contributed a substantial amount and all caddies were given Rs 2,000 each for the disruption in their earnings for the last month,” said Sandeep Singh Sandhu, president, Chandigarh Golf Club.“The club has plans to support them for this month also,” added Sandhu. Col Iqbal Singh, chairman, Caddies Welfare Committee, facilitated the distribution, along with Col APS Johal, general manager, Golf Club. The management also combined their efforts with ‘Bogey Sports’ and ‘UdhamIkkSoch’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golf-club-helps-caddies-with-ration-money-70744
14-04-2020||Chandigarh||Reduce GST rates: CRAWFED||The Chandigarh Residents’ Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) today suggested various measures to the central BJP leadership with regard to giving relief to small and medium traders and manufacturers.The central leadership through former city BJP president Sanjay Tandon asked CRAWFED to submit suggestions.The CRAWFED suggested that GST rate of 18 per cent and 28 per cent should be reduced to 12 per cent in order to boost already sluggish economy for specific time. The industries may be given at least 10 per cent of cash credit limit on the basis of turnover by banks so that industries are able to meet daily expenses and pay salary.The industries dealing in essential commodities and medicines shall be given free flow trade and related facilities across the states so that they work to fullest. The GST law shall be made simpler and no penalty and interest may be imposed for any infringement of law during this period. No GST may be imposed on daily bills such as municipal taxes, telephone bills, EMIs, LIC policies, etc., the suggestion note added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reduce-gst-rates-crawfed-70743
14-04-2020||Amarjot Kaur||PU staff, students want VC to review decision on syllabus completion||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13Even though a Panjab University (PU) panel appointed by Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar has unanimously resolved in favour of May 9 deadline for completing the syllabus for this semester, the decision has drawn flak from both faculty and students of the university.They said the 26-day deadline was unrealistic and had no authorisation from the University Grants Commission (UGC).Prof Rajesh Gill, president, Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA), said since the introduction of online courses, the varsity authorities had not sought any kind of feedback from the teachers here. “Many professors are not savvy with the software being used and learning them will take time. The varsity should have got a reality check done here or at least a feedback should have been taken,” she said.Another cause for concern is the recent Covid-19 case, where a PU assistant professor was tested positive. “We are so demoralised after hearing about the varsity professor. He has been critical and the university is bothered only about completing the syllabus,” professor Gill said.Sharing that the deadline leaves the faculty and students with only 26 days, she said, “The ‘internal assessment is a compulsory component of semester tests and it is evaluated on five performance parameters: class test, class performance and snap test, attendance and assignments. This is to be sent to the examination branch before the examinations begin. Semesters start in the second week of May, but some departments start early. How will we give internal assessment to the students?”Meanwhile, Panjab University Campus Student Council (PUCSC) president Chetan Chaudhary said, “The recent direction given by the Vice-Chancellor to all colleges, regional centres and departments of our university regarding completion of the syllabus by May 9 and conducting exams 15 days after lockdown is totally out of line since all departments of PU are yet to finish the major syllabus and lack the facility for online classes.” He added, “Besides, practicals cannot be conducted during this period. I sincerely request the Vice-Chancellor to reconsider this.”‘Varsity should have done a reality check’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-staff-students-want-vc-to-review-decision-on-syllabus-completion-70742
14-04-2020||---||PU hostel inmate alleges  assault by security guard||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13An inmate of Punjab University’ Boys Hostel Number 7, Najeeb Hussain, today claimed that he was slapped by a security guard of the hostel. The tiff between the two allegedly broke out when the guard stopped Hussain’s cousin, who resides in Boys’ Hostel Number 4, at the entrance of Hostel Number 7.Even though the matter was resolved, tempers frayed when Hussain asked the guard for a hand sanitiser. He alleged that in return the guard slapped him.This is not the first incident of violence between Panjab University (PU) students and its security guards. A couple of months ago, a security guard, deputed at one of the departments in the university, was reportedly beaten up by a bunch of students a few weeks after he got into a brawl with some students. The matter was reported to the police and the two sides struck a compromise.Emanual Nahar, Dean Student Welfare (DSW) (Men), said there was a small misunderstanding and the matter has been resolved. However, the Chief of University Security shared, “I have asked the warden to record security guard’s version, check the footage of the CCTV camera and make complete report so that an appropriate action can be taken.”Hostel Warden Arun Singh Thakur said, “I received a verbal complaint from the resident yesterday and asked him to give me a complaint in writing. Today evening, I recorded the statement of both the parties and have handed them over to the DSW along with the CCTV footage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-hostel-inmate-alleges-assault-by-security-guard-70740
14-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||DEO asks city schools to submit fee details||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13Acting swiftly on parents’ complaints, the District Education Officer (DEO) has asked schools in the city to submit a detail report on fee received till date.The schools have been asked to submit a precise report before April 17.In the report, the DEO office has sought information pertaining to a number of students — who have deposited annual charges (till date), monthly charges for the month of April and those who have submitted quarterly fee (from April to June).The schools have also been directed to provide details about the students, who have deposited transportation charges (monthly/quarterly) till date.Last month, the UT Administration had issued orders to reschedule the dates for submission of fee in view of the problems faced by parents due to Covid-19. However, there was no respite to the parents as a few schools continued to ask for funds in the name of payment for books. “The step was taken after receiving numerous complaints from the parents. There have been reports that certain schools have been flouting government’s orders and we are hereby forced to get these details. Action will be taken against the schools caught flouting the norms,” said one of the UT Education Department officials.ISA submits representationThe Independent School Association (ISA) has submitted a representation to the Punjab Education Minister and the UT Administration to allow them to take fee from the students. HS Mamik, president, ISA, insisted that all private schools were not profit organisations. "They have no means of income other than fee. By not receiving fee, the schools will not be able to meet their financial obligations, including, salaries, repayment of loans, agreements of teaching aids and others..." stated the representation. "We are of the opinion that to ensure timely payment of salaries, it is necessary to amend or withdraw the directive regarding fee," said Mamik.The association further submitted that the administration should also return all 'reserve fund' submitted by schools and clear all dues pending on the account of EWS admissions. It was also demanded that the school bus contractors and others should be allowed to collect at least 50 per cent of fees or else the Administration should pay salary of all employees. "Parents will not be able to pay accumulated amount (fee) in one go. The fee should be immediately paid otherwise salary payable in May would be delayed till the receipt of fee. This has been approved by the Governments of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh," claimed the ISA president in the representation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deo-asks-city-schools-to-submit-fee-details-70739
14-04-2020||---||466 morning walkers in Chandigarh rounded up||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13To deter people who come out for morning and evening walks in violation to the curfew orders, the UT police conducted a special drive at 120 city parks and rounded up morning walkers.Police officials said teams of all police stations carried out foot patrolling in and around the parks in the morning during which 466 persons were rounded up.The officials said 150 persons were also booked under Section 188 of the IPC at different police stations. As many as 98 persons were booked at the Sarangpur police station. The police said 28 persons were also booked for not wearing face masks today.Under the jurisdiction of the Sector 26 police station, one person was held for taking his dog out for a walk without wearing a face mask.The police took both the violator and the dog to the police station. The person was then asked to call his family member to take the dog.Meanwhile, the man was booked and later released on bail. A police official said they would continue to check parks scrupulously to ensure people followed the curfew orders. “People should avoid the routine walk till the time the curfew orders are not withdrawn,” the official added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/466-morning-walkers-in-chandigarh-rounded-up-70737
14-04-2020||Panchkula||5 held for attack on Panchkula nurse||The police have arrested five persons for assaulting a nurse of a minority community when she was returning to her home along with her husband after performing her duty at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here on April 10.The suspects have been identified as Brij Bhushan, Amit, Manjit Singh, Sandeep and Golu.In her complaint to the police, the staff nurse, a Muslim, had stated that the five persons had harassed and thrashed her when she was returning home from her duty. She said even she had showed them her identity card and permission but the suspects did not listen and started thrashing her.She said in the commotion, her apron duty coat was torn. The men even kicked her, she alleged.Inspector Deepak Kumar, SHO, Chandimandir police station, said the woman was allegedly harassed, as the men inappropriately touched her. He said her brother-in-law, who later reached the spot, was also thrashed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-held-for-attack-on-panchkula-nurse-70733
14-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||Far from salvation: Ashes flood lockers at Mohali crematorium||Mohali, April 13Amid the lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, a problem has come to the fore in Mohali where the lockers at the cremation ground are flooded with ashes of people who died during this period.All lockers are almost occupied and urns containing the ashes can be seen in front of the lockers of the cremation ground in the Industrial Area, Phase 7, here.As the lockdown has restricted the movement of people, the bereaved families have not been able to immerse the ashes of their loved ones after the cremation.It has become a challenging situation for the authorities to keep things in order.The ashes of Sham Lal Sharma (84), a Phase 3B1 resident, who died three days ago, are lying in a locker at the cremation ground as the family members were not allowed to enter the Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand border by the police following which they had to return. Now, the family members have taken permission from the administration for going to Haridwar tomorrow morning.Another city resident, Narbada Shankar, said his wife had passed away on March 26. He was going to Haridwar to immerse his wife’s ashes in the Ganga, but he was stopped by the police before entering the state.Similarly, Rakesh Kharbanda, president, Guru Nanak Market, Phase 1, Mohali, said his father died on March 21. “The police stopped me from entering the Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand border. I managed to reach the Ganga by taking an alternative route through internal roads of villages,” he said.RP Sharma, councillor, Phase 6, said on the one side, the government claimed that burial and cremation of Covid-19 patients were safe, while on the other, common people were not being allowed to immerse the ashes of their loved ones.The councillor appealed to the Prime Minister to allow people to enter the Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand border so that they could immerse the ashes of their loved ones and perform the last rites and rituals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/far-from-salvation-ashes-flood-lockers-at-mohali-crematorium-70732
14-04-2020||Amit Sharma||We are risking our lives so that you stay safe, says cop||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13“We are risking our lives to ensure people stay safe. However, some people are non-serious who feel they can’t get infected by Covid-19,” says Constable Jatinder Singh of the UT police.I try to make people understand by telling them that the enemy is invisible and we can only protect ourselves by staying at home.— Jatinder Singh, ConstableJatinder, whose duty is to ensure that curfew orders are not flouted at the Sector 25 colony, said they were performing long hours of duty to ensure that people stayed safe. However, people were not willing to understand and kept moving out of their houses. “In the past few weeks, making people understand about the risk involved in moving out of their houses has turned out to be an uphill task,” he said.He said, “I try to make people understand by telling them that the enemy is invisible and we can only protect ourselves by staying at home.”Jatinder’s family stays in Muktsar, Punjab, and they are always worried about him. “I tell them it’s my duty to ensure everyone stays safe,” he said.Talking about the physical risk involved in performing duty, especially in light of the brutal attack on cops in Patiala yesterday, Jatinder said Chandigarh was safer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/we-are-risking-our-lives-so-that-you-stay-safe-says-cop-70730
14-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||PU professor hid his travel history||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13In a shocking revelation, an assistant professor of Panjab University, who was tested positive for Covid-19, was found to have travelled to Maharashtra, Gujarat and Goa the fact he did not share with the UT officials.The officials today came to know that the assistant professor had a travel history through his mobile phone tower location.Sec 37 man returned home on March 10“Till now, we were under an impression that he had no travel history as this is what he had told us. We had been trying to trace the source of transmission for three days. After we did not get through, we yesterday got his phone tower location checked. Today, it came to light that he had returned to his Sector 37 house from a tour of three states on March 10,” said the officials concerned.The university faculty is on a ventilator in the hospital at present. His mother-in-law, who has also tested positive, came to his house from Delhi between March 15 and 17. Thus, officials could not zero in on whether the 40-year-old man got this virus or his mother-in-law got it while coming from Delhi.“We cannot say who among the two got the virus and transmitted it to others. In such circumstances, the status of the Delhi woman’s family members had to be checked first. As in the case of the man, we cannot state whom he got the virus from while travelling to different places,” shared the officials.After he was found positive for Covid, his eight-year-old daughter and mother-in-law were tested and found infected too.In respite to the authorities concerned, about 12 other persons, who came in touch with him, have tested negative for the virus. They include his two friends, a milkman and a grocery shop owner.About 135 persons, who had come in contact with the assistant professor, have been home-quarantined. After 12 of them, whose samples were taken, tested negative, health and UT officials heaved a sigh of relief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-professor-hid-his-travel-history-70727
14-04-2020||Chandigarh/Mohali/||A day without a new case in tricity||Panchkula, April 13After a spurt of cases lately in Mohali, Panchkula and Chandigarh, no new case was reported from the tricity today.The wife of 40-year-old assistant professor of Panjab University tested negative for Covid today. Of the 111 community contacts of the 19th Covid case of the city, four primary contacts have been sampled and all of these were found negative. Two more primary contacts have been sampled for Covid.The mother-in-law of the Sector 37 resident and his eight-year-old daughter had tested positive for the virus on Sunday. The city has so far seen 21 Covid cases, of which, seven have been discharged from hospital and 14 are currently active.The Mohali district too saw no positive case of Covid today. Disclosing this, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said till date, 832 samples from across the district had been taken and of these, 742 were found negative for the virus. The number of positive cases stood at 54 while the result of 36 samples was awaited.Dayalan said as far as Jawaharpur was concerned, a total of 243 samples had been taken from the village till date and of these, 201 were found negative and 37 positive. The result of five samples was awaited, he added.No new case of Covid was reported in Panchkula district too.Divulging the details, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said till date, 458 samples had been taken from across the district and of these, 369 tested negative for Covid. The number of positive cases stood at five and of these, two had been cured of the virus. The result of 74 samples is awaited.Ahuja said 852 persons had been quarantined, including 236 who had been put in home quarantine. He said 73 of those quarantined had been kept at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Moli, 55 at Nada Sahib Gurdwara, 25 at Gujjar Bhawan and three at Sood Bhawan.He said 243 persons had completed the 28-day quarantine period while five have completed their self quarantine period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-day-without-a-new-case-in-tricity-70722
14-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Next seven days crucial for Patiala cop, say PGI doctors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 13The seven-and-a-half-hour-long successful surgery of a Patiala ASI Harjit Singh’s amputated hand by a team of nine surgeons of the PGI has received applause from all quarters. Doctors are, however, keeping their fingers crossed over the uninterrupted blood circulation in reimplanted wrist for the next seven days.We’re looking at the blood flow within the stitched hand. It has been 24 hours and the saturation is 99%, which is quite normal. The vascularity (blood flow in hand) usually takes five-seven days to establish. Once this settles down, we can say that the patient is out of danger—  Dr Sunil Gaba“Right now, we are just looking at the blood flow within the stitched hand. It has been 24 hours and the saturation is 99 per cent, which is quite normal. The vascularity (blood flow in hand) usually takes five to seven days to establish. Once this settles down, we can say that the patient is out of danger,” said Dr Sunil Gaba, who led the team.PGI statement“The patient, whose left hand was reimplanted on Sunday, was cheerful on Monday. The vitals are stable, and the general condition is satisfactory. The replanted left hand is warm and healthy. The patient is in high spirits and very positive. He is likely to be kept in the hospital for another 10 days or so. The PGI thanks everybody for their kind wishes. Let us pray for the speedy recovery of the braveheart.”THE INCIDENTASI Harjit Singh’s hand was reportedly chopped off with a sword during an attack by Nihangs at a vegetable market in Patiala on Sunday morning.There is also a fear of infection as the hand had fallen on the road after being severed. “Usually, infection is detected in 72 hours. We are keeping our fingers crossed. Till now, it is absolutely fine,” said Dr Gaba.Dr Jerry, who was also a part of the team, said, “It was very challenging. However, the good thing is that the patient is brave.”Dr Ankur Luthra, Consultant Anaesthetist, also a team member, said, “It was a challenging surgery as the patient was on the heavier side and had consumed teaat 6 am. Normally, for any general anaesthetic procedure, the mandatory eight hours of fasting is allowed or else the gastric or stomach contents come in the lungs when the patient is under anaesthesia.”Dr Luthra added, “We had taken adequate measures to prevent gastric aspiration. We conducted rapid sequencing intubation.The patient had lost around a litre of blood on his way to the PGI. During the operation, we had to transfuse three units of blood. The patient’s HB count was eight when the operation began. Normally, it is 12 or 13.”“The surgeon could re-establish connection with the vessels, nerves, tendon and bones. The pulses have returned and we are hoping after five to six days when the splint opens, he regains some of his hand functions. Whenever a graft is put back on the hand, there is always a chance that the body may reject it,” added Dr Luthra.The operation involved reattaching around 50 structures, which is done under microscopic vision. The arrangements were in place before the patient arrived.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/next-seven-days-crucial-for-patiala-cop-say-pgi-doctors-70720
14-04-2020||---||Summer vacation in Chandigarh govt, aided schools from April 15||Chandigarh, April 13The UT Administration has declared summer vacations in all government and government-aided schools from April 15 to May 15 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The private schools will be advised to synchronise with these dates.UT told to cut expenses by 5%The Ministry of Home Affairs has directed the UT Administration to reduce the administrative expenses by 5 per cent in the first quarter of the fiscal 2020-2021. Sources said the directions would not be applicable on wages of the UT employees and development works being carried out in the city. LTC provided to the employees has been stopped till further orders. The sources said the total budget allocation was divided into four and each part of 25 per cent had to be spent in each quarter of a financial year.This was decided during a meeting presided over by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore in the war room here today.The Administration has also decided to defer the recovery of cess in electricity bills, payment of water charges and the recovery of property tax imposed by the Municipal Corporation till further orders.During the meeting, Badnore stressed on the need of a common approach in the tricity regarding Covid-19. He stated that the neighboring districts of Mohali and Panchkula must follow the restrictions strictly, so as to restrict the infection from spreading in the tricity.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said he had requested the Chief Secretary, Haryana, not to allow too many officials to attend offices in Chandigarh and to restrict their entry in the curfew. He also stated that the UT was running with skeleton staff and officers were mostly working from home.The Administrator congratulated PGI doctors for the quick and efficient performance in treating an ASI from Patiala, whose one hand was severed in an attack by Nihangs on Sunday morning.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said 67 teams were sanitising the whole city regularly.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar stated that 55,954 cooked food packets had been distributed among destitutes and the needy across the city. He informed that a sum of Rs 1.53 crore had been received as donation to the local Red Cross Fund for fighting Covid.Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, stated that the screening teams had covered a total of 4,76,000 persons in the areas such as Bapu Dham Colony, Dhanas and Hallo Majra.The Administrator directed the health and MC officials to improve sanitisation and fogging in all areas.He also directed the Deputy Commissioner to restrict the issue of passes, so that the implementation of curfew remains effective.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/summer-vacation-in-chandigarh-govt-aided-schools-from-april-15-70707
