14-12-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 76 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Monday reported 76 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 18,714 while one more death pushed the toll to 302,officials said.There are 714 active cases in the union territory as of now, according to a medical bulletin.As many as 127 patients were discharged after they recovered, taking the number of cured people to 17,698, the bulletin said.A total of 1,61,810 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,42,236 tested negative while reports of 117 samples were awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-76-new-cases-in-chandigarh-184249
14-12-2020||New Delhi||Night temperatures expected to drop by 3-5 degrees in next 2-3 days in north India: IMD||Night temperatures are expected to drop by 3-5 degrees Celsius in the next 2-3 days over north India, the Indian Meteorological Department said on Monday.Cold to severe cold weather conditions are also likely over Punjab, while cold day conditions are likely over Haryana, Chandigarh and northwest Rajasthan, the India Meteorological Department added.  Large parts of north India are already witnessing foggy conditions as temperature drops further.“Fall in minimum temperatures by 3-5 degrees Celsius (likely) over most parts of northwest India during the next four days,” the IMD said.The IMD, in its winter forecast issued last month for December-February, has already predicted below normal night temperatures in north India this winter season.It added that no significant change in minimum temperatures over most parts of central and east India is likely during next 2-3 days. The temperatures will fall by 2-4 degrees Celsius thereafter.The IMD said under the influence of strengthening of the easterly wave, scattered to fairly widespread rain is very likely over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep area between December 16 and 18. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/night-temperatures-expected-to-drop-by-3-5-degrees-in-next-2-3-days-in-north-india-imd-184222
14-12-2020||---||Chandigarh administration bans hookah to curb spread of coronavirus||Chandigarh, December 14The Chandigarh administration on Monday banned the consumption of hookah in bars and restaurants to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the Union Territory.“The office of IAS, District Magistrate, Chandigarh, is exercising the power vested under Section 144 of the CrPC that no hookah shall be served for smoke/consumption in hotels/restaurants/taverns/bars/hookah bars,” a press release by the UT administration read.The hookah bars are thus banned to operate in Chandigarh with respect to their offering hookahs to the visitors.This order shall come into force from zero hours on December 14 and shall be effective for a period of 60 days up to and including February 11, 2021.“It has been made to appear to me that hookah bars are operational in Chandigarh in a clandestine way, which are serving flavoured hookahs — including tobacco molasses containing nicotine, which is highly injurious to the health of people,” the press release further read.Hookah in many of these bars was being consumed by the people through a common bowl, pipe and a hose having a mouthpiece, which is susceptible to physical mouth-to-mouth touch of many persons, acting as a spreader of COVID-19, the administration said.In view of the emergent nature of the order, it is being issued ex-parte and is addressed to the public in general. Any person violating this order shall be punished under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-bans-hookah-to-curb-spread-of-coronavirus-184154
14-12-2020||---||Robbery incidents in UT raise concern over traders’ safety||Chandigarh, December 13A daylight gunpoint robbery and a robbery attempt at the workplace of two traders in less than five months have raised concern over their safety in the city. The UT police are yet to make any headway in both cases.While the police are grappling to crack the daylight robbery of Rs3 lakh reported with the owner of a Western Union branch in the busy Sector 27 market, another similar incident with a gold smith in Sector 23 points towards the deteriorating law and order situation in the city.Around five months ago, on July 27 two miscreants had robbed Rs3 lakh at gunpoint from Sanjiv Kalia in the Sector 27 market. Kalia had returned to his office after withdrawing Rs2.80 lakh from a bank in the same sector. The robbers entered Kalia’s office and looted the cash after threatening him. The robbers casually walked out of the office and fled from the spot.A case was registered at the Sector 26 police station.The victim, Sanjiv Kalia, said even after five months, the police were yet to arrest the suspects. Repeated incidents of traders being targeted in the city were worrisome.While the police had claimed that there were close to cracking the case, the suspects were yet to be nailed.DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh said one of the suspects had been identified on the basis of the CCTV footage. “We are after the suspect and are hopeful of arresting him,” the DSP said.Charanjiv Singh, chairman of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said such incidents instil fear among the traders.“Every trader deals with cash. It’s the responsibility of the police to ensure their safety,” he said. Singh said a delegation of the traders would also meet the SSP over the issue. “The police beat system in the markets needs to be strengthened,” he added.Meanwhile, the UT police are yet to make any headway in the robbery attempt with a goldsmith.The victim, Dadasho Devgan, was at his shop, along with his brother Sanjay, when the suspects reached there and opened fire in a bid to rob him. While one of the suspects was nabbed, another was found murdered in Sohana, Mohali.Police sources said the two suspects, who opened fire, were yet to be identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/robbery-incidents-in-ut-raise-concern-over-traders-safety-183963
14-12-2020||Deepankar Sharda
||Chandigarh Olympic Association in more trouble over affiliations||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 13 The issue of allotting allegedly arbitrary affiliations to local associations has once again put the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) in the dock.  In a recent embarrassment to the COA, the Hockey India (HI) approved the Hockey Chandigarh as its only allied unit. The COA had granted affiliation to the Field Hockey Chandigarh, instead of the Hockey Chandigarh, to allegedly secure their votes. Earlier, a similar kind of letter was sent to the COA by the Rowing Federation of India (RFI) approving the Chandigarh Rowing Association (CRA) as its affiliated unit. The CRA is also one of the bodies not affiliated to the COA but to the national association.  In a letter dated on December 5, Rajinder Singh, Secretary of HI, mentions that the Hockey Chandigarh is a member of the HI since May 31, 2015. “Currently, Satinder Kumar Sharma is officiating president, Anil Vohra secretary and Sarvesh Sharma is treasurer as per the HI records as on December 4, 2020. The HI recognises the Hockey Chandigarh and will not recognise the member which has arbitrarily been recognised by the COA. This is a reference to letter dated November 20 regarding information of the Field Hockey, Chandigarh.”  Notably, the Chandigarh Olympic Association president had announced that committees would be formed to resolve problems related to affiliation and disaffiliation of local associations before conducting their annual general elections, whereas its secretary had denied any such process — a rift which was reported in these columns. Officials of the technical committee were unavailable for their comments.  “In 2009, we have written to the Chandigarh Olympic Association for granting us affiliation. We were given provisional affiliation. However, when the new office-bearers assumed charge, they kept us at bay. To our surprise, some other association was granted affiliation by the COA. We have to go by the sports code. We are the ones who are sending players to national meets and getting appreciation from the UT Sports Department,” said Vohra, secretary, Hockey Chandigarh.  Chander Mukhi Sharma, president of Chandigarh Basketball Association (CBA) and secretary of Basketball Federation of India (BFI), who has been raising these issues, said the COA office-bearers had allotted affiliations just for the sake of it. “Associations sending teams to nationals, getting grants from the UT Sports Department and having affiliation of the Indian Olympics Association have been kept by bay by the COA. The IOA should intervene in the matter and take notice of this. There are many such associations affiliated to the COA which are totally illegal and defunct,” said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-olympic-association-in-more-trouble-over-affiliations-183964
14-12-2020||
||Seema, Babu Ram shine in shooting tournament||Panchkula, December 13 Seema Kumari and Babu Ram won the final round of the rifle and pistol events, respectively, on the concluding day of the 6th Colonelz SharpShooterz 10m Air Rifle and Air Pistol Open Shooting Tournament in Panchkula today. Seema claimed the top spot in rifle event by scoring 235 points, while Akash Santosh (235 points) and Pururaj (215 points) claimed second and third positions. In the pistol event, Ram finished atop with 230 points, followed by Tinjit Ghanota (229 points) at second position and Unish (203 points) at third spot. Vikrant Thapliyal, Commandant, ITBP Training Centre, Ramgarh, Col Balwan Singh, Maha Vir Chakra medal winner decorated in the Kargil War, and Col MS Chauhan, former coach of Indian Army Shooting Team, and Commanding Officer, Army Marksmanship Unit, Mhow, were the guests of honour and awarded the winners. Indian team players Ram and Dhanota, Khelo India players Bamkin and Agambir also took part in the air pistol event. Trainees of ITBP, Ramgarh, Army Public School, Beas, Vajra Shooting Club, Jalandhar Cantonment, Hallmark Shooting Academy, Panchkula, SK Shooting Academy and Blooming Buds School, Moga, Salvo Shooters, Mohali and Chandigarh, Warrior Shooting Academy, Mukerian, and Silver Oak School, Tanda, participated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seema-babu-ram-shine-in-shooting-tournament-183965
14-12-2020||Mohali||Potholed Mohali roads cry for immediate repairs||Potholes on roads in Phase 3B2 and Phase 10 here are causing inconvenience to commuters. Several minor accidents have also take place on these roads.Ranjit Singh, a resident of Phase 3B2, said the slip road on the Phase 3-5 crossing was completely damaged and needed immediate repair. Commuters avoid the slip road during the night hours due to the poor condition of the road.Sarabjit Singh, a resident of Phase 10, said a portion of the road in the residential area in front of Silvi Park had caved in. The damaged portion was not visible during late night hours, which could lead to a mishap.Arshdeep Singh, a resident of Phase 10, said a school bus recently got stuck on the potholed road.MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said he would get the roads repaired soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/potholed-mohali-roads-cry-for-immediate-repairs-183966
14-12-2020||
||3 booked for assault, opening fire||Chandigarh, December 13 Three Kaimbwala residents have been booked for allegedly attacking three persons with sharp weapons and opening fire at them. One gunshot was fired. However, it did not hit anyone. According to the police, complainant Pardeep Singh, a resident of Kaimbwala village, reported that he was returning from a wedding on the intervening night of December 11 and 12 when he saw three persons — Sandeep Kumar, Rajesh Kumar and Bobby — attacking his uncle Keerat Singh and another person Hem Raj with an axe and another weapon. When the complainant tried to intervene, the suspects attacked him too. It is alleged that Sandeep Kumar also opened fire at the victims. The suspects then fled from the spot. The police were informed about the incident and the injured taken to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. A case under Sections 307, 323, 324, 506 and 34 of the IPC and under Section 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the suspects at the Sector 3 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-booked-for-assault-opening-fire-183967
14-12-2020|| 
||Fake Facebook profile of retd UT SP created||Chandigarh, December 13 A fake Facebook profile of a retired UT SP, Roshan Lal, was reportedly created and friend requests were sent to several people. Sources said the fraudster demanded Rs10,000 from a person — Arvind Kumar —through the profile, but the latter didn’t transfer the money. Kumar had received a friend request and accepted it. “The swindler started a conversation and asked for a financial help of Rs 10,000. When I denied him the help, the swindler deleted the chat,” he added. Recently, fake Facebook profiles of UT police DSP Dilsher Chandel, Sub-Inspector (SI) Ashok Kumar and a retired Inspector were created.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fake-facebook-profile-of-retd-ut-sp-created-183968
14-12-2020||
||Tipsy car driver hits PCR vehicle, nailed||Chandigarh, December 13  A Zirakpur resident was held for driving in an inebriated condition and hitting a PCR vehicle.  According to the police, Constable Charan Singh, in-charge of the PCR vehicle, reported that he was patrolling the Industrial Area, Phase I, on the intervening night of December 11 and 12 when a Beat car hit the PCR vehicle from the rear side at the Colony No. 4 light point and sped away from the spot.  The PCR vehicle chased the car and intercepted it near the Mauli Jagran light point.  The complainant reported that the car was being driven by Daljeet Singh of Zirakpur.  The police took the driver for a medical examination at the civil dispensary in Mani Majra and found that he was in an inebriated condition. A case under Section 279 of the IPC and Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act has been registered at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tipsy-car-driver-hits-pcr-vehicle-nailed-183969
14-12-2020||
||Goods worth lakhs reduced to ashes at Dera Bassi factory||Dera Bassi, December 13 A major fire broke out at a factory on the Dera Bassi-Barwala road early this morning. Goods worth lakhs were gutted in the fire. As many as 15 fire tenders were pressed into service, which took around four hours to douse the flames. According to information, plastic was recycled from solid waste at Riddhi Siddhi polymer factory. Dera Bassi fire station in-charge Baljeet Singh said it took four hours to douse the flames. The exact cause of the fire was not known yet. Eyewitnesses said the entire shuttering of the factory collapsed due to the fire, which hindered the fire-fighting operation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/goods-worth-lakhs-reduced-to-ashes-at-dera-bassi-factory-183970
14-12-2020||---||City wakes up to fog, mercury dips 8.1°C||Chandigarh, December 13The maximum temperature in the city today dropped by 8.1°C as people woke up to a foggy morning. The day temperature fell to 14.9°C from 23°C yesterday. It was seven degrees below normal.The minimum temperature remained at 13°C, six degrees above normal. The city yesterday recorded its warmest December night in over a decade as the minimum temperature was 15.2°C. According to the weatherman, the city recorded the second day of fog of the season with the visibility dropping to below 500 metres. However, the fog was witnessed for more time than on December 12 when it was observed for about half an hour.“There is a forecast for foggy weather for the next two days. Dense fog is expected in which the visibility is likely to be below 500 metres. After that, residents can expect a clear sky,” said a Met official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-wakes-up-to-fog-mercury-dips-8-1%C2%B0c-183972
14-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Soon, pan-India Covid registry of cancer-hit at PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 13A registry of Covid patients affected with haematological malignancies will soon come up at the PGI, in collaboration with major cancer institutes of the country.Haematological malignancies are cancers that affect blood, bone marrow and lymph nodes. It will be a pan-India registry and will be called ‘Covid Haematological Registry of India’.City sees 66 new cases, one deathDr Malhotra added: “We have to identify the reasons for fast deterioration of cancer patients’ condition after they contract Covid. Secondly, there is no clarity on whether any Covid vaccine will work for them. All these ambiguities need to be addressed and that’s why, we are collecting the data of cancer patients with Covid.”It has been learnt that Covid-19 is life-threatening in patients with haematological malignancies. Reportedly, cancer patients have an increased risk of contracting SARS-CoV-2 than the general population and, if infected, also have a higher risk of developing severe illness.The Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute & Research Centre, Rohini (Delhi), had also studied Covid-19 mortality in cancer patients and found that the frequency of Covid in cancer patients is high and the case fatality rate is 7.6 times more than the national average.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-pan-india-covid-registry-of-cancer-hit-at-pgi-183973
14-12-2020||---||3 fatalities, 107 cases in Mohali||Mohali, December 13Three more fatalities were witnessed due to Covid-19 in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 310.Meanwhile, 107 fresh cases surfaced in the district, while 150 more patients were cured of the disease.Among the fresh cases, 76 were reported from Mohali (urban), seven from Gharuan, six from Kharar, one from Lalru, nine from Dhakoli and four each from Kurali and Dera Bassi.The district has so far seen 16,971 cases. While 14,472 patients have been cured, there are now 2,189 active cases. As many as 310 persons have succumbed to the virus in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-fatalities-107-cases-in-mohali-183974
14-12-2020||---||Cyclist killed in hit-and-run||Chandigarh, December 13Two hit-and-run cases have been reported from the city. In one of the accidents, an unidentified cyclist died after being hit by an unknown car near the Sector 14/15/24/25 chowk. In another case, a pedestrian was injured in a road accident reported from Sector 52.According to the police, the car hit the cyclist on December 11. The car sped away after the incident. The police were informed and the injured was rushed to the PGI where doctors declared him brought dead.A case has been registered on a complaint of a Home Guards volunteer. In another case, complainant Yusuf Khan reported that a pedestrian was hit by an unknown motorcyclist near the petrol pump in Sector 52 on December 11. The injured was taken to the Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyclist-killed-in-hit-and-run-183975
14-12-2020||---||42 infected in Panchkula||Panchkula, December 13The district on Sunday reported 42 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 9,458.The Covid toll remained at 135. Among the new cases, five were reported from Sector 20, four each from Sector 27 and Sector 7, and three each were from Kalka, Sector 10, Sector 15 and Sector 17.While 8,877 patients have defeated the coronavirus so far, 446 cases are still active.The recovery rate of the district stands at 93.85 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/42-infected-in-panchkula-183976
14-12-2020||---||Civic body to hand over toilet ops to firms||Chandigarh, December 13The MC will hand over the operation and maintenance of 35 public toilets to private agencies for a year at an estimated cost of Rs1.67 crore.These public conveniences are not being maintained by resident or market welfare associations. The civic body has floated three tenders for allotting the work.It has stated that each toilet will have two workers. The facilities will be open from 4 am to 10 pm. All toilets will be free. Only Rs2 will be charged for using a water closet (WC). The rate has to be displayed outside the toilets.The contractors will maintain the water, electrical and sewer systems. Water and electricity bills will be borne by the corporation, provided the engineer concerned is given the bills on time.The toilets are situated in Sector 61, 52, 33, 20, 19, 21, 38, 37 and other areas. The corporation is of the view that by handing over the maintenance to the agencies, proper upkeep and operation of the toilets will be ensured.These agencies will not be allowed to put up advertisements. “The cash-starved MC is going to spend a huge amount on running the facilities. It should have given the toilets without paying anything to the agencies by allowing the latter to meet the cost from ads at toilet blocks,” said an official preferring anonymity.The MC is grappling with financial crisis and has put off plans to construct 27 toilets in green belts and renovate 236 pubic conveniences in city markets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-to-hand-over-toilet-ops-to-firms-183977
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Man ends life at Attawa hotel||A 41-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at a hotel in Attawa, Sector 42, today. The police found a diary in which the victim had written a suicide note of around 20 pages, citing drug addiction as the reason behind the suicide.The victim has been identified as Aman, a resident of Sector 41. The police said the victim had taken a room on rent at the hotel on December 11. Today, the hotel staff went to his room to collect the rent and found him hanging.The police were informed, who inspected the spot. The body was shifted to the mortuary at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.The police said the victim was earlier treated at a de-addiction centre. He is survived by his father and a younger brother.Inquest proceedings have been initiated into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-ends-life-at-attawa-hotel-183978
14-12-2020||---||Ahluwalia is Cong choice for Panchkula Mayor’s post||Panchkula, December 13The coming Panchkula MC elections will see Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia of the Congress and BJP’s Kulbhushan Goyal fight it out for the post of Mayor.The Congress today finalised its candidates for the civic body poll, slated for December 27, said a Congress leader and member of the consultative committee of the party. He said the party had decided to field Ahluwalia for the post.Ahluwalia also confirmed that the Congress had chosen her for the Mayor’s post. However, there was no official release from the party in this regard till the filing of this report. Ahluwalia (50), who was the first Mayor of Panchkula, will now fight for a second term. She was elected the Mayor in 2013 with the support of 12 members when there was no provision for a direct election of the Mayor. Ahluwalia held the post till 2018.The Congress candidates for the posts of councillor are Kuljeet (ward 1), Aman Dutt Sharma (ward 2), Bhawna Gupta (ward 3), Priyanka (ward 4), Naresh Rawal (ward 5), Pankaj (ward 6), Usha Rani (ward 7), Ravi Kant Swami (ward 8), Om Shukla (ward 9), Gurmail Kaur (ward 10), Shardeep Kaur (ward 11), Sunita (ward 12), Naveen Bansal (ward 13), Yogender Kwatra (ward 14), Gautam Prasad (ward 15), Dayal Singh (ward 16), Akshdeep Chaudhary (ward 17), Sandeep Sohi (ward 18), Ritu Kasna (ward 19) and Salim Dabkori (ward 20).The list of candidates was shared by several Congress leaders on the social media, including WhatsApp. They shared a photo of the Congress candidates with state party chief Kumari Selja.JJP announces three candidatesThe JJP, BJP’s alliance partner, declared its three candidates for the civic body poll — Sushil Garg (ward 14), Rajesh Kumar (ward 9) and Amrinder Singh (ward 18). The party has been given four seats by the BJP under a pact. Bhag Singh Damdama, JJP leader, said they were yet to finalise a candidate for the remaining seat. He added that they would choose from among the two candidates seeking the ticket with a consensus. The candidate’s name would be declared on Monday, the JJP leader said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ahluwalia-is-cong-choice-for-panchkula-mayors-post-183979
14-12-2020||Dera Bassi||Mystery over youth’s death||A youth was found hanging in a room at Jawaharpur village under suspicious circumstances here today.The deceased has been identified as Arshdeep Singh, aka Goldie, a resident of Morthikri village. The family of the deceased alleged that Arshdeep was murdered.Mandeep Singh, elder brother of the deceased, said his younger brother had gone to Haryana to attend a wedding. He said some youths had beaten him up under the influence of alcohol. Later, his brother went missing.Dera Bassi police station in-charge Satinder Singh said the body was found hanging at a room in Jawaharpur. Binder, a resident of Thaska village, Shahbad, was booked allegedly for abetment to suicide. The police reportedly suspected that the deceased was strangled. The body has been kept in the mortuary of the Civil Hospital for a post-mortem. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mystery-over-youths-death-183980
14-12-2020||Mohali||Drunken driving: 10 vehicles impounded||The Mohali police have launched a campaign against drunken driving and those creating nuisance in markets and outside eateries.As many as 10 vehicles were challaned and impounded yesterday. Today, the police took out a flag march in the city.DSP (City-1) Gursher Singh said: “Yesterday was the first day of the drive. Such drives will continue in the coming days and people found drinking in public places and outside eateries will be booked under the Excise Act. Action will also be taken against erring shopkeepers serving food and drinks in the open places. Our endeavour is to ensure safe environment for residents.” Several persons, especially youngsters, were found drinking on roadsides near popular eateries and parking lots. In some places, it led to traffic jams too.Farmers’ protestThe Mohali police have made arrangements for farmers’ protest outside the District Administrative Complex.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh has held a meeting with local farmer leaders, who would be protesting outside the complex tomorrow.DSP (City-2) Deep Kamal said: ‘’All preparations have been made. Extra force has been put to use to ensure the smooth flow of traffic. We expect the protest to be peaceful.’’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drunken-driving-10-vehicles-impounded-183981
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Post-Covid clinic now at GMCH-32||Withdraw house allotment: PUTAChandigarh: On the 24th day of the ongoing protest, the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) executive issued a letter to the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor demanding the withdrawal of house allotment to former Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Devinder Dhawan. The PUTA executive maintained that it would file a formal complaint to various vigilance agencies against this act of corruption by the Vice-Chancellor. Meanwhile, the PUTA executive continued its protest against the delay in CAS promotions. The protesting faculty members said they would continue the struggle to ensure that justice was done to all teachers who had been desperately waiting for their promotions. TNSTennis c’ship begins todayChandigarh: The Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) will organise CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) U-16 Tennis Tournament for Boys and Girls from December 14 to 16. Players from Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana will take part in the tournament. First and second round matches will be played at the CLTA Complex, Sector 10, on December 14. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/post-covid-clinic-now-at-gmch-32-183984
14-12-2020||What should be done to make residents wear masks?||Act tough against violators, shame them at public places||Violators should be taken to taskIn this ongoing pandemic when people should act responsibly, they are showing lack of maturity. They are opting wrong ways to avoid penalty. The police should make violators get off their vehicles, ask them to stand in a line and make them do sit-ups. People who don’t wear masks should be admonished.Meetu Tyagi, ChandigarhHefty fine will lead to compliancePeople are seen moving without masks in groups. The situation is similar in the tricity. With the opening-up of tourist spots, the problem has aggravated. Visitors wear masks when policemen and guards are around. The moment they cross checking points, norms are flouted openly. People must understand that masks are the only vaccine available against Covid-19 as of now. It is imperative that those venturing out without masks are penalised heavily and booked. Moreover, there is a link between high fines and compliance.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurDistribute masks among publicThe common public must be educated to wear masks. They must be apprised about benefits of wearing masks in the Covid-19 epidemic. NGO, RWAs and other public forums must be involved to educate people about taking precautions to prevent the spread of virus. Free masks should be distributed by the authorities concerned among residents in the tricity.COL TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliCancel driving licence if not wearing maskThe enhanced fine has failed to deter many from flouting norms like not wearing masks. Masks considerably reduce the risk of contracting virus. In order instil the habit of wearing masks the Administration can issue directives to cancel driving licence of violators for one month. Those who do not have driving licence should be sent to lock up for a day.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhImplement directive with an iron fistDespite best efforts and imposing fine of Rs1,000 on those who don’t wear masks in Chandigarh and Mohali, the respective Administrations have failed to achieve desired results. We find many roaming without masks in public places without any fear of fine. Violators are not dealt with strictly. The only way to make people wear masks is to enhance fine to Rs5,000 and implement the directive with an iron fist.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar, MohaliAdmn, NGOs should helpWearing a face mask while stepping out comes naturally to an individual’s consciousness. Raising the fine amount of has not helped. Those who have no money even to buy daily food need help. To ensure adherence to Covid-19 norms by all the Administration and NGOs should come forward and distribute masks and sanitisers at regular intervals among people from all sections of society.SC Luthra, ChandigarhCelebrities can popularise masksOne issue, which has been debated for months’ altogether, but is now more or less unanimously agreed upon, is wearing face masks. An individual’s decision to wear a mask or not is subject to many factors. Imposing fines is a policing approach, where compliance is ensured by strict enforcement by authorities. People are more likely to take a decision only if they see others around performing the same action. A message should be conveyed that people should increasingly wear masks. Eventually, wearing masks should become a social norm. An approach opposite to fines can be rewarding. Government officials should always wear masks. Local celebrities can be roped in to spread the message of wearing masks among residents.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliFollow norms in letter and in spiritIt is true that people have lowered their guard against Covid-19 pandemic. Even enhanced fine for not wearing a mask has failed to deter people from flouting the norm. All must follow Covid-19 guidelines in letter and spirit. We must realise the Administration and people are equally responsible to prevent the spread of the virus. Any lapse on our part will be catastrophic. The Administration is helpless without public support. So, let us all pledge to wear masks in public places and wash hands regularly. To a large extent, these two precautions can save us from this pandemic.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhGive free masks to public in UT, MohaliUnlike bacteria, which are unicellular micro-organisms, coronavirus is a submicroscopic infective virus that can multiply within cells of a host organism. Hence, it’s logical to wear masks. Hiking penalties will not prevent virus transmission. The Administration has to arrange liberal and free distribution of masks at places of maximum footfall. Manufacturers of consumer goods should be instructed to include a free/ complimentary mask in their product packing so that every household has enough protective gear. The government can give incentive to the industry for expenses incurred on providing masks with products. It will be akin to free distribution of vaccine. Markets and other public places should bar entry of groups and people without masks.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaDistribute designer masks among publicWe see many people roaming around without wearing masks in Mohali and Chandigarh. At this juncture when Covid cases are rising it is important to ensure that everyone wears a mask. To ensure compliance of the norm, the government can manufacture designer masks for free distribution among masse. This might lure people to wear masks. The Administration should, however, continue to penalise people, who don’t wear masks. The amount collected as fine can be used for manufacturing designer masks.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhStrict action against violators neededIt’s good to enhance fine for not wearing masks. But it appears that people have become complacent towards coronavirus. Awareness has to be created on preventive guidelines and orders to contain the virus have to be implemented in letter and spirit. Strict action should be taken against violators. Stringent measures need to be adopted so that people follow all safety norms.Wg Cdr Jasbir singh Minhas (retd) MohaliAlter people’s psycheWearing a mask safeguards not only us, but others too in our vicinity. Residents need to understand this reality. Health protection messages can alter the psyche of people. Residents must take it as their responsibility and remind all of the severity and fatality of the virus. Advertisement of guidelines by the authorities concerned and social workers can act as a catalyst for taking more and more precautions. In the nutshell, its human psychology that has be targeted to make all wear masks.Shobhna Kalra, PanchkulaHefty fine no solutionEveryone knows that Covid is dangerous virus. Hefty fine cannot coerce people to wear masks. People should be educated about following safety guidelines. They should be motivated to wear face masks and maintain social distancing. Covid-19 can be defeated if the Administration and the public understand their responsibility and behave in a matured manner.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliArrest those not wearing masksAt present, people are taking Covid-19 lightly. They do not wear masks and are not afraid of fines too. The respective Administrations of UT and Mohali should follow the HP police and arrest those, who step out of homes without masks or imprison them for eight days or impose Rs5,000 fine for the violation. Masses should act responsibly and wear face masks to keep themselves safe from the Covid.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliVerbally encourage people to wear masksMajority of residents in Chandigarh and Mohali do not wear masks while venturing out of homes. They put theirs and others lives at risk. Increasing fine is right, but still the Administration has to put in more efforts to make residents aware about Covid-19 safety guidelines. The Administration should display posters in markets and on roundabouts to explain benefits of wearing masks. Officials concerned can verbally communicate with residents to exhort them to wear masks.MR Bhateja, NayagaonDesperate times, desperate measuresEnhanced fine failed to achieve the desired result in this alarming situation. With the passing of time perhaps people have accepted Covid-19 as a part of their life. Fine alone cannot make people realise to wear masks. Desperate times call for desperate measures. Door to door contact for explaining benefits of taking precautions and stopping entry at public places and functions of those not wearing masks can reduce violation to some extent.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaProvide masks at lower ratesCareless attitude of people towards wearing masks has lead to surge in coronavirus cases in Chandigarh and Mohali. People are not doing their moral duty. The respective Administrations should ensure that masks are available at lower rate in both the cities. Fines should be imposed on those who don’t wear masks. Also, masks should be distributed among residents.Akshar Kumar Singla, SangrurSocial boycott of people without masksWe should admonish people, who do not wear masks in public places. Social boycott is another tool to make violators realise the necessity of wearing masks during the Covid-19 pandemic.Anita tandon, KhararProvide masks, don’t impose fineHike in fine has failed to make people wear masks in UT and Mohali. The Administration in both cities should rather provide free masks and sanitisers at public places. People not wearing masks should be made to donate for the needy. This can be done by placing donation boxes at spots with maximum footfall. Mask is mandatory, but imposing fine is no solution to prevent violation of the norm.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhShame violators at public placesAlthough enhanced fine managed to get positive results, yet many residents do not wear masks in Chandigarh and Mohali. The authorities concerned should make people aware of guidelines and instil discipline among them. Only monetary fine is not enough to make people adhere to safety norms. Shaming violators at public places like making them stand with traffic cops for some hours at roundabouts may result in better compliance of the norm.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhDetain violators for two hoursIt is discouraging to see residents not being cautious about the Covid-19 cases spike in Mohali and Chandigarh and putting themselves at risk by ignoring precautionary measures like wearing masks. They are not concerned about paying enhanced fine. The only way out is to detain every violator for at least two hours. This will definitely yield positive results as no one can afford to waste two hours in police custody. The respective Administration of the two cities has to be strict to deal with the issue.Balbir Singh, ChandigarhName and shame violatorsThe act of not wearing masks by many persons in public places needs to be condemned by one and all. Although the Administrations in UT and Mohali enhanced the fine for not wearing masks, yet there is no perceptible change in residents’ behaviour. Those violating guidelines can be penalised under Section 188, IPC, which deals with disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant. The punishment prescribed under this law is six months imprisonment or a fine up to Rs1,000. The problem is lack of strict enforcement of the guidelines by the authorities concerned. People know that they can go scot free even if they violate Covid guidelines. One deterrent could be displaying names and photographs of violators at public places. May be naming and shaming of violators gives positive result.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhSensitise residents about moral dutyDuring unlock one everyone used to wear masks. Now, masks are on chins. Even hefty fine isn’t deterring people from adopting complacent attitude. There can be no justification for not wearing a mask. No one enjoys wearing a mask, but we have to in this pandemic. The authorities must sensitise residents about their moral duty towards society. People must understand that wearing masks will save them and others too. We should tell each other politely to wear masks.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhCreate awareness through mediaThe government should make people aware through advertisements in newspapers, TV, radio, social media and wall hoardings at public places about adverse consequences of not wearing masks during the pandemic. Nowadays, most youngsters blindly follow celebrities. The authorities concerned can take help of such people to create awareness among the public about wearing masks in order to check the spread of the virus.Nakhpreet Kaur, SangholGive incentive for wearing masksPeople don’t wear masks even after hike in the fine by the authorities concerned. Incentives should be given to people, who wear masks. Free masks can be distributed especially among the needy. Street plays can organised to highlight the benefits of wearing masks during the pandemic. Memes can also show the use of masks in a funny manner.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhIt’s responsibility of residentsDespite increasing the amount of fine for not wearing masks, expected results cannot be achieved until and unless residents understand that they themselves bear responsibility of protecting themselves and society from the coronavirus. Instead of being complacent about Covid-19 residents of Chandigarh and Mohali should following safety norms, including wearing masks. Residents should make masks part of their daily dress. In this way, they will not only save themselves, but others too and prevent the spread of the virus.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliTake hard stance towards violatorsThe unstoppable surge in Covid-19 cases across the tricity, especially in Chandigarh and Mohali, has sounded a clarion call for those, who throw safety protocols to the winds. There is no denying that the piecemeal measures taken by the ruling dispensation to contain the spread of virus didn’t give desired results. The enhancement of fine for not wearing a mask also failed to instil a sense of fear psychosis among tricity residents, Chandigarh in particular, where surge in Covid-19 cases is visible. Residents must develop a habit of wearing masks and follow other protocols with utmost caution. The Administration needs to adopt a hard stance towards habitual violators. Doubling fine and detention will go a long way in keeping the menace in check. Sector associations and NGOs can make residents aware of far-reaching impacts of the deadly virus and press them to wear masks to pre-empt chances of contracting killer Covid-19.Ramesh K Dhiman, Chandigarhviolators should be detained for 8 hoursThe law enforcement agencies must collect fine on the spot from people, who are not wearing masks. It will deter residents of Chandigarh and Mohali from flouting safety norms. Besides, cops should not be asked to let a person go without paying fine for not wearing mask. The order has to be implemented without any mercy. Detention centres can be established for those, who are caught without masks. Violators should be detained at least for eight hours. Defence veterans can be roped in for implementing safety measures, including wearing masks.Col KJ Singh (retd), ChandigarhStrict checking, awareness neededIn the absence of any vaccine, wearing masks and observing social distance is the need of the hour. Unfortunately, these measures are not being followed meticulously due to slackness on the part of the Administration and the people. The negligence on the part of the police authorities was visible during recent festivals when large number of people were seen without face masks at public places. The fine amount of Rs500 or Rs1,000 for not wearing masks does not matter as every violation cannot be checked with penalty. Those who break rules habitually must be penalised heavily. Besides, there is a need to make residents aware through media and NGOs/RWAs about benefits of wearing masks during the pandemic. Regular checking at public places, including markets, parks, clubs and roads to ensure that residents wear masks is needed desperately.Satish Khosla, ChandigarhAdmn, public can help each otherOnly police cannot force people to wear masks by issuing challans to them. The public and the Administration simultaneously can help each other by following safety norms. If shopkeepers specify “No entry without mask” outside their shops people will wear masks. The people on other hand should avoid purchasing goods from vendors or shopkeepers, who don’t wear masks. Few precautions can prevent the spread of virus and bring economy on the track.Charu Malhotra, MohaliQUESTIONThere have been two recent incidents in which robbers targeted traders at their workplaces in broad daylight. This has exposed the deteriorating law and order situation in Chandigarh. What steps should the police take to ensure safety of traders in the City Beautiful? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/act-tough-against-violators-shame-them-at-public-places-183985
14-12-2020||Chandigarh||Dentists in city observe bandh||Members of the local units of the Indian Dental Association (IDA) and the Indian Medical Association (IMA) have taken a categorical stand against the integration of various systems of medicines.The notification of the amendment to Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) Act regarding postgraduate Ayurveda surgery to study and practise independently has to be seen as another step towards legitimising the integration of various systems, said a member.The members expressed their solidarity with the IDA and the IMA in their protest against these “retrograde” steps of the government, and observed a “dental bandh” by not attending any elective procedures at their clinics and hospitals on Saturday.The members, carrying banners and wearing black badges, staged a protest at Sector 17 as well on the IMA premises in Sector 35. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dentists-in-city-observe-bandh-183992
