15-09-2020||Chandigarh||73rd Raising Day of Army’s Western Command celebrated||The 73rd Raising Day of the Western Command, the frontline operational command of the Indian Army, was celebrated on Tuesday.To commemorate the occasion, Lt Gen R P Singh, Army Commander, Western Command laid wreath at the ‘Veer Smriti’, Chandimandir, near here, to pay homage to the gallant heroes of Western command.    He also conveyed felicitations and best wishes to all ranks, veterans, civilian employees and families, a defence release said here.  He also inaugurated the facility of a web page based grievance redressal portal at Chandimandir Military Station to further ameliorate and address the grievances of the veteran community.The Command was raised in 1947 as Delhi and East Punjab Command and subsequently re-designated as ‘Western Command’ in January 1948, it said. In 1954, the headquarters of the Command moved to Shimla.After the Indo-Pak conflict of 1971, Northern Command was carved out of Western Command to assume operational responsibility of Jammu and Kashmir. Finally in 1985, headquarters of the Western Command moved to its present location at Chandimandir.   With ‘Ever Westwards’ being its clarion call, the Western Army was instrumental in blunting the Pakistani aggression in 1947, 1965 and 1971. Notably, the Western Command has also time and again, provided succour to the civilian population, it said.Be it during natural calamities or participating in nation building activities, troops of the Western Command have always been in the forefront in providing aid to civil authorities, it said.  PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/73rd-raising-day-of-armys-western-command-celebrated-141605
15-09-2020||---||OYO refutes as baseless charges levelled by Chandigarh venue partner||Mohali, September 15OYO Hotels & Homes on Tuesday refuted the “wrongfully” filed FIR against OYO Hotels and Homes Pvt Ltd (OHHPL), and its executives by Vikas Gupta, the owner of Casavillaz in Mohali.The spokesman of the company has clarified that the allegations levelled against the company and certain individuals are completely false, baseless, and unsubstantiated, solely intended to spread misinformation and malign OYO’s global reputation.It said the complainant submitted only a few compliance documents and assured the company that the rest of the documents will be submitted in due course of time. However, despite several requests and follow-ups, the venue partner failed to submit the remaining documents, in breach of OYO’s agreement and due diligence and therefore the contract was terminated.The spokesman said the Chandigarh-based venue partner’s FIR stating fraud and criminal conspiracy, contains several misrepresentations of facts and inaccurate information about events related to the agreement, merely to smear the company and its leadership’s reputation seeking undue public attention.  Both OYO and the complainant have signed an agreement that carries a detailed dispute resolution mechanism, hence, this matter does not fall under criminal jurisdiction. This, in fact, is a purely commercial civil dispute that should be lawfully resolved by the civil authorities/courts.The company spokesman said matter is currently sub-judice and is under investigation. Hence, they are not at the liberty of commenting on the merits of the matter. He further said their legal team is looking into the matter and taking all the necessary steps as these claims are incorrect and defamatory in nature. Advocate Manish Dhir, Chestlaw firm, said, “The FIR in question is an ill motivated effort to defame and harass OYO and to extort illegal gains from it. Such actions are frivolous in nature and shall be dealt with suitably by the judiciary, upon whom we have full faith. In addition to the above, OYO itself is entitled to initiate actions of defamation and damages for wrongful prosecution against such unscrupulous parties.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/oyo-refutes-as-baseless-charges-levelled-by-chandigarh-venue-partner-141600
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||347 new coronavirus cases push Chandigarh tally past 8,500||Chandigarh reported 347 new COVID-19 cases within the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from its administration said on Tuesday.The development takes Chandigarh’s cases to 8,592 with 96 deaths. Thirty-four per cent of the union territory’s cases are active.Chandigarh Administration revised its death toll to include a 45-year-old man from Burail who was declared brought dead to Sector 32’s Government Medical College and Hospital and had later tested positive.Chandigarh’s cases as well as deaths have seen significant rise this month:  the UT’s infections have doubled this month, and deaths are now over 1.5 times higher than the 56 fatalities recorded at the end of August. The UT has recorded 4,246 new COVID cases since the beginning of the month, 52 per cent of which have been recorded since September 8, when the UT began recording over 300 cases a day.Meanwhile, Mohali added 188 new cases and three deaths, and Panchkula reported 181 infections and four deaths. The Tricity’s total count on Tuesday stood at 716.   Chandigarh’s rising death toll is part of a pattern of rising coronavirus cases in the Tricity. Mohali has reported 3,355 new cases and Panchkula 2,156 since September 1.Tricity’s collective COVID-19 cases stand over 20,000 with 290 deaths. Chandigarh and Mohali together account for 78 per cent of the cases and 94 per cent of the deaths.Thirty-three per cent of the Tricity’s cases are still active.Where Tricity standsTotal: 20,103Chandigarh: 8,592Mohali: 7,125Panchkula: 4,386 Chandigarh:Total: 8,592Active: 2,991Deaths: 94 MohaliTotal: 7,125Active: 2,320Deaths: 145PanchkulaTotal: 4,386Active: 1,371Deaths: 51||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/347-new-coronavirus-cases-push-chandigarh-tally-past-8-500-141597
15-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula records highest single-day spike of 181 COVID-19 cases; 4 more die||Panchkula on Tuesday reported the highest single-day spike of 181 new coronavirus cases, taking the district tally to 4,386.The district also witnessed four COVID-19 deaths.A 52-year-old man from Sector 20, who was suffering from chronic kidney disease and hypertension, a 74-year-old man from Sector 8, who was suffering from liver cirrhosis, a 62-year-old man from Dharampur, and a 74-year-old man from Nanakpur, both suffering from diabetes, succumbed to the virus.The COVID toll now stands at 51.The fresh cases include 23 from Sector 21, 12 each from Sector 12 and Sector 8, 11 from Sector 4, 8 from Pinjore, 7 from Sector 6, 6 each from MDC Sector 5, 5 each from Sector 12A, Sector 16, Sector 2, Sector 25, Sector 27 and Sector 9, 4 each from Bhagwanpur, Buddanpur, Sector 19 and Sector 26, 3 each from Sector 10, Sector 14, Sector 28 and Sector 7, 2 each from Amravati Enclave, Industrial Area, Golpura, Maheshpur, Nanakpur, Morni, Nawanagar, Ramgarh, Sector 11, Sector 17, Sector 23 and Surajpur, one each from Abheypur, Barwala, Bunga Tibbi, Dharampur, Devinagar, Kalka, Kharag Mangoli, Khera Basolan, Madanpur, Mauli, MDC Sector 6, Sector 18, Sector 5 and Toda.While 1,371 cases are still active, 2.964 people have been cured or discharged.Panchkula has so far conducted 54,641 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-181-covid-19-cases-4-more-die-141594
15-09-2020||Mohali||Three deaths, 188 new cases of COVID-19 in Mohali district||Three deaths and 188 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in Mohali district on Tuesday.The total number of cases has reached 7,125 of which 2,320 are active cases.As many as 154 people were discharged after recovery today taking the total number of recoveries to 4,660.The death toll due to the virus has reached 145.Of the new cases, Mohali urban reported 76, Kharar 22, Gharuan two, Dhakoli 45, Dera Bassi 17, Lalru five, Boothgarh and Kurali one each.A 28-year-old male from Phase 9 died at Fortis Hospital, a 47-year-old male from Sohana village, who was a patient of diabetes and hypertension, died at GMCH Patiala, and a 62-year-old male, from Kurali, who was a diabetic, died at Shalby Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-deaths-188-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-mohali-district-141589
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||PUTA poll: Final List of candidates out||Amit Chauhan (UIET) and Supinder Kaur (Laws) will contest for the vice-president’s post, while Amarjit Singh Naura (Biochemistry) and MC Sidhu (Botany) will contest for the post of secretary. Anupam Bahri (UILS) and Sarvnarinder Kaur (Biophysics) will vie for the post of joint secretary, whereas Nitin Arora (Economics) and Samarjit Sihotra (Physics) will contest for the treasurer’s post.The elections are scheduled to be held either on September 25 or on September 26. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-poll-final-list-of-candidates-out-141533
15-09-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Now, Mohali residents to get DL, RC on the doorstep||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14People living in Mohali district will now be able to get their driving licence and registration certificate by post, according to an agreement signed between the Chandigarh Postal Division and the Punjab State Transport Commissioner.The Punjab State Transport Department will now utilise Speed Post Service under the Book Now Pay Later (BNPL) scheme of the India Post for delivery of driving licence or registration certificate smart cards (SCOSTA) across Punjab.At present, Mohali residents collect their driving licence or registration certificate from respective offices. With the commencement of this agreement, now the driving licence/registration certificate issued by the Department of State Transport, Punjab, will be delivered by the India Post on the doorstep of Punjab-based applicants.The articles sent will be delivered under receipt. Beneficiaries will also be able to track their consignments on the website of the India Post with a unique Speed Post tracking ID.The Department of Posts will provide free pick-up facility for 5,000 articles on a daily basis from a central location of the Punjab State Transport Department and articles so collected will be booked at the BNPL centre, Sector 17.The BNPL facility of Speed Post Service is also being availed by many other central and state governments and various departments of the UT Administration.About BNPLThe Book Now Pay Later (BNPL) facility offers several value additions such as free pick-up of the dispatch from the customer’s doorsteps, customer corporate login to view various reports like articles booked, delivered, pending for delivery, attractive discount structure, National Account Facility, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-mohali-residents-to-get-dl-rc-on-the-doorstep-141273
15-09-2020||---||Young adults make for 45.60% infections in Panchkula||Panchkula, September 14People under 40 now make up a majority of the Covid-19 cases, according to an analysis of bulletins released by the Health Department between September 11 and 13.Young adults aged between 21 and 40 accounted for 45.60 per cent (218 cases) of the total positive cases (478) reported from the district in the past three days, followed by those aged between 41 and 60 (149 cases).According to health officials, the average age of a person testing positive for Covid-19 has fallen since March.“Though we are seeing more infections among young people, elderly suffer more severe outcomes,” they said.Even numbers corroborate the fact. Of the six deaths reported from the district due to Covid-19 today, five people were aged 60 or above and almost all had underlying medical conditions.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “Young people go out more. Some of them also remain careless as they are less likely to develop Covid-19 symptoms. However, they pass on the virus to the elders at home, which can be dangerous.”She urged young people to follow norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/young-adults-make-for-45-60-infections-in-panchkula-141274
15-09-2020||---||Convene councillors’ physical meeting, says ex-Deputy Mayor||Chandigarh, September 14Former Deputy Mayor Satish Kainth has written to Mayor Raj Bala Malik to convene a physical meeting of councillors for the month of September.Kainth, in his letter, said: “All RWAs, MWAs and NGOs are seeking replies on agendas regarding development works”.“The last meeting held through video-conference failed to address the problems,” he said.In his letter, the Congress councillor also raised the issue of hike in water tariffs, UT’s dismal performance in Swachhta rankings, issue of segregation of garbage and employees’ protest regarding their salaries.Some of the councillors have alleged that their window was put on mute during the previous video-conferences when they tried to raise the issues of their wards.Councillors are also of the view that as their number is less in comparison to the space in the House, there should be no problem in convening the House meeting following social distancing norms.“Please, convene the next meeting physically with standard operating procedure of Covid-19,” Satish Kainth has written in the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/convene-councillors-physical-meeting-says-ex-deputy-mayor-141275
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Form panel to review water tariff, demand Chandigarh residents||The UT Administration’s decision to enhance the water tariff has not gone down well with city residents who feel that it will add to their burden in times of financial crisis.Voices are already being raised to review the decision. Now, the City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO) has requested the Administration to constitute a committee for further review of water tariff and suggest measures to the Principal Secretary, UT, to check the wastage of water.Among the measures suggested by CFORWO convener Vinod Vashisht are bringing in automation in water distribution, regularising unmetered connection, augmenting water recycling among others.Representatives of various residents’ welfare associations said the average per capita supply of 252 litres per capita per day (lpcd) against the natural benchmark was 135 lpcd. It shows that the overall water consumption of the city was much higher than the actual need.“The two prime reasons are the losses due to water leakage and unnecessary use of potable water for irrigation purposes,” said a former MC official.Water conservation activists also discourage the use of reverse osmosis (RO) water systems in the urban areas as it leads to huge wastage. A common household RO wastes nearly 3 litres of water for every one litre of purified water. It means 75 per cent of water comes out as waste. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/form-panel-to-review-water-tariff-demand-chandigarh-residents-141276
15-09-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula RWAs to enter civic body poll fray||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 14Fed up with the working style of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation, members of several Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) here have decided to contest the upcoming civic body elections, including for the Mayor post. City divided into 20 wardsThe civic body elections are expected to be held late this year or early next year. The city has been divided into 20 wards. Of this, seven wards have been reserved for women.The Citizen Welfare Association (CWA) has decided to field a candidate for the post of Mayor. SK Nayar, president of the association, said: “Due to political interference into the affairs of the Municipal Corporation, its day-to-day working has been severely affected. Instances of financial frauds have also been reported from the civic body. Thus, the association has decided to contest for the post of Major for the betterment and development of the city. Our members have better understanding of their neighbourhood and residents and their problems. If we are given an opportunity, we will definitely bring about a change.”SK Nayar, president, Citizen Welfare AssociationDue to political interference into the affairs of the Municipal Corporation, its day-to-day working has been severely affected. Instances of financial frauds have also been reported from the civic body. Thus, the association has decided to contest for the post of Major for the betterment and development of the city. Our members have better understanding of their neighbourhood and residents and their problems. If we are given an opportunity, we will definitely bring about a change.“We have to run from pillar to post to get approval for even smallest of works, whether it is about repairing of roads or stray cattle menace on streets,” he said.RK Agarwal, president, Panchkula Vikas Manch, said they would field candidates from some wards. They would make it clear that they won’t go for the post of Mayor.“Corruption and wrongdoings in the Municipal Corporation at a large scale have forced us to contest the council elections. The voice of a common man is not being heard,” he said.When asked would they be able to fight against the established political parties, he said it was up to the people of Panchkula to decide if they really wanted a change. Our purpose is not only to win the elections, but work for people.RP Malhotra of the Federation of Residents’ Association (FORA) said he was thinking of getting into the race for the Mayor’s post.“Only RWA members have first-hand experience of problems in their area. Our organisation has done a tremendous work for the betterment of people, including senior citizens,” he said.The civic body elections are expected to be held late this year or early next year. The city has been divided into 20 wards. Of this, seven wards have been reserved for women.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-rwas-to-enter-civic-body-poll-fray-141266
15-09-2020||Kharar||Acid attack threat: Kharar police yet to trace 3 suspects||The police are yet to trace three suspects who broke the windowpane of a car and also threw acid inside it at Green Enclave here.The incident took place around 11 pm on Saturday. The suspects had earlier threatened to throw acid on a girl. They damaged her family’s car parked outside the house.Inderjeet, father of the girl, said one Rohit had earlier threatened his daughter and other family members. He started harassing and chasing her. The family had earlier filed a complaint with the police, but they reached a compromise.The suspects still did not mend their ways and damaged their car. One of the eyewitnesses said three persons damaged the car. They were also caught on CCTV cameras. The police are investigating the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/acid-attack-threat-kharar-police-yet-to-trace-3-suspects-141267
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Online Bar Association poll challenged||A vital question of law revolving around the powers of the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana in issuing a notification for online elections to the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association and all Bar Associations of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh will come up for hearing before the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday.The case has been placed before the Division Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash. The issue, “whether the respondent -Bar Council is justified in issuing a notification for conducting online elections on September 30 and October 1 for the Bar Association of Punjab and Haryana High Court and all Bar Associations of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, respectively”, has been raised by three former presidents of the District Bar Association of Chandigarh and two members. The petition is to be argued by senior advocate Anand Chhibbar.Among other things, Shankar Gupta and other petitioners submitted the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana has shut its eyes to the plight of the needy lawyers in dire need of funds during these unprecedented trying times.A few unfortunate ones were even finding it hard to make the ends meet.“The Bar Council does not want to help them financially. Instead, they hurriedly want to hold online elections and are ready to spend a whopping amount on it. It’s a sad state of affair that our brother lawyers who are facing acute financial crunch are left to fend for themselves despite the fact that the Bar Council is generating huge finances through welfare tickets affixed on every Power of Attorney filed in the Courts...,” the petition said.Filed through Chhibbar’s office, the petition further added two Judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court recused to be chief supervisors of the online elections. One Judge recused much prior to the notification and the other Judge recused post issuance of notification. “This raises a serious doubt over the election framework”.The petition further added conducting elections was not a cakewalk but an arduous task involving a host of people for monitoring, supervising, managing and organising the polls.“In such a grim situation, especially when the contagion is spiralling out of control and spreading its tentacles across the globe, holding the elections is an insensitive and preposterous act,” it added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-bar-association-poll-challenged-141268
15-09-2020||Kharar||Power cuts irk Kharar residents||Kharar residents continue to reel under frequent power outages.“We had the worst time this summer. Power supply remains affected several times in a day. There is no information when the supply will be disrupted and when it will be restored,” said Rajdeep Singh, a resident of Sector 124.Prashant Kumar, a resident of Sector 125, said: “Online classes of children are affected due to power cuts. We find it difficult to manage due to frequent cuts and low voltage. The issue should be resolved soon.”“Since most of us were at home during the lockdown, we realised that power cut is a major issue here,” said a banker.Meanwhile, Electricity Department officials said the supply was affected due to the ongoing construction work of the flyover. Overloading during the summer season was also an issue. “Things are better as compared to the last year and we are working to improve the supply further,” said an official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/power-cuts-irk-kharar-residents-141269
15-09-2020||---||Powermen Union seeks support from CRAWFED||Chandigarh, September 14The UT Powermen Union has sought support from the Chandigarh Residents Associations’ Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) in its fight against the privatisation of the UT Electricity Department.Union president Dhyan Singh and general secretary Gopal Dutt met Hitesh Puri, chairman, and Rajat Malhotra, general secretary, CRAWFED. They handed over a memorandum to them regarding their request to withdraw the proposal of privatisation of the Electricity Department.After hearing their demand, Hitesh Puri assured the delegation members that he and his team would discuss the matter at length with various resident welfareassociations and also take up the issue with the local as well as the Central leadership.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/powermen-union-seeks-support-from-crawfed-141270
15-09-2020||---||3 members of Deepu Banur gang nabbed with weapons||Chandigarh, September 14The Crime Branch of the UT police has arrested three members of the Deepu Banur gang while possessing a US-made pistol, two country-made pistols and cartridges.Deepak, alias Deepu Banur, a member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, was earlier arrested by the Chandigarh Police for his involvement in the firing at hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33 here.A team of Crime Branch led by Inspector Satvinder Singh nabbed the suspects identified as Sumit (25), a resident of Sector 66, Mohali, Sarabjit Singh, alias Satta (25), and Maninder Singh, alias Manny (27), both residents of Dhurali village, Mohali district.The suspects, who were riding a Baleno car, were stopped at a naka laid on a tip-off on the road between the BDC light point and St Kabir School turn.The police said a US-made pistol, a magazine with four cartridges, two country-made pistols and two cartridges were recovered from their possession.A case under the Arms Act has been registered against the suspects at the Sector 26 police station.During the course of investigation, the police discovered that Sumit and Maninder Singh have a tainted past.The police said Maninder was earlier involved in three cases of dacoity in Punjab and Chandigarh, a corruption case and a rioting case in Punjab. Meanwhile, Sumit was found to be involved in a robbery case, an Arms Act case and a case of rioting in Punjab.All suspects were produced before a court, which sent them to four-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-members-of-deepu-banur-gang-nabbed-with-weapons-141271
15-09-2020||---||PGI to get 20 more ventilators shortly||Chandigarh, September 14To cope with the rush of patients, the PGI will soon get 20 more ventilators.During a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, stated that the number of ventilators at the institute had now increased to 45.‘Antigen test at GMCH-32 soon’Dr BS Chavan, Director-Principal, GMCH, Sector 32, stated that they were going to start antigen test shortly. They had already received 2,000 kits for antigen test from the Administration.“These good quality ventilators from the BEL are working fine,” he said, adding that the PGI was likely to receive 20 more ventilators from the Central Government.He stated that they had 269 Covid patients at the Nehru Hospital Extension. Of them, 82 belonged to Chandigarh, 80 to Punjab and 38 to Haryana.Dr BS Chavan, Director-Principal, GMCH, Sector 32, stated that they were going to start antigen test shortly. They had already received 2,000 kits for antigen test from the Administration.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIThe number of ventilators at the institute has now increased to 45. These good quality ventilators from the BEL are working fine. The PGI is likely to receive 20 more ventilators from the Centre.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore presided over the meeting. While expressing satisfaction, he said vulnerable senior citizens in the city had mostly followed the guidelines and stayed indoors. He appealed to all residents to maintain self-restraint and not to come out, unless absolutely necessary. The Administrator stated that the onus was now on the residents to keep themselves safe by strictly following the Covid protocol.Badnore directed for more information, education and communication (IEC) activities for making the citizens aware of hygienic practices and wearing mask.He also directed Commissioner KK Yadav and Director Health Services Dr G Dewan to ensure that there was regular fogging and spray on water bodies to prevent water-borne diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-to-get-20-more-ventilators-shortly-141272
15-09-2020||---||Oyo founder Ritesh Aggarwal booked for fraud||Mohali, September 14The founder and CEO of Oyo Hotels and Homes Pvt Ltd (OHHPL), the country’s well-known hotel chain, is in the dock as the Mohali police have registered a case of fraud and criminal conspiracy against him on the complaint of a Chandigarh-based businessman.An FIR has been registered against Ritesh Aggarwal, founder, Oyo Hotels, and Sandeep Lodha, CEO of the OHHPL’s brand Weddingz.in, on the complaint of Vikas Gupta.Vikas Gupta, ComplainantDespite terminating agreement in a one-sided way and in a manner, which smacks of ‘criminal intent’, my marriage palace’s name is still being used and innocent people are being cheated in terms of money. There is proof that weddings have been booked till December 2020 and I am being made a scapegoat in the modus operandi.The victim, in his complaint to the SSP, had alleged that the company’s top management abruptly wriggled out of a business agreement illegally and with criminal intent. The SSP marked the complaint to the SP (Rural), Mohali, who, after conducting a thorough investigation, recommended registration of an FIR against the suspects.Vikas Gupta said an agreement was signed between his company Vikas Mineral Foods Pvt Limited under which he also operated Banquet Hall Casavillaz at Ramgarh-Mubarakpur road, Dera Bassi, Mohali, and Oravel Stays Pvt Ltd (OSPL). He said in June 2019, he came in contact with Virender Pal Bhasin, head, OHHPL, Chandigarh, who showed interest in his banquet hall. He said an agreement was signed, according to which the Weddingz.in team would handle the business and pay them a fixed amount every month in return.Gupta said all documents and NOCs asked by the OHHPL to run his banquet hall were submitted and the top management, including the finance and legal teams, of Oyo was satisfied. Everything was running smoothly until the Covid outbreak restrictions were imposed on gathering in marriages and events, he added.He alleged, “Fearing losses, the OHHPL hatched a conspiracy and against the terms of the signed agreement, sent him a notice on March 16 this year to again submit NOCs and other documents. They gave me 15 days notice period, whereas according to the agreement, 60 days is the notice time to be given in case any party wants to break the agreement if any breach happens.”He said later another notice asking him to pay over Rs5 crore (approximately) penalty was sent to him, as part of a criminal conspiracy to make huge and easy money through pressure tactics. He said both notices sent to him were unsigned, so these had no legal sanctity.“My company was served a forged termination notice on April 22 under conspiracy in which a mention of a letter/or notice dated March 30 wasmade, but no such letter or notice was ever received, which revealed their deliberate conspiracy.SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said a case has been registered and efforts were on to arrest the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/oyo-founder-ritesh-aggarwal-booked-for-fraud-141259
15-09-2020||---||Panjab University Syndics skip online meet||Chandigarh, September 14PU Syndics refused to attend an online Syndicate meeting and insisted on conducting a physical meeting today.After receiving an ultimatum from Syndics, the office of Registrar announced to conduct an online meeting of the House at 3 pm. However, the meeting was cancelled as only a few people turned up for it.Another meeting scheduled for todayA new circular was issued by the office of Registrar to call another online meeting on Tuesday.The circular stated, “The online meeting scheduled for September 14 could not be held due to the lack of a quorum. Now, another meeting has been scheduled for September 15 at 5.15 pm through an online platformAfter receiving an ultimatum from Syndics, the office of Registrar announced to conduct an online meeting of the House at 3 pm. However, the meeting was cancelled as only a few people turned up for it.According to the house curriculum, a minimum of five fellows/members are required to pursue the meeting. The Syndics claimed that the information on conducting the meeting was communicated on September 13 at 7.30 pm and immediately after that 11 members refused to attend it and demanded for a physical meeting.“When the entire nation is moving towards unlocking, our Vice-Chancellor is not interested in calling a meeting for the reasons best known to him. The House is a working constitutional body of the Panjab University. The Vice-Chancellor is taking important decisions, including conducting online exams, on his own will without consulting the House. It’s for the first time that the House is not considered for any decision,” said Ashok Goyal, a fellow.He also slammed the authorities for making Covid-19 a reason for not calling physical meeting. “We were asked to join an online meeting at 7.30pm yesterday. Around 11 members clearly refused to attend it. If the Vice-Chancellor can call over a dozen of officials in a MAKA Trophy felicitation ceremony, why can’t he call a physical meeting of the House?” asked Goyal.The Vice-Chancellor and the Dean University Instructions (DUI) remained unavailable for comment.Later in the evening, a new circular was issued by the office of Registrar to call another online meeting on Tuesday. The circular stated, “The online emergent meeting scheduled for September 14 could not be held due to the lack of a quorum. Now, another meeting has been scheduled for September 15 at 5.15 pm through anonline platform.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndics-skip-online-meet-141260
15-09-2020||---||Chandigarh Education Department rolls out second counselling schedule||Chandigarh, September 14The UT Education Department will hold second round of counselling for Class XI in government senior secondary schools.The scheduleSubmission of preferences/options for change of school/stream — September 18 (11 am) to September 21 (up to 5 pm)Submission of registration form (for new candidates) — September 18 (11 am) to September 21 (up to 5 pm)Display of list indicating the allotment of school/stream — September 25 (11 am)Verification of merit/category by schools — September 26 to 28Deposit of fee/documents by candidates — September 29 (11 am) to September 30 (up to 5 pm)The candidates, who have already taken admission in one of the government schools and want to submit request for change of school/stream/option, can apply for the second counselling.Those, who had applied for admission during the first round of counselling, but did not take admission for any reason or were not allotted any seat, will also submit revised preferences.Besides, the candidates, who did not apply for admission earlier, can now apply for “registration form” by paying Rs130 through online mode only at chdeducation.gov.in.The list of vacant seats after first round for counselling will be available on the department’s website on September 18 at 10 am.The eligibility criteria, procedure for “preparation of merit”, allotment of seats and other details as mentioned in the prospectus will remain the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-rolls-out-second-counselling-schedule-141262
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘‘Panjab University USOL pupils can post answer sheets next day’||The Panjab University authorities have announced that private and USOL candidates can post answer sheets the next day in case of a holiday.CoE Prof Parvinder Singh said all private and USOL candidates could send hardcopy of their answer sheet to the Deputy Registrar (Secrecy) through a registered or speed post immediately after the examination within four hours from the start of examination. In case, the examination is on Sunday or on a holiday, the hardcopy can be sent on the next working day, whereas softcopy can be submitted immediately to the ugexampu@gmail.com (for UG course) and pgexampu@gmail.com (for PG course). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-usol-pupils-can-post-answer-sheets-next-day-141264
15-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Will continue to take plasma from donors: PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14Even as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) suggested that plasma may not help in reducing Covid mortality, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is reserving plasma units for patient care. According to experts, the therapy can still be used as supportive treatment in patients fitting the criteria and warned against the use of plasma as “over the counter” treatment.On Friday, the PGI Director stated that they had 10 plasma units ready, which could be given to any Covid patient, whenever needed.Prof Ratti Ram Sharma, Head of the Department of Transfusion Medicine, PGI, said, “The trial was well planned and plasma was administered as per protocol. The study does not imply that plasma will not help at all. Some of the institutes did not have antibody titer (a test that measures the amount of antibodies within a person’s blood) kits and there may have been some plasma units in which the antibodies were not adequate. There may have been some factors that have masked the efficacy of plasma therapy, but the lacuna needs to be identified too.”“We will continue to take plasma from donors as it can be used anytime on any patient,” he said.Prof Pankaj Malhotra, Principal Investigator of the PLACID trial at the PGI, said, “The study will reduce black marketing of plasma across the country as earlier it was believed to be a magic bullet. Medicine is an art and as a physician, one must see which way a therapy can be used. In the same trial, resolution of symptoms has been found on the seventh day and the RT-PCR negativity in patients was quicker than the usual time. Though the results have not been robust and the earlier notion about the plasma therapy being the game changer has been ruled out, we can always use it as an adjunct therapy in addition to other treatment.”According to the laid down criteria by the ICMR, convalescent plasma (off label) may be considered in patients with moderate disease, who are not improving (oxygen requirement is progressively increasing) despite the use of steroids. The PGI had successfully enrolled nine patients, of whom five received plasma treatment and the remaining were on the control arm.Prof Ram said, “We have been receiving requests from private sector for plasma unit. We scrutinise the criterion as laid down by the ICMR. The therapy should not be used as over the counter available drug.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-continue-to-take-plasma-from-donors-pgi-141265
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Immunity-boosting plants in kitchen garden at GMSH-16||PUTA poll: Final List of candidates outChandigarh: The final list of candidates contesting the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) elections was released on Monday. Mohammed Khalid (Evening Studies) and Mritunjay Kumar (AC Joshi Library) will contest for the president’s posts. Amit Chauhan (UIET) and Supinder Kaur (Laws) will contest for the vice-president’s post, while Amarjit Singh Naura (Biochemistry) and MC Sidhu (Botany) will contest for the post of secretary. Anupam Bahri (UILS) and Sarvnarinder Kaur (Biophysics) will vie for the post of joint secretary, whereas Nitin Arora (Economics) and Samarjit Sihotra (Physics) will contest for the treasurer’s post. The elections are scheduled to be held either on September 25 or on September 26. TNSHindi Diwas celebratedChandigarh: Women hostel number 6 (Mother Teresa Hall), Panjab University, organised an online creative writing competition to celebrate Hindi Diwas. Several hostel residents participated in the competition and submitted their work through online mode. Shilpa bagged the first position, whereas Garima Batra and Sonali secured the second and the third spot. TNS115 participate in poetry contestChandigarh: The PU’s Hindi Department organised a series of events such as webinars, poetry recitations and competitions to mark Hindi Diwas. Dr Irshad Kamil, a Bollywood lyricist and PU alumni, was the chief guest on Monday. He spoke about the common legacy of languages. A total of 115 persons participated in poetry writing competition. Prize winners were Abhishek Pandey (Kolkata University), Anjali (Panjab University) and Sandeep Tripathi (Allahabad University). TNSAcademic writing Webinar at PUChandigarh: The Department of Library and Information Science, Panjab University, organised a webinar on ‘Academic Writing and Qualitative Research: Steps and Strategies’. Prof Bhaskar Mukherjee, DLIS, Banaras Hindu University (UP) was the resource person. Prof Preeti Mahajan, chairperson of the department, welcomed the participants and introduced the theme of the webinar.Research scholars march to VC officePatiala: Research scholars of Punjabi University on Monday held a march to the office of University Vice-Chancellor (VC) demanding opening of departments for research. The students also held a meeting with the university functionaries and said they were given assurance that respective departments would open in a phased manner. University officials said no such decision for opening of the university had been taken as yet. TNSGrandparents’ Day celebratedMohali: The primary wing of Delhi Public School, Mohali, celebrated Grandparents’ Day virtually. Children expressed gratitude to their grandparents with an action song. Their dance performance left everyone spellbound. The show culminated with a card-making activity. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/immunity-boosting-plants-in-kitchen-garden-at-gmsh-16-141284
15-09-2020||---||Sector 42, Chandigarh resident loses Rs 2 lakh in online fraud||Chandigarh, September 14A Sector 42 resident fell prey to an online fraud and lost Rs2 lakh on the pretext of paying an instalment of his insurance policy in advance.Victim AD Rajput reported that he had purchased Reliance Nippon Life Insurance for Rs2 lakh in December last year with a term of 12 years. The next premium for the insurance was supposed to be paid in December this year.He said last month, he received an email mentioning that due to Covid, customers were not able to pay their premium following which he was advised to pay the second instalment of Rs2 lakh in advance, which would be refunded to him in a week along with interest.“I also received a call from a person, Puneet Arora, who introduced himself as an agent of the insurance company. He also asked me to pay the second instalment in advance following which I transferred the money in the bank account provided by him,” the complainant added.Later, on August 28, he received another email, asking him to deposit the third instalment of Rs2 lakh following which he would get a refund of Rs8.25 lakh within 72 hours.He got suspicious and consulted the insurance ombudsman, who advised him to check with the insurance company. He went to the office of the insurance company and found that he had been duped as the money was not credited to his insurance policy.The insurance company clarified that they did not send such emails.The victim submitted his complaint to the police, which is being investigated by the cyber crime investigation cell. Several cases of online fraud have been reported from the city in the recent past.How he was tricked||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-42-chandigarh-resident-loses-rs-2-lakh-in-online-fraud-141281
15-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Testing times:  Chandigarh youth found Covid-19 positive again||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 14An unusual case of coronavirus was reported from the city today when a 25-year-old youth from Sector 45, who had recovered from the virus, again tested positive within a gap of two months. Interestingly, the youth had also donated his plasma last month.Patient Had donated plasma at PGI on August 29I am worried as I did not expect a reinfection. According to doctors, the reinfection can occur in four months. I do not have symptoms, but I can’t step outside my house as I am in isolation.The youth had first tested Covid positive on July 12 at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. He was shifted to Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46, where he stayed for 10 days.On July 21, he tested negative for the virus through the RT-PCR method and again on July 31. The tests were carried out by the Dhanwantry hospital through a Gurugram-based private laboratory. After the completion of 28-day recovery period, he was found eligible for plasma donation and on August 29, he donated plasma at the PGI.Dr Mini Singh, Virology Dept, PGIIn this particular case, to determine whether it is a reinfection or not, a blood sample can be taken to see the formation of antibodies. There will be no antibodies if it is a recent infection and vice versa.On September 13, the Sector 45 youth, who is now under home isolation, again tested positive for Covid at the GMCH. According to the patient, he was tested along with 21 others from a containment zone in Sector 45.Dr Mini Singh from the Virology Department, PGI, explains, “In this particular case, to determine whether it is a reinfection or not, a blood sample can be taken to see the formation of antibodies. There will be no antibodies if it is a recent infection and vice versa. To see whether the patient is shedding the virus or if it is a new infection, the two strains of the virus should be sequenced.”She said, “There is a possibility that the patient may be shedding the virus and hence tested positive. Considering that he donated plasma, he must be having antibodies. It is clarified that antibodies may be formed irrespective of virus shedding.”The Director, Health and Family Welfare, Dr G Dewan, said. “There is a chance that the patient may have falsely tested negative. Besides, dead fragment of the novel coronavirus leads to false positives in recovered patients.”According to the ICMR, even if the virus becomes deactivated, it remains in cells from where swabs are collected for testing. Hence, the RT-PCR, being a test to just detect the presence of the virus, will always show the result as positive, whether the virus is active or not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/testing-times-chandigarh-youth-found-covid-19-positive-again-141282
15-09-2020||---||Four months on, veggie market shifts back to Sector 26, Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 14After more than four months, the fruit and vegetable market was today shifted back to its original location in Sector 26. From tomorrow, commission agents and vendors will function from the original mandi premises.To contain the spread of Covid-19, the UT Administration had temporarily shifted the vegetable and fruit market, which was located close to Bapu Dham Colony, to the Sector 17 ISBT in the second week of May.After several pockets in Bapu Dham Colony were declared a containment zone, the Market Committee had banned the wholesale of fruits and vegetables in the Sector 26 market. The UT shifted the market to the bus stand to prevent congestion in Sector 26. The mandi was shifted back to Sector 26 after the UT decided to resume the CTU service from the ISBT from September 16.Meanwhile, the CTU authorities today got the bus stand cleaned to initially start the service to eight destinations each in Punjab and Haryana.Terming it a futile exercise, a commission agent said the mandi was shifted to the Sector 17 bus stand to break the chain of virus transmission. Even after four months, the UT was unable to contain the virus and now, they had been ordered to shift back to Sector 26, the agent added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-months-on-veggie-market-shifts-back-to-sector-26-chandigarh-141283
15-09-2020||---||Covid-19: Six deaths in Panchkula, toll 47||Panchkula, September 14Six deaths, the highest ever in a day, and 95 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district today. A 75-year-old man from Sector 10, a 72-year-old man from Saketri, a 75-year-old man from Kalka, a 60-year-old woman from Majra Mehtab, a 34-year-old man from Pinjore and a 60-year-old woman from Sector 11 succumbed to the virus.Among the new cases, 15 are from Kalka, 10 from Pinjore, eight from Sector 12-A, seven from Sector 15, five from Sector 8, four each from Sector 20 and Sector 25, three each from the CRPF, the MDC, Sector 4, Sector 12 and Sector 10, two each from Rajiv Colony, Sector 11, Sector 14, Sector 21, Sector 4 and Tipra, and one each from Chandimandir, Amravati Enclave, Bhagwanpur, Haripur, Kharag Mangoli, the MDC, Sector 5, the MDC, Sector 6, Nada Sahib, Sector 16, Sector 19, Sector 17, Sector 2, Sector 27, Sector 6, Tagra Kaliram, Surajpur, Saketri and Majra Mehtab.The district Covid tally now stands at 4,205 cases, including 1,219 active cases and 2,939 recoveries. So far, 47 lives have been claimed by the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-six-deaths-in-panchkula-toll-47-141253
15-09-2020||Chandigarh||Batteries of eight vehicles stolen at Khudda Jassu||The batteries of eight vehicles were stolen at Khudda Jassu on the intervening night of September 12 and 13.Suraj Arya, a resident of Khudda Jassu village, reported that someone stole the battery of his Mahindra pick-up, which was parked near his house. The batteries of four Maruti cars, a Maruti Zen, another Mahindra pick-up and Tavera were also stolen.All vehicles were parked at the same place.The theft came to light in the morning. A case has been registered at the Sarangpur police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/batteries-of-eight-vehicles-stolen-at-khudda-jassu-141254
15-09-2020||---||Covid-19: Deadly virus kills 19 in tricity||Mohali, September 14The district witnessed eight Covid fatalities, the highest ever in a day, taking the virus death toll to 142. The district also witnessed 274 fresh cases, taking the tally to 6,937 today.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said four men and four women died of the virus during the past 24 hours. He said a 75-year-old woman from Kharar died at the GMCH, Patiala. She had diabetes and hypertension. A 52-year-old woman from Ghogha village in Kharar died at Shalby Hospital. She was a diabetic. Similarly, a 30-year-old woman from Nayagaon died at the PGI, a 68-year-old man from Dera Bassi died at Mehar Hospital, Zirakpur, an 81-year-old man from Sunny Enclave died at Fortis Mohali, an 84-year-old woman from Mohali died at Shalby Hospital, a 62-year-old man from Kharar died at Amar Hospital and a 31-year-old man from Dharamgarh died at the GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh.Dr Manjit Singh said 274 fresh cases had surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours. These included 99 from Mohali urban, 38 from Kharar, 46 from Gharuan, 50 from Dhakoli, 29 from Dera Bassi, eight from Lalru and four from Banur. Meanwhile, 204 patients recovered from the virus and were discharged from various hospitals in the district.The district has so far seen 6,937 positive cases of coronavirus. Of them, 4,506 patients have been cured and discharged. There are 2,289 active cases. As many as 142 persons have died of the virus.All had comorbidities||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-deadly-virus-kills-19-in-tricity-141255
15-09-2020||---||Covid-19: Infant, 4 others die in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 14A 20-day-old baby boy from Colony No. 4 was among five Covid-19 deaths reported from the city. He was suffering from multiple organ failure and sepsis.The city today crossed the 8,000 mark by adding 254 more cases to the Covid count. This takes the total number of confirmed cases in Chandigarh to 8,245. Of these, 2,847 are active. As many as 95 people have succumbed to the deadly coronavirus.The second fatality recorded today was of a 57-year-old man from Sector 39, a known case of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension. He died at the PGI.A 69-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran, a case of diabetes mellitus, succumbed at the GMSH, Sector 16. A 75-year-old man from Sector 40 died at Grecian Hospital in Mohali. A 77-year-old man Sector 15 breathed his last at Shalby Hospital in Mohali. Meanwhile, a total of 130 patients were reported to have recovered from the virus today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-infant-4-others-die-in-chandigarh-141256
15-09-2020||---||Pandemic casts a shadow on functioning of Chandigarh Housing Board||Chandigarh, September 14Covid-19 has hit the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), as nearly 30 employees have been quarantined and another 30 deployed on pandemic-related duties.Last week, the UT Administration had declared the houses of several board employees in Sector 45 a containment zone.Sources said with several employees being quarantined or put on Covid-related duties, the work on various projects was getting affected and people were also facing inconvenience in getting their routine works such as transfer of property, approval for need-based changes and sale deed done.A senior CHB official said some of the work was being affected, but they were trying to get the routine works done with the available emloyees. Priority was given to the Covid-19 duty, which was necessary, he added.With the prime objective to provide reasonably priced, good quality housing to persons residing in the UT, the CHB has constructed more than 67,565 houses of various categories so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pandemic-casts-a-shadow-on-functioning-of-chandigarh-housing-board-141257
15-09-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula sees rapid rise in fatalities in September||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 14Not just Covid cases, fatalities due to the disease are also rising in the district.Six persons succumbing to the virus today, the highest single-day toll so far, is an indication of how the virus is gripping the district.Till August 31, the number of deaths in Panchkula was 20. In the past two weeks, 27 patients died of Covid, taking the toll to 47. Among them, 16 were aged 60 or above. A majority of the victims had underlying medical conditions or comorbidities.Even though health officials have time and again claimed that their efforts have been concentrated on preventing deaths among the high-risk population, the average number of fatalities is steadily rising in the district.Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said, “The spike in Covid toll is due to many old patients with severe comorbidities reporting late to the hospital.”“To monitor patients in home isolation, we have decided to rope in health teams which can be in regular touch with them. Many patients ignore symptoms, assuming these to be non-serious. By the time they come to the hospital, it’s too late. Now, every patient under home isolation will be checked on 4th, 7th and 10th day of testing positive. This will help us to prevent deaths,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-rapid-rise-in-fatalities-in-september-141258
