15-08-2020||New Delhi||National Digital Health Mission rolled out on pilot mode in Chandigarh, 5 other UTs||The ambitious National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday, under which every Indian will get a health ID that will ease access to medical services has been rolled out on a pilot mode in six union territories.The National Health Authority (NHA), the apex agency responsible for the implementation of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, has been given the mandate by the government to design, build, roll-out and implement the NDHM in the country.   The six union territories where the mission was rolled out through a pilot launch are Chandigarh, Ladakh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep, the NHA said in a statement.In his Independence Day address, the prime minister said that under NDHM every Indian citizen will get a health ID which will store every individual’s medical records and the Mission will herald a new revolution in the health sector.“From today, a major campaign is being launched in which technology will play a big role. The National Digital Health Mission is being launched today. This will bring a new revolution in India’s health sector and it will help reduce problems in getting treatment with the help of technology,” he said.The health ID will contain information about medical data, prescriptions and diagnostic reports and summaries of previous discharge from hospitals for ailments. The mission is expected to bring efficiency and transparency in healthcare services in the country.Welcoming the historic announcement by the prime minister, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said, “Based on the initial learnings in the UTs, we will gradually work in partnership with the states to launch the NDHM. I seek the whole-hearted support, inputs and cooperation of doctors, healthcare facilities, citizens and state governments to adopt this game-changing scheme.”The NDHM is a holistic, voluntary healthcare programme that will reduce the existing gap between various stakeholders such as doctors, hospitals and other healthcare providers, pharmacies, insurance companies, and citizens by bringing them together and connecting them in an integrated digital health infrastructure, the NHA statement said.The NDHM comprises six key building blocks or digital systems -- HealthID, DigiDoctor, Health Facility Registry, Personal Health Records, e-Pharmacy andTelemedicine -- that will enable access to timely, safe and affordable healthcare through a ‘citizen-centric’ approach, it said.All of these digital products except e-Pharmacy and telemedicine have been deployed and are up and running.Providing details on the key components of NDHM, NHA CEO Dr Indu Bhushan said, “The core building blocks of NDHM such as Health ID, Digi-Doctor and Health Facility Registry shall be owned, operated and maintained by the government of India. Private stakeholders will have an equal opportunity to integrate with these building blocks and create their own products for the market. However, core activities and verifications, for example, generation of Health ID or approval of a doctor/facility shall remain with the government.”Additional components, like Personal Health Record (PHR) and Electronic Medical Record (EMR) solutions can be developed by private players as well, in line with guidelines that will be issued. All such products by private participants shall be as per official guidelines taking care of security, privacy and standards of the NDHM ecosystem, he elaborated. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-digital-health-mission-rolled-out-on-pilot-mode-in-chandigarh-5-other-uts-126973
15-08-2020|| Mohali||Mohali reports two more coronavirus fatalities, 52 new cases||Mohali reported two more deaths from coronavirus and 52 new cases on Saturday---developments that come amid rising coronavirus cases in the tricity area.A 45-year-old woman from Kurali died in Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. She was diabetic, had hypertension, and also had severe depression, officials said.Saturday’s second fatality was a 35-year-old man from Phase 11 who was admitted to Chandigarh’s Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. Officials said he had tuberculosis.Mohali’s new cases included two from Dhakoli, three Kharar, four cases each from Nayagaon and Sector 70, five from Dera Bassi and six from Zirakpur. The district’s infection tally now stands at 1,741. More than half---807---- of the district’s cases are still active.The district’s death toll now stands at 33.Tricity’s case tally stood at 176 on Saturday---Chandigarh reported 81 new cases and Panchkula reported 43, apart from Mohali’s 52.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-two-more-coronavirus-fatalities-52-new-cases-126969
15-08-2020||Panchkula||43 new coronavirus cases take Panchkula’s tally to 1,167||Panchkula on Saturday reported 43 new coornavirus cases, taking the district tally to 1,167.Saturday’s cases included six each from Sector 10 and Sector 20, four each from Raipur Rani and Sector 16, three each from Sector 19, Sector 11 and village Morni, two each from Pinjore, Sector 4, Sector 12A, Sector 15 and Abheypur, and one each from Kalka and Sector 9.According to the COVID bulletin, health officials are yet to trace four patients tested positive for the virus.While 443 cases are still active, at least 720 patients have been cured and discharged.Panchkula has so far tested 25,119 samples for COVID, of which 23,617 have come out negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/43-new-coronavirus-cases-take-panchkulas-tally-to-1-167-126964
15-08-2020||---||81 new COVID cases in Chandigarh, tally up to 2,009||Chandigarh, August 15Chandigarh on Saturday recorded 81 fresh cases of COVID-19 taking the total tally in the Union Territory to 2,009.The total number of active cases stands at 861 as 1,118 patients have been cured till date while 28 have succumbed to the virus.As per the health officials, the new cases have been reported from Sector 32, 35, 38, 37, 40, 41, 26, 42, 21, 37, 27, 33, 7, 45, 15,12, 14, 18, 24, 38 West, 22, 23, 50, 56, 52, Industrial Area Phase 1, Mauli Jagran, Mani Majra, Maloya, Hallo Majra, Ram Darbar, Kishangarh, Dadumajra, PGI, Kajheri, Daria, and Bapu Dham.Meanwhile, 27 patients were discharged on Saturday after they recovered from the infection.A total of 20,520 people have been tested for novel coronavirus in the city so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/81-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-tally-up-to-2-009-126959
15-08-2020||---||Panjab University postpones Senate elections||Chandigarh, August 15Panjab University on Saturday said it had postponed Senate elections for all constituencies till further orders.The orders stated: “Consequent upon the advice conveyed by the Adviser to the UT Administrator, the Vice-Chancellor in the exercise of powers conferred. Regulation 12.2, Chapter II-B, PU Calendar, Volume  I, 2007, has postponed for the time being the date(s) of the election of all the constituencies with immediate effect for two months or till the MHA Covid-19 pandemic guidelines are revised and permission granted by the Chandigarh Administration, whichever is earlier.”It has been further announced that new dates for the conduct of Senate elections for all constituencies would be announced after receiving suitable directives from the competent authorities.”The election from the constituency of faculties was scheduled for August 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-postpones-senate-elections-126924
15-08-2020|| Mohali||Sena medal awarded to Mohali braveheart||Major Aman Singh has been conferred the Sena Medal (Gallantry) on Independence Day. The Phase-10 Mohali resident led a successful counter-insurgency operation on November 10, 2019, in which two terrorists were eliminated including a top Lashkar-e-Toiba commander in North Kashmir District Bandipore. An alumnus of St. Stephen's School and SGGS, Sector 26, Chandigarh, the officer was commissioned in the Armoured Corps in September 2009.Presently, he is serving in the Babina, (UP).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sena-medal-awarded-to-mohali-braveheart-126917
15-08-2020|| Chandigarh||Geared up to make Chandigarh a medical hub, says administrator Badnore on I-Day||Chandigarh Administrator VP Badnore has said that they are prepared to make the city a medical hub. While addressing a function on the 74th Independence Day, Badnore unfurled the National Flag, and listed the achievements of the administration in various fields.Badnore also gave away commendation certificates to COVID warriors. "Today, we are collectively facing a COVID-19 pandemic threat, that has created a global health crisis, and has had a deep impact on our lives. The war against the virus is going to challenge us more, and we are prepared for it. A lesson is well learnt, and we are all geared up to make Chandigarh a medical hub with exceptional facilities to tackle any such threat," he said. "We all know, that until a vaccine is developed to fight this pandemic, we will have to take care of ourselves and our families in a more precautionary way. It is the duty of every citizen to respect nature and follow certain rules, that are necessary for our well being. Let us all resolute to fight this together, and emerge stronger as always," he added. “Your selfless contribution and tireless efforts have helped in averting a serious threat, that is yet far from over. I am certain that you all will keep these spirits alive and come together as before in containing the spread of this virus,” he concluded. "On the other hand, Chandigarh and Punjab have shown an exceptional recovery rate in tackling the deadly disease", he said, adding that the World Health Organization has also recognized the success of Chandigarh Administration, particularly in containing the spread of infection in Bapu Dham Colony.This pandemic has severely affected the migrant labourers, and to assist them, our officials have ensured—as much as possible—support from the Administration. More than 45,000 migrant labourers were sent home during these tough times via the Shramik trains and buses and were assisted in every possible way. The Red Cross Society has been on wheels to provide food to all the needy during the curfew lockdown period. Food packets were distributed to ensure, that no family is left with an empty stomach and hungry. On the occasion, a state-level drug de-addiction campaign, “Nasha Mukt Bharat”, focusing components for preventive education and awareness generation, treatment and rehabilitation etc was launched, as per the direction of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. He said to provide some relief to the ex-servicemen who retired or released without a pension and are above 65 years of age, financial assistance has been increased from Rs 2,500 to Rs 5,000 per month and financial assistance of widows of Sub Major Rank or the same rank in Navy and Air Forces is also enhanced from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 per month. In order to reduce the hardships of the commissioning mothers and surrogate mothers, maternity leave will be granted to all outsourced/ contractual employees of Chandigarh Administration. He commended the Mayor, all councillors, Commissioner Municipal Corporation and staff members, who substantially contributed to the war against corona by providing essential commodities at the door-steps of the residents during the curfew period. One of the most important responsibilities of the Administration is maintaining and improving infrastructure. Badnore said he was 'happy' to announce, that the construction of Government High School in Manimajra was at advanced stages and construction of an additional 216 houses for Chandigarh Police personnel will begin soon. A New Mini Sports Complex in Sector-8 is completed and another Mini Sports Complex in Sector-27 is at an advanced stage of completion. Construction of New International type Shooting Range in Sector-25 and, Mini Sports Infrastructure for Billiards and Snooker in Sports Complex, Sector 42, Chandigarh, is going to come up shortly. The Chandigarh Housing Board has planned to rent out 2,500 vacant small flats in Maloya for the migrant labours and urban poor under the recently announced Affordable Rental Housing Complexes scheme by Government of India. He felt overwhelmed in sharing, that Chandigarh had once again secured the First Position in the country in the Performance Grading Index (PGI) 2018-19 declared by MHRD. "The teachers had smoothly shifted to online teaching during this pandemic so that the learning of students was not disrupted", he added. Badnore complimented the Chandigarh Police for its excellent work in the fight against corona.  The police officials were on duty round the clock, ensuring checking at inter-state borders, perimeter control of Containment Zones and enforcement of social distancing, mask-wearing, curfew timings etc. He urged the citizens of Chandigarh to remains alert and cautious. Determination and patience are two key factors that can help us in combating this global threat. “UT Administration is constantly keeping a close watch on this situation, and we assure you that we will take every possible step to keep our city safe and livable,” he said.Badnore also paid homage to the martyrs at the War Memorial in Chandigarh before proceeding for the Independence Day Flag hoisting Parade and Celebrations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/geared-up-to-make-chandigarh-a-medical-hub-says-administrator-badnore-on-i-day-126895
15-08-2020||Mohali||Punjab CM Amarinder virtually inaugurates 2 major projects for Mohali on Independence Day||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, through virtual inauguration, has announced two major projects in Mohali, which includes a 66KV sub-station and construction of Punjab Biotechnology Incubator building.  The announcements were made on Saturday while speaking at the state-level Independence Day programme here. The announcements were made by the Chief Minister while speaking at the state-level Independence Day programme here.The 66KV Sub-station 1 will be set up at Sector 82 in IT City Mohali-2, while the Punjab Biotechnology Incubator building will come up is at a cost of Rs 31 crore in Knowledge City, Sector 81, said the Chief Minister.The construction of the Incubator has recently started by PWD (B&R). The basement work is in progress. The Chief Minister made a special announcement for the people who have performed exceptional service during the pandemic, and added that awards will be bestowed on these men and women by his government on January 26, 2021.  The Mohali district personalities, who were present at the function, were mentioned by the Chief Minister as exemplifying the dedication required to be shown by a Government servant in these difficult times. Dr. Manjeet Singh, Civil Surgeon Mohali, who led from the front and went personally to high exposure zones /containment zones despite battling leukaemia, and Dr. Harmandeep Kaur, District Epidemiologist, who had to move her one-year-old child back to her parental home to ensure safety as she worked day and night, going to the field, for extensive contact tracing, testing, and taking preventive measures. On the occasion, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan, along with Mohali DC, presented to the Chief Minister a framed preamble of the Constitution on behalf of the people of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cm-amarinder-virtually-inaugurates-2-major-projects-for-mohali-on-independence-day-126889
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Stay on Panjab University exams till August 20||The Punjab and Haryana High Court extended by another week the stay on holding the final examinations by Panjab University (PU). The direction came after the university counsel told the Bench that he would get instructions over whether PU was taking online examinations or not.At the very onset, the counsel for the parties submitted that the issue regarding guidelines issued by the UGC to conduct examinations was pending before the SC.Fixing the case for August 20, Justice Ritu Bahri directed the continuation of interim orders against holding the examinations.The direction by Justice Bahri came on a petition filed against Panjab University and other respondents by Yatin Mehta and other petitioners through counsel Harlove Singh Rajput.The petitioners were seeking the quashing of orders and notifications issued between May 26 and June 19, whereby final-year students were directed to appear for their end-semester examinations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stay-on-panjab-university-exams-till-august-20-126670
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Humanities most sought-after stream||Humanities has once again emerged as the most sought-after stream among students seeking admission to Class XI in 40 government schools of the city.The overall highest cut-off for the 2020-21 session is 98.80 per cent. For science (medical and non-medical), the highest cut-off is 98.80 per cent, while for commerce, it is 97.40 per cent and 98 per cent for humanities.The total number of seats in science, commerce and humanities streams is 3,080, 1,560 and 6,420, respectively. Science is the first choice of toppers as 69 per cent students securing 90 per cent and above in Class X applied for medical and non-medical stream.A total of 130 students falling in the same percentage bracket preferred commerce and only 151 students chose humanities. Humanities seems to be the choice of average students as 81 per cent pupils securing below 60 per cent in Class X opted for this stream. As many as 7,547 students opted for humanities this year. The number of students preferring this stream was 9,115 last year. A total of 3,675 students opted for science, which is 500 more than the last year, while 2,257 students chose commerce. A total of 14,726 registrations have been recorded for Class XI admissions. Of this, 1,247 students have applied for more than one stream. Most of these students have secured between 60 per cent and 40 per cent in Class X.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/humanities-most-sought-after-stream-126703
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||College merit lists today||The provisional common merit list of the UT Education Department for colleges was out today but the cut-off details were held back due to technical reasons. The cut-off details of the centralised courses is now expected to be announced on August 15, except for sports category which is likely to be announced on August 26. The cut-off details of the BA courses in the government colleges is yet to be announced while the cut-off details of the private colleges is expected on or after August 17. The website crashed for a while after the provisional common merit list was uploaded today. As many as 12 colleges in the UT are a part of the online admission process out of which seven are government colleges while five are private colleges. Earlier, the list was to be uploaded on August 7 but was rescheduled for August 14 due to some discrepancies in the online process. Due to technical reasons, the provisional merit lists will be displayed on August 15 at 12 noon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/college-merit-lists-today-126706
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh DIG gets Prez Police Medal||UT DIG and IG (Prisons) Omvir Singh, a 2004-batch IPS officer of the AGMUT cadre, has been awarded the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Services.Omvir Singh supervised several sensational cases of murder, dacoity, robbery, kidnapping and other heinous crimes. Discreet investigation into the case of a terrorist attack, nabbing a sharpshooter of the Abu Salem gang namely Jaan Usman and arresting a kidnapper after shootout involved in the kidnapping of a doctor for Rs5 crore ransom are some of his notable achievements while posted in Delhi and Pondicherry.The services of the officer were also appreciated during his posting in the Kosovo mission for his detection of tax evasion. The officer was also awarded with the Prime Minister’s Police Medal for life-saving award while doing rescue operations during the Tsunami disaster.Administrator’s Police Medal for nine copsNine police personnel will be conferred the Administrator’s Police Medal for Distinguished Services and Meritorious Services on Independence Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-dig-gets-prez-police-medal-126709
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Covid casts shadow on I-Day fervour||The fear of Covid-19 has cast its shadow upon the city’s patriotic fervour. On the eve of the Independence Day, the city streets would earlier host vendors, at almost every traffic signal, selling national flags and other such souvenirs.At Tribune Chowk, Sameer and his younger brother Sonu arrived from Delhi to sell flags in Chandigarh. “I got these flags for Rs 1,000,” said Sameer, who sold each flag for Rs 10. “I haven’t sold many flags, but I hope to make some sales tomorrow as well,” he added.Sonu too sold a few flags, but the business this year, he said, was low.However, at Sector 35 traffic signals, Rahul sold more flags and accessories than last year. He said, “I am happy this year. I made about Rs 3,000. Last year, I made only Rs 1,000 or so. That’s also because there are few vendors. Also, I got these flags which can be used as dashboard accessory; these are in demand.”Even at the rear-side parking of Sukhna Lake, not many vendors made enough money. “People are cold to us. They don’t want to touch these flags as they tell us that the virus spreads by physical contact. I have only made Rs 60 and sold three flags in an hour. Earlier, schoolchildren would come and buy flags, but now even they are homebound,” shared Raju.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-casts-shadow-on-i-day-fervour-126711
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||211 to receive commendation certificate||In recognition of their services during the Covid-19 pandemic, the UT Administration has decided to honour 168 officials with a commendation certificate on Independence Day.The Administration would also honour 33 associations, NGOs and 10 private persons, including Vinod Kumar alias Sonu, Kamaljit Singh Panchi, for providing food, ration and other support to city residents during lockdown.Among the government officers/officials are: Rakesh Kumar Popli, Anil Kumar Garg, Sudhanshu Gautam, Satish Kumar Jain, Vira, Manish Kumar Lohan, Sorabh Kumar Arora, Harjeet Singh Sandhu, RK Chaudhary, Varun Beniwal, Rajiv Tewari, Ajay Tondon, etc.Among the frontline warriors, 21 police personnel, including Dilsher Singh and Krishan Kumar, and 33 health officials, including Dr Ram Samujh and Dr Rashmi Ranjan Guru, from PGIMER, Dr Dasari Harish and Dr Sonali Shamdasani from GMCH-32, and Dr Paramji Singh and Dr Amandeep Kang from the Health Department, will be awarded on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/211-to-receive-commendation-certificate-126713
15-08-2020||Panchkula||Prez Police Medal for two Panchkula cops||SI Maha Singh and ASI (Crime) Rajesh Kumar of the Panchkula police have been selected for the President’s Police Medal for Meritorious Services. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prez-police-medal-for-two-panchkula-cops-126714
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs 86 fresh cases||The city today recorded 86 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 1,928. One more death due to coronavirus was also reported from the city.A 20-year-old man from Sector 47 with a history of paraplegia (spinal cord injury) suffered a sudden cardiac arrest on August 11. He was sampled for Covid-19 after death and his report came out positive.The fresh cases have been reported from Sectors 44, 40, 48, 37, 42, 38, 38 (West), 8, 45, 47, 32, 45, 43, 33, 46, 63, 44, 35, 27, 29, 24, 37, 55, 42, 41, 37, 36, 56, 25, 47, 24, 15, 21, 26 and 49, PGI, Khuda Jassu, Kishangarh, Dadu Majra, Ram Darbar, Burail, Khuda Ali Sher, Mani Majra, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh and Kajheri.Meanwhile, 15 patients were discharged after being cured. The total number of active cases in the city is 807, while 1,091 patients have been cured till date. The death toll in the city has risen to 28.Councillor tests positiveMC Councillor Dalip Sharma tested positive for coronavirus. Sharma, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, was suffering from fever and had low platelet count. The BJP leader got himself tested at a private lab and was found to be positive. Meanwhile, wife of Chandigarh BJP president Arun Soon tested negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-86-fresh-cases-126718
15-08-2020||Panchkula||26 more infections reported from Panchkula||Twenty-six more persons tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the district tally to 1,125.The fresh cases include three each from Sector 21, Sector 18 and Sector 15, seven from Kalka, four from Surajpur, one each from Pinjore, Sector 20, Garhi Kotaha village, Sector 16, Sector 9 and Nanakpur.According to the media bulletin, health officials are still tracing a person who was found infected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/26-more-infections-reported-from-panchkula-126720
15-08-2020||Mohali||78 contract virus in Mohali||A person died and 78 others tested Covid-19 positive in Mohali district today. A total of 25 people were discharged from the hospitals.A 97-year-old man from Aerocity died of Covid-19. He suffered from comorbidities, including diabetes and stroke.Maximum number of cases surfaced from Kharar where 11 people tested positive. In Sohana six people tested positive. In Zirakpur, four persons were found positive. Two cases each were reported from Dhakoli and Peer Muchalla.Three positive cases surfaced in Dera Bassi and five in Baltana. Three persons were found infected in Sector 104.Similarly, three cases surfaced in Sector 126 and four persons tested positive in Nayagaon.Other cases were reported from Sectors 70, 71, 79, 65, 66, 114,125, Phase 3A, Phase 3B1, Phase 4, Balongi, Bhago Majra and Mataur, among others.There are a total of 1,683 cases with 768 active cases. The death count has reached 31. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/78-contract-virus-in-mohali-126722
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh ramps up Covid testing||From an average of 150 tests per day in the first fortnight of July, the UT Administration has increased Covid testing to over 500 tests per day in August.In the first fortnight of July, the UT collected around 130-160 samples per day. The collection was ramped up to around 250-300 samples per day in the second fortnight of July. The figures saw a quantum jump in August when the UT started collecting about 500-550 samples per day.The Administration is further planning to augment per day tests beyond 500. The UT Health Secretary, Arun Gupta, said: “We will extend our per day tests beyond 500 in the coming weeks. The teams have tested even 697 people on a single day in August. We are now following a targeted approach in sample collection and have been able to touch the most affected sections of the city along with the new areas where fresh cases were reported.”30 pc antigen testsRapid Antigen Test (RAT) was started in Chandigarh from August 2. Around 1,600 antigen tests have been conducted so far, which is about 30 per cent of the total tests conducted this month. The UT is conducting 350 RT-PCR tests per day and 160 RATs per day.“We are using Rapid Antigen Test kits only on asymptomatic individuals. For symptomatic individuals, we are conducting RT-PCR tests only,” said Gupta.Recently, the Administration allowed testing without any prescription from a medical practitioner to reduce the hassles of people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-ramps-up-covid-testing-126724
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Odd-even system extended for 10 days in Chandigarh||As a preventive measure, the UT Administration has decided to extend the odd-even system in the congested markets of the city for another 10 days.In an order, UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that the shops in 11 congested markets, already following the odd-even system, would continue to follow it from August 15 to 24.The Scooter Repair Market in Sector 43 will remain closed on all Sundays.Apart from the 11 markets already following the system, the Electronic Market in Sector 18 has been asked to follow the odd-even system for 10 days, up to August 24, he added.The scooter repair market in Sector 43 would remain closed on Sundays. The Sukhna Lake would remain closed for visitors on Saturdays and Sundays.The rest of the buildings, where chambers or cabins are located, would function on the odd-even basis, as per the plan finalised by the local SDMs in consultation with the owners of the shops, stated the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/odd-even-system-extended-for-10-days-in-chandigarh-126727
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||High Court gives Chandigarh 2 weeks to consider fee proposal||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today gave two weeks to the Chandigarh Administration to consider a proposal on fee collection submitted by the Independent Schools Association. Justice Gurmeet Singh Sandhawalia fixed the matter for further hearing for August 31, when the UT would make its stand clear on the issue.The association, through senior advocate Puneet Bali and Vibhav Jain, on the previous date of hearing, had submitted that there was a proposal it wished to submit to the UT Administration while praying for time to file an affidavit in this regard.Justice Sandhawalia, in turn, had directed the counsel for the petitioners to place on record the petitioners’ proposal. The Bench had also called for the orders passed by the coordinate Benches and an interim order passed by a Division Bench on the dispute pertaining to the payment of fees in Punjab and Haryana schools during the lockdown period.Taking up the matter through video-conferencing, Justice Sandhawalia asked the Chandigarh Administration to consult parents as well in case they were in favour of the proposal.The Independent Schools Association was seeking the quashing of an order directing all private unaided schools to collect only the tuition fee on monthly basis from students while not stopping or reducing monthly salary of teaching and non-teaching staff.Representing 78 schools, the association, through senior counsel Puneet Bali and Vibhav Jain, had also sought quashing of another order whereby all private unaided schools were directed not to increase fee for the current session without the Administration’s specific approval.Claiming that schools were making painstaking efforts to ensure that students did not suffer in their curricular and co-curricular activities during the current academic session, Bali said institutions were providing education and holding classes through online platforms.“Suffice it is to mention that the effort in physically teaching students in a regular classroom cannot even remotely be compared with the effort that a teacher has to expend in providing online education. Several schools have made investments in technology platforms, devices and extensive training of teachers in the interest of students,” Bali submitted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-gives-chandigarh-2-weeks-to-consider-fee-proposal-126728
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Decorated Air Marshal PP Singh passes away||Air Marshal PP Singh, who was decorated with the Maha Vir Chakra, the second highest gallantry award during the 1965 Indo-Pak war, passed away at Command Hospital, Chandimandir, after a brief illness. He was 92. Commissioned as a Pilot Officer in the Indian Air Force on April 15, 1950, the veteran officer had an illustrious career spanning nearly 38 years. He had the privilege of serving as the ADC to the first President of India, Dr Rajender Prasad.The start of hostilities with Pakistan in 1965 saw then Wing Commander PP Singh lead No.5 Squadron (The Tuskers) out of Agra on numerous successful night air strikes into the Pakistani territory. For his exemplary leadership and valour displayed beyond the call of duty he was awarded the Maha Vir Chakra on September 6, 1965. In 1971, he was awarded the Ati Vishist Sewa Medal for distinguished services. On promotion to the rank of Air Marshal he was posted as Senior Air Staff Officer, in-charge (Operations), Eastern Air Command, Shillong. Thereafter, he served at the Air Headquarters as Vice-chief of Air Staff and awarded the Param Vishist Sewa Medal in March 1985. He was appointed as the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, South Western Air Command, in 1986 and held that position till his retirement in February 1987.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decorated-air-marshal-pp-singh-passes-away-126729
15-08-2020||Mohali||500 liquor boxes seized in Mohali||The district police today seized 500 boxes of Chandigarh-made smuggled liquor, being carried in a truck. The truck driver, identified as Ranjit Singh Yadav (27), a resident of Haryana, was arrested.Kharar DSP Pal Singh said, “A blockade had been set up near Sunny Enclave. A truck (bearing Haryana registration number), coming from the Chandigarh side, was intercepted at the blockade. On checking, 500 boxes of Chandigarh-made whiskey, hidden inside the rice sack bags, were recovered.” The truck has been impounded and a case registered against the suspectat the Kharar city police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/500-liquor-boxes-seized-in-mohali-126730
15-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab varsity scraps PUTHAT-2020||The Panjab University Tourism and Hospitality Aptitude Test (PUTHAT)-2020, an entrance test for admission to the BHMCT and BTTM courses of the UIHTM, has been scrapped. Candidates seeking admission for the 2020-21 academic session (other than those, who have already applied for the PUTHAT entrance test 2020) have to register themselves at the website — puthat.puchd.ac.in — by August 19 by submitting their information, depositing the registration fee by August 21 and uploading photograph and signature by August 24. Registered candidates can fill admission form on the PUTHAT website. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-varsity-scraps-puthat-2020-126731
15-08-2020||Mohali||77 ambulances for Punjab||Independence Day sale at ElanteChandigarh: Over 100 brands at Elante Mall would be offering flat 50% off during I-Day sale. Elante was recently declared “Safe and Secure” by Bureau Veritas. TNSScooterist killed in hit- and-runZirakpur: One person was killed while another injured when a car coming from the wrong side hit their scooter near Sohi Banquet on Panchkula Road on Friday. The duo was rushed to the GMCH-32, Chandigarh, where driver Narinder Singh, was declared brought dead. The car driver fled from the spot. A case was registered against an car driver at the Dhakoli police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/77-ambulances-for-punjab-126732
15-08-2020||Shimla||Himachal Gaurav Puraskar for PGI Director||Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur today presented the Himachal Gaurav Puraskar-2019 to the Director of PGIMER, Chandigarh, Padmashree Dr Jagat Ram, for his outstanding services in the health sector.Dr Jagat Ram hails from Pabiyana village of Ser-Jagas gram panchayat in Sirmaur district. He could not attend the function last year to receive the award due to some unavoidable circumstances.Dr Jagat Ram also called on Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at Raj Bhawan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/himachal-gaurav-puraskar-for-pgi-director-126585
