15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports 12 more coronavirus cases; district tally now past 450||Mohali reported 12 more coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 456.Four women from Sohana ages 23, 23, 24 and 27, one 27-year-old man and 31-year-old woman from Phase 9, a 32-year-old man from Phase 10, a 30-year-old man from Phase 1, a 52-year-old man from Kharar’s GTB Nagar, a 40-year-old woman from Mohali’s Paradise Apartments, a 29-year-old woman from Sector 71 and a 52-year-old woman from Kharar all tested positive, officials said.Eight people were released from the hospital after they made full recovery. Mohali now has 160 active cases. Nine people have died so far in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-12-more-coronavirus-cases-district-tally-now-past-450-113345
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC stays PU order on holding final exams||Taking into consideration the continuous increase in COVID-19 patients, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday ordered interim stay on “final examinations” to be conducted by the Panjab University this month.The direction by Justice Ritu Bahri came on a petition filed against Panjab University and other respondents by Yatin Mehta and other petitioners.The petitioners were seeking the quashing of orders and notifications issued between May 26 and June 19, whereby final year students were directed to appear for their end-semester examinations.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, the counsel referred to notification dated June 19 before submitting that the varsity was to conduct the final semester examinations in July.He also referred to the judgment passed by the Delhi High Court before contending that guidelines issued by University Grants Commission and the Ministries were unanimous that there was no compulsion on the varsity to conduct the final year examinations.He further referred to another notification dated March 18 passed by Symbiosis International (Deemed University), whereby they had taken a decision not to conduct the final examinations. The students were to be given grades on pro-rata basis on their current semester’s internal continuous assessment.“Keeping in view continuous increase in patients of COVID-19, there shall be an interim stay of final examinations in the month of July, 2020,” Justice Bahri concluded, before fixing July 23 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-stays-pu-order-on-holding-final-exams-113341
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports one coronavirus death, 19 new cases||Chandigarh reported 19 new coronavirus cases and one death on Wednesday, taking the union territory’s total to 619 with 11 deaths.A 70-year-old man from Sector-19 was admitted on Monday to Panchkula’s Civil Hospital in Sector 6, where he tested positive on Wednesday, the UT’s medical bulletin said. He had a chronic heart condition and had a stent. He was on oxygen support at the hospital, the bulletin said.Four of the 19 new cases were contacts of previously diagnosed cases. Two of these---both men, ages 25 and 56---were from Sector 46, and two others---also men, ages 65 and 30---from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26.Three people tested positive in Sector 48---a 45-year-old man and a couple, (a 60-year-old man and a 57-year-old woman). Two men ages 52 and 57 from Dhanas, two people from Sector 29---a 30-year-old man and a 27-year-old woman---a 36-year-old man from Sector 25, a 29-year-old man from Khuda Alisher, a 29-year-old woman from Sector 63, two men ages 48 and 45 from Burail, and a 36-year-old woman from Sector 38 were the other cases from the UT on Wednesday.The bulletin also showed that13 people were released from hospitals after recovery.   The UT has 149 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-coronavirus-death-19-new-cases-113338
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula reports 26 COVID-19 positive cases; district tally climbs to 181||Panchkula reports 26 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the district total to 181. This is the biggest single-day spike in the district. Out of the 26 cases, seven Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel tested positive for the deadly disease. Earlier, a 42-year-old woman from Sector 7 and a 55-year-old woman of Sector 26 had tested positive. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said both patients had been admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. She said the Health Department had deputed teams to collect samples of the patients’ family members and their contacts for testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-26-covid-19-positive-cases-district-tally-climbs-to-181-113290
15-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Stickers, artwork on vehicles no hitch to registration: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14Colourful drivePetitioner Ranjit Malthora through senior counsel Puneet Bali submitted a car (pic) was purchased from Delhi. Artwork on it was done by “renowned Mexican artist Senkoe”.The petitioner obtained NOC from New Delhi, yet authorities in Chandigarh refused to register the vehicle.Motorists can stick to the stickers and artwork on their vehicles. For, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that “Horn Please”, “Ok Tata” and other stickers on cars and trucks cannot push the vehicles off-road.Such stickers and other artwork do not imply alteration or change in the vehicle’s basic colour. As such, these are no roadblock for the vehicle’s registration, Justice Jaishree Thakur has asserted.Justice Thakur added that denying registration because of artwork on a vehicle’s body defied logic. The issue was raised after an inspector refused to pass a vehicle for registration in Chandigarh as its original colour had been changed from white to multi-hued.Justice Thakur said: “Any person who drives upon GT Road will see slogans and colourful paint job done on trucks. Some of the standard ones are ‘Ok Tata’, ‘Horn Please’, ‘Hum Do Hamare Do’, ‘Mera Bharat Mahaan’ and ‘Use Dipper at Night’.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stickers-artwork-on-vehicles-no-hitch-to-registration-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-113055
15-07-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Nurses thrash doctor for ‘molesting’ colleague||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 14Nurses and women staff of the Civil Hospital in Panchkula today thrashed a psychiatrist for allegedly molesting a nurse in the isolation ward of the hospital on the night of July 11.Angered over the incident, the nurses protested near the office of the Principal Medical Officer (PMO) for four hours and thrashed the suspect, Dr Manoj Kumar, in the office of the PMO. The nurses broke the glass of the office of PMO Sarita Yadav.What had happenedA staff nurse had alleged that the doctor, in an inebriated condition, tried to molest her in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital, Panchkula, on Saturday night. She complained to the Principal Medical Officer after which an inquiry committee was formed. The committee submitted its report to the CMO.The hospital authorities failed to inform the police even though the situation went out of control. The police were called only after the violent protest had ended. After receiving information that the doctor had come to the office of the PMO to join investigation before the inquiry committee, staff nurses started arriving at the PMO office around 12.45 pm and started raising slogans, demanding that the doctor be sacked. They also thrashed the doctor, who was sitting in a room in front of the PMO office. They alleged that senior officers were trying to shield the doctor. The ruckus continued till 4 pm.A police team, led by Lalit Kumar, in-charge of the Sector 5 police station, arrived at the spot, but by then, the situation was somewhat under control. When the police tried to take the doctor into custody at 3 pm, some staff members blocked the stairs, forcing the police to bring down the doctor through a lift from the fifth floor to the ground flood where staff nurses again tried to thrash the doctor. The mobile phone of one of the police officers, who was recording the incident, was thrown on the floor. A woman police official received bruises on her arms.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said the victim nurse had submitted her complaint to the PMO after which an inquiry committee was constituted, which was probing the matter. She said evidence was being gathered by the department to take action against the doctor.Kamal, president of the Panchkula Nursing Association, said they had served an ultimatum on the CMO to sack the doctor, but no action was taken. She refused to comment on the assault on the doctor by the nursing staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nurses-thrash-doctor-for-molesting-colleague-113089
15-07-2020||---||Virus deals deadly blow to 4 in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14Two residents of the city and two of Mohali district reportedly died of Covid at the PGI here today.According to the PGI, a 50-year-old man of Dhanas, who was reported Covid positive on July 3, died today. He had a history of cancer and was on chemotherapy. A 52-year-old woman of Sector 46, who had tested positive for Covid on July 11, succumbed to the virus today. She was a patient of severe diabetes and was in the ICU at Sohana Hospital for over 15 days before she was referred to the PGI on July 11.A 65-year-old man of New Chandigarh in Mohali district, who died at the PGI today, was admitted to the institute on July 6 and stated to be a case of Covid pneumonia. He had hypertension and was on a ventilator in the Covid hospital ICU for nine days. He died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome.A 48-year-old man of Jawaharpur, Dera Bassi, was admitted to the PGI on July 9 and diagnosed with respiratory shock. He had a history of hypertension. He died today because of Covid pneumonia and refractory shock.The UT has so far seen 10 Covid deaths and Mohali nine.City Covid count touches 600 markChandigarh: Twelve new cases of Covid were reported from the city on Tuesday, taking the tally to 600. The number of active cases is 144. The new patients belong to different areas of the city. A 60-year-old man of Dadu Majra, a 46-year-old man of Bapu Dham Colony, a 45-year-old man of Sector 32, a 72-year-old man of Ram Darbar and a 29-year-old youth of Badheri tested positive for Covid. A 51-year-old woman and a 28-year-old youth of Dhanas, a 20-year-old youth, a 40-year-old woman and a 49-year-old man of Sector 19 and a 38-year-old woman, a 15-year-old girl and a 38-year-old woman of Mani Majra were also reported Covid positive. Their family members and those who came in contact with them have been home-quarantined.23 discharged A total of 23 patients in the city were discharged on Tuesday after they defeated the virus. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virus-deals-deadly-blow-to-4-in-chandigarh-113091
15-07-2020||---||2 more cases in Panchkula, tally 155||Panchkula, July 14With the surfacing of two new Covid cases, the district count has gone up to 155. Those infected with the virus are a 42-year-old woman of Sector 7 and a 55-year-old woman of Sector 26, Panchkula.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said both patients had been admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. She said the Health Department had deputed teams to collect samples of the patients’ family members and their contacts for testing. She said the family members had been directed to home-quarantine themselves as a precautionary measure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-cases-in-panchkula-tally-155-113092
15-07-2020||---||21 more test +ve in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 14The district today reported 21 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally to 444.The new patients include a 35-year-old man, two 21-year-old youths and a 21-year-old woman, all residents of Peer Muchalla, two boys, aged seven and 12, of Dhakoli, a 24-year-old youth and two men, both aged 30, of Dera Bassi and a 50-year-old man of Jawaharpur.Violators to face FIRDeputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “No loitering will be permitted; safety protocol enforcement teams will not just issue a warning or challan violators but will register FIRs for non-compliance with directions of the state government.”The others found infected are a one-year-old toddler, two boys, aged four and three, and a 30-year-old woman of Phase IV, a 28-year-old woman and a 33-year-old man of LIC Colony in Kharar, a six-year-old boy and a 36-year-old man of Kharar, a 44-year-old man of Gillco Valley, Kharar, and a 56-year-old man of Sector 68 and a 22-year-old woman of Phase IX.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said all patients were admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Meanwhile, in view of a large number of Covid cases surfacing in Mohali, the district administration has decided to register an FIR against the violators for non-compliance with directions issued by the state government.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the increase in the number of cases in the past couple of days mandated breaking the human-to-human contact chain to contain the spread of the virus.Going strict on enforcement of the safety protocol, he said, “No loitering will be permitted; safety protocol enforcement teams will not just issue a warning or challan violators but will register FIRs for non-compliance with directions of the state government.”Dayalan also made an appeal to people to come out of the house only if absolutely essential.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/21-more-test-ve-in-mohali-113093
15-07-2020||Ambala||Army man ends his life||An Army man allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself in the bathroom of his rented accommodation at BC Bazaar in Ambala Cantonment last night. The deceased has been identified as Deepak, who was a Naik. He was a native of Kerala. He was found hanging by his family members.Ambala Cantonment SHO Vijay Kumar said, “Information about the suicide was received this morning. No suicide note has been recovered. He is survived by his wife and two daughters. Deepak was living with his family in Ambala for the past few months. His post-mortem will be conducted tomorrow and his family’s statement will be recorded.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/army-man-ends-his-life-113094
15-07-2020||---||175 evacuees arrive from UAE||Mohali, July 14The sixteenth evacuation flight carrying 175 stranded Indian passengers from the UAE arrived at the Chandigarh international airport today.The SpiceJet flight arrived at the local airport at 4.39 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives.Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport with efforts of all authorities/agencies involved — Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh governments, CISF, immigration, customs and the Punjab Police.The Health Department spokesman said during the screening of passengers, health officials took precautions and passengers maintained social distance.He said no passenger was suffering from fever, cough and cold. He said all passengers were impressed upon by the Health Department teams deployed at the airport to take precautions such as cover their face with a mask, use hand sanitisers, washing hands and observe social distancing guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/175-evacuees-arrive-from-uae-113096
15-07-2020||---||Two booked for threatening cops||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 14The police today booked two unidentified miscreants for threatening two cops and forcibly taking away a bike from a food delivery boy at the gunpoint in Phase X here last evening.A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 307, 353, 186, 506 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Phase XI police station.The suspects were going towards Phase X in a Baleno car around 6 pm yesterday. ASI Surjit Singh signalled them to stop at a naka on the Acer lights. The cop and the suspects exchanged heated arguments before the latter sped away after hitting the policeman with their car.After some time, the police again signalled them to stop near the Phase X market. On seeing the cops, the suspects came out of their car and fled towards showrooms leaving the vehicle behind.Later, one of the suspects pointed his gun at a food delivery boy, Rakesh Kumar, and snatched his bike. When two cops, ASI Surjit Singh and Constable Gurdarshan Singh, tried to nab him after a chase, the suspects also threatened them with the gun and sped away on the bike, which was later recovered from near the Burail Jail.The police found that the car belongs to Sajjan Singh, a resident of Banga in Nawanshahr, who is abroad at present. Owners of the vehicle kept changing in the recent past, said the police.Inspector Jagdeep Singh, Station House Officer of the Phase XI police station, said: “The suspects are yet to be identified. We are trying to trace them through the vehicle’s RC. The CCTV footage is not clear enough to identify them. They will be arrested soon. No firing took place during the entire episode”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-booked-for-threatening-cops-113097
15-07-2020||---||32 new cases in Fatehgarh Sahib||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, July 14In the highest single-day spike, 32 persons, including five police personnel, tested positive for Covid-19 from Fatehgarh Sahib district.The patients include four members of the family of Bassi Pathana Congress president who was earlier tested positive, a couple from Sirhind town, two from Sanipur village, one from Sekhupura, three from Kasumbhri village, one from Nurpura, one from Aman Colony in Sirhind, one from Mandi Gobindgarh, one from Rampur village, one from Manela, one from Railon village, two migrants from Bihar, two from Bhambhri village, two from Bhari village, one from Tarkhan Majra, one from Jameetgarh and one from Patarsi.Panic gripped the district and all public dealings at the District Administrative Complex by the SSP and the Deputy Commissioner office were stopped.Sources said Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill directed the Civil Surgeon to further increase the testing capacity, contact tracing and create awareness among residents.The Civil Surgeon, Dr NK Aggarwal, said that 53 cases were active in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/32-new-cases-in-fatehgarh-sahib-113098
15-07-2020||---||Badnore to take call on weekend curfew today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14Worried over two Covid deaths and 12 new cases in a day, the UT Administration may impose weekend curfew and other restrictions to prevent further spread of the virus.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said a final decision regarding further restrictions and weekend curfew would be taken by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore tomorrow.Badnore had yesterday sought the views of doctors regarding further restrictions to be imposed in the city for containment of coronavirus.In view of a sudden rise in the Covid-19 cases, the Health Department has increased contact tracing and house-to-house screening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-to-take-call-on-weekend-curfew-today-113099
15-07-2020||---||Woman arrested for killing  7-yr-old sent to police custody||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 14The Mohali police today produced Amandeep Kaur, alias Shivani, before a local court here in connection with the murder of a seven-year-old boy. The court has sent her to five-day police custody. Mohali DSP Pal Singh said, “We will interrogate her during the remand to reveal the main cause behind the brutal murder.”Shivani was arrested yesterday, three days after a seven-year-old boy was found dead in the bushes under mysterious circumstances near Shakrullapur village in Kharar. She had allegedly drowned the child, Harpreet Singh, by putting him inside a drum filled with water at her house. After drowning the child, the accused threw his body in the bushes behind the shops in the village. The police said it was said that Shivani was married thrice and had two daughters, who had died at the time of birth. After that, she was unable to give birth to any children. Following this, she decided to sacrifice someone’s child on superstitious beliefs. During preliminary investigation, the accused told the police that she had not committed the crime. She said she had pulled out the boy from the drum when she saw him drowning and when she realised the boy would not survive, she threw him in the bushes. Kailash Bahadar, Station House Officer at the Gharuan police station, said, “The exact cause of death will be ascertained after the post-mortem report.”On July 9, the victim’s father, Gurmail Singh, had said that his son went outside to play with other children around 3 pm. When he did not return home after several hours, they started searching for him. A day later, Harpreet’s body was found in the bushes and his father had alleged that his son was murdered.During preliminary investigation, it was said that the boy might have died after being bitten by some poisonous creature.SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said no bite marks were found on the victim’s body following which they had started investigation from murder angle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-arrested-for-killing-7-yr-old-sent-to-police-custody-113100
15-07-2020||---||Mohali man’s revolver stolen from police station||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 14A .32 bore revolver reportedly went missing from the Phase XI police station in Sector 66 here.According to information from the police, the weapon belonged to Jagatar Singh, a resident of Phase X here. He had deposited his licensed .32 revolver with the police station before the last elections held in Mohali. When he reached the police station to collect his weapon after the elections, the police failed to find it.Inspector Jagdeep Singh, Station House Officer of the Phase XI police station, said: “The police were searching for the missing weapon since long. Now, it has been confirmed that the weapon was stolen by someone from the police station building. We have registered a case and started investigations.”A case has been registered against unidentified persons under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the IPC at the Phase XI police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mans-revolver-stolen-from-police-station-113101
15-07-2020||---||Gangajal a  hot seller at post office||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14Even though Kanwar Yatra has been banned because of the Covid-19 pandemic, city’s post office is keeping the religious fervour of Lord Shiva’s devotees in high spirits by bringing the sacred water from the Ganga on the doorstep.Bottles (250 ml) of the holy water are available at the General Post Office, Sector 17B, for Rs30 at Counter No 22. Senior Postmaster ML Sharma said: “This year, we are selling at least 100 bottles of the sacred water almost every day. Even today, we sold 122 bottles.”He shares that every year, Uttarakhand postal services sends the holy water to all post offices across the country. “The holy water has been available here for the past several years, but it’s only this year that its sale picked up,” he added.Sanitiser, masks, gloves available tooThe General Post Office is also providing visitors with sanitisers, masks and gloves. A 100-ml bottle of sanitiser at the post office is available for Rs40, while the masks are for Rs10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangajal-a-hot-seller-at-post-office-113102
15-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC serves notice on illegal guest houses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 14The Municipal Corporation has again issued a 30-day demolition notice to 50 new guest houses.Though 123 guest houses were served a similar notice last year in October, several of them got a stay order from the Punjab and Haryana High Court. So, the matter remained in limbo. No strict action could be taken back then, putting a question mark over the notices being sent by the civic body.“Since new villages have merged in the MC, we are identifying guest houses that are operating from residential areas. We are holding them liable for illegal constructions as it is threat to the life of people and causes nuisance in the area,” said MC Additional Commissioner SK Jain.Illegal activities thrive at guest houses in UT villages that were earlier given closure notice for violating building bylaws and fire safety norms earlier too.A 2019 report on guest houses in villages had highlighted numerous violations. As per the report, guest houses have been constructed on narrow lanes of villages. These are structurally unsafe. Some of these need to be demolished.Many guest houses were also found to be virtual death traps with no fire safety equipment installed. A majority of these do not have parking space. Vehicles are parked haphazardly in front of buildings, congesting the village roads. Several guest houses have been opened in residential areas.The report also stated that when these guest houses were constructed, there were no building bylaws for villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-serves-notice-on-illegal-guest-houses-113103
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh yet to send names to MHA for SSP’s post||The UT Administration is yet to send a panel of names to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for the post of SSP, UT.The post of UT SSP is reserved for Punjab cadre IPS officer. However, the term of incumbent SSP Nilambari Jagadale, a 2008-batch IPS officer, will end in August. Jagadale took over the post of SSP on August 22, 2017. On June 9, the Punjab Government had sent a panel of three IPS officers - Kuldeep Singh Chahal (2009 batch), Patil Ketan Baliram (2010 batch) and Vivek Sheel Soni (2011 batch) - to the UT Administration. Kuldeep Singh Chahal is currently serving as the SSP, Mohali; Patil Ketan Baliram as the AIG, Counter Intelligence, Amritsar; and Vivek Sheel Soni as the SSP, Ludhiana Rural. Sources said the panel of names was yet to be cleared by the Administrator. After getting a go-ahead from the Administrator, the names would be recommended to the MHA for approval. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-yet-to-send-names-to-mha-for-ssps-post-113104
15-07-2020||Chandigarh||Railways’ freeze on new posts||The board stated: “Posts created in the past two years are under review and if recruitment has not been done against these posts, reviewing the same for surrendering.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/railways-freeze-on-new-posts-113105
