16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 39 fresh COVID-19 cases||Chandigarh has reported 39 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 20,503, according to a medical bulletin.No new fatality was reported in the city on Saturday and the death toll stood at 330.There are 238 active cases in the UT and a total of 67 patients have been discharged from hospitals after they recovered from infection, taking the number of cured persons in the city to 19,935.A total of 1,99,538 samples have been tested for COVID-19, and of them, 1,78,093 tested negative while reports of 87 samples are awaited, the bulletin added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-39-fresh-covid-19-cases-199443
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC transfers Rohingya refugee boy from Amritsar to Nuh camp||A mother will be united with her son in a refugee camp at Nuh. Acting on a habeas petition filed by the mother, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the son’s transfer from Amritsar to Chandeni Rohingya Refugee Camp in Nuh tehsil of Mewat district “to enable him to stay with his mother”.The direction by Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill came on a petition against the Union of India and other respondents by the mother through counsel Bhanu Pratap Singh for directions to produce her son and to set him at liberty.During the course of arguments, her counsel, however, confined his submissions to the transfer of petitioner’s son from Amritsar, where he was presently detained in a center. Bhanu Partap Singh told the court that the petitioner’s son had allegedly entered India without proper documents and passport. He was stated to have been later registered as a refugee. His main contention was that both the petitioner and her son be kept at one place till they were deported, if they were to be detained.Appearing before the Bench, Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain said the Union Ministry of Home Affairs or Union of India had no objection in case the petitioner’s son was transferred from Amritsar to Chandeni Rohingya Refugee Camp provided the States of Punjab and Haryana did not have any objections.Responding to a court query, the law officers representing Punjab and Haryana stated both the States possibly could not have any objection to transfer the petitioner’s son to enable him to stay with his mother.“In view of the position, the present petition is accepted. Additional Director-General of Police (Prisons), Punjab, is directed to do the needful for arranging for the conveyance and for ensuring that the petitioner’s son is taken from Amritsar, where he is presently detained in a detention centre and consigned to Chandeni Rohingya Refugee Camp, Nuh tehsil,” Justice Gill concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-transfers-rohingya-refugee-boy-from-amritsar-to-nuh-camp-199437
16-01-2021||Naina Mishra||374 beneficiaries inoculated on Day 1 of Covid-19 vaccination drive in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 16On the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, 374 healthcare workers were inoculated in Chandigarh against the upper limit of 500 beneficiaries that were to be vaccinated at five sites.At GMSH-16, 100 beneficiaries got the vaccine shot, while 70 people were vaccinated at Civil Hospital in Sector 45. Forty-five beneficiaries received the vaccination at GMCH-32 site 1 and 50 others were given the vaccine dose at GMCH-32 site 2.  At PGIMER, 109 beneficiaries were immunised.Arun, a safai karamchari at GMCH-16, who was working at the forefront in the fight against COVID-19 all these months, got the first jab.“I was quite apprehensive since morning about the adverse events related to vaccine. But as soon as I received the first shot and spent 30 minutes in observation room, all anxieties withered away,” said the 20-year-old.  “I did not feel even the slightest reaction from the injection. Rest, I have been told to take all precautions as the antibodies will take some time to form. I have also been told to contact doctors in case I feel any reaction from the vaccine and come back for second dose after 28 days,” Arun added.The turnout at GMCH-32 was just over 47 per cent as only 95 out of 200 healthcare workers asked to get vaccinated were immunised on Day 1 of the drive.  Director, GMCH-32, Dr Jaswinder Kaur, who received the vaccine shot along with her husband, who heads Pulmonary Medicine, said: “It is a great feeling to be vaccinated against Covid-19. At our hospital, many senior doctor couples took the vaccination together.”Talking about the tepid response on the first day, Dr Deepak Chawla, nodal officer at the GMCH-32, said, “Those who would come forward to receive the vaccine during the initial days would be early adopters. Those who missed receiving the dose due to apprehension or any other reason will be rescheduled. As the confidence builds in the vaccine and vaccine hesitancy decreases, a tipping point will be reached.”Director Health Services Amandeep Kang; Medical Superintendent, GMSH-16, VK Nagpal; senior doctors; and IMA present and past presidents were among the beneficiaries who got vaccinated on Saturday.One of oldest beneficiaries to get vaccinated on the first day of the drive was a 70-year-old retired doctor from GMSH-16, Dr Ashok Gupta.“I am feeling quite assured after the vaccination. Now, I will be able to do justice with my patients without any fear of Covid-19 transmission,” said Dr Gupta.Dr Manjinder Singh Randhawa, a resident posted at Paediatric Emergency, received the first shot at PGI. He urged others to have faith in Science and opt for vaccination.Minor issuesThe vaccination drive went off without any major adverse event at all the session sites, said the authorities concerned.However, there were three minor episodes – two recipients felt nausea and one felt dizziness. The cases settled of their own and no active the intervention was needed, stated the UT authorities, adding that all the beneficiaries left the session sites in good health after an observation period of 30 minutes.Dr Amandeep Kang said that any adverse event like allergic reaction happens within 30 minutes only. All reported minor events settled without intervention.Dr SS Pandav, who is heading the Covid-19 immunisation drive, also took the vaccination. “Not even a single minor event was reported at PGI,” said Dr Pandav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/374-beneficiaries-inoculated-on-day-1-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-in-chandigarh-199335
16-01-2021||Archit Watts||Chandigarh couple camps at Singhu with infant||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, January 15Gurpreet Singh (28) and Gurpreet Kaur (22), residents of Sector 47, Chandigarh, are camping with their eight-month-old son Ashmeet Singh at the Singhu border for over a month now.They had reached Singhu border on December 13 by boarding a tractor-trailer from Rajpura town in Patiala district. Speaking over the phone, cab driver and theatre artist Gurpreet Singh said, “Saade kol zameen nahi, par zameer hai (We don’t own land, but we have conscience). We are followers of Guru Gobind Singh. We have come here to create history. Initially, my wife and some relatives had some fear in their minds, but now, they are proud of my decision. We have celebrated my son’s first Lohri here and my birthday as well. Initially, we stayed in a trailer, but later got a waterproof tent. We clean other tents here as sewa.”He added, “My mother is 76 years old and a widow. She is staying alone in Chandigarh. Though some neighbours daily tell her to call us back home due to the prevailing cold weather, she says we should come back only after the black laws are repealed.”About his earnings, Gurpreet said, “I used to drive a cab and earn Rs 20,000 a month. I am not working presently, but I think that if the farmers won’t be able to survive, how will we survive? This is the protest for everyone’s survival.”His wife Gurpreet Kaur said, “We are here to show Prime Minister Narendra Modi that we are Punjabis and know very well how to fight for our rights and win.”Meanwhile, some people are giving them ‘shagun’ to keep their spirits up. “The protest has created history as from 95-year-olds to eight-month-old kids are present here for the past two months. I go to meet Ashmeet daily to know about his well-being, which infuses a positive energy in me,” said Ravneet Brar, spokesperson, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Kadian).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-couple-camps-at-singhu-with-infant-199076
16-01-2021||---||Police halt Cong leaders’ march to Haryana Raj Bhawan||Chandigarh, January 15Congress leaders marching towards Raj Bhawan were taken into preventive custody twice today. Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, state Congress president Kumari Selja, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala and state affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal were part of the march.As soon as leaders came out of the party office in Sector 9 for the ‘Kisan Adhikar Diwas’ march, the Chandigarh Police put up barricades with barbed wires a few hundred metres away.Slogans were raised against the three farm laws. There were attempts to break through the barricades. As the Congress leaders refused to relent, they were taken into preventive detention and taken to the Sector 3 police station by bus.After they were released, they again started marching towards Raj Bhawan. The police were taken by surprise. The Congress leaders had approached the roundabout near Raj Bhawan when the police intercepted them. They were taken into preventive detention again.This time, Selja, Surjewala and Bansal were taken to the Sector 3 police station. Hooda and most of the MLAs were taken to the Sector 17 police station.“Our plan to gherao Raj Bhawan was successful, but the way the government tried to stop this peaceful demonstration indicated its dictatorial mindset,” said Hooda.Responding to queries, he said they had sought time to meet the Governor on several occasions to request him to call a special session of the Assembly to discuss issues concerning farmers.“We want to bring in a no-confidence motion against the government in the Assembly so that every farmer knows which MLA and party stands with them and who stand with the government,” he remarked.“The situation is such that the Chief Minister is not able to hold a programme in his home district and the Deputy Chief Minister has to cancel his functions,” said Selja.“Not only Independent MLAs, even some from the BJP-JJP combine are upset. The government should resign on moral grounds, but it lacks morality,” she added.Former MLA Karan Dalal said the government would fall if a no-confidence motion was brought in. The march was part of nationwide protests by Congress units across the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-halt-cong-leaders-march-to-haryana-raj-bhawan-199109
16-01-2021||---||March to Punjab Raj Bhawan foiled, Cong protests at party office||Chandigarh, January 15Led by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar and joined by several ministers and legislators, a large number of Congress workers today set out on a protest march from the Congress Bhawan here to Punjab Raj Bhawan, demanding the repeal of farm laws. However, they were immediately stopped by the cops from marching towards Raj Bhawan, forcing the party leaders to stage a dharna near the Congress Bhawan.Addressing the protesters, Jakhar said the central government was behaving in an arrogant manner and did not have any respect for democratic practices and public opinion. “It is the arrogance of the central government that is preventing it from repealing the laws which have been outrightly rejected by the farming community across the country,” Jakhar said, while warning against the prolonged stalemate on the issue.He said it was after a long struggle by the Congress that constitutional institutions had been set up and strengthened, and now the BJP was trying to undermine all such institutions as it had hardly any value or respect for them. “Arrogance of the central government was not only challenging but undermining the democratic and constitutional institutions of the country,” he said.Paying glowing tributes to the farmers who laid down their lives during the ongoing protests, party leaders said they were the martyrs of the movement and held the Modi government responsible for their martyrdom.“The way the central government was responsible for pushing our soldiers into the death trap in Galwan heights by the lack of will and planning, in a similar way the government is accountable for pushing our farmers to death,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/march-to-punjab-raj-bhawan-foiled-cong-protests-at-party-office-199068
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Part-time worker to be first to get shot||A 20-year-old youth, who works as a sweeper on part-time basis at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 (GMSH-16), is going to be the first person in the city to be inoculated against Covid-19 on Saturday.Arun, the worker, said he had joined the GMSH-16 just when the pandemic had struck. He said he took up the job owing to financial stress at his home. He is currently studying in Class XII through distance education.He said, “Initially, my family was quite anxious of my decision to get vaccinated and told me to not to go for it. However, I explained them that how it will protect me from the Covid-19 infection. I consulted a few doctors as well who guided me before I opted for this vaccine.”Meanwhile, Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, and VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent, too will get themselves vaccinated tomorrow to boost the morale of healthcare workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/part-time-worker-to-be-first-to-get-shot-199070
16-01-2021||Mohali||Nepalese national stabbed to death in Balongi||A Nepalese national was stabbed to death at Balongi here on Wednesday.The victim has been identified as Dhan Bahadur and the suspect Prem Lohar, a resident of Adarsh Nagar.On a complaint of the victim’s sister, Kumari Kesi, a case under Section 302 of the IPC was registered at the Balongi police station. The suspect is absconding. The police have started looking for him.The victim had gone to meet his estranged wife in Adarsh Nagar where he had an altercation with Prem Lohar, a native of West Bengal. Lohar allegedly stabbed him in the stomach leading to his death. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nepalese-national-stabbed-to-death-in-balongi-199110
16-01-2021||Panchkula||9,510 birds culled, 150 eggs destroyed||The district administration today carried out culling operations at a poultry farm within the 1-km radius of a bird flu epicentre. A total of 9,510 birds were killed while 150 eggs were destroyed at Narender Poultry Farm.Since the start of the culling operation on January 9, a total of 57,230 birds have been culled and 2,286 eggs have been destroyed to contain the spread and break the chain of transmission of avian influenza or bird flu. This was the seventh day of the culling drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-510-birds-culled-150-eggs-destroyed-199121
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh plans e-carts on Sukhna track for elderly, physically challenged||The UT Administration is mulling over introducing e-carts at Sukhna Lake in order to assist elders and physically challenged persons.An official said the facility would be provided free of cost and preference would be given to senior citizens and physically challenged persons.He said each battery-operated cart would have a seating capacity of eight. The vehicles would be available at the main entry and exit points of the lake and passengers could alight or take the ride from any place on the track around the lake.The Administration had already launched free battery-operated carts to ferry visitors around the market areas in Sector 17 nearly a year ago. Nearly 10 carts were made available, which are enabled with GPS tracking, LED screens, speakers and magazine holder.The carts have safety features such as fire extinguisher, first-aid kit and speed governor to regulate the speed of the cart to less than 20 kmph to ensure safety of pedestrians as well as those riding the cart.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-plans-e-carts-on-sukhna-track-for-elderly-physically-challenged-199137
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Sector 26 nightclub found serving hookah, sealed||During an inspection of clubs and restaurants late at night, SDM (East) Ruchi Singh Bedi ordered to seal a nightclub, “Finch”, in Sector 26 after finding hookahs being served there.She also inspected Boulevard, Brew Estate, Chandiland, Grapho and Bargain Booze. Nothing objectionable was found at these clubs and restaurants.The UT Administration had recently decided to cancel the licence of hotels and restaurants, if found violating the ban on serving hookahs.The Administration has already imposed a ban on serving of flavoured hookahs, including tobacco molasses containing nicotine, for smoke or consumption in hotels, restaurants, bar, taverns and hookah bars.An official said over 15 owners or managers of hotels and restaurants had already been booked and fined for violating the ban order issued on October 13. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-26-nightclub-found-serving-hookah-sealed-199138
16-01-2021||Mohali||Ignored, SAD loyalist turns rebel||On being ignored by the SAD while finalising candidates for the forthcoming Mohali MC elections, former Mayor Kulwant Singh, a SAD loyalist, has turned rebel and decided to context the elections independently.Kulwant, who owns a real estate business, is planning to field his own team of Independent candidates, which will put a dent into the SAD vote bank.Irked over this, Kulwant Singh held a meeting with former SAD councillors and decided to contest the elections as Independents. Now, senior SAD leaders, including Daljit Singh Cheema, had been trying hard to woo back former Mayor Kulwant Singh and his team for the upcoming MC elections. But Kulwant stuck to his stand saying there was no point in taking the U-turn now.Last month, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had appointed a five-member committee for the Mohali MC elections. It included former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra and former Mayor Kulwant Singh. The committee had officially declared a list of 28 candidates (all of whom were former councillors) on January 9.With the latest development, a four-cornered fight is expected as the SAD, the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party and Kulwant’s group are in the fray for the MC elections. The splinter Akali group floated by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa has opted out of the elections and will support AAP candidates and Independents.Kulwant Singh, while talking to Chandigarh Tribune, said they had decided to contest the elections as Independents after considering the way the committee formed by the SAD president had announced the names of 28 candidates. He said they want the development of the city and all former councillors had decided to rise above the party lines. They were hopeful of winning all 50 seats.When questioned whether they were contesting the elections in view of the farmers’ protest as the SAD, being a coalition partner with the BJP, had received flak over the farm laws passed by the Centre, Kulwant Singh said the protest would have no affect on the elections as the farmers had not taken the support of any political party. He said they had only development agenda.In the 2015 elections, Kulwant had led the Azad group (of Independents) and won 10 seats. With the support of the Congress, he was elected the Mayor. In 2017, he joined the SAD.Former Deputy Mayor Manjit Singh Sethi said they were keenly watching the development. He had already decided to contest the elections as an Independent from his ward. Earlier also, he had contested the elections as an Independent candidate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ignored-sad-loyalist-turns-rebel-199143
16-01-2021||Mohali||Kumbhra residents up in arms||Residents of Kumbhra village in Sector 68 here staged a protest outside the Mohali Deputy Commissioner’s office alleging that the voters’ list for the upcoming Mohali Municipal Corporation elections includes names of persons who died 10 to 15 years ago.Led by social activist Balwinder Singh Kumbhra, the protesters alleged that there were names of 50 to 60 persons in the voters’ list from their ward who died 10 to 15 years ago. Names of several eligible voters were also missing from the list.Names of several eligible voters missingLed by social activist Balwinder Singh Kumbhra, the protesters alleged that there were names of 50 to 60 persons in the voters’ list from their ward who died 10 to 15 years ago. Names of several eligible voters were also missing from the list.The protesters raised slogans against the district administration for not listening to their grievances.Nambardar Onkar Singh, Dilbag Singh, Manjit Singh, Labh Singh, Jagdish Singh, Sucha Singh and Jaswinder Singh alleged that polling booth of their ward had been set up at the Army Institute of Law, which was far for the residence of voters. Later, the Naib Tehsildar assured them that their complaints would be redressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kumbhra-residents-up-in-arms-199159
16-01-2021||---||Accused gets seven-yr RI for robbing, stabbing man||A local court has awarded seven years’ rigorous imprisonment (RI) to man for robbing a person and injuring him.Additional Sessions Judge Sanjiv Joshi pronounced the punishment today after convicting the accused, Rishi, under Sections 392 and 413, IPC. The court also imposed a fine of Rs10,000 on him.In default of payment the convict shall further undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months. Rishi was arrested on the charges of robbing and stabbing a man on the night of March 8, 2014.Complainant Santosh Sharma of Sector 47-A, Chandigarh, alleged in his statement that he was working as supervisor at Chandigarh Packages, Mohali. He had come to Ram Darbar to drop his co-worker Montu at his residence on his motorcycle. When they reached near the road adjacent park, they saw a truck parked on the stretch. From the back of the truck, two boys emerged suddenly and came in front of Sharma’s motorcycle. The boys attacked Sharma with a sharp weapon and robbed him of his purse. On the basis of the victim’s statement, an FIR was registered under Section 392, IPC.Accused Rishi was arrested from a local bus stand on the identification of complainant. A purse containing two passport size photographs and photocopy of voter card was recovered from him.The accused, however, denied the allegations. After hearing arguments, the court convicted and sentenced the accused. Public prosecutor submitted that keeping in view the offence committed by the accused he was not entitled to any leniency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-gets-seven-yr-ri-for-robbing-stabbing-man-199164
16-01-2021||Panchkula||All set for vaccination at Alchemist Hospital||The Sector 21 Alchemist Hospital is all set to launch the vaccination drive here tomorrow. It is the only private hospital other than government hospitals, designated as authorised Covid-19 vaccination centre in Panchkula district.The hospital authorities said all preparations for vaccination drive had been made according to the government instructions. There were dedicated cabins for administering vaccine and first aid area, besides separate entry and exit of beneficiaries.The hospital will vaccinate 100 frontline health workers, which include doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff, tomorrow. The hospital has already provided a list of its healthcare workers to the government, which will decide, who will be vaccinated on first day of the drive.Meanwhile, the hospital remained a key player in providing health services during the coronavirus pandemic. It was the first private hospital in the tricity to admit Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-set-for-vaccination-at-alchemist-hospital-199165
16-01-2021||Mohali||Four sites designated in Mohali district||Four sites have been designated in Mohali district for the first phase of the Covid vaccination drive. The Civil Hospital, Phase 6, Community Health Centre, Banur, Sub-Divisional Hospital, Kharar, and Kissan Vikas Chamber, Aerocity, Chachu Majra, are the designated venues.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh will launch the first phase of the Covid vaccination drive in Mohali at the Kissan Vikas Chamber, near Airport Road, at 11:30 am tomorrow.Officials said Kissan Vikas Chamber was an additional site where the number of beneficiaries was less.The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said, “The district administration and the Health Department are working jointly to make the vaccination drive a success. All preparations have been made for the exercise.”The vaccination drive for health and frontline workers is a voluntary exercise. District administration officials are hopeful that people will take part in the drive in large numbers. “I have not come across any person, who has refused to get vaccinated. People, who want to get vaccinated, will come on their own,” the Civil Surgeon added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-sites-designated-in-mohali-district-199167
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||AIIMS Director opens new academic session at PGI||“Never forget clinical medicine in this era of investigative medicine and treat patient as a whole rather than just disease,” emphasised Prof Randeep Guleria, Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, while addressing participants as the chief guest at the inaugural ceremony of the new academic session in the PGI today.Himself being an alumnus of the PGI, Prof Guleria traced his journey from being a resident at the institution to Director at the AIIMS, New Delhi.Prof Guleria concluded with a quote from William Osler, “The practice of medicine is an art, not a trade; a calling not a business; a calling in which your heart will be exercised equally with your head.”Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “The PGIMER has taken care of about 2,700 seriously ill and 7,700 suspected coronavirus patients in various isolation wards and clinically screened more than 12,000 patients in OPDs.”He acknowledged hardships faced by doctors, nurses, technical officers, technicians, hospital and sanitary attendants and others, who worked amongst Covid patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aiims-director-opens-new-academic-session-at-pgi-199168
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cops use water cannons to disperse Cong workers, leaders||The police today used water cannons to disperse local Congress leaders and workers who tried to gherao the Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh under the “Chalo Raj Bhawan” call given by the Congress to protest against the farm laws.The protesters were joined by AICC treasurer and former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal and Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra. All former mayors from the Chandigarh Congress, leader of Opposition and Congress councillors in the MC, Mahila Congress and Youth Congress president and all Congress frontal organisation chiefs were present in the protest march along with their workers.Bansal said: “The way the Modi government and BJP leaders were behaving in an indifferent and arrogant manner shows that we are moving towards dangerous times for democracy and it is the duty of every patriotic Indian to rise up and be the voice of farmers”.Chhabra said the Congress had been raising the issues of farmers and their concerns on various platforms for the past several months. The party would not give up until the demands of farmers were met with and these draconian farm bills were repealed.Hundreds of Congress workers joined the protest march and started moving to gherao the Raj Bhawan. The police set up barricade and used force and water cannons to stop and disperse the marching Congress workers.In a statement, the party stated that nearly 200 Congress workers were detained till evening. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-use-water-cannons-to-disperse-cong-workers-leaders-199170
16-01-2021||Panchkula||Retailers oppose proposed amendments to COTPA Bill||The Punjab and Haryana chapter of the Federation of Retailers’ Association of India (FRAI) staged a protest at Sector 3 here today.The protest was held to save the interests and livelihoods of around 6.5 lakh micro retailers and 30 lakh dependents in the state, who sell multiple products to earn a meagre sum, and prevent their harassment.Protest heldThe protest was held to save the interests and livelihoods of around 6.5 lakh micro retailers and 30 lakh dependents in the state, who sell multiple products to earn a meagre sum, and prevent their harassment.Varun Arora, a FRAI member, said, “The FRAI and its member organisations all over the country are disturbed by the undemocratic amendment to the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) Bill 2020 proposed by the Ministry of Health. It disallows retail sale of loose sticks of cigarettes, prohibits sale of tobacco products to persons below 21 years, and puts control on in-shop advertising and promotion amongst others. It seems the authorities aim at destroying business for smaller retailers without impacting their large counterparts.”“We urge the PM for immediately roll back of proposed amendments as these are extremely harsh. By making age old trade practice like selling loose cigarettes a cognizable offence and an imprisonment of seven year for small violations will make small traders look like criminals,” he said.“This amendment puts paan, bidi and cigarette sellers in the same crime list category as a person voluntarily throwing acid on someone or causing death by negligence,” he added.“How can anybody be so insensitive while drafting the amendment towards poor and marginalised people, who struggle to make their both ends meet,” he said.“We also demand that petty retailers’ be exempted from licensing requirement under the proposed amendment. A poor and uneducated small shopkeeper, who barely manages two square meals a day, will struggle to get a license and renew it every year,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/retailers-oppose-proposed-amendments-to-cotpa-bill-199172
16-01-2021||Panchkula||Raids conducted on rehri market||The Panchkula district Task Force Committee constituted by Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja conducted raids on the Sector 9 rehri market here today and found seven underage children working at four shops.ALC Naveen Sharma said two children were below 14 years and five were between 14 and 18 years. All these children were presented before the Child Protection Committee. Medical tests of these children were also conducted.He said instructions had been issued to take action against the guilty shopkeepers under the Protection of Child Labour Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/raids-conducted-on-rehri-market-199173
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||11 more birds found dead in City Beautiful||Eleven more birds, including two peacocks, were found dead in different areas of the city today.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said five crows, two peacocks, two bulbuls, one pigeon and a bat were found dead in different parts of the city today.However, all 21 samples of dead birds sent to Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, have tested negative for avian influenza.Fourteen birds were found dead in different areas of the city yesterday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/11-more-birds-found-dead-in-city-beautiful-199174
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Olympics gold winners to get Rs2.25 cr, silver Rs1.5 cr, bronze Rs1 cr along with govt jobs||Sports, Youth Services and NRIs Affairs Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi honoured 90 players, who brought laurels for the state and country in 2017-18, with prizes worth around Rs 1.66 crore at the Punjab Municipal Bhawan here today.In the coming days, 1,135 sportspersons would be awarded cash prizes.The 90 players, who have outshined at international, national and state-level during 2017-18, are being given Rs1,65,65,700.Out of these, 36 international players have been given around Rs1.26, while 54 national-level sportspersons have been awarded prize money of around Rs39.39 lakh.The Sports Department has decided to give cash awards worth Rs4.85 crore to decorated players, out of which around Rs1.66 crore has been disbursed today.“Gold medal winners in Olympics will get Rs2.25 crore prize money, silver winners Rs1.5 crore while those bagging bronze will be richer by Rs1 crore along with government jobs,” the minister said while adding that till now, 74 players from the country had qualified for the 35 events with many shooters and boxers also holding the promise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/olympics-gold-winners-to-get-rs2-25-cr-silver-rs1-5-cr-bronze-rs1-cr-along-with-govt-jobs-199175
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Youth held with stolen tractor||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-with-stolen-tractor-199176
16-01-2021||Mohali||37 fresh cases surface in Mohali||The district today witnessed 37 fresh cases of Covid taking the tally to 18,936. While no new fatality was reported in the past 24 hours, 31 more patients have been cured of the disease.Among the fresh cases, 34 surfaced in Mohali (urban) and one each in Banur, Gharuan and Kurali. So far, 17,702 patients have been cured of the disease. There are 881 active cases with 353 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/37-fresh-cases-surface-in-mohali-199082
16-01-2021||Panchkula||23 cases surface in Panchkula||The district reported 23 new cases of Covid during the past 24 hours. However, no fresh death due to the disease was reported. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said among the new cases, one each was reported from Haripur, Kalka, the MDC, Sector 4, the MDC, Sector 5, Pinjore and Sector 2, 8, 20 and 25, while two cases each surfaced in Sector 4, 6, 9, 14, 15, 21 and 23.The district has so far seen 10,304 positive cases and 9,969 patients have been cured. There are now 190 active cases, while the death toll stands at 145.26 more infected in ChandigarhChandigarh: The city on Friday reported 26 fresh cases of Covid, taking the UT case tally to 20,464 and the toll to 330. A total of 33 more patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours - TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-cases-surface-in-panchkula-199099
16-01-2021||Zirakpur||43-yr-old man found dead in hotel room||A 43-year-old man was found dead under suspicious circumstances in a room of a hotel on the Chandigarh-Zirakpur road. The deceased has been identified as Gopal Krishan Sharma, a resident of Sector 45, Chandigarh.The hotel management informed the police about the incident on noticing foul smell emanating from the room.The police suspect the man died two days ago. His body was found lying on the floor. The victim was bleeding from the nose and the bedsheet of the room was soiled.The police found a mobile phone, a purse and a bottle of countrymade liquor in the room. Investigating officer Ajit Singh of the Zirakpur police station said the body had been kept at the Civil Hospital in Dera Bassi and they had initiated a probe into the incident.The exact cause of death would be known after the arrival of the postmortem report, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/43-yr-old-man-found-dead-in-hotel-room-199100
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to release Rs 30-cr grant for 13 villages||In a major relief for the Municipal Corporation (MC), the UT Administration today gave in-principle approval to provide Rs102 crore to the civic body for development of 13 villages, which were merged with it in 2019.Meanwhile, the Administration today released a grant-in-aid of Rs100 crore to the MC. The grant will be used for paying salaries to employees, meeting routine expenses and for maintenance work.RLA to share revenue with MCMayor Ravi Kant Sharma today met Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator, UT, and discussed various issues of revenue generation for the cash-strapped MC.The Mayor said the Administration would release Rs30 crore special grant for the development of 13 villages up to March 2021, of the total Rs102 crore approved. However, of the total amount, Rs60 crore would be released during the next financial year in a phased manner and Rs12 crore would be incurred by the UT Engineering Department on development works in these villages.Meanwhile, Rs80 lakh has been assured as ward development fund for each councillor, said the Mayor, and added that the Administration would get the seven community centres in the city completed through the Engineering Department before May 2021.He said the Adviser also gave assurance regarding early completion of the work on underground parking in Sector 8 and Sector 17.For revenue generation, the MC had been assured of permission for exhibitions at the Kala Gram ground. He said they had also been assured of permission for provision of a banquet hall in Industrial Area, Phase I.The Administration had also agreed to enhance the number of unipoles from 24 to 75 to generate revenue for the cash-strapped MC.Besides, two additional petrol pump sites would be allotted to the MC to generate revenue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-release-rs-30-cr-grant-for-13-villages-199102
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh allows govt schools to resume classes from February 1||The Chandigarh Administration has allowed government schools to resume classes for students of Classes VI to VIII from February 1.Students, however, need parents’ permission to attend in-person classes, according to the Central Government’s guidelines. The Director, School Education, UT, Rubinderjit Brar, said, “Fresh orders will be released next week.”Earlier, the UT Administration had allowed schools to resume Classes IX to XII from November 2. Till now, schools have called students of only Classes IX to XII for a two-hour guidance session. Attendance has touched 50 per cent in Class IX onwards, especially in the peripheral areas of the city. Other schools generally report 30 per cent attendance.“The average number of students coming to school is 5,000 per day. The attendance is expected to rise in the coming days,” said Brar. Meanwhile, private schools are unlikely to start physical classes as their online classes are going on without any hassle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-allows-govt-schools-to-resume-classes-from-february-1-199059
16-01-2021||Chandigarh||Wait ends, D-Day today||The UT Administration is all set to administer Covishield, a Covid-19 vaccine, to healthcare workers, who have braved the deadly disease like warriors for the past more than nine months. In addition to four sites in the UT, vaccination will also take place at the PGI.The vaccination drive, which will begin tomorrow, will be held at five sites — Advanced Paediatric Centre at the PGI, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, the Civil Hospital, Sector 45, and two sites at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32.At each site, not more than 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated as per the advisory of the Union Government. The number of healthcare workers to be vaccinated on the first day of the drive will remain 500.All vaccination sites have been converted into three-tier rooms. The first room is the waiting hall and the second room is the place wherein identification and vaccination will take place. The inoculated beneficiaries will be kept in the third room for observation for 30 minutes.The vaccination will kick off after inaugural speech by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at 11.15 am and will continue till 3 pm.Chandigarh had received 12,000 Covishield doses on Tuesday and the vaccines have been scientifically preserved at the District Vaccination Store in the Sector 16 hospital. With the present stock, 5,400 health care workers can be vaccinated initially.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT said, “Four beds have been reserved for any eventuality. An exclusive helpdesk number 1075 has been set up, which will be attended by four doctors. A dedicated ambulance has been reserved. There will be a two-way link with the Government of India for on-time monitoring of the vaccination.”“Each vaccination site will have an anaesthetist and a physician to monitor the beneficiaries,” said Dr VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent-cum-Joint Director, Health, UT.As the PGI has not received its share of Covid-19 vaccines, the UT has provided 1,000 doses to the institute to begin the vaccination drive.Dr SS Pandav, professor of ophthalmology, who is chairing the internal vaccination committee of the institute, said, “We are only going to start the vaccination at one site as we have limited doses. We will soon receive a consignment of the vaccine from the Government of India.”Meanwhile, the UT Administrator directed the MC to keep ready a list of persons to be vaccinated in the second round.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wait-ends-d-day-today-199064
16-01-2021||Aparna Banerji||Dera Bassi in Punjab reports bird flu cases||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, January 15Punjab today reported its first bird flu cases with samples from two poultry farms in Dera Bassi sub-division of Mohali district testing positive for avian influenza at a Jalandhar lab.The samples have been sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal for confirmation.Officials at the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL) in Jalandhar said the samples, collected from Alpha and Royal farms at Behra village in Dera Bassi, were found positive by RT-PCR test.Samples from 2 poultry farms test positiveThe RDDL is the only lab north of Delhi where tests related to livestock and poultry diseases are conducted. It caters to six states and two UTs—Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, Chandigarh and Ladakh.Dr Mohinder Pal Singh, RDDL Joint Director, said, “The Dera Bassi samples have been found ‘suspected positive’ in RT-PCR test. As we lack mechanism to diagnose influenza strain, the samples have been forwarded to Bhopal.” After December 30, the RDDL has received 5,092 samples from various states, 42 of which have been forwarded to the Bhopal lab for confirmatory tests.Of the 42 samples, 23 are from Haryana, seven (all from Dera Bassi) Punjab, six Himachal, five Delhi and one from J&K. Sixteen samples from Haryana, all five from Delhi and the one from J&K are of wild or migratory birds while the rest are from poultry farms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-in-punjab-reports-bird-flu-cases-198980
