16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Rallies, protests banned in Chandigarh other than Rally Ground||The Chandigarh Administration has imposed a ban on taking out processions, rallies, protests, strikes, etc within the territory of UT other than Rally Ground in Sector 25 for a period of two months. An order issued by District Magistrate KK Yadav states that the general public is prohibited from taking out procession, rally, protest, strike, making speeches, raising slogans, or gathering of five or more persons etc within the territory of the UT other than Rally Ground in Sector 25, for a period of 60 days. Further, prior permission for organising procession, rally, protest, strike, making speeches, raising slogans, gathering of five or more people etc at the Rally Ground must be obtained from the competent authority. The order will come into force from midnight today and will be effective till November 15, 2020. The Administration has earmarked the Rally Ground in Sector 25, for taking out processions, rallies, dharnas etc, and no permission has been granted to organise processions, rallies, dharnas, etc, elsewhere, in the city other than the designated location at Rally Ground and the same has been done to avoid traffic congestion, keeping in view of the convenience of the general public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rallies-protests-banned-in-chandigarh-other-than-rally-ground-142107
16-09-2020||---||Covid-19 death toll in Chandigarh breaches 100-mark||Chandigarh, September 16A 94-year-old man was among the five people who died of novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours as the death toll in Chandigarh swelled to 101.  The UT also registered 366 new cases taking the Covid-19 case load in the city to 8,958, even as 181 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours after being cured of the contagion.As per the Health Department, a nonagenarian from Sector 11 died of the infection at the PGIMER on Wednesday. He was a case of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and hypertension and tested positive for Covid-19, said the Health Department.   The others who lost their battle against the viral infection include a 75-year-old man from Sector 22, a 60-year-old man from Ramdarbar, a 46-year-old man from Sector 48 and a 60-year-old man from Sector 29.Meanwhile, the sample of a 78-year-old man from Sector 35, who died at Fortis Hospital in Mohali on September 13, has returned positive.The city also registered 366 new cases on Wednesday, with 45 cases being reported from Mani Majra. Mauli Jagran accounted for 29 cases, followed by Dhanas (16), and Sector 37 (12).Sector 38, Sector 44 and Sector 48 reported 11 cases each, while Sector 45 and Sector 24 registered 10 cases each.The total number of active cases in the city stands at 3,171.The UT has so far tested 56,490 samples, out of which 47,205 have returned negative, while 8,958 reported positive. Also, 5,683 patients have been cured of the viral infection so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-death-toll-in-chandigarh-breaches-100-mark-142082
16-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula: 14-year-old girl among two deaths due to COVID-19; toll reaches 53||With 110 fresh COVID-19 cases surfacing in the district, Panchkula’s tally rose to 4,496 on Wednesday.The death toll in the district mounted to 53 after two more people succumbed to the disease.Besides, 207 people were recovered or discharged from hospitals.A 60-year-old man from Pinjore and a 14-year-old girl from Indira Colony, who was suffering from TB, died due to coronavirus.This is the second teenager to fall prey to the virus this month. Earlier on September 6, a 14-year-old boy from Kundi village had passed away from COVID-19.The fresh cases include 14 from Marranwala, 13 from Pinjore, eight each from Raipur Rani, Sector 11 and Sector 20, seven from MDC Sector 5, six from Sector 4, five from Sector 21, four each from Sabilpur and Sector 12, three each from Sector 26, Sector 6 and Sector 7, two each from Barwala, Bhagwanpur, Sector 15, Sector 17, Sector 19 and Sector 28, one each from Abdullapur, Industrial Area, Madanpur, Kalka, Ramgarh, Sector 10, Sector 18, Sector 24, Sector 25, Sector 9, Sector 8 and Tibbi Majra.Panchkula has so far conducted 55,793 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-14-year-old-girl-among-two-deaths-due-to-covid-19-toll-reaches-53-142070
16-09-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh Mayor Raj Bala Malik tests positive for COVID-19||Chandigarh Mayor Raj Bala Malik on Wednesday informed that she has tested positive for COVID-19 and requested everyone who came in contact with her in the last three days to isolate themselves and get tested if they report any symptoms.“Was not feeling well since 2 days so I got tested for Corona and the report came out positive today. I request everyone who came in contact with me during the last 3 days to kindly isolate themselves and get tested if they have any symptoms for Covid-19. Stay safe,” she said on Twitter.Was not feeling well since 2 days so I got tested for Corona and the report came out positive today.I request everyone who came in contact with me during the last 3 days to kindly isolate themselves and get tested if they have any symptoms for Covid-19.Stay safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-raj-bala-malik-tests-positive-for-covid-19-142063
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||No more pasting posters on quarantined houses in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Administration on Wednesday decided to discontinue the practice of pasting posters on quarantined houses and stamping on hands of quarantined persons.Adviser Manoj Parida decided to follow Punjab Government’s practice due to several complaints from affected people regarding social ridicule and stigmatisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-more-pasting-posters-on-quarantined-houses-in-chandigarh-142059
16-09-2020||Mohali||National award-winning writer accuses SHO of fraudulent marriage, rape||A national award-winning writer from Kharar has alleged inaction regarding her complaint against an Inspector of Punjab Police whom she accused of fraudulently marrying and establishing a sexual relationship with her.Addressing a press conference, the writer alleged that Gurmit Singh, SHO, Sambhu police station, had married twice before marrying her. She alleged he had gotten a divorce from one marriage but not from the second. He also has one daughter from one of these marriages.He hid facts from her and married her in February in a Gurudwara in Phase-8, Mohali. He forged signatures of his mother and brother at the time of marriage, she alleged.The writer further alleged she found Gurmit on a matrimonial site ‘Sangham.com” and informed him that her divorce case was pending in a court, the last date of which was March 24, 2020.Gurmeet told her that he too was divorced and had a daughter but he gave no information about his second marriage. Her first meeting with Gurmit was on February 15, 2020, in Mohali phase 6.According to the author, she came to know about him when the Inspector left her after having beaten her on July 9. He never returned home."When I called him, he answered the calls abruptly and said he has done this with many women like me and there is no need to follow him from today onwards. He threatened that he was a police officer and could do anything to her, " she alleged adding he asked her what proof she had of their marriage.When she went to the Gurdwara to get the marriage certificate, the manager of Gurdwara Sahib said that Inspector Gurmeet Singh had not given them the required documents regarding the marriage certificate, due to which they could not issue the certificate.According to the author, she has illicit chats of Gurmit Singh with other women and girls on Facebook. The main interest of his chats was tricking and luring the girls and women into marrying him.The writer, through her lawyer Lalit Sood, has lodged a written complaint against him with IG Ropar seeking registration of a case of fraud and rape against him. Her lawyer said the Hindi author has won Rajiv Gandhi and Bhaskar Pride national awards. She has written 11 books.The author has also sent a copy of the complaint to the Punjab Chief Minister, Principal Secretary Home), Principal Secretary (Personnel) and Punjab Women's Commission. The IG has handed over the investigation of the complaint to woman IPS officer from Mohali.Meanwhile, when Chandigarh Tribune contacted the Inspector, he denied the allegations. "Whatever I have to say, I will before the authorities," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-award-winning-writer-accuses-sho-of-fraudulent-marriage-rape-142038
16-09-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir ||27 more micro-containment zones declared in Chandigarh||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, September 16 To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the Chandigarh Administration on Wednesday declared 27 micro-containment zones in the city. UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the issue of outbreak of Covid-19 was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as micro-containment zones in the city. The affected areas declared as micro-containment zone are: Parts of Sectors 15, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 27, 29, 32A, 32D, 35A, 37A, 38D,40C, 41A, 42B, 46B, 46D, 47, 52, 63, Pipliwala Town, Indira Colony, Behlana, Mauli Jagaran, and Vikas Nagar. Meanwhile, the UT Administration also modified four earlier declared micro-containment zones. The modification was done on the basis of recommendation received from the Affected Areas Assessment Committee in Parts of Sectors 15, 21, 42C and Shanti Nagar, Manimajra. The Administration also removed containment zone restrictions from parts of Sector 15, Sector 19, EWS Colony, Dhanas, Hallomajra and Ramdarbar. Earlier, the Administration had declared 24 pandemic affected areas as micro-containment zones in the city on September 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/27-more-micro-containment-zones-declared-in-chandigarh-142033
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Schoolteacher found murdered in Chandigarh's Sector 23||A schoolteacher was found murdered at her government accommodation in Chandigarh's Sector 23 on Wednesday.The victim has been identified as Jyoti, who was living with her family.Her husband, Mandeep, is accused of the murder. Police have shifted the body to the mortuary at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.An investigation has been initiated at Sector 17 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/schoolteacher-found-murdered-in-chandigarhs-sector-23-141984
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Central team wants gaps plugged to boost testing||A team appointed by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has made some key observations and recommendations for the city after analysing its current testing strategy and contact tracing.The team highlighted problems in testing in Chandigarh, particularly in south zone, as the area has the maximum cases and containment zones. To address the issues, the GMCH, Sector 32, has been asked to increase its testing capacity.The team visited the government hospitals in the city. It found that testing at the PGI had resulted in mingling of positive and negative cases in the Emergency. The team said rapid antigen testing should be conducted in the Emergency too.It also pointed out that the testing of symptomatic contacts needed to be done immediately.On home isolation, the team suggested that the families of all positive cases should be contacted by doctors within 24 hours to segregate the patients from their family members.Recently, the test figures of the UT had increased manifold, taking its tests per million figures among the top five states. The team said the test results of all persons getting tested should be communicated in a time-bound manner.Single team for contact tracingThe team found duplication of work in contact tracing by the UT Health Department and the Municipal Corporation. It suggested that there should be one contact-tracing team for every 20 to 25 active cases.Be ready for surge, PGI, GMCH toldThe Central team said the GMCH and the PGI should be prepared to handle a surge in cases by increasing the number of beds. It stressed the need for better coordination among the three main government hospitals in the city.Focus on other critical cases too: Centre to UTThe Centre on Tuesday directed the UT Administration to also focus on non-Covid critical patients. During a videoconference, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla asked senior UT officials to step up efforts to keep the Covid mortality rate low.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/central-team-wants-gaps-plugged-to-boost-testing-141682
16-09-2020||Panchkula||4 more deaths, 181 cases in Panchkula||The district today reported the highest single-day spike of 181 new coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 4,386. The district also witnessed four Covid deaths.A 52-year-old man from Sector 20, who was suffering from chronic kidney disease and hypertension, a 74-year-old man from Sector 8, who was suffering from liver cirrhosis, a 62-year-old man from Dharampur and a 74-year-old man from Nanakpur, both suffering from diabetes, succumbed to the virus.The district Covid toll now stands at 51.The fresh cases include 23 from Sector 21, 12 each from Sector 12 and Sector 8, 11 from Sector 4, eight from Pinjore, seven from Sector 6, six from the MDC, Sector 5, five each from Sector 12-A, Sector 16, Sector 2, Sector 25, Sector 27 and Sector 9, four each from Bhagwanpur, Buddanpur, Sector 19 and Sector 26, three each from Sector 10, Sector 14, Sector 28 and Sector 7, two each from Amravati Enclave, Industrial Area, Golpura, Maheshpur, Nanakpur, Morni, Nawanagar, Ramgarh, Sector 11, Sector 17, Sector 23 and Surajpur, and one each from Abheypur, Barwala, Bunga Tibbi, Dharampur, Devinagar, Kalka, Kharag Mangoli, Khera Basolan, Madanpur, Mauli, the MDC, Sector 6, Sector 18, Sector 5 and Toda.While 1,371 cases are still active, 2,964 people have been cured or discharged.Panchkula has so far conducted 54,641 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-more-deaths-181-cases-in-panchkula-141683
16-09-2020||Mohali||3 more breathe their last in Mohali, toll 145||The district today witnessed three fatalities, taking the toll 145. It saw 188 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 7,125. As many as 154 patients were cured and discharged from various hospitals in the district.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said three men died due to the virus during the past 24 hours. He said a 28-year-old man from Phase IX died at Fortis Hospital, while a 47-year-old man from Sohana village died at the GMCH, Patiala. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. A 62-year-old man from Kurali died at Shalby Hospital. He was a diabetic.Among the 188 fresh cases, 76 were from Mohali urban, 22 from Kharar, 21 from Gharuan, 45 from Dhakoli, 17 from Dera Bassi, five from Lalru and one each from Boothgarh and Kurali.The district has so far recorded 7,125 positive cases. As many as 4,660 patients have been cured and discharged. There are 2,320 active cases. The district has witnessed 145 deaths due to the virus.‘Elderly with comorbidities at greater risk’The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said senior citizens with comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension were at a higher risk if they got the deadly virus. He said of the 142 fatalities reported till Tuesday, 70 people were above the age of 60 with multiple comorbidities. He said 85 per cent of the deaths took place due to acute diabetes and hypertension, and the patients developed respiratory problems after contracting Covid-19. The other ailments include lever infections, kidney failures, cancer, cardiac arrest, bypass surgery and asthmatic and respiratory problems, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-breathe-their-last-in-mohali-toll-145-141684
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adds 347 to Covid tally||The city today reported 347 new cases of Covid-19, taking its tally to 8,592.A 45-year-old man from Burail, who was declared brought dead at the GMCH in Sector 32, tested positive for the virus. With the fresh fatality, the UT toll rose to 96.A total of 202 patients were discharged post-recovery today. Senior Deputy Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma tested positive yesterday. In a Facebook post, he stated that he had already isolated himself seven days ago. Two more MC employees had tested positive yesterday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adds-347-to-covid-tally-141685
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Vegetable vendor stabbed at Sector 26||A vegetable vendor was stabbed with a knife following an argument over the space to sell perishables at the Sector 26 vegetable market on Monday night.The market was shifted to the ISBT, Sector 17, due to the spread of coronavirus in the nearby Bapu Dham Colony. The vegetable market was to return to its original place today, due to which the vendors had started shifting their goods from Sector 17 on Monday night.Sources said the suspects had an argument over a spot that led to a clash.A vendor named Veerpal was stabbed with a knife. He was seriously injured in the attack and was admitted to a hospital. The police were informed about the incident following which they rushed to the spot. The suspects managed to escape from the spot.Sources said the suspects had kept their goods at the spot from where Veerpal used to sell his vegetables before the mandi was shifted to Sector 17.Veerpal’s sister lodged a complaint against Amarpal, Gill, Jatinder and others, all residents of Indira Colony, Mani Majra. An investigation has been initiated into the complaint at the Sector 26 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vegetable-vendor-stabbed-at-sector-26-141686
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Teenaged boy, dhaba owner end life in Chandigarh||Two suicides were reported from the city today.The police said a boy, identified as Junaid, aged around 17, reportedly committed suicide by hanging at his house in Khuda Ali Sher.The victim’s family had gone to their native place in Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, and the victim was staying alone at his house for the past around five days. The family returned home today and found the victim’s body hanging. The police said the body had started decomposing which suggested that the incident took place about two days ago. The police said no suicide note was found at the spot.The body was shifted to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16. An inquest proceeding into the incident has been initiated at the Sector 11 police station.In another incident, a man reportedly hanged himself at Burail in Sector 45. The victim has been identified as Raju. He owned a dhaba. His body was found hanging from a grill.The police said no suicide note was found at the spot. An inquest proceeding into the incident has been initiated at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teenaged-boy-dhaba-owner-end-life-in-chandigarh-141687
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||From today, board CTU buses to Punjab, Haryana||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will resume its inter-state bus service in Punjab and Haryana from tomorrow.Uma Shankar Gupta, Director, CTU, said buses would operate from both bus stands — the ISBT, Sector 17, and the ISBT, Sector 43.In Punjab, the buses will cover major destinations such as Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Amritsar, Patiala, Mehatpur, Ludhiana, Dina Nagar and Bathinda. In Haryana, the buses will ply to Panipat, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Jind, Hisar, Sirsa, Hansi and Delhi (up to the Kundli border).The tickets can be purchased online on CTU website http://ctuonline.chd.gov.in or through the mobile app, “CTU Musafir”, dedicated for the purpose. Tickets can also be purchased from the conductor during the journey.The buses will operate with 50 per cent passenger occupancy in view of the social-distancing norms and guidelines issued by the UT Administration from time to time.Following the nationwide lockdown, the CTU had suspended the bus services on March 23. However, the CTU briefly resumed the inter-state bus services to neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab from June 10, but suspended these after a few days following a sudden rise in the coronavirus cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-today-board-ctu-buses-to-punjab-haryana-141688
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Tomatoes costlier than apples!||Tomatoes are costlier than apples. The price hovered around Rs60 per kg, a tad higher than that of the golden variety of apple, which was being sold for Rs50 a kg at the Sector 26 vegetable market. The prices of peas have hit the roof at Rs150 a kg. Cauliflower is being sold for Rs100 a kg.Interestingly, onions are being sold at Rs35 per kg during the Shradh period when the demand is usually less. More shocking are the prices of potato Rs40 (pahadi) and Rs35 (local) per kg.“In sector lanes, vendors increase the prices by Rs5 to Rs10. If you visit the vegetable market, you can hope to get some items cheaper,” said Narayani Sharma, a banker and resident of Sector 23-D. Small Vegetable Vendors Association vice-president Ashok Gujjar said, “Peas and cauliflower are being supplied only from Lahaul, so the prices are high. Onions are expensive because of floods and crop loss in Maharashtra.”Market experts say the current price rise is going to last over a month. “By October-end, you will see the prices of vegetables crash,” said Gujjar. Wholesalers said had restaurants and hotels been doing good business, the prices would have been even higher.However, the prices of some vegetables have come down in the last fortnight. French beans, selling at Rs80 a kg two weeks ago, are down to Rs40 a kg. The prices of bottle gourd and brinjal have fallen in recent days to Rs40 a kg.Little hustle & bustle on Day 1Back at the Sector 26 market, the first day for vegetable vendors was a tumultuous affair even as there were few customers. On Monday and the whole night as well, sanitisation work was being carried out in the area with special focus on ways to maintain social distancing in the coming days. Market committee officials said only vendors having a licence would be allowed entry. Vegetable and fruit sellers had been segregated to avoid overcrowding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tomatoes-costlier-than-apples-141689
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGI doctor: No need to re-test asymptomatic, cured patients||A senior doctor of the PGI today said there was no point in testing a person again for Covid after recovery from the disease even if he was living in a containment zone.The family of a 25-year-old man from Sector 45, who tested positive within a gap of two months, is placed under isolation. The family members said they were facing problems because of home isolation even as they were asymptomatic.The family lives in a containment zone. The UT has started testing people living in the newly announced containment zones.According to ICMR guidelines, the UT Administration should not test individuals who have recovered from Covid after completing the isolation period laid down by the Central government, especially on being asymptomatic.He said, “This only causes anxiety to the patient. The patient was so scared after he tested positive again after one month that we had to counsel him and his family late in the night.”“This patient had sufficient amount of antibodies when he had come for plasma donation. With antibodies present in his blood, it can be concluded that he is immune to the virus and is not infectious. However, dead fragments of the RNA present in his body can give positive Covid report for up to six months. More research is being conducted on this topic. Based on this evidence, the Central government had changed its discharge policy and ruled out testing before discharge for asymptomatic patients,” said the doctor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-doctor-no-need-to-re-test-asymptomatic-cured-patients-141690
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Suspended Chandigarh inspector gets bail in graft case||A local CBI court today granted bail to Jaswinder Kaur, a suspended UT police inspector, in a graft case.While granting the bail, Special CBI Judge Sushil Kumar Garg directed the accused not to try to influence the prosecution witnesses in any manner.Terminder Singh, counsel for the accused, said Jaswinder Kaur had cooperated with the investigating agency. He claimed that she was falsely implicated in the case.Opposing the bail plea, public prosecutor KP Singh had stated that if released, the suspended cop would try to influence the material witnesses in one way or the other.The court ordered that the accused should appear before the trial court on each and every date of hearing and shall not leave the country without the permission of the court. Jaswinder Kaur was ordered to surrender her passport within 15 days.The court directed the suspended cop to mark her presence in the CBI office here once in 15 days, beginning September 21. In an event of non-compliance of any of these conditions, the CBI could move an application for cancellation of her bail.The CBI had booked the former SHO of the Mani Majra police station for allegedly demanding Rs5-lakh bribe from a Mani Majra resident, Gurdeep Singh, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspended-chandigarh-inspector-gets-bail-in-graft-case-141691
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||2 garbage lifters among four held  for vehicle thefts||Four persons, including two garbage collectors, have been arrested for vehicle thefts and nine two-wheelers have been recovered from them.A team of the Sector 39 police station nabbed Ashok Kumar (26), a resident of Maloya, Ajay Kumar (25), a resident of Dadu Majra, Sachin (20) of Khudda Jassu and Jatinder (25), a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas.The police said on September 12, an Activa, owned by Abhishek, was stolen from the Sector 40 booth market.A case was registered at the Sector 39 police station. During investigation, Ashok and Ajay, both garbage collectors, were arrested while riding the stolen Activa near the Sector 37/38 small chowk.The police said their arrest led to the recovery of five more two-wheelers stolen from different parts of the city. The police said another suspect, Sachin, a driver, was arrested from near the Sector 40 Community Centre while riding a bike stolen from Sector 38.The fourth suspect, Jatinder, was arrested from near the Sector 38 (West) light point while riding a motorcycle, which was stolen from Buterla village. The police said Ashok and Ajay had also stolen the battery of a car, while it was parked in Sector 37, that was also recovered on the disclosure made by the duo. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-garbage-lifters-among-four-held-for-vehicle-thefts-141693
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Students opt for backup in Chandigarh as Delhi University delays cut-off lists||The pandemic has created havoc not only in the medical field, but in the Education Sector as well. The city has witnessed a trend of sorts in the past where many meritorius students from UT’s top schools make a beeline to get admission to best colleges of Delhi University (DU).Many aspirants, who want to take admission in institutions such as the DU, have been forced to take admission to Panjab University-affiliated colleges as the cut-off date of various courses there has been delayed by a couple of months.A parent, whose daughter has applied in Delhi University and has also enrolled in BA course at a PU-affiliated college, said, “We knew the risk we were taking, but given the nature of the pandemic, the risk is worth taking. Most parents are aware of the fact that the college may not refund the fee. According to rules, we are supposed to pay fee in the beginning of the session, which we did. My daughter has purchased books and has also been attending classes.”Aprajita Pandhey, a city-based student, said, “We are worried as we don’t know whether we will get admission in Delhi or not. Many of us have opted for a backup in case we don’t get admission to a good college in the DU.”“The students should get full reimbursement on surrendering the seats, if they go for a better option. A minimal amount of fee gets deducted, if classes have already started. This applies to both centralised and non-centralised courses. However, colleges are liable to issue no-objection certificate (NOC) as per conditions,” said a senior DHE official, requesting anonymity.“This is a dicey situation for the students, who want to take admission in a university of their choice. This year, the admission process has been delayed till September and may stretch beyond that in some universities such as the DU. Another major factor is scrapping of entrance tests,” said another official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-opt-for-backup-in-chandigarh-as-delhi-university-delays-cut-off-lists-141698
16-09-2020||---||Panjab University Syndics skip virtual meet second time in a row||Chandigarh, September 15The online meeting of the Panjab University (PU) Syndicate was cancelled for the second consecutive day as only one Syndic showed up at the meeting.A group of members have refused to attend any online meeting and insisted that the PU Vice Chancellor (VC) should call a physical meeting of the House.The agendas of the meeting included issues regarding the conduct of exit class exams and admission to UG/PG courses among others.The standing committee has recommended to constitute a five-member panel to deal with any kind of issue occurred during online exams. The agenda mentioned that, “The university counsel could not clear the court that three-year law is a PG course in Panjab University. Except Panjab University, in all other universities, admission to five-year integrated course is made on the basis of academic marks. Moreover, according to guidelines of the Bar Council of India, entrance test is not mandatory. It will not be possible for Panjab University to conduct entrance test by following norms laid by the Government of India.” A five-member committee was also recommended to be formed to file a reply in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the same regard.However, in absence of any meeting, the process to approve these agendas is likely to be delayed. The Syndics are interested in calling a physical meeting as the PU VC has postponed their elections citing the Covid-19 pandemic. The announcement was opposed by a group of Syndics.An official said the stakeholders should have come together to approve these important recommendations for the benefit of students. This showed that no one in the university was thinking for the welfare of the students. “The VC is hesitant to call a physical meeting for the reasons best known to him. He should give the House a reason for avoiding to call a physical meeting,” said Ashok Goyal, a fellow.Covid scare?Sources claimed that there had been rumours that some of the members of the House and the faculty had tested positive for Covid. However, no official statement or confirmation was provided either by the Syndics’ House or by the Vice-Chancellor’s office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndics-skip-virtual-meet-second-time-in-a-row-141700
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Khalid-Sidhu group makes promises||As the elections for the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) are slated to be held on September 25 and 16, the contesting members have intensified their campaign.Mohammed Khalid, who is contesting for the post for PUTA president, said, “We are a teacher-centric group with no political or senatorial affiliations. Our struggle has always been for the welfare of teachers and addressed those issues, which confront them in their professional and academic life. We are committed to working on issues such as counting of past service of scores of teachers, which is hanging in fire for the last many years and CAS promotions of the colleagues pending since long.”MC Sidhu, who is contesting for the post of secretary said, “Some of the departments are running only with one or two teachers. In other departments, many faculty positions are lying vacant since long, thereby affecting the teaching and research. This needs to be addressed. The university should provide Internet facilities in residential areas and implement the 7th Pay Commission along with arrears from 2016.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khalid-sidhu-group-makes-promises-141701
16-09-2020||Mohali||Oyo refutes allegations||A spokesman for Oyo today said the allegations levelled against Oyo Hotels and Homes Pvt Ltd (OHHPL) and its executives by Vikas Gupta, owner of Casavillaz in Mohali, were completely false, baseless and unsubstantiated.He said the complainant submitted only a few compliance documents and assured the company that the rest of the documents would be submitted in due course. However, despite several requests, the venue partner failed to submit the remaining documents. Therefore, the contract was terminated.The spokesman said both Oyo and the complainant had signed an agreement that carried a detailed dispute resolution mechanism, hence, the matter did not fall under criminal jurisdiction.October 6, 2020: The Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted stay order against the FIR filed by Vikas Gupta against OYO and Weddingz.in senior leadership. A statement issued by OYO said, “The court was of the prima facie opinion that the said dispute was civil in nature and that there was no involvement of any criminal offence.” By virtue of the order, “all and any other proceedings in the said FIR, including the notices issued under 41-A notice (issued by police), are stayed by the Hon’ble court,” the OYO statement added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/oyo-refutes-allegations-141702
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||73rd Raising Day of Army’s Western Command celebrated||The 73rd Raising Day of the Western Command, the frontline operational command of the Indian Army, was celebrated today.Lt Gen RP Singh, General Office Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, laid a wreath at the Veer Smriti war memorial in Chandimandir to pay homage to the martyrs and conveyed felicitations to all ranks, veterans and civilian employees and their families.He also inaugurated a grievance redressal portal, wcesm.com, to address the grievances of the veteran community.Western Command was raised on September 15, 1947, as the Delhi and East Punjab Command and was re-designated as Western Command in January 1948 and has taken part in every war and major operations since Independence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/73rd-raising-day-of-armys-western-command-celebrated-141704
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s health and wellness centres only for screening||While the city is grappling with the increasing number of Covid cases, its 26 dispensaries, some of which have now been converted to health and wellness centres (HWCs), are tasked with screening suspected cases — this being their only role in the Covid management.“At present, all dispensaries are acting as screening centres to offer out-patient services to visitors and direct suspected patients to sampling centres that are close to their zones,” said a source in the Health Department.Following the hub and spokes model on sample collection, the GMSH-16 acts as a hub that receives heaviest resource investments and supplies the most intensive medical service, while Urban Community Health Centre, Sector 45, Civil Hospital, Sector 22, and the Civil Hospital, Mani Majra, are its satellite campuses or spokes, which offer more limited service arrays.The GMCH-32 and the PGI conduct both testing and sampling.According to a note issued by UT’s Director, Health Services, Dr G Dewan, dispensaries and the HWCs found a mention in only one line: “Training has been imparted to all categories of medical and paramedical staff in the hospital and the HWCs or dispensaries, kitchen and housekeeping staff. The safai karamcharis and attendants are being trained particularly and being re-oriented from time to time since they are more vulnerable.”Apart from the HWCs, the city has five Ayush health and wellness centres.“The construction of Ayush Hospital is underway at the former Homeopathic Dispensary of Sector 34,” said Dr Dewan. “The dispensary’s homeopathic and ayurvedic departments have been shifted to the HWCs of Sector 33 and Sector 35, respectively,” he added.The HWCs aim at providing all holistic services under one roof, including OPD services, screening, child and maternal health care and basic management of mental health ailments. The HWCs may also house Ayush, which includes homoeopathy, ayurveda and yoga.A Health Department official said, the upgrade of dispensaries was part of the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK) and the Rashtriya Kishor Swasthya Karykram (RKSK) programme in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-health-and-wellness-centres-only-for-screening-141705
16-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali Health Dept appeal motivates people for testing||An appeal by the Health Department urging people to get themselves tested for Covid-19 in case of fever and other symptoms has received a tremendous response in the district.Nine designated Covid test centres and similar number of private testing labs in the district are witnessing a footfall of around 500 to 600 persons daily sampled for the deadly virus on getting fever.Rise in footfall at testing centresNine designated Covid test centres and similar number of private testing labs in the district are witnessing a footfall of around 500 to 600 persons daily sampled for the deadly virus on getting fever.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said 25 per cent of the total samples collected from the district were of those people who were suffering from mild fever and other symptoms.He said initially people were hesitating to visit testing centres due to social stigma. Due to awareness by health officials, more and more people were now coming forward on their own.Dr Singh said earlier around 1,000 samples were collected daily. After authorising private labs, around 2,000 samples were now collected daily at nine government testing centres and nine private labs in the district. He said of these, around 500 to 600 people were coming to these testing facilities on their own, which was also helping them in containing the deadly virus.Nodal Officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur said besides nine government testing facilities and similar number of private testing labs, they also had two mobile testing vans, which were being used in case of an emergency.She also urged people not to be afraid of coronavirus and visit Covid-19 testing facilities on their own to give samples if they have fever and any other symptom.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-health-dept-appeal-motivates-people-for-testing-141707
16-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula resident loses Rs 4.4L in property fraud, 2 booked||The Panchkula police have booked two persons for duping a city resident of Rs4.4 lakh on the pretext of selling land to him at Bhoj Mator village falling in Morni tehsil.The suspects have been identified as Deepak Gupta, a resident of Dhakoli in Zirakpur, and Shubham, a resident of Fatehabad, who is presently residing at Dhakoli, Zirakpur.Matter investigated by Economic Offences WingAfter receiving the complaint, the matter was investigated by the Economic Offences Wing, Panchkula. The Chandimandir police have registered a case under Sections 406, 420 and 120B of the IPC.Sumit Beniwal, a resident of Kaluwas village in Bhiwani district and presently residing in Sector 27, Panchkula, in his complaint to the police, said he used to regularly visit a bakery shop of Deepak Gupta in Dhakoli and became familiar with him. Gupta told him that he would help him get a land at a throwaway price and introduced him to Shubham.He said Gupta and Shubham told him that the title of the land was clear and without any dispute. They also showed him the site of the said land. In the meantime, Deepak took him to a corner and told him that Shubham was in dire need of Rs4 lakh. He would sell the plot at a throwaway price and he (Sumit) should not lose the chance to get the plot at a cheaper price.Sumit said he got ready to purchase the plot and decided to pay Rs4.4 lakh to him. He paid Rs2.9 lakh and the remaining amount (Rs1.5 lakh) was paid through a cheque of Axis Bank, Sector 25 branch, on April 22, 2019.He said the agreement to sell after receiving full and final payment was also made on the same date. The duo told him that they would get the plot registered in his name anytime. The duo also gave him the possession of the land.The complainant said whenever he asked Shubham to get the sale deed prepared, the latter started dilly-dallying the matter.The complainant said some people visited the site on October 29, 2019. He told them that he had purchased the land. When he enquired from Shubham about the matter, he started threatening him and never came to meet him whenever he asked him to do so.He said on January 10, 2020, he came to know that Shubham had sold the plot to some other person. On January 15, he got a copy of the registry of the plot from the Morni tehsil. He came to know that the land had already been sold to Karamjit on June 18, 2019 and Deepak was a witness to the deal.After receiving the complaint, the matter was investigated by the Economic Offences Wing, Panchkula. The Chandimandir police have registered a case under Sections 406, 420 and 120B of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-resident-loses-rs-4-4l-in-property-fraud-2-booked-141708
16-09-2020||Kharar||Kisan Union members protest, block highway||The Bharti Kisan Union (BKU) (Lakhowal), along with other organisations, today protested against the Centre’s farm sector ordinances and blocked the National Highway-21 outside the Kharar bus stand.The protesters kept the highway blocked for around two hours, which caused inconvenience to commuters. It also led to a traffic jam near the spot.“This is not the right way to protest. Common man has to suffer a lot,” said a car driver.The protesters parked tractor-trailers on the road thereby blocking the traffic. The protesters said if any MP from Punjab supported the bill, they would not allow him/her to enter their village.They said the Agriculture Amendment Ordinance and the Power Amendment Bill were against the interests of farmers. These would be beneficial for big corporate and not for the farming sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kisan-union-members-protest-block-highway-141710
16-09-2020||Panchkula||Two booked for assaulting, threatening Kalka woman||The Kalka police have booked two persons for brutally assaulting a woman after forcibly entering her house here on Monday.The suspects have been identified as Deepu and Prem Sagar, residents of Upper Mohalla in Kalka.The victim, Balwinder Kaur, a resident of Upper Mohalla, Kalka, in her complaint to the police, said she had a dispute with Prem Sagar’s wife Sudarshana, who had hit her on the head with a brick. The victim said she had filed a case at the Kalka police station in this regard.Balwinder said she was standing in the balcony on the first floor of her house around 10 am on Monday. Prem Sagar’s son-in law Deepu, who was standing in the gallery of the former’s house, started abusing and threatening her.When she objected to it, Deepu forcibly entered her house with a baseball bat and starting hitting the closed door. He later hit her on the left ear with the bat. Prem Sagar was also accompanying Deepu, who continued to hit her on the legs and arms with the baseball bat.She said Prem Sagar did not intervene to save her. Instead, he threatened her that if she did not leave the locality they would eliminate her, along with her son. She said the suspects also threatened her to not to file any police complaint.The victim said there was a threat to her life from Deepu and Prem Sagar’s family. A case under Sections 323, 452 and 506 of the IPC has been registered at the Kalka Police station. However, no arrests have been made so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-booked-for-assaulting-threatening-kalka-woman-141711
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||MC call centre for grievances||The grievance control call centre of the MC at Rose Club, Sector 16, will soon become operational to facilitate city residents in civic services.The call centre will operate round the clock with a dedicated team to register grievances and redress these at the earliest. It is being set up jointly by Chandigarh Smart City Ltd and the MC and will be operational in three to four days.MC Commissioner KK Yadav, Additional Commissioner Tilak Raj and Chandigarh Smart City Ltd Chief General Manager NP Sharma visited the facility and reviewed its functioning today. Yadav said, “The officers concerned have been asked to ensure that proper helping tools are provided to the team at the call centre.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-call-centre-for-grievances-141713
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Nodal officer nominated for privatisation of Power Department||The authorities have nominated XEN Pawan Kumar Sharma as the nodal officer for privatisation of the UT Electricity Department.An order issued by the office of the Superintending Engineer, Electricity Operation Circle, UT, stated that the Union Ministry of Power had decided to privatise the power distribution of all union territories.As the process of privatisation of the Electricity Wing of the Engineering Department, Chandigarh (EWEDC), is targeted to be completed by December this year, the Superintending Engineer has decided to nominate XEN Pawan Kumar Sharma as the nodal officer to take action in all matters relating to the privatisation of the EWEDC, including tendering and coordination with various departments, with immediate effect.The Power Finance Corporation (PFC), a Government of India undertaking, had recently appointed Deloitte, a private firm, as a consultant to prepare a comprehensive report on unbundling of the department.The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) had already issued directions to the UT Administration for restructuring and reformation of the department, which is mandatory as per the Electricity Act, 2003.On privatisation, the department will become an autonomous body, which will be divided into the State Transmission Utility (STU) and the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC). The STU will be responsible for smooth transmission of power and the SLDC will be the main body to ensure integrated operation of the power system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nodal-officer-nominated-for-privatisation-of-power-department-141714
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Decide on chemists’ grievances, High Court tells PGIMER, GMCH-32 heads||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the PGI Director and the Director-Principal of the GMCH, Sector 32, to take into consideration waiver and other benefits before arriving at a “conscious decision” regarding the grievances of chemists on the campuses financially affected by the lockdown.The Director and the Director-Principal were directed by the Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta to take into consideration the precedents, where the benefit of waiving off the licence fee was granted, contract was extended or any other benefit was given. They were further asked to consider the observations made by the High Court. For the purpose of completing the entire exercise, the Bench set a deadline of 10 days from receiving representations by the chemists.Taking up more than 25 petitions on the issue, the Bench also asked the petitioner-chemists to make representations to the Director and the Director-Principal within two days of receiving the order’s copy.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Chaudhary asserted it was undisputedly an unexpected event, following which a complete lockdown was imposed from March 20 to May 3. There was, in fact, complete restriction on travelling from one place to other. OPD blocks of the hospitals, too, remained closed during the period.“The licence deed between the parties was terminated on the ground of non-payment of lease amount and some of the licensees have vacated their shops due to frustration. It is also not disputed that the Director, PGI, is the competent authority to take appropriate decision, keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the cases as well as by considering the decision taken by other state governments/authorities/ university/Central Ministry, etc., as have been pointed out by the counsel for the petitioners,” Justice Chaudhary added.Referring to the petitions, Justice Chaudhary further added some of the petitioner-chemists were allotted chemist shops in the PGI, while some others were allotted in the GMCH-32.Justice Chaudhary added the shops were leased out on certain terms and conditions. As per the averments made in the petitions, the petitioners were paying monthly instalments within the prescribed period. But they were not in a position to open their shops either due to complete or partial lockdown.It was also their grievance that there was either nil sale or it was at its lowest due to fall in the number of patients/attendants. The petitioners were not getting return, but had to pay instalments “of huge amount”. It resulted in delay in payment of instalments.Justice Chaudhary noted it was also their grievance that the petitioners were asked to pay monthly licence fee for the lockdown period, even when the OPD blocks of the hospitals/ institutes remained closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decide-on-chemists-grievances-high-court-tells-pgimer-gmch-32-heads-141715
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown hit postal bookings in April||Postal bookings under the Chandigarh Division fell by 89 per cent in April, when the lockdown was the harshest. However, it improved over the next three months as restrictions were eased, shows data with the India Post.What stats sayAgainst the corresponding period in 2019, the division’s booking stats show a fall of 43 per cent in May, 7.3 per cent in June and 14 per cent in July, this year. Officials said data for August would be made available only after September 15.Against the corresponding period in 2019, the division’s booking stats show a fall of 43 per cent in May, 7.3 per cent in June and 14 per cent in July, this year. Officials said data for August would be made available only after September 15.Articles booked include registered letters and parcels, speed post (domestic and international), business parcel, electronic money orders and e-payments.Manoj Kumar, Senior Superintendent of Post Office, Chandigarh Postal Division, said: “During the lockdown, several organisations and businesses were either not working or partially working.”He said: “The service of registered articles was also restricted during that time. In July this year, a total of 3,78,257 accountable articles were delivered in the Chandigarh Division.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-hit-postal-bookings-in-april-141776
16-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali district emerges leader in Twitter ‘Conversation Replay’||Mohali emerged as a leader in Twitter ‘Conversation Replay’. It was among the top three cities across themes of ‘adventure & travel’, ‘humour’ and ‘doing good deeds’. A study commissioned by Twitter India shows that Indians found joy in everyday conversations last year. The team analysed 850,000 tweets across 22 cities in India from September to November 2019.The study reveals Mohali was one of the top five cities for conversations around romance on Twitter. Mohali ranked second for its volume of Twitter conversations about adventure and travel in 2019. The town ranked second for its humorous conversations in 2019.Manish Maheshwari, MD of Twitter India, said: “Twitter is a modern public square where diverse voices discuss and share their views on topics and conversations that interest them.”Maheshwari said: “Last year, people were celebrating and revelling in many joys of life. Sharing these conversations is our way of giving Indians a moment of happiness and reminding them that joy can still be found in little pleasures”.The study further found that the 10 most talked-about themes included animals, celebration, celebrity content, doing good deeds, family, food, humour, nostalgia, romance and sports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-district-emerges-leader-in-twitter-conversation-replay-141789
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC invites suggestions, objections||The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has invited suggestions and objections from public regarding the Chandigarh Plastic Waste Management Bylaws-2020 till September 25.On July 28 this year, the Municipal Corporation published a draft notification of the Chandigarh Plastic Waste Management Bylaws-2020.Among the key points in the draft are that individual household and institutional waste generators will take steps to minimise the generation of plastic waste and segregate plastic waste at source.The draft bylaws also state that institutional generators of plastic waste will segregate and store generated waste in accordance with the Social Waste Management Rules 2016.Under the heading segregation, collection and storage of plastic waste of the bylaws, it is written that bulk generators of solid waste such as shopping malls, cinema halls, hotels and institutions will be encouraged to initiate and undertake special drives and programmes to promote segregated waste collections.On September 27, 2019, the Environment Department, UT, had banned single-use plastic in the city. Under the ban, no person, including a shopkeeper, vendor, wholesaler or retailer, trader and hawker, could manufacture, store, import, sell, transport, supply or use plastic, thermocol and Styrofoam items.Almost one year after, the Administration has not been able to enforce the ban completely.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-invites-suggestions-objections-141792
16-09-2020||Chandigarh||Gill gets charge of AYUSH Director||Man held for stealing carsChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a Zirakpur resident for vehicle thefts. The police had laid a naka near the GMCH, Sector 32, and apprehended the suspect, Saleem (38), while riding a stolen Honda City car. The police said a total of four Honda City cars had been recovered from him. Three cars were stolen from the Sector 34 police station area in July and August. TNSBurail resident held for theftChandigarh: A Burail resident has been arrested for allegedly stealing 230 “namkeen” packets from a shop at Burail. On a complaint of Abhishek Parjapati, the police have registered a case at the Sector 34 police station. Later, the suspect, Sher Khan, alias Sheru, was arrested in the case. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gill-gets-charge-of-ayush-director-141793
