16-05-2020||Chandigarh||No fresh virus case for third day in Chandigarh||No fresh COVID-19 case was reported in Chandigarh for the third day in a row while 12 people were discharged from hospital after getting cured of the infection on Saturday, a health bulletin said.To date, the Union Territory has reported 191 cases with three people succumbing to the infection, and 53 people have recovered in the city so far.Of the fresh recovered cases, 10 belong to the Bapu Dham colony, the worst-hit area in the city.A total of 2,718 samples have been tested so far, of which 2,513 were declared negative while reports of 13 are awaited, the bulletin said.Now, there are 137 active cases in the city. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-fresh-virus-case-for-third-day-in-chandigarh-85673
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||12 coronavirus patients discharged; total 53 recover in Chandigarh||The PGI Hospital here on Saturday added 12 more corona conquerors to its consistently increasing list of declared cured and recovered patients, taking the total count of those recovered crossing the half-century mark at 53.Of the 12 recovered residents of Chandigarh, 10 are from Bapu Dham cluster, comprising eight men in the age group of 17 to 50 years, and two women aged 21 and 27 years.Celebrating their successful recovery, the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) COVID-19 team had lined up in good strength to cheer the corona conquerors as they were ushered one by one towards the exit, some excited and some emotional but all of them happy and in 'high spirits'.PGIMER Director Jagat Ram was personally present at the send-off ceremony, greeting them with flowers and gifts."Most of these people have made incredible recoveries," said Jagat Ram."It definitely is a matter of jubilation for them and their families. But it also marks a milestone for our frontline warriors, giving them a reassurance, a reiteration of faith that their incessant efforts can help their patients can win this battle of COVID-19."With this increased pace of recoveries, we hope to continue to send off other patients as well to their homes soon," he said.Detailing about the issues in treating COVID-19 patients with co-morbid conditions, G. D. Puri, Head of the Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, said, "Treating COVID-19 patients along with co-morbid conditions is a huge challenge for the treating team due to compromised immunity owing to other ailments.Expressing their gratitude to PGIMER, recovered people shared their sentiments as one of them summed up on their behalf: "When I came to know I was diagnosed with COVID-19, I was initially angry and frustrated but later became very hopeless and my morale was extremely low."But the medical team here at PGIMER not only treated and cured me, but they also kept my spirits also very high with their constant motivation.""We are deeply indebted and owe our recovery to PGIMER team only," the recovered people said in unison as they settled in their home-bound ambulances.Though discharged from the PGIMER, the cured patient will be home quarantined for 14 days as per the standard protocol to be followed by all Covid-19 patients. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-coronavirus-patients-discharged-total-53-recover-in-chandigarh-85631
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Balbir Singh Sr continues to be on ventilator in Mohali, condition stabilising||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Senior, who has been admitted since last week at the Fortis Mohali, continues to be ventilator assistance. However, he has not suffered from anymore cardiac arrests since Thursday and his condition is stabilising."No further cardiac events since the last update. His condition is stabilising but continues to be on ventilator assistance. He still hasn't regained consciousness," his grandson Kabir said in a statement on Saturday.Kabir also said that doctors are continuously assessing the condition of the triple Olympic gold medallist and that further statements will be issued as and when a change in condition happens.Since Tuesday, Balbir Singh has suffered from three cardiac arrests (two on Wednesday and one a day before).The 96-year-old was hospitalised on May 8 with high fever and breathing trouble. But, his COVID-19 test came negative.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had also wished the legend a speedy recovery."Saddened to know that Balbir Singh Senior Ji had a heart attack today and is in ICU now in a critical state. Praying for your speedy recovery, sir," Amarinder had tweeted on Tuesday.Balbir was part of the Indian teams that won gold at the 1948 London Olympics, Helsinki 1952 and Melbourne 1956.His record for most individual goals scored in an Olympic men's hockey final remains unbeaten. Balbir had set this record when he scored five goals in India's 6-1 win over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Games.He was the head coach of the Indian team for the 1975 men's World Cup, which India won and the 1971 men's World Cup, where India earned a bronze medal. He was also conferred with the prestigious Padma Shri in 1957. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/balbir-singh-sr-continues-to-be-on-ventilator-in-mohali-condition-stabilising-85623
16-05-2020||Mohali||Respite, 35 discharged in Mohali||A total of 35 Covid patients were discharged today, bringing down the number of active cases in the district to mere seven.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said as per the new discharge guidelines issued by the Punjab Health Department, a Covid patient having no symptom of the disease for 10 days of admission to a Covid care facility should be discharged and sent home.He added that the recovered patients, who had been undergoing treatment at the Covid care centre in Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur, were given strict directions to place themselves under home quarantine for seven days as a precautionary measure. Health teams will keep track of their health regularly.Read alsoManjit Singh said as of now, there were 105 cases in the district and 95 of them had been cured while three died of the disease. He said the discharged patients belonged to different parts of the district.He said the remaining patients were undergoing treatment at the Banur hospital. All patients were stable. The condition of none of them was serious, he added.The Civil Surgeon appealed to the people not to leave their homes and go out only in case there was an urgent need. He asked them to visit hospital only in case of a serious problem. Instead, they should contact ‘104’, the helpline of the Health Department, for an expert advice. He urged people to wash their hands frequently and keep necessary distance from each other.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/respite-35-discharged-in-mohali-85387
16-05-2020||Panchkula||2 fresh cases raise Panchkula tally to 25||Two more persons have tested positive for the deadly Covid in Panchkula, taking the district tally to 25.1 patient dischargedA 63-year-old woman from Sector 10 tested positive for the virus. She was undergoing treatment for cancer at a private hospital. Her sample, which was taken before chemotherapy, came out positive today. The patient was shifted to an isolation ward in the Civil Hospital,Migrants screenedCivil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said from now on, migrant labourers would only be medically screened at Tau Devi Lal Stadium as they were queuing up in large numbers at the Civil Hospital and social distancing rules were being ignored. The screening of migrant workers at health care centres, including in Kalka, will continue as usual. A health official said around 2,500 migrants got medical certificates on Friday. Of these, 1,300 people were screened at Tau Devi Lal Stadium. Sector 6. Her five family members have been tested for Covid.The second case is that of a 56-year-old man from Sector 21. His two primary contacts were sent to the Civil Hospital for Covid testing. The patient’s son is a physician at the hospital.Residential areas partially containedDCMukesh Kumar Ahuja on Friday issued an order to contain particular areas of Sector 10 and Sector 21 after two cases were reported from there.Source yet to be tracedRajiv Narwal, district nodal officer for Covid, said, “The source of virus in both patients is yet to be traced.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-fresh-cases-raise-panchkula-tally-to-25-85388
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||High Court raps Administration for treating Chandigarh as ‘green zone’||Virtually rapping the UT Administration for practically treating Chandigarh as a “green zone” and indulging in adventurism, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today minced no words to say 500 people could be seen at Sukhna Lake the previous day.Will go by MHA norms, says UTPankaj Jain, senior standing counsel for the UT, undertook that the authorities in future as well would continue to strictly implement the MHA guidelines regarding Covid-19. The authorities would consult and seek clarifications from the MHA, in case it was required.Verbally describing the Administration as “most intelligent” and “super government”, a Division Bench of the High Court asked the UT counsel why not open the courts as well when everything else had been opened.Responding to the assertion by the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, PIL-petitioner Pankaj Chandgothia pointed out that then even temples should have been allowed to open. Speaking for the Bench, the Chief Justice observed that such places had not been allowed to be opened by the Centre because people tend to gather in large number. Chief Justice Jha also drew a parallel with the lake, where more than 500 people could be seen.Senior standing counsel for the UT Pankaj Jain undertook that the authorities would continue to strictly implement the MHA guidelines on Covid.The undertaking came after Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain submitted that the petitioner, UT and the Union of India had common object and concern regarding steps to be taken for the prevention of Covid-19.Since the present guidelines were applicable for another two days up to May 17, the UT and the MHA would sit together today itself and resolve all issues latest by tomorrow. Chandgothia, during the course of the proceedings, had contended that the MHA had extended the nationwide lockdown to May 17. However, the UT, which was a limb of the MHA and was under its direct control, decided to grant liberal relaxations to the citizens even from neighbouring states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-raps-administration-for-treating-chandigarh-as-green-zone-85389
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Some relaxations likely, but don’t expect much in Chandigarh||With the third phase of the lockdown set to end on Sunday, the UT Administration is planning to give some more relaxations from Monday in order to give a boost to economic activities in the city.Several organisations and associations had given representations to the Administration to open various business establishments after the third phase of the lockdown so that they could gradually restart economic activities.Sources said the Administration could do away with the odd-even formula for opening of shops in sector markets. The sources said the Administration was also considering to open markets located on either sides of the main roads and in Sector 17.The authorities could also allow taxis to run with limited passengers. Public dealing in government offices will start on Monday and Sampark centres will also start functioning.A senior official said residents should not expect much as the city was still in the ‘Red Zone’ in view of a high number of Covid-19 cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/some-relaxations-likely-but-dont-expect-much-in-chandigarh-85390
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||79-yr-old woman oldest in Chandigarh to beat Covid||A 79-year-old woman from Sector 38 today became the oldest patient from the city to have recovered from Covid-19 and was discharged from the PGI.The anaesthesia team of the PGI managing the Covid ICU was able to treat her hypoxia without putting her on a ventilator. Hypoxia is a condition in which the body or a part of the body is deprived of adequate oxygen supply at the tissue level.“I used to feel suffocated even while going to washroom, but I did not give up as I wanted to defeat Covid,” she said.Her 82-year-old husband said, “Only my wife and I stay at home. When she left, I felt lonely. For 25 days, I could not speak to her as she had forgotten her phone at home. I tried to talk to policemen and doctors to know about her health but couldn’t connect with her. Today, suddenly an ambulance arrived and I was surprised to see her. I am happy for her.”The woman was given ‘high flow oxygen’ as well as postural therapy to treat hypoxia.She was admitted to the PGI on April 20. Dr GD Puri of the PGI said, “In addition to Covid lung conditions, she was found to have cardiac disease for which she was successfully treated.”Along with her, a nine-year-old child from Sector 30 was discharged today.No fresh case in past 2 daysFor the past two days, no new Covid case has been reported from the city. Due to this, the positivity rate has declined to 7.3 per cent from 8 per cent reported on May 12. Till now, 40 patients in the city have been discharged and there are 148 active cases.Bapu Dham man dies, samples taken for CovidA 35-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony, who was waiting to board a bus for Uttarakhand from the ISBT, Sector 17, complained of difficulty in breathing and was rushed to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, but died on the way on Friday. According to officials, his samples have been taken for Covid test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/79-yr-old-woman-oldest-in-chandigarh-to-beat-covid-85391
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||This teacher works without break to feed those in need||When some were making excuses to avoid duties during the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, Praveen Kaur, a teacher at Government Model Senior Secondary School, School, Sector 10, here, was instead wishing to get to work during the pandemic.Praveen, mid-day meal in-charge and also a NSS programme officer, has been engaged in preparing food for the needy since April 16. She has been leading a group of 20 mid-day meal workers, who cook ‘khichdi’ in lunch and dinner for around 4,000 persons daily. As many as 10 workers work every day from 9 am to 5 pm.She said the material was being provided by the Food and Supply Department. Later, officials of the Administration transport it to Sector 11, 25, Dhanas and Sarangpur for the needy. Likewise, various schools are preparing mid-day meals in specified areas.“Initially, we started preparing chapatis. But it was becoming difficult to prepare chapatis for a large number of people. I manage the entire cooking operation at my school. I ensure social distancing is maintained and gloves, masks and head gears are used by workers. I have been working without any break,” shares Praveen, who teaches social science and English to students from Class VIII to X.“I feel proud as I am able to help my country in this hour of need when nobody likes to move out. We asked some staff members to help out, but they made some or the other excuses. May be they had some issues. But I feel good being a part of this cause. My husband, Satinder Varma, a PGI employee, encourages me to keep going,” she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/this-teacher-works-without-break-to-feed-those-in-need-85392
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Stick to rigorous testing in Bapu Dham: Badnore||Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today directed the Health Department to carry on with rigorous screening or testing in Bapu Dham Colony and other containment zones in the city.During the daily review meeting, the Administrator advised all three medical institutions to work together to fight against Covid.The Administrator thanked PGI doctors for their visit to Bapu Dham for a field inspection and desired that an interim report may be submitted for immediate action by the Administration.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), informed that the guidelines of the Government of India for treatment and discharge of Covid patients had been duly circulated. He informed that a post-discharge centre had been set up in Sood Dharamshala for mild patients, who were required to be discharged after 10 days from hospital.Meanwhile, AK Sinha, Finance Secretary, stated that 12,500 stranded persons had been sent in 10 exclusive ‘shramik’ special trains to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Similar arrangements were made for Manipur students too, he added.UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that several reliefs were being granted by the Central Government for the benefit of the poor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stick-to-rigorous-testing-in-bapu-dham-badnore-85393
16-05-2020||Panchkula||Man held for raping 21-yr-old daughter||A 50-year-old man residing in Abheypur village in Sector 19 has been arrested for allegedly raping his 21-year-old daughter since last year.The victim, who is nine-month pregnant, was taken to the Civil Hospital by her mother late on Thursday late night. She delivered a dead baby at the hospital.Hospital staff subsequently informed the police about the matter. Neha Chauhan, SHO of Women police station, said they got intimation from the Sector 6 hospital about the victim. “In her ordeal, the victim told the police that her father had been raping and abusing her since last year. The victim couldn’t tell anybody her sufferings in fear,” the woman officer said.A case has been registered. The police have started an investigation into it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-raping-21-yr-old-daughter-85394
16-05-2020||Our CorrespondentDera Bassi||Woman’s body found in pond||The body of a unidentified woman with bricks tied around her limbs was found floating in a pond at Saidpura village falling under the Jurisdiction of the Dera Bassi police this morning.A resident of the village noticed the body floating in the pond. He informed the police following which the body was taken out.Though the cause of the death is yet to be ascertained, local residents suspect that the woman was murdered.The police said the body appeared to be eight to 10 days old. The police have not ruled out foul play. Based on circumstantial evidence, it appears the woman was murdered somewhere else and the body dumped in the pond. The police said their first priority was to ascertain the identity of the woman.The body was sent to the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, for a postmortem.Satinder Singh, SHO, Dera Bassi, said, “Efforts are on to identify the victim and trace her relatives. We will wait for the postmortem report to ascertain the exact cause of the death.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/womans-body-found-in-pond-85395
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula DC gets two weeks to pass order||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today set two-week deadline for the Panchkula Deputy Commissioner to pass an order regarding alleged illegal mining in the district after taking into consideration all facts and circumstances of the matter. Directions were also issued to the Deputy Commissioner to hear the petitioners before passing a speaking order in the matter.The directions by the Division Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh came on a petition filed against the State of Haryana and other respondents by Surinder Singh and nine other petitioners through counsel Sanjiv GuptaThe petitioners had moved the High Court seeking directions for restraining a respondent from carrying out mining operations in the area. Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, the counsel submitted that mines and minerals were being extracted from the land in question in an illegal manner. As such, necessary orders were required to be passed by the writ court.The State counsel, on the other hand, submitted that the matter was already being probed. Elaborating, he stated that the gram panchayat of Rattewali village in Panchkula district had been called by the office of Panchkula Deputy Commissioner and grievances were heard.Taking a note of submissions, the Bench added: “In view of the statement, we dispose of the writ petition with a direction that the Deputy Commissioner, Panchkula, shall pass a speaking order after taking into consideration all facts and circumstances of the case.”Before parting with the case, the Bench directed that three representatives of the petitioners would also be granted hearing by the Deputy Commissioner while deciding the matter. “The order would be passed thereafter at the earliest, in any case, not later than two weeks,” the Bench concluded.The petitioners had earlier sought directions for quashing the action of private respondents in doing illegal mining and extracting mines and minerals from their land without valid contract as required under the Mines and Minerals (Development andRegulation) Act, along with the provisions of Haryana Mines and Mineral Concession, Stocking, Transportation of Minerals and Prevention of illegal Mining Rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-dc-gets-two-weeks-to-pass-order-85396
16-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||5-yr-old tests positive||A five-year-old son of a combine driver, who has been afflicted with Covid, today tested positive for the virus. As many as 147 samples were collected and the report of other 146 was tested negative, said Civil Surgeon NK Aggarwal.The combine driver has been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, last week. Now, his son has also been admitted to the hospital.He said that on an average from 100 to 150 samples are being collected daily from different areas of the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-yr-old-tests-positive-85397
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Lockdown upside: Sharp decline in Chandigarh crime rate||A sharp decline in the crime graph has been witnessed in Chandigarh amid lockdown since March 23. Various crimes, including vehicle theft, snatching, burglary and kidnapping, have plunged in comparison to the corresponding period for the past two years.Major dip in road accidents tooA major dip in FIRs in road accidents has been witnessed between March 23 and May 12. While 39 FIRs were registered in 2018, the number was 37 in 2019 and only 4 FIRs have been registered this year. The calls regarding domestic violence has plunged by more than half during the lockdown. The police figures reveal that while 441 calls of domestic violence were received between January 1 and March 20, only 201 calls were received between March 21 and May 12.Fewer people venturing out has resulted in a few burglaries, snatching and road accidents.“A certain decline in crime rate has been registered this year. The outbreak of Covid-19 is the prime reason for this. However, the police did seize narcotic substances and liquor and several accused were arrested,” said UT SSP Nilambari Jagadale.The UT police statistics of crime reported between March 23 and May 12 reveals that while 105 vehicles were stolen in 2018, 70 were stolen in 2019, but this year, only nine vehicles were stolen during the same period.“The presence of police on the city roads and nakas has acted as a major deterrent behind lesser motor vehicle thefts,” the SSP added.The city witnessed only six snatching incidents during this period while the numbers were 19 and 26 during 2018 and 2019, respectively.Lockdown, as anticipated, has resulted in lesser burglaries. The police information reveals that while 22 incidents were reported in 2018 and 18 burglaries in 2019, only seven incidents have been reported this year.The number of rape incidents has also come down as only two cases were registered during the lockdown, while 12 cases were reported in 2018 and 17 in 2019.Similarly, kidnapping and abduction cases have also come down with only five cases reported this year — 22 were reported in 2018 and 26 in 2019.During the lockdown, cops also nabbed 12 drug peddlers and recovered total 461.25-gram heroin. Meanwhile, 28 persons were arrested under the Excise Act for illegally possessing liquor, which led to the recovery of 2,938 bottles, 597halves, 715 quarters and 169 beer boxes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-upside-sharp-decline-in-chandigarh-crime-rate-85398
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||2,496 board trains to UP, Bihar from Chandigarh||Two trains ferried 2,496 migrants to Madhubani in Bihar and Unnao in UP today.While 1,284 persons boarded the train to Madhubani at 2 pm, 1,212 migrants boarded the Unnao train at 8 pm. The trains left at their scheduled time.21 buses leave for UttarakhandThe Chandigarh Administration has made two holding centres at the ISBT-43 to make sure that the stranded persons are sent back safely to their destinations. The migrants are medically examined at centres and they have to carry the medical certificate throughout the journey.Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Social Welfare, Chandigarh Administration, said: “A list is prepared of those who register either through the helpline or website of the Administration. Then, phone calls are made to migrants asking them to reach the ISBT for screening and subsequent journey. Those who do not receive any call should not come to the ISBT-43.”He solicited the co-operation from NGOs concerned and other voluntary organisations to help in smooth movement of migrants.Schedule for todayAt 2 pm, a train will leave for Supaul, Darbhanga and Saharsa in Bihar. At 7 pm, a train will leave for Beharich and Gonda (Uttar Pradesh).2,720 from Mohali embark on journey back homeNearly 3,454 migrant workers returned to their home states Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh in three trains from the Mohali and Sirhind railway stations.The first train carrying 1,392 workers from Mohali, Ropar and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar left the Mohali railway station for Hardoi while another train with 1,328 workers left for Bettian in West Champaran district of Bihar.The elation was writ large on the faces of the migrant population going back to their native place. They expressed deepest gratitude to the district administration for providing them food, water, biscuits and making elaborate preparations for their journey back home.Meanwhile, the district administration sent 734 migrant workers belonging to Madhya Pradesh to Sirhind from where they boarded the train to Katni with intermittent stoppages at Gwalior, and Bina. — TNS4 ‘shramik’ trains chug off from SirhindFatehgarh Sahib: Fourth ‘shramik’ trains with 1,140 migrants onboard chugged off from Sirhind to Gwalior and Bina, Katni in MP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-496-board-trains-to-up-bihar-from-chandigarh-85401
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Woman held for husband’s murder||A woman has been arrested for strangulating her 32-year-old husband in Burail village.The police said accused Radha had claimed that the victim had committed suicide.The body was then shifted to the GMSH-16 for Covid testing. The results were negative. The autopsy revealed that the victim was strangulated. A murder case has been registered against the woman at the Sector 34 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-held-for-husbands-murder-85402
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Viral video: 10 identified, 4 of them kin of cured man||The UT police have identified at least 10 persons, including four family members of a recovered Covid-19 patient, who held a ceremony to welcome a man who returned home at Ram Darbar after getting cured.An FIR was registered against unknown Ram Darbar residents for defying social distancing norms after a video had gone viral.The clip showed some residents of Ram Darbar, violating social distancing norms by garlanding a man and showering flower petals on him. He was given a grand welcome amid dhol beats.Police officials said based on the video at least 10 persons have been identified, including four family members, who were among the crowd gathered to welcome the man.Besides the video, the police is also scrutinising the CCTV footage of the area.“We are in process of identifying all people after which they will be arrested,” said a police official.The cop was also seen standing on one side and watching the whole ceremony, following which Inspector Rajdeep Singh, SHO, Sector 31 police station, had sent a special report to senior officers on the role of that cop.Police officials said an explanation has been called from the head constable against whom departmental action was recommended for failing to disperse the crowd and inform his superiors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/viral-video-10-identified-4-of-them-kin-of-cured-man-85404
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 41 lakh for disposing of garbage of quarantined||The Finance and Contract Committee, MC, has accorded approval for disposal of garbage bags collected from people quarantined in the city at an estimated cost of Rs 41 lakh.Mayor Raj Bala Malik, who chaired the panel meeting, briefed that during the lockdown, MC offcials were providing essential services to the citizens in addition to their own basic responsibilities. The Mayor said deadlines for property tax, vendor fee, water supply bills had been rescheduled.Other decisions taken by the committee||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-41-lakh-for-disposing-of-garbage-of-quarantined-85406
16-05-2020||---||PGI chemist fee: High Court orders maintenance of status quo||Chandigarh, May 15The Punjab and Haryana High Court today ordered the maintenance of status quo while taking up a petition filed by a chemist in the PGIMER claiming inability to pay the licence fee as the lockdown had affected his business.‘His Business affected due to Covid outbreak’Appearing before the Bench, advocate Sunil Chadha on the petitioner's behalf said his grievance was that the OPDs in the PGIMER were not functioning due to the Covid outbreak. This had severely affected his business and he was not in a position to pay the licence fee.The order by the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh came on a petition against the Union of India and other respondents by Kuldip Singh Pardesi through senior advocate Sunil Chadha and Rahul Bhargava.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Chadha on the petitioner’s behalf contended that he was a successful bidder in the tenders for allotment of a chemist shop in the PGIMER. Thereafter, he deposited Rs 2,73,63,441 as security and another Rs 2,31,89,358 as “performance guarantee”.His grievance was that the OPDs in the PGIMER were not functioning due to the outbreak of Covid-19. This had severely affected his business and he was not in a position to pay the licence fee.“According to him, in such a situation, ‘force majeure’ clause should be invoked and necessary relief should be granted to him. Alternatively, he relies on Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act to contend that sub-stratum of the contract no longer subsists. Thus, doctrine of frustration needs to be invoked,” Justice Gupta asserted on behalf of the Bench.After accepting the notice, Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain submitted he has not been able to get instructions and prayed for more time to get instructions from the Director, PGI, and Secretary, Ministry of Health, Government of India.“In the interest of justice, the matter is adjourned to May 18. Till then, status quo in respect of security deposit as well as performance guarantee be maintained,” the Bench added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chemist-fee-high-court-orders-maintenance-of-status-quo-85408
16-05-2020||---||8 days on, no new case in Sector 30, Chandigarh, first affected pocket||Chandigarh, May 15Sector 30-B, the city’s first containment zone, has not reported a new Covid case for the past eight days. Ten of the 21 patients belonging to the area have been discharged. While one patient had died of the disease, 10 from the area are undergoing treatment.A cluster of nearly 590 households was identified as part of the affected pocket. The last case was reported from the area on May 7 when a 12-year-old girl, who was a family contact of Covid cases, had tested positive.The first case was reported from the area on March 27. A 22-year-old man, who had returned from Dubai on March 11, had tested positive. He had reported to the hospital on March 25.The first case in Bapu Dham was reported on April 24. Since then, 121 cases have been reported from the area. Three of these were cured while one died. The last Covid case was reported on May 13.A total of 2,728 persons were surveyed in the Bapu Dham containment zone.At present, there are six containment zones in the UT – Bapu Dham Colony, Mani Majra, Dhanas, Sector 30-B, Sector 52 and Sector 38. Two cases have been reported from Dhanas, one from Mani Majra, two from Sector 38 and three from Sector 52.The lone case from Mani Majra was reported on May 2. A 49-year-old man, who is the father of a Covid patient of Bapu Dham, had tested positive. On May 5, Dhanas had reported its last case, which was of a 60-year-old woman. In Sector 52, two household contacts of a 19-year-old girl (relative of a Bapu Dham case) had tested positive on April 30. This was the last Covid case reported from Sector 52.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-days-on-no-new-case-in-sector-30-chandigarh-first-affected-pocket-85409
16-05-2020||Mohali||Senior Adviser to CM meets Dayalan||Senior Adviser to CM, Lt Gen (retd) TS Shergill, along with OSD Karanveer Singh, today visited Mohali and sought feedback on areas where the services of Guardians of Governance (GoGs) may be utilised.Shergill met DC Girish Dayalan in this regard. Shergill appreciated the proactive role of GoGs in bailing public out of the pandemic. He said dedication, devotion to duty and camaraderie of cadres stayed even when they were out of uniform.He said the responsibility of distribution of ration, management of labour and data-mapping has been shouldered by them. — TNSBesides, the dedicated cadre has enforced social distancing norms at many places especially the rural banks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senior-adviser-to-cm-meets-dayalan-85411
16-05-2020||Mohali||All industrial units to open in Mohali||Giving further relaxations, the district administration has allowed all industrial establishments to open in both urban and rural areas, as per the MHA guidelines for orange zones.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan said shops in urban areas can be opened on a staggered rotational basis from 7 am to 6 pm, but the rotation shall not apply to essential shops, including food, groceries, milk and milk products and medicine, and workshops such as those for automobiles, liquor vends and those specifically exempted.Dayalan said restaurants/eateries shall remain closed except for home delivery and takeaway with specific permission of the District Magistrate and added that dine-in shall not be allowed and both the management and customer shall be held responsible for violating this condition. The industries/industrial establishments — both government and private — shall be allowed to open in both urban and rural areas as per the provisions of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Banks would be open for public dealing between 9 am and 5 pm or regular hours of a bank concerned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-industrial-units-to-open-in-mohali-85412
16-05-2020||Chandigarh||55 donate blood at BJP camp||Omaxe supports labourersNew Chandigarh: Realty major Omaxe Limited has been feeding the hundreds of labourers living at their construction sites in New Chandigarh and ensuring their safety and hygiene since the lockdown. The realty major has also undertaken measures to support senior citizens at Omaxe societies. Now, construction activities have resumed at the site. The group is strictly following the guidelines for containment of Covid-19. The group is undertaking initiatives to aid the senior citizens, ensuring door-to-door delivery of groceries and medicines. TNSRe-evaluation date extendedChandigarh: Panjab University has extended the date for applying for the re-evaluation of answer books to May 30 for candidates whose results had been declared March 1 onwards. Candidates of the undergraduate and postgraduate courses can apply online for re-evaluation on ugexam.puchd.ac.in/Reevaluation/Login.aspx and pgexam.puchd.ac.in/Reevaluation/Login.aspx , respectively, and can pay their fee online by registering themselves on payonline.puchd.ac.in or through the post office. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/55-donate-blood-at-bjp-camp-85413
