16-04-2020||---||2 women 'beat up' Mohali councillor for 'not providing' them ration amid coronavirus lockdown||Mohali, April 16Police booked two women on Thursday for allegedly assaulting and threatening a councillor for "showing a biased approach" in distributing ration to them.The women have been identified as Raj Kumari and Saroj, residents of Phase 11.Councillor Jasvir Singh, also a resident of Phase 11, in his complaint, alleged that a group of women gathered outside his house—around 6 pm—when he was at home.He revealed that the women complained that some people were distributing ration at Bawa White House in Phase 11. They said they could not get the ration and were told to get an authorisation letter from the councillor and then only they would be given the ration.Singh said he told the women that the matter was not in his knowledge.He said he gave them his phone number saying when the people would again distribute the ration they should get him connected to them.After this he went inside his house, he added.Singh alleged that the two women followed him into the house.He alleged that Raj Kumari caught his right arm while Saroj slapped him.He said after this he ran towards one of the rooms in his house and locked himself in fearing the women could level false allegations against him.He said, meanwhile, the other members of his family arrived there and the two women left the house. Singh said the women, while fleeing threatened him that if they did not get the ration they would retaliate.He said the women were thinking that he was intentionally not providing them the ration and added that he feared threat to his life.A case against the two women under Sections 323, 452, 506, 34, 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC has been registered at the Phase 11 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-women-beat-up-mohali-councillor-for-not-providing-them-ration-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-71988
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||IMTECH to carry out genome sequencing of novel coronavirus||Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH)  has initiated whole-genome sequencing of the novel coronavirus (SARS-Cov-2) to understand and chronologise its evolution and mutation pattern.Whole-genome sequencing is the method used to determine the complete DNA sequence of a specific organism’s genetic material.IMTECH along with other sister laboratories of Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) having specialisation in genomics, medicine and cell biology, has embarked upon this ambitious project to carry out large-scale genome sequencing of the various SARS-Cov-2 strains across the country.With its expertise in microbial and genomic research, IMTECH will perform sequencing of the SARS-Cov-2 RNA genome isolated from clinical samples.Viruses have a higher mutation rate than other microbes and their genetic material keeps on changing quickly as they replicate rapidly.The complete genome sequence information will enable researchers to gain insights about the origins of the virus, the different types of strains circulating in India and how has it spread across the length and breadth of the country.The genomic resource obtained from this sequencing will also allow the identification of new targets for diagnosis and drugs for COVID-19.“We have already started clinical testing of human samples for COVID-19 and now by embarking on this mission to sequence viral strains, we will be better equipped to understand the nature of this virus which has caused a global pandemic,” Dr Sanjeev Khosla, Director, IMTECH said. “We will be using our experience in portable, real-time and direct genome sequencing to study the chemical modification in SARS-Cov-2 strains from India,” he added.IMTECH has recently set up a bio-safety level—2plus virology lab equipped with Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) equipment for research in molecular microbiology that is also engaged in the COVID-19 project.Last year, CSIR had conducted whole-genome sequencing of 1,008 Indians from different parts of the country for building the know how, baseline data and indigenous capacity in the emerging area of precision medicine.This will have applications in a number of areas including predictive and preventive medicine with a faster and efficient diagnosis of rare genetic diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/imtech-to-carry-out-genome-sequencing-of-novel-coronavirus-71983
16-04-2020||Panchkula||37-year-old found hanging in Panchkula park||A 37-year-old man committed suicide by hanging himself from the roof of a seating area in a park in Panchkula on Thursday morning.The park is situated in Phase-2 of the Industrial Area.The body of Sanjeev Kumar, who used to live with his family in a rented accommodation in Budhanpur village in Sector 16, was discovered by a passerby who informed the police about the matter.Sector 19 chowki in-charge SI Gulab Singh said, “Primary investigation revealed the victim was a habitual drinker and wasn’t regular with his work. He might have been suffering from depression as per the statement of family members. The exact reason behind the suicide is not yet clear.”He is survived by a wife and two children. The body was taken to Sector 6 Civil Hospital for post-mortem. The police have registered a case under section 174 of the CrPC and started the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/37-year-old-found-hanging-in-panchkula-park-71975
16-04-2020||Amit Bathla||7 of Panchkula couple's family test positive for coronavirus||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 16Seven more members belonging to the family of a Sector 15 couple in Panchkula have tested positive for coronavirus, thus taking the district total to 14.\On Tuesday, the 44-year-old woman from Sector 15 was found Covid positive and a day after her husband was also diagnosed with the infectious disease.Sector 15 was sealed after that.Panchkula currently falls in orange zone but if one more case is found positive, it would slip into red zone.With this, the number of cases has risen to 212 in Haryana. The state has reported three deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-of-panchkula-couples-family-test-positive-for-coronavirus-71946
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Property tax date extended||347 detained for violating curfewChandigarh: A total of 347 persons were on Wednesday rounded up by the Chandigarh Police for violating the curfew orders. Six persons were booked under Section 188 of the IPC of whom five were booked for not wearing a mask. The police said 194 vehicles were detained and 135 impounded in different parts of the city. So far, 13,954 persons have been rounded up, 6,928 vehicles have been detained and 4,219 impounded. TNSFire breaks out at liquor shopMohali: A fire broke out at a liquor shop in the fields of Saneta village here today. The incident took place around 3 pm. The police reached the spot on getting a call from villagers. The police then informed the fire station in Mohali, following which a fire tender was pressed into service. The fire was brought under control in around 45 minutes. All bottles and furniture inside the shop were completely burnt in the incident. The shop was closed due to the curfew in the district. “The cause of fire is not ascertained yet,” said Sub-Inspector Paramjit Singh, incharge, Saneta police post. OC6K LPG cylinders deliveredChandigarh: To ensure smooth supply, the Administration has delivered a total of 6,009 LPG cylinders to residents or households in the city. Of the total cylinders delivered by the gas agencies, 3,831 were supplied by IOCL, 1,382 by HPCL and 796 by BPCL. The Administration assured the residents that the supply of LPG cylinders in the city would be maintained and there was no need to panic. TNSPanchkula Golf club helps caddiesChandigarh: The Panchkula Golf Club management has decided to help 150 registered caddies by providing them monetary benefits. The management announced to pay Rs5,000 as sustenance allowance to each caddie to ease out their financial distress in these unprecedented times. “Welfare of the caddies is our top priority. The caddies have been laid off from work as the course has been closed. We have also distributed essential food items among them,” said Col AS Dhillion, general manager, PGC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-tax-date-extended-71712
16-04-2020||Our Correspondent||50 defy curfew norms to collect ration near Khamano Hospital||Khamano, April 15Defying curfew norms, around 50 persons gathered in the vicinity of the Khamano Civil Hospital where ration was being distributed by members of the society.The ration was distributed by by the Sai Eye Care Society.Giving more information, Dr Naresh Chauhan said, “Our society is helping the needy from the past couple of days. We will distribute ration in the coming days too.”Social distancing norm, which is a must to control the spread of Covid- 19 outbreak was not followed by those, who gathered near the Civil Hospital to collect the ration.Asha workers of the area were also present at the spot.Earlier, 11 persons of Aurangabad, who attended Tabhligi Jamaat conference at Nizamudin in New Delhi had stayed at Maneli village.Two women out of these 11 persons tested Covid positive and are under treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital, Rajpura, while the remaining nine have been quarantined at Victor Institute, Ranwan.Members of the society ignored all the instructions while distributing ration to the needy.Some health workers were also present at the ration distribution spot. Local Congress leaders of the area were also called for distribution of dry ration among the needy, but nobody asked people to practise social distancing. Ration was distributed among 40 persons on the occasion.When contacted, the Khamano SDM, Paramjit Singh, said he would inquire into the matter and take action as per law after investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/50-defy-curfew-norms-to-collect-ration-near-khamano-hospital-71700
16-04-2020||Surinder Bhardwaj---||90 suspected Covid patients test negative||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 15 The administration heaved a sigh of relief after 90 of 92 suspected Covid-19 patients tested negative in the district. Two Jamaatis (women) who were found positive have been showing signs of improvement at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, said Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, Fatehgarh Sahib.  He said no new positive case has been reported in the district from the past one-week. Dr Aggarwal said the two women who belong to Aurangabad came to the district along with along with 30 other Jamaatis. He said both are in good condition and their 14-day quarantine period will end on April 20. In case they are found negative the duo would be discharged, he said.  Dr Aggarwal said 43 samples of primary contacts of these two women were taken and 33 tested negative while result is awaited of 10 persons.  He said 848 Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) who came to the district have been traced and all of them have completed 14 days of home quarantine.  Dr Aggarwal said 59 visitors who came from Hazur Sahib and 154 who attended Hola Mohalla are under home quarantine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/90-suspected-covid-patients-test-negative-71697
16-04-2020||---||Panchkula to screen vendors, slum-dwellers||Panchkula, April 15 In order to combat the Covid-19 outbreak, Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has asked officials to ensure that people practise social distancing and intensive sanitisation is done during health screening in densely populated areas.  As per official order, 16,595 persons living in slums will be screened. Teams comprising 19 Supervisors, Assistant Sanitary Inspectors and 82 volunteers have been appointed for the purpose. The areas include slums near Kisan Bhawan, Sector 14; Bhainsa Tibba; Haripur; Khark Mangoli; Abheypur; Ramgarh; Nada Sahib; Sector 23; Gandhi Colony; Saketri and Maheshpur. Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta on Wednesday said vegetable and fruit vendors in Panchkula, Kalka, Raipur Rani and Barwala should be screened. He urged volunteers to distribute dry ration to the needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-to-screen-vendors-slum-dwellers-71696
16-04-2020||---||Hostels as hospitals: Students red-flag Chandigarh Admn’s proposal||Chandigarh, April 15Panjab University’s campus students’ council president Chetan Chaudhary and its vice president Rahul Kumar have red-flagged the UT Administration’s proposal to convert Panjab University (PU) hostels into Covid Care Hospitals.The university, too, has written to the UT Administration, expressing concern over the matter.Reportedly, the PU’s girls’ hostels number 8, 9 and 10 and its International Hostel will serve as the Covid Care Hospitals.There are 170 beds in each girls’ hostel and 120 in the International Hostel.Chaudhary’s letter to the varsity authorities says this news has created panic among students. “Many students have left important documents in their rooms. We have plenty of guest houses in the university with attached washrooms, which can be turned into isolation wards for Covid-19 positive patients.”The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), president, Nikhil Narmeta said as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Health for Covid-19, hostels do not fit the bill.PU writes to the AdministrationOn April 13, the university wrote to the Home Secretary of the UT Administration regarding setting up of a Covid Care Hospital at the hostels.The letter reads: “As you are aware, the students were requested to vacate the hostels suddenly. Hence, their belongings are still in their rooms that they locked before leaving. It can be problematic to open rooms, make inventory of belongings and handover rooms for the hospital purpose. There will be problems later on when students join after the lockdownis lifted.”The university, however, assured the UT Administration of making adequate arrangements, as may be required.“We request to have another round of the campuses in Sector 14 and 25 of Panjab University for identifying any other suitable location for the above said purpose.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hostels-as-hospitals-students-red-flag-chandigarh-admns-proposal-71694
16-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Covid pandemic derails Panjab University’s placement drive||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 15Global economic slowdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic has sunk high hopes of Panjab University (PU) students, who were eagerly waiting for the placement drives.The central placement cell of the PU organises annual placement drive between March and April. However, since there is a complete nationwide lockdown, the students have no option but to wait.“We will organise the placement drive later. There is no dearth of talent and I trust companies will surely reach out here. Not only India, but the world has stopped functioning, we will have to wait to attract some companies,” said Prof Meena Sharma, Director, Central Placement Cell.He said, “We have been continuously guiding and providing students with some online exercises so that they continue to sharpen their skills. I must assure that the PU authorities are standing in support of students.”Not only placement drives but internships, which are covered as a part of curriculum in majority of the departments have also been affected.“Having no other option, we are asking for work-from-home internship assignments from companies. This is usually the time when companies reach out to last semester batches for processing recruitment. However, considering the ongoing worldwide hit, I believe things are not heading towards a good direction,” said Anshul, a PU student.Heads of the various departments have also expressed their concern over the pertaining situation. “Students will be considered lucky, if they get a decent package in the upcoming placement drive. I believe the situation will be clearer after the lockdown ends. Most of the companies will access their stakes before hiring,” said a professor.Ironically, the central placement cell was scheduled to conduct AVSAR –II (Placement drive) on March 6 and 7 at the PU and regional centres. However, it was postponed to March 23 to 24 and later on for an indefinite period.“No one is at fault. We hope for a quick market recovery. This is also a good time to think on some start-ups, but for this we need to have some experience,” said Komal, another student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-pandemic-derails-panjab-universitys-placement-drive-71693
16-04-2020||---||Now, file e-challan by May 15||Chandigarh, April 15The Union Ministry of Labour has extended the due date for filing of Electronic Challan-cum-Return (ECR) up to May 15 for the employers, who have paid wages to their employees for March 2020.The due date for March was April 15, so grace period of 30 days has been allowed to the establishments covered under EPF to remit the contributions and administrative charges due for March 2020.The step has been taken keeping with the objective of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana to prevent disruption in employment and ensure earning to employees to help them fight the pandemic.The employers have to declare the date of disbursement of wage for March in the ECR for March.This is expected to benefit about six lakh establishments, including four lakh establishments eligible under the PMGKY package, which could not file the ECR on time due to the lockdown.30-day grace periodThe due date for March was April 15, so grace period of 30 days has been allowed to the establishments covered under EPF to remit the contributions and administrative charges due for March 2020.ATM route plan for todayATM van, Andhra BankLocation to start: Andhra Bank, Sector 17-B,ChandigarhCoordinator: Satvinder GurnamContact No. 8146903533Proposed route: Sector 19 and Sector 27, Chandigarh (10.30 am - 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, Canara BankLocation to start: Canara Bank, Plot No. 1, Sector 34-A, ChandigarhCoordinator: Sarvpreet SinghContact No. 8728800158Proposed route: Sector 55 Chandigarh (10.30 am – 1.30 pm), Sector 56, Chandigarh (1.30pm – 4.30pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, SBILocation to start: LHO, SBI, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Deepak ChechiContact No. 9478535876Proposed route: Faidan village,Chandigarh (10.30 am – 1.30 pm), Hallo Majra village (1.30 pm– 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-file-e-challan-by-may-15-71692
16-04-2020||---||CU feeds cows, dogs in Mohali||Chandigarh, April 15 Chandigarh University (CU) has launched a drive to feed stray animals during the lockdown.  Under its CU-AID programme, the CU is already offering cooked meals to 2,000 poor and needy persons in Chandigarh and Mohali.  University team of volunteers, headed by Satnam Singh Sandhu, Chancellor, reached cow shelters at Kharar and Morinda with 80 quintals of green fodder to feed the cows, buffalos and goats.  In addition, the team also fed stray dogs in Mohali and Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cu-feeds-cows-dogs-in-mohali-71687
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Business council comes to rescue||Mayor Raj Bala Malik today distributed sanitary pads, masks and sanitisers among waste collectors in Sector 15. “We distributed masks, juices and sanitary napkins among the sanitation staff and showered flowers on them. Even the Prime Minister had exhorted the citizens to honour #CovidWarriors,” said the Mayor. Meanwhile, Chandigarh Business Council, Sector 17, today donated 400 safety kits to the MC and handed it over to the Medical Officer of Health, Dr Amrit Warring, in the presence of KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/business-council-comes-to-rescue-71686
16-04-2020||Amarjot Kaur||PU to take teachers’ feedback on online teaching||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 15A day after The Tribune reported the roadblocks in Panjab University’s route to online teaching, the university authorities have now decided to take feedback from chairpersons, directors and coordinators for online teaching.Panjab University (PU) organised three online meetings chaired by PU Vice-Chancellor (VC) Prof Raj Kumar today with the officials and chairpersons. It was discussed that there is a need to make an academic calendar.The advisory committee has given 49 suggestions till date. It was decided that student’s grievance and apprehensions to be discussed on priority.The first meeting included the VC, Prof RK Singla, Dean, Research; Prof Karamjit Singh, Registrar; Prof Sanjay Kaushik, DCDC; Prof Neena Caplash, DSW(W); Dr Muneeshwar Joshi, SVC and professors from the Department of Laws, the UIHMT and the UIET.In the second meeting held through online platform, the VC, in presence of Prof RK Singla, interacted with chairpersons, directors and coordinators from 34 departments.The VC reviewed the progress of syllabus covered and teaching technology in the current situation. The chairpersons shared that before the lockdown, around 65 per cent syllabus was covered. Almost all departments are using various online platforms such as Google Classroom, Zoom, Skype, WhatsApp and e-mails to connect with students for covering syllabus and solving queries.Various chairpersons shared their experiences of interaction with students and said they were covering the syllabus using technology as the tool.The VC suggested that after the lockdown, sometime may be used for remedial classes and performing practicals. Thereafter, the examinations may be scheduled.Dr Vishal Sharma, coordinator, SWAYAM, PU, has also given a training session on using Zoom and WebEx as tools for online classroom teaching in the interactive mode. Some of the questions of chairpersons are clarified related to using these tools.In the third meeting, Prof Kumar, Prof RK Singla, Prof Neena Capalash and six faculty members of the UIET interacted online. The VC reviewed the progress of projects in development to handle Covid-19 situation and discussed using 3d printing technology for face covers, starting work on moulding machine for face mask manufacturing and connect with Principal GMCH, Director PGIMER for medical professional help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-to-take-teachers-feedback-on-online-teaching-71685
16-04-2020||Chandigarh||Sanitisers for Panjab University staff||Rotary Chandigarh Midtown today sponsored the distribution of sanitisers for those working for sanitisation and management of law and order at Panjab University (PU).Dr Rohit Kumar Sharma, Assistant Professor, Department of Chemistry, PU, is said to have prepared the sanitiser. The 25 liters of IPA, used for making sanitiser, was sponsored by the Rotary.To rationalise the delivery, a single contact point was created at the Horticulture Division of the university for workers. Dr Arun Bansal, Social Substance Group from the PU, coordinated the entire exercise. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitisers-for-panjab-university-staff-71684
16-04-2020||Sonali Aggarwal---||‘Not the Sukhna I’m supposed to be’||Hello, is anybody there?   Hello?!?!  Why is there such a silence, broken only by an occasional chirp, some cooing, a few dips, splashes and ripples, some scamper, some scurrying, an occasional growl from deep within? Where is the hustle, the bustle, the pulsating energy, starting much before the crack of dawn?  When the loving rays of the sun kiss me good morning, I stretch lazily glowing in the warmth and dress-up happily in multiple hues it brings to me, eager to welcome the multitudes, who throng across my esplanade through the day and the night.   I wait with bated breath to pose for the photographers who position themselves, eager to catch me in my morning splendour — in the blue hour and the golden — only to return later, to capture me shying away from the setting sun.  I wait for the relay racers, the enthusiastic walkers and runners, in the wee hours and late evening. I wait for the blissful youth, who laugh and sing and strum the guitar, happy in each other’s company and mine. I love it that it’s here they wanna be, that I am their muse, albeit secretly.  I even wait for the loners, the couples, the families and the friend groups that simply straddle my embankment. I wait for the avid birders and the nature lovers, lapping up my multiple trails. For the ones who meditate and exercise, I say: “Do not worry, we’ll be fine…”  I await the ones dotting the steps cascading down, staring away across my waters, hoping to unravel life mysteries and find answers before they head back.  My loyalists, taking care of me, arranging for the waters when it’s lean (of course, earlier they used to play cricket, too, on my bed!) and religiously de-weeding when not.    A passing breeze told me my lovers are under ‘lockdown’, apparently for some ravages they thrust upon the Mother Nature and me. But I say, it’s not true.  Without them, I am not Sukhna Lake I am supposed to be.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-the-sukhna-im-supposed-to-be-71683
16-04-2020||Aradhika Sharma||Coronised!||Some of my colleagues-cum-friends — Shobha, Sabrina, Mandy — and I were missing our office lunch-table chats and decided to meet up on an online chai-and-chat date to catch up with life and times during the quarantine.Raising our cups of tea in a combined cheer, Sabrina asked: “So, how’s it going with you girls?”Shobha: Well, I must say that this forced confinement has given rise to a few realisations, the first being that I don’t have control over anything. No plans, no deadlines! It’s tough on a person like me who likes to organise every minute of the day! I’m forced to let go. It’s a weird, empty feeling.Mandy: It’s a testing time for our emotional fortitude with our kids away, frail parents in other cities and the boundaries of cities and countries barred. There’s a frustrating loss of control.Sabrina: Arre, listen, remember my tenants whom I’ve been wanting to get rid of?Me: Those noisy people with destructive kids and the huge, smelly dog? Their lease was getting over on March 31, right?Sabrina: Yes, but now they aren’t leaving. I asked them to vacate and they called the police on me, claiming that we cannot eject them until the lockdown lasts. So, I’m stuck with these hateful people and must smile at them lest they call the police again.Shobha: That’s awful. But it’s better than what my niece, Ratna, is going through.Mandy: What happened? She got married only a few months ago, didn’t she?Shobha: Yes… but now she’s headed for a ‘covidivorce’. She was furious when she found that her husband was talking to other women. He, blatantly, unrepentant, says that she’s jealous and suspicious. Their marriage has completely unraveled under the pressure of isolation and the two have decided that they can’t stand each other.Mandy: Yaar, all that is OK, but not having household help is a pain! Literally! My shoulders, back and arms are permanently aching. And it’s going to take a month of manicures to get my hands in shape again.Shobha: Not to mention greying hair roots and shaggy eyebrows. A darned moustache has made an appearance on my upper lip too. Terrible!Me: Well, say what you will about the lockdown, but it enabled me to rediscover the pleasure of long phone conversations with friends. I had got into the lazy habit of only sending texts. So impersonal, nahin?Mandy: Yes. I think this confinement has taught me to truly value liberty which we habitually take for granted.Sabrina: And I’ve been set thinking about how much money I’ve wasted on clothes.I literally have no use for the gazillion outfits spilling out of my closets. One really doesn’t need to accumulate so much.Me: And what are your thoughts on the serene environment, the chirping birds, clear sky and fresh air?Everyone: Fabulous! Cheers to nature!Mandy: Great! Re-convene in 10 minutes with wine?“Absolutely!” we said and hurried away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronised-71682
16-04-2020||Priya Tandon---||Of learning lessons and being aware||What could not be achieved by repeated orders/suggestions from spiritual gurus, governments, counsellors, courts and social workers has been achieved with a nature’s master stroke — Covid-19. Did we not know deep down in our hearts that we were abusing the elements of nature? The ozone layer has been depleting. The glaciers have been melting. Global warming has been talked about for years now. But did we lend an ear? The fast pace of industrialisation; the spewing of effluents into the atmosphere; the alarming air quality index — everything has been staring us in the face, but we chose to turn a blind eye. With one stroke, the Almighty has shown us who the real master is. Everyone is at home. Schools, colleges, offices and factories have come to a standstill. Why? Because life is valuable than riches, comforts and qualifications. We are all back to the basics. I stepped out wearing a homemade mask one day to buy vegetables and fruits from a hawker who came to my doorstep. I put a spoonful of baking soda in a basin of water placed in backyard and let the veggies and fruits lie in there for an hour. Every day, I wash the milk packets outside with lawn water before I take them into my kitchen. Even packets of biscuits and pulses are being wiped with soapy water. We wash our hands and face before we enter the house if we step out for groceries. We leave our shoes outside. All this reminds me of my grandmother — she would insist on this kind of routine and all of us would grimace and think of it all as totally pointless.  Another thought strikes me — our elders would always tell us not to eat out unless necessary. Today, no one can go out to eat or even order in. We are cooking and cleaning and enjoying it too! Everyone is having home-cooked food. Isn’t that really healthy? We knew it always, but we didn’t bother. And now we have no choice but to fall in line. My daughter-in-law bakes delicious bread and buns at home. Several sweetmeats are being prepared at home too.  The lockdown is a time for all of us to introspect and ask ourselves if we really need the kind of lifestyle we have been getting used to. Our needs are a few. By and large, human beings are hoarders. It’s time we accept that God made enough for everyone’s need but not enough for everyone’s greed. The gyms and clubs are closed. So, people have taken to yoga or freestyle exercises at home. Some are deeming household chores as exercise enough. Small children had been living an even busy life — hopping from schools to tuitions to hobby classes to birthday parties to pool parties and what not. Young mothers had no time to spend with their babies because they were at work. And now, suddenly kids and their mothers are spending quality time together. Nature is rejoicing. The birds are singing. The air is pure. The sky is blue again! Perhaps, God wanted that! We have long been given a call to slow down, but were we too busy to pay heed? Now, everyone has time for offering prayers! Everyone has time for family, listening to music, contemplating upon life. It’s time we learn our lessons and after the situation get back to normal, may we never take for granted little things that make life worthwhile. May we create a new world full of love, compassion and gratitude.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/of-learning-lessons-and-being-aware-71681
16-04-2020||---||Car care post lockdown||H Kishie Singh  The video I received was horrifying. The owner of a Honda Activa started his scooter after 10 days, the vibration made a fully grown cobra, hood flared, wriggle out of the instrument cluster box!  Most of us have left our cars parked and unattended during the lockdown. If not snakes, rats, cats, squirrels and other creatures may have come visiting. Before you start your car, there is a definite procedure guide you should follow. First, walk around the car, stick in hand, wearing surgical gloves. Bang on the bonnet, doors and fenders. Kick the tyres. Observe. Everything normal? Unlock the car. Open the driver’s door, release the handbrake and push the car forward. Look for debris on the floor. If some animal was nibbling on your wires, there should be evidence of this on the ground. If the ground is clear, switch on the ignition. Do the lights and horn work? They do. Good! That means wiring is in good condition and battery is charged. Time to open the bonnet. Bang on the bonnet to get rid of unwelcome residents.  Open the bonnet, the doors and the rear boot to air the car. Visually observe and confirm that all is in order. Beat the seats with the stick to dust them and dislodge squirrels, rats, whatever.  Get into the driver’s seat and switch on the ignition. Check the lights on the instrument panel. Fire up the engine and let it settle down to normal idle r.p.m. Let it idle till the temperature gauge moves up. This means the coolant is circulating, engine oil is up and lubricating, the alternator is working and charging the battery. After five minutes of idling, switch on the headlights, let the alternator do its work fully. Ten minutes of this initial once over, your car is roadworthy, well almost. Drive off slowly for the first hundred metres. Slowly build up speed and shift up through the gears. Pump the brakes; this helps to clean them of any rust. Head for the refuelling station. Refuel and check the tyre pressure. Very important!  Drive 10-15 kilometres before heading home. Everything should have been run in. The electrical, mechanicals and tyres are in good working order. If you come across a carwash, get a good scrubbing on the exteriors, top and underneath. Get the interior vacuumed, the seats, under the seats, the roof lining. All of them have dust and will carry pathogens, maybe not Covid-19, but there are others to worry about. Carwash have commercial vacuum cleaners with tremendous suction. Put the nozzle of the vacuum cleaner at the AC outlet and suck the pipes clean. Then turn on the fan at full speed while the vacuum cleaner is also at work.  At home, take a towel and soak it with sanitiser fluid. Wipe every fitment of the car. The dashboard, steering wheel, gear lever, handbrake, all levers, door handles, especially, glass, plastic and metal. Groceries should not be put directly on the seats, which can be contaminated. Use a bag that can be discarded or washed. Your car must be a safe cocoon for the family! Be extra alert! Covid-19 is still around. Happy Motoring!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-care-post-lockdown-71680
16-04-2020||Mona||Restrictions fail to dampen his spirit of social service||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 15Life during lockdown is busier for industrialist-philanthropist Padma Shri RK Saboo. Chairman emeritus of his company, Saboo has continued to do what he’s best known for – service to the society. Finding an opportunity of lending a helping hand, Saboo along with fellow Rotarians has zeroed in on places that require funds, food, PPE kits. One of the firsts is the cafeteria at PGI that was not able to cater to junior doctors and nurses.Tying up with a gurdwara, lunches and dinners are now being taken care of. “It’s with utmost humility we state that we got a chance to be of some service to the big institution in our city and we are very proud of that.”While earlier work took just about five per cent of the day, the rest was dedicated to social service, most his time now too goes in getting funds and sending supplies where they are most needed. “We are busy coordinating stuff on telephones as dedicated Rotarians rise to meet the challenges of the time,” says Saboo, who now attends meetings through Zoom app.Lockdown has lead to some disappointments. Not having his daughter- in-law and grandson near is one. “We would have really wanted them to be with us here, but then one got to accept things as they are,” he said. Then there is medical mission that was scheduled from April 15 in Korba, Chhattisgarh, that now stands cancelled. Also, Saboo misses going the Bhavan Vidyalaya. He is happy that staff has decided to contribute to the PM-Cares Fund. The foundation laying ceremony for the new school at New Chandigarh stands postponed too. “But these are few disappointments. One cannot always be the master of circumstance. This is time first to stand with the country, community, city and its people first.”On the personal front, Saboo is under strict watch of his children. “Me and my wife are now 86 and 85, respectively. Our son and daughter-in-law take utmost care of us. We are fortunate to have a gym at home, so we both exercise. Also, now we sit and watch some films and serials that we haven’t had time for earlier. She is an avid reader,” says Saboo who admits missing his walks on Sukhna Lake.As soon as the lockdown is over, Saboo intends to get the new school project initiated. “Another is how to bring economy and company back on track. My son and grandson Pranav are already working on the strategy; it would take time to get things back to normal!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restrictions-fail-to-dampen-his-spirit-of-social-service-71691
16-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||Labour a worry as wheat procurement begins||Mohali, April 15Owners Told To Sanitise Combines: DCThough wheat procurement began in the district today, a few farmers and labourers could be seen in the fields due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Only in a few areas, labourers were seen harvesting crops with a sickle. Combines were seen in various areas, which were being sanitised by the village panchayats before use.According to the farmers of Mohali, the lockdown has hit them hard this season due to the shortage of labour and less outcome of the crop following heavy rains in the recent past.Due to the unavailability of labourers, farmers are shifting to combines in some areas. They believed that there was a huge difference in the production of wheat straw by using manual and machine harvesting method.Mehar Singh, state president, Bharti Kisan Union Ekta, said harvesting with combines reduced wheat straw production to only 50 per cent as compared with manual harvesting. He said now, majority of the farmers were opting for combines as several migrant labourers had already returned to their states due to the lockdown. However, combine harvesting is faster and cheaper than manual harvesting, but due to less wheat straw production through combines, small farmers have to buy straw for their cattle.Malkiat Singh Khatra, a farmer from Thedi village who owns 24 acres, said, “There is no clear picture from the administration and commission agents (arhtiyas) about the procurement and permission of taking tractor-trolley to the grain markets. We don’t know whether we have to collect the curfew pass or agents will provide it to us here. Secondly, we have no idea about the fixed quantity of wheat per trolley. The lockdown has added to our woes.”Surendar Singh, a farmer from Cholta Khurd, said farmers were unable to get their faulty agricultural equipment repaired as workshops were shut.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan had prohibited harvesting through combine machines between 7 pm and 6 am in the district. However, it can be done from 6 am to 7 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/labour-a-worry-as-wheat-procurement-begins-71690
16-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Phone users demand delay in payment of bills||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 15As the UT Administration postponed dates for submitting school fees and water/electricity usage charges, the city residents now want a decision in favour of delay in submission of phone bills.Citing the current lockdown circumstances owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, phone users demanded that the telecom companies should not force them to submit bills even after the due date was over.“We have been receiving repeated automated messages from the telecom companies to submit the bills. The citizens, who are not tech-savvy and cannot make online payments, are facing a lot of problems. All outlets and e-Sampark centres have been shut by the government,” said RK Garg.“All telecom companies should join hands and find a solution for this. The Administration should also take a decision and direct all companies to cooperate with the citizens till the end of this lockdown period,” he added.“Though the usage charges depend on different packages, the companies should at least delay the payment for a month on humanitarian grounds. The companies should also not take late payment charges from the post-paid users,” said Parbhat Bansal, another user.Meanwhile, telecom companies’ representatives claimed that the prepaid users had already been given privileges and using postpaid users had already got 15-day leverage for submitting the bills. “We have extended the prepaid pack validity for over 80 million customers till April 17. All these customers will continue to get incoming calls on their mobile numbers even after the validity of their plan is exhausted. They will also get Rs 10 additional talktime in their prepaid accounts,” said a representative of Airtel.Identical privileges had been given to other users of Idea and Jio, claimed the representatives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/phone-users-demand-delay-in-payment-of-bills-71689
16-04-2020||Naina Mishra||PGI’s diktat against pooling in for PPE kits irks doctors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 15The PGI Directivesof faculty members.”The order advised that none of the employees of the institute will request for donations and creation of fund by making contribution. “Provisions of CCS (Conduct) rules, 1964, will be kept in mind.Non-compliance may invite suitable disciplinary action.”The decision of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) directing doctors to refrain from pooling in funds for buying personal protective equipment (PPE) kits has irked the PGI Employees Union and Medicos Legal Action Group.The union said medical technologists, hospital attendants and sanitation attendants involved in taking throat swab, nasal swab, blood, body fluids, etc, of Covid patients in virology, microbiology, biochemistry, haematology, etc, had not been provided with PPEs instead they were just given surgical gowns.Besides, the laboratory attendants posted to take samples from Covid patients at the Nehru Extension Block had also not been provided PPEs and N95 masks, it said.Ashwani Munjal, president of the PGI Employees Union, said, “We strongly condemn the arbitrary orders restricting the allied health workers from arranging their own protective equipment. This shows the insensitiveness and lack of compassion towards the welfare the health workers and their families.”Dr Neeraj Nagpal, convenor, Medicos Legal Action Group, Chandigarh, said, “PGIMER is the last hope for those with serious illness whether it is Covid-19 or postpartum haemorrhage. Junior and senior residents in the institute are the frontline warriors in the fight against Covid and they have been abandoned by the authorities and are fighting the battle unequipped.”Dr Nagpal said, “The protective gear which is being sold five times more than the normal price obviously cannot be provided to all resident doctors and even now at the PGIMER, they are provided only to select departments. Doctors in some departments, which are dangerously exposed to the virus, have decided to collect funds from within themselves and their family and friends to directly purchase PPEs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgis-diktat-against-pooling-in-for-ppe-kits-irks-doctors-71688
16-04-2020||---||Chandigarh declared hotspot||Chandigarh, April 15Chandigarh has figured on the list of 170 Covid hotspots (red zones) released by the Union Government today.With this, there is a possibility of no further relaxation in the UT after April 20, a senior official said.The real challenge with the UT now is to move from the red zone to the green zone. A containment operation (large outbreak or cluster) is deemed to be over 28 days from the date when the last case in the district tests negative. A district declared hotspot can move to the green category if no new case surfaces in 28 days.The red zones (hotspots) have been formed to focus attention on the district and cities reporting a large number of cases and high growth rate.The hotspots have been bifurcated into 123 large outbreaks and 43 clusters. The large outbreak hotspots are the ones having more than 15 cases and imply progression of a small cluster or evolvement of multiple clusters.Both Chandigarh and Mohali have been figured in the large outbreak hotspots as more than 15 cases have been reported till now in each district. As per the Centre’s guidelines, the geographic area will be mapped for cases and contacts will be defined for the area of operation.Perimeter control will be applied in hotspots wherein there will be clear entry and exit points. Only one or two arterial roads into the containment zone will be kept open for essential services and all roads connecting the containment zone will be guarded by the police/volunteers.Meanwhile, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today ordered a total ban on spitting in public places and directed the Principal Secretary, Home, to issue a necessary notification in this regard.As per the notification, it is an outmost need to impose restrictions on unhealthy practices that may potentially lead to spread of Covid and other infections. The habit of spitting in public poses a serious threat to the spread of such infections.In the interest of public health and safety, the UT Administration banned the spitting of paan or any chewable tobacco or non-tobacco products, sputum etc, in public places, offices, workplace, factories and establishments with an immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-declared-hotspot-71679
16-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Interim bail for inmate who delivered during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 15The Punjab and Haryana High Court today granted interim bail to a woman inmate, who delivered a child during the lockdown period. The Bench observed that she had given birth to a child on April 1. The Patiala Civil Surgeon’s report stated she could be kept in a crèche along with two other inmates for helping her. But the report’s perusal showed the inmates were not medical experts to take care of the mother and child.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan added the applicant-petitioner was in judicial custody for the past over eight months and the investigation was complete. Her custodial investigation was no more required. The charges stood framed on December 20, 2019. However, no prosecution witness had been examined till date. It showed that the prosecution witnesses may not be examined for another couple of months or so in the present prevailing conditions.Referring to the facts of the case, Justice Sangwan said the court found sufficient reasons to believe that the applicant-petitioner was entitled to the concession of interim bail. “Accordingly, the present application is allowed and the applicant-petitioner is granted interim bail for a period of three months commencing from today itself,” Justice Sangwan added.Before parting with the order, Justice Sangwan added considering the prevailing situation and the restricted working of judicial officers/additional sessions judges in the districts on account of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Patiala Central Jail Superintendent was directed to release the applicant-petitioner today itself. She was directed to be released after obtaining an undertaking from one of her blood relations, parents, brother or her husband that she would appear before the trial court within 14 days from today to furnish bail/surety bonds to the satisfaction of the trial court.The High Court on the previous date of hearing had asked the Patiala Central Jail Superintendent to specify whether a hospital or the prison would be safer in view of the Covid outbreak. He was asked to consult the Civil Surgeon, senior medical officer concerned or the jail doctor before apprising the court whether the hospital where she and her newborn child were currently admitted to, or the prison where she was confined, was more suitable and safe for both of them in the prevailing circumstances.The woman had moved the High Court against the state of Punjab for three-month interim regular bail in a case registered in July last year under the provisions of the NDPS Act at the Sadar police station in Rajpura.Court had sought jail supdt’s viewsThe Patiala Jail Superintendent was asked to consult the Civil Surgeon, the senior medical officer concerned or the jail doctor before apprising the court whether the hospital where the woman inmate and her newborn child were currently admitted to, or the prison where she was confined, was more suitable and safe for both of them in the prevailing circumstances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/interim-bail-for-inmate-who-delivered-during-lockdown-71677
16-04-2020||---||Case against unknown person||Chandigarh, April 15The UT police have booked an unknown person for setting furniture shops on fire at the Furniture Market, Sector 53.According to the police, a case has been registered on the complaint of Sub Inspector (SI) Sumer Singh under Section 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house etc) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 36 police station.Nineteen shops were damaged in a fire that broke out in the market on Monday night. Fourteen fire tenders were pressed into service to control the blaze. The fire was brought under control in an hour. However, the operation continued for several hours.The reason behind the fire is yet to be ascertained. Since the shops were closed due to the curfew in the city, officials suspected a foul play in the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/case-against-unknown-person-71676
16-04-2020||---||Saketri man bites off wife’s ear, arrested||Panchkula, April 15A resident of Manav Colony in Saketri village has been arrested for allegedly assaulting his wife and biting off her ear.The suspect has been identified as Rohit.According to the complainant, her husband, a habitual drinker, often abused her. On April 14, when she urged him not to drink, he started hurling abuses at her.“He punched me in the face. I cried for help. My daughter, who intervened, was also beaten up. My husband then bit off my ear. He even threatened to kill me if I reported the matter to the police,” she stated.The victim was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where doctors referred her to the PGI in Chandigarh.A case under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Mansa Devi Complex police station.Man arrested for supplying liquorA Kalka resident has been arrested for illegally supplying liquor during the lockdown. The suspect has been identified as Devi Sharma. Crime branch officials from Sector 26 on Tuesday got a tip-off on that a person involved in the illegal sale of liquor has kept some bottles in a plastic sack. When the police team reached the spot in Sharma Colony of Kalka, the suspect tried to run away. He was, however, nabbed. The police also recovered 40 bottles of liquor from his possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/saketri-man-bites-off-wifes-ear-arrested-71675
16-04-2020||---||Cops don new role, stitch face masks at Sec 26 Police Lines||Chandigarh, April 15 In a bid to cater to the rising need for face masks, the UT police have set up a makeshift mask manufacturing unit. The masks are being made at the Police Lines, Sector 26, and these are being provided to the police force. Police personnel, who know stitching, have been pressed into the  job of preparing the masks. UT SSP Nilambari Jagdale said between 200 and 300 masks were being stitched everyday. “Preparing masks on our own helps us in providing sufficient number of masks to police personnel as they need to change these frequently,” the SSP said. The SSP said every police personnel was provided with two masks. However, after washing these daily, the masks got worn out after a few days following which more masks were required. Inmates of Burail Jail are already making face masks and have supplied over 15,000 masks to various government departments and private organisations since the lockdown. According to jail officials, the inmates are working overtime and manufacturing between 1,300 and 1,500 masks everyday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-don-new-role-stitch-face-masks-at-sec-26-police-lines-71674
16-04-2020||Amit Sharma||Striking a balance between personal, professional life||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 15While the lockdown has brought families together and given them an opportunity to spend time with each other, five-year-old Nitya is unable to do so as her mother Nilambari Jagadale, the UT SSP, remains on the job for the entire day and returns home late in the evening.After wrapping up the daily field visits, routine meetings and briefings, the SSP reaches back home and takes up another responsibility of getting her daughter’s homework done, since her husband, an Army officer, is posted in another state and Nitya has no family member to look after her.The SSP says that the work has almost doubled after the curfew was imposed in the UT. “Earlier, I used to make field visits once or twice a week. However, I am spending hours in the field every day besides doing the office work,” she said.SSP Jagadale leaves home around 9 am and returns by 8 in the evening. However, the day doesn’t end there for her.“Online classes of my daughter are going on and she gets homework every day. So I make her do it, play a few board games with her and make her sleep,” the SSP adds.Next follows the graveyard shift, when the SSP starts checking the border naka reports on WhatsApp. “I go through the reports, pass necessary instructions, if required, and then retire to bed,” she adds.The SSP’s husband is a lieutenant colonel posted in Kasauli. He is there since the lockdown came into force. “He is not here, so all responsibilities are on my shoulders. It is not easy to bring up a child along with the long working hours,” the SSP says.The child’s safety from Covid-19 at home is also her responsibility. On reaching home, she removes her ‘karha’ (iron bangle), watch and other belongings outside home and get them sanitised. She changes uniform every day.To boost her immunity, the SSP is relying on her homemade ayurvedic drink which is a blend of several herbs. “Kadha with various ingredients, including amla powder, neem, turmeric and ginger, is what I will recommend to everyone,” the SSP says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/striking-a-balance-between-personal-professional-life-71672
