16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 16 COVID-19 cases; UT's toll stands at 635||Chandigarh reported 16 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the Union Territory's total to 635.About 17 patients recovered from the deadly disease and were discharged from the hospital.Earlier, a 78-year-old from Sector 19 succumbed to the virus, raising the death toll to 11.According to the UT Health Department, the elderly man was diagnosed with COVID at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, on July 14.He was a patient of chronic heart disease with coronary stenting. He was admitted to the Panchkula three days ago and was administered oxygen also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-16-covid-19-cases-uts-toll-stands-at-635-113830
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports 16 fresh COVID-19 cases; district total climbs to 472||Mohali reports 16 COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, taking the district total to 472.The death toll stands at nine.After making a complete recovery, seven coronavirus infections were discharged.Earlier, Eight people were discharged from the hospital.Mohali now has 160 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-16-fresh-covid-19-cases-district-total-climbs-to-472-113803
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 44 resident booked for fraud||Youth held with ganjaChandigarh: A 22-year-old youth has been arrested by the local police with 1 kg of ganja. According to the police, Rohit, alias Bihari, a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, was nabbed from the rear side of the Sewage Treatment Plant at Dhanas with the ganja. Sources said the police had information that he sold drugs in the city. A case has been registered at the Sarangpur police station. TNS100 challaned for not wearing maskChandigarh: The district administration issued 100 challans to people caught without a mask on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said joint teams of civil and police administration conducted surprise checks in popular markets and issued challans to those found without a mask. A sum of Rs50,000 was collected as fine from the violators. Dayalan said, “In view of the rising cases of Covid in the district, we will go strict on safety protocol adherence.” TNSDog bites three in Sector 22Chandigarh: Three persons were bitten by a stray dog in Sector 22 today. Around 9 am, Anju Soni was going to a milk booth near Shishu Niketan School when a stray dog attacked her and bit her on her leg. She was rushed to the GMSH, Sector 16. Earlier also, a stray dog had bitten one of her family members. “The stray dog menace is rising in our area. At least 15 stray dogs keep roaming in the area forcing people to live in fear. Children and old people are their easy targets,” said a local resident. Two more persons were bitten by the dog in Sector 22. Meanwhile, 25 persons were reportedly bitten by stray dogs across the city today. Cases of dog bite have become common in the with the MC failing to tackle the issue. TNS5 more test +ve in Fatehgarh SahibFatehgarh Sahib: Five new Covid-19 cases were reported from Fatehgarh Sahib on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 178. Civil Surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal said the new cases were contact of already positive patients. He said till today, 13,213 samples were collected, of which 12,379 were negative and 178 positive. As 127 persons have cured, there are now 49 active cases in the district. OCBook releaseChandigarh: A book titled, Lockdown, written by Surinder Awasthi, a veteran journalist, was virtually released by Ram Bahadur Rai, chairman of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts. The book is a compilation of short stories reflecting on the fast-changing value system during the lockdown induced by the Covid-19 pandemic. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-44-resident-booked-for-fraud-113684
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||No foundation day celebration at PGI||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-foundation-day-celebration-at-pgi-113683
16-07-2020||---||Kidnapped 8-month-old boy rescued by Ambala police, 2 arrested||Ambala, July 15The Ambala police rescued an eight-month-old boy after a couple had allegedly kidnapped him from his house in the wee hours of today with the motive of selling him.The suspects, Pavita Devi and Dinesh Kumar, were arrested from the Ambala Cantonment railway station while they were trying to flee.In her complaint to the police, Vandana, who belongs to Bihar and is currently living in New Vivek Vihar in Ambala City, alleged that around 3:30 am, she found that her son Krishna was missing. They then started looking for him, but to no avail. The woman then raised a suspicion on Pavita Devi and her husband Dinesh, who also hail from Bihar.A case was registered under Section 365 of the IPC at the Ambala City police station.SHO Ambala City Ram Kumar said, “The couple has been arrested and the boy has been handed over to the family.The matter is being further investigated by the CIA-2 unit.”CIA-2 in-charge Sandeep said, “The suspects will be produced before a court tomorrow. They were also carrying their two minor children with them when they were arrested.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kidnapped-8-month-old-boy-rescued-by-ambala-police-2-arrested-113681
16-07-2020||---||Powercom staff  demand reinstatement of workers||Mohali, July 15Powercom and Transco Contract Employees’ Union Punjab staged a protest in Mohali on Wednesday.The protesting employees demanded reinstatement of retrenched workers, work order system to be immediately started in Barnala circle, contract employees should be made permanent and job and proper compensation to the family members of power workers who died due to electric shock while on duty. They laid siege to the Labour Commissioner’s office and raised slogans against the government.Though the Punjab Government has imposed restrictions on large gatherings due to the pandemic, the contract employees staged a massive state-wide protest with their families. Widows and parents of the deceased employees were also present during the protest.The police was deployed in a large number at the protest site to prevent any untoward incident. The protesters blocked the road disrupting the flow of traffic.The protesters said 155 workers have died in the past four years and the state government was not providing adequate compensation to their kin.After a meeting with the Punjab Labor Welfare Board, Mohali, the protesters called off the protest at 9 pm. The board has agreed to organise their meeting with the administrative director of Powercom, Patiala, tomorrow afternoon. The meeting of the protesters with the labour minister will be held next week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/powercom-staff-demand-reinstatement-of-workers-113679
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Revised result criteria for Classes IX, XI in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/revised-result-criteria-for-classes-ix-xi-in-chandigarh-113678
16-07-2020||Radhika Vasudeva||Sportspersons show the way||A student of Delhi Public School, Sector 40, scored 91.4 per cent. The only tennis player to have been selected for the Khelo India Youth Games, she travelled for various tournaments or four months and won various AITA championships.NankiA student of Gurukul Global School, Mani Majra, she scored 89.4 per cent. A trainee of Rolling Tigers Acdmey, she has won silver medals in the Vizag Nationals and participated in various zonal, state, CBSE and SGFI skating championships. She has won over 230 medals for which her name has been registered in the Guinness World Records.Guneet SohiA swimmer from Manav Mangal Smart School, Mohali, scored 95.20 per cent. She claimed third position in the 65th Punjab School State Games and the first position in the inter-zonal school games.Jashanbir SinghA skater from Manav Mangal Smart School, Mohali, scored 95 per cent. He claimed the first position in the 65th Punjab School State Games. He won two gold medals each in the U-17 School National Games and CBSE National Games.GuntaasA paddler from St Soldier Convent International School, Mohali, scored 92.4 per cent. She won the gold medal in the CBSE Nationals held at Bijnore and silver in the Punjab Games.Yashika SharmaA roller hockey player of St Anne’s School, Sector 32, scored 93.6 per cent. She is also the captain of the national junior girls’ roller hockey team. She has played five national and has won three gold and two silver medals. She has represented India in the World Roller Games at Barcelona.Sportspersons from Chitkara International School, Sector 25, also performed well. Utkarsh Sharma scored 95 per cent. He has participated and won laurels in the field of many scientific competitions. Siya Monga, a national-level fencer, scored 94 per cent. Anjali Narang and Arjun Bhaskar also scored 94 per cent. Aditya Dandriyal, Anvita Rother Pal, Shiven Sharma, Ankit Mandal also scored 93 per cent each. — By Deepankar Sharda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sportspersons-show-the-way-113667
16-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||Soon, 40 public toilets in Chandigarh to undergo renovation||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15After several failed attempts, Chandigarh Smart City Limited will be moving ahead with its plans for renovating 40 public toilets.These public conveniences have been in a bad state. The toilets in Sectors 17, 22, 35 and 43 will undergo a facelift. They will be made as per the Centre’s ODF++ status with a focus on building toilets with sludge and septage management. Facilities such as shoe polish, sanitary napkins and condom machines will also be provided at the renovated toilets.Five firms have expressed interest in three tenders floated for renovating these. Their bids are presently being evaluated. They will be accorded approval before July 31.“After approval, nine months time will be given to them to carry out the project,” said NP Sharma, General Manager, Smart City.The project got delayed as there has been a poor response from the bidders. Smart City Limited had floated tenders several times, but in a vain. Now, in two tenders, two companies each have filed their bids, while in the third tender, only one firm has shown interest.A contractor, who had undertaken several government projects in city, said: “Conditions in the tender are often rigid that discourages bidders. And most of them stay away from participating in the tendering process. The authorities should inculcate practical conditions so that more firms participate and there is a healthy competition. It will be beneficial for projects.”Meanwhile, the MC has failed to renovate other public toilets. There are about 300 more toilets with the MC. Seepage, broken tiles and taps and foul smell is a common scene in most of these.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-40-public-toilets-in-chandigarh-to-undergo-renovation-113665
16-07-2020||---||CBSE Class X results: Special students prove their mettle||Chandigarh, July 15Braving all odds, students of the Institute for the Blind, Sector 26, proved their mettle by excelling in the CBSE Class X exams, results of which were announced today.Kishor Kumar topped the charts by scoring 89.80 per cent, whereas Akhil scored 87.40 per cent to attain the second position. Padma Angmo and Emanjeet Singh Atwal claimed the joint third position by scoring 85.20 per cent. Kumar and Akhil, who are best friends, want to become IAS officers.“I want to become an IAS officer. I am putting in all my effort. If not a civil servant, I would like open a school for the blind,” said Kumar. “I give credit of my success to all my teachers,” said Akhil.Padma wants to be a social worker. “I get happiness by helping others,” said Padma. Atwal wants to open a music learning academy. “I don’t have any big dreams to follow. I want to open a music learning academy where I can teach students. I take inspiration from my father,” said Atwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbse-class-x-results-special-students-prove-their-mettle-113662
16-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||CBSE Class XII results: Succeeding against all odds||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15When the going gets tough, the tough get going. Such is the story of these teenagers, Dhanu and Ashish Jain, who scored over 90 per cent in CBSE Class XII exams, results of which were declared recently, despite the financial crisis in their families.Dhanu, a student of DAV School, Sector 8, scored 95.6 per cent in the commerce stream. The only earning member of the family, her father, works as a delivery boy with a food aggregator. Such is the confidence of this girl that she sometimes teaches her elder brother, who is studying at a local college. She achieved the feat without attending any tuition classes. “Earlier, my father used to work with a news agency but as they shut their business, he started working as a delivery boy. My schoolteachers helped me to get books and good teaching. I will pursue BCom and the prepare for the civil services exams,” said Dhanu, while giving credit to school Principal Jaskiran Harika and her class teacher Maninder. She has started a YouTube channel for sharing inspirational stories.Son of a towel vendor wants to be an IAS officerThe story of 19-year-old Ashish Jain, a student of Shishu Niketan School, Sector 22 (D), is no different. After his father faced losses in business in 2005, his life changed completely. He scored 91.8 per cent in the commerce stream and made his father (a towel vendor outside a gurdwara in Sohana) proud. He works from a small space on a pavement. Jain wants to pursue BBA so that he can help his father expand his business and will also prepare for civil services exams on his own. “It’s all due to the efforts of my schoolteachers. My financial conditions did not allow me to attend tuitions. My father has taught a lot to me and I don’t want to make him feel low at any moment of my life. Clearing civil services exam is a dream and I have started doing some research. I think this journey will be totally based on self-study,” said Jain. School Principal Amita Khorana congratulated Jain and also said that a total of 94 students scored above 90 per cent. She said school student Srishti scored 98.2 per cent in commerce, Cheruv Singh scored 97.4 per cent in medical and Dakshit Babbar scored 96.4 per cent in non-medical.Tumour survivor excelsKanhari Pinge, who was diagnosed with spinal tumour last year, did not surrender to her illness and instead scored 96.4 per cent in humanities. A student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 35, she faced lack of sensation in her right hand and was unable to do perform tasks such as holding a pen or writing. All this happened last year when she was preparing for her board exams. Later, it was found that Kanhari had a spinal tumour in her neck which resulted in nerve compression in her right hand. She underwent a neurosurgery. “Despite undergoing operation, I continue to face severe neck pain. However, I managed to improve my right hand’s strength and recovered in time,” said Kanhari. She is a trained Kathak dancer and performed a solo recital during an event of the Chandigarh Sangeet Natak Akademi in 2018. She was the youngest performer in the tricity to have achieved this feat.Peon’s son scores 97.2%Panchkula: Sanjeev Singh Rawat, whose father works as a peon with Punjab State Cooperative Bank, made his family proud by scoring 97.2 per cent in the non-medical stream. Rawat, who wants to become a computer engineer, said his father has taken a loan to help him get professional coaching from a private institute. Following his good grades in Class X, Satluj Public School, Sector 4, gave him a scholarship. “My father was employed with Punjab State Cooperative Development Federation Ltd, but later moved on deputation to co-operative bank to get timely salary for paying my fees. I have worked hard for achieving these marks. I aim to become a computer engineer,” said Rawat.Squash enthusiast excelsAnupam Kakkar, son of Mohali CBI Judge Karunesh Kakkar, scored 95 per cent in Class XII examination. Anupam, a squash enthusiast and a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, excelled in the commerce stream. Following in his father’s footsteps, he also wants to gain fame in judiciary and is preparing for CLAT.Chitkara players bring laurelsWith cent per cent passing average, Chitkara International School, Sector 25, sportspersons also achieved the best in sports. Cager Jessica Saini scored 96 per cent marks in humanities. Sukhman and Hira Bahadur also excelled with 95 per cent and 94 per cent, respectively.100 in EnglishAryan Grover, a commerce stream student of Class XII from Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, Chandigarh, has scored a perfect 100 in English. His Overall aggregate is 97 per cent. Aryan wants to pursue corporate law as his career option.GMSSS-35 pupils shineMeanwhile, around 13 players of baseball and softball from Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 35, shined in board exams. Five of these scored over 90 per cent — Kiran Rawat (95.8 per cent), Omika Sachdeva (94.2 per cent), Taranjeet Kaur (91.6 per cent), Akshita Kamboj (91.6 per cent) and Aarshi (90.2 per cent) — in humanities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbse-class-xii-results-succeeding-against-all-odds-113661
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Five government schools in Chandigarh get cent per cent result||Five government schools in the city achieved cent per cent results in the CBSE Class X exams.GMSS, Sector 18, GMSSS, Sector 16, GMSSS, Sector 21, GMSSS, Sector 33 and GMSSS, Sector 37-B came up with overwhelming results.Meanwhile, the overall pass percentage of government schools has been recorded at 77.18. A total of 8,541 students appeared for the exams and apart from the above mentioned five schools, 26 government schools recorded a pass percentage of 90 and above.Vijeta best performerVijeta of GMSSS, Sector 22-A, became the best performer in the government school category with 96.80 per cent. Gaurika (96.60 per cent) and Mannat Choudhary (96.40 per cent) of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 16, claimed the second and third positions, respectively. Gurwinder Kaur (95.40 per cent), Parul (95.20 per cent) and Rachna (95 per cent) were among the best performers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-government-schools-in-chandigarh-get-cent-per-cent-result-113659
16-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||CBSE Class X results: Chandigarh behind J&K, Punjab||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15How Chandigarh fared2017-18: 66.21%2018-19: 84.05%2019-20: 86.21%The city stands at the second last spot in the region in terms of pass percentage in the CBSE Class X results, which is a cause of worry for local educationists.According to the regional data, UT’s pass percentage remained at 86.21, which is marginally better than Ladakh’s 86.02 per cent — the lowest in the region.Though there is a huge gap between the numbers of students appeared, other states did quite well to remain ahead of Chandigarh.Jammu & Kashmir is the top performer with a pass percentage of 98.29 and Punjab also fared well with 92.12 per cent (average).In Chandigarh, a total of 15,759 students appeared for exams out of which 13,586 passed. As many as 85.44 per cent boys passed while girls have a pass percentage of 86.71. In Ladakh, a total of 640 students passed the exams out of 744 who appeared. The pass percentage for girls is 91.14 and 80.23 for boys.“The Administration and private schools have to take this record into consideration. We have the second highest number of students in the region, as per the CBSE bifurcation. Having a vast infrastructure, management and expertise, we should have been on the top,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.Region-wise 9th spotThe Chandigarh region, which includes Punjab, Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir, remained at the 9th spot with a passing percentage of 91.83, while the Panchkula region, which includes Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, bagged the 6th position with 94.31 per cent.Girls outshine boys — marginallyIn Chandigarh, 8,083 boys and 7,676 girls appeared for the exams. As many as 6,930 boys (85.44 per cent) and 6,656 girls (86.71 per cent) passed the exams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbse-class-x-results-chandigarh-behind-jk-punjab-113658
16-07-2020||---||Panchkula Civil Hospital molestation case: Panel report finds doctor’s conduct suspicious||Panchkula, July 15Dr Manoj Kumar, who is accused of sexual harassing a nurse at the Covid-19 isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here, said allegations against him were false and part of a conspiracy to malign his image.Read also: Nurses thrash doctor for ‘molesting’ colleagueYesterday, the psychiatrist was thrashed by nurses on the administrative floor of the hospital for his alleged misconduct on the night of June 11.Meanwhile, Preeti Bhardwaj, vice-chairperson of the Haryana State Commission for Women, today called in Chief Medical Officer Jasjeet Kaur and Principal Medical Officer Sarita for a briefing on the issue.Bhardwaj said nurses also met her this morning, demanding stern action against the doctor and raising apprehensions over their safety.Bhardwaj added: “As per the internal complaints committee report, the doctor’s conduct seemed to be suspicious on the basis of examination of CCTV footages.”A case has been filed at the women police station in Sector 5 under Section 354A of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-civil-hospital-molestation-case-panel-report-finds-doctors-conduct-suspicious-113657
16-07-2020||---||Now, 30 persons allowed at marriage functions in Mohali||Mohali, July 15In view of fresh directions issued by the state government due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the District Magistrate has issued revised orders under Section 144 to contain the further spread of the virus in the district.District Magistrate Girish Dayalan said social gatherings should be strictly restricted to five persons and gatherings at marriages and other social functions should be restricted to 30 persons (instead of 50) and funerals to 20 persons. The management of marriage palaces/hotels should adhere to these orders in letter and spirit. In case of any violation, their licences should be suspended forthwith.Dayalan said other public gatherings should be strictly disallowed and FIRs would be registered against the violators.He further said the new orders mandated wearing of masks in workplaces/offices/closed places and said all heads in the departments in the district were to ensure that public dealing in offices should be curtailed to cater to need-based and urgent issues. The online public grievance redressal system is to be extensively popularised and used.Dayalan said there should be no physical presentation of demand charters by associations and serving of tea, etc, should be avoided.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-30-persons-allowed-at-marriage-functions-in-mohali-113656
16-07-2020||---||High Court restrains Chandigarh schools from charging enhanced fee||Chandigarh, July 15The Punjab and Haryana High Court today restrained private unaided schools in Chandigarh from charging enhanced tuition fee for the 2020-2021 academic year. The schools have also been restrained from taking coercive measures against parents, who do not pay the enhanced amount.Justice Gurmeet Singh Sandhawalia also asked the schools to comply with the June 3 circular, whereby all private unaided schools were directed to collect only tuition fee on a monthly basis from the students and not to increase the fee for the 2020-21 academic year. The directions were issued by Justice Sandhawalia through video-conferencing. The orders were yet to be uploaded.Justice Sandhawalia was hearing an application filed by VHS Parents Educational Trust through counsel Gaurav Chopra. Among other things, it was asserted that the petitioners under the guise of the present petition were forcing the parents to deposit the increased school fee. It was mentioned that “the schools had filed a writ petition and till the final decision of the said writ petition, the parents have to deposit the increased school fee despite there being no stay in the present writ petition”.Chopra contented that this was absolutely illegal and in complete contravention of the orders passed by the Chandigarh Administration. The entire purpose of the orders dated May 18 and 19 and June 2 and 3 would be defeated if the schools were allowed to charge the increased school fee under the grab of pendency of the present writ petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-restrains-chandigarh-schools-from-charging-enhanced-fee-113654
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||Kharar businessman found dead in car||A 33-year-old businessman was found dead under mysterious circumstances in a Swift car parked at Sector 40 this evening. The victim has been identified as Inderjeet Singh, a resident of Kharar. He used to run a packaging factory at Baddi in Himachal Pradesh.Passersby saw the victim lying unconscious in the car parked near a park close to the community centre, following which the police were informed. The police reached the spot and rushed the victim to the GMSH, Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead. The body has been shifted to a mortuary. The police said they were investigating the matter. “The victim had earlier remained in a drug de-addiction centre,” said a police official. An investigation has been initiated into the matter at the Sector 39 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-businessman-found-dead-in-car-113623
16-07-2020||Mohali||Tree falls on car in Mohali, 1 hurt||A car driver had a miraculous escape when a large tree fell on his vehicle, a Swift, following heavy rain while he was heading towards Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan, Sohana, from Kumbhra Chowk here this morning.The incident took place around 6 am. The car driver, Nikhil Kumar, a resident of Phase 9, got injured while his car was badly damaged. Traffic on the road was disrupted for a long time due to the mishap.The victim was rushed to a nearby hospital by one of his acquaintances where he was stated to be out of danger.Former Akali Dal councillors Satveer Singh Dhanoa and RP Sharma said there were tall old trees in the city and the administration was not paying any heed towards these. These trees needed to be pruned at the earliest to avoid such kinds of incidents in the future. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tree-falls-on-car-in-mohali-1-hurt-113622
16-07-2020||Mohali||2 snatchers land in Mohali police net||The local police today arrested two suspects for allegedly snatching a laptop and a mobile phone from a person.The suspects have been identified as Jaswinder Singh and Balraj Singh, both residents of Dirba in Sangrur district. The police have also recovered the stolen devices from them.They were produced in a local court today, which remanded them in one-day police custody.According to the victim, Anil Kumar (31), a resident of Sector 66, he was going in his car from Chandigarh to his house when the incident took place on July 7. Due to heavy rain, Anil stopped his car on the roadside near Gurdwara Singh Shaheedan, Sohana. In the meantime, the suspects came on a bike and snatched a mobile phone from Anil’s hand. When he tried to catch them, the duo pushed him and also took away his laptop from the car before fleeing from the spot.ASI Raspreet Singh said, “We have recovered the devices snatched by the suspects. The bike used in crime is yet to be recovered. We are trying to find out whether the suspects have a criminal background.”A case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC has been registered against them at the Phase 8 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-snatchers-land-in-mohali-police-net-113621
16-07-2020||---||Panjab University beat box sanitised after cop tests +ve||Chandigarh, July 15The Sector 11 police station and the police beat box at Panjab University (PU), Sector 14, were sanitised today after a constable posted at the beat box was found positive for Covid.The constable, a resident of Sector 25, is posted at the beat box, which falls under the Sector 11 police station. He has been admitted to the GMSH in Sector 16. The constable lives with his wife, a constable posted at the Sector 17 police station, two children and his mother.The police said the beat staff at the PU, including two ASIs and two constables, had been asked to take rest till Friday. “All other cops at the beat box were asymptomatic,” sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-beat-box-sanitised-after-cop-tests-ve-113620
16-07-2020||---||Chandigarh bans physical press conferences||Chandigarh, July 15As a preventive measure, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today ordered a complete ban on physical press conferences by political parties or other organisations in view of the risk of infection due to large gatherings.Badnore also appealed to all political parties not to hold any gatherings or functions in violation of the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs. The guidelines permit only events such as wedding and cremation as exceptional cases.Badnore directed the SSP to lodge FIRs in case of illegal gatherings of any kind in the city.Instead of a weekend curfew, the Administrator decided that there should be more vigorous screening, testing and stricter implementation of orders regarding social distancing and wearing of masks.He stressed that a weekly curfew or a short-period lockdown was still under consideration of the Administration. During a review meeting on Covid-19, the Administrator ordered immediate testing of 58 persons detected through the Aarogya Setu app and also home-isolation and self-monitoring by 131 persons.Badnore advised the PGI Director to collect samples of OPD and emergency patients visiting the institute and conduct random testing as suggested by some doctors of the PGI.Dr BS Chavan, Director-Principal, GMCH, said a new hospital in Sector 48 had been commissioned on a pilot basis by shifting a few patients there. Dr G Dewan, Director (Health Services), stated that the second round of door-to-door screening was continuing with a focus on Mani Majra where the surveillance team had screened 8,516 houses with 32,106 people and found 10 suspected cases, which had been sent for testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bans-physical-press-conferences-113619
16-07-2020||Mohali||Sohana Eye Hospital OPD sealed as 4 nurses test +ve||Four nurses of Sohana Eye Hospital among 12 persons tested positive for Covid in Mohali today, taking the district tally to 456.The OPD of the hospital was sealed after four female nurses, two of them aged 23 and others 24 and 27, were found infected. The other new patients are a 27-year-old youth and a 31-year-old woman of Phase IX, a 32-year-old woman of Phase X, a 30-year-old man of Phase I, a 52-year-old man of GTB Nagar in Kharar, a 40-year-old woman of Paradise Apartment, Mohali, a 29-year-old woman of Sector 71 and a 52-year-old woman of Kharar. Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the new patients had been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.He said eight patients were cured and discharged from the hospital. The official said those discharged were a 37-year-old man of Gillco, Kharar, a 29-year-old woman of Sector 80, a 20-year-old youth of Majat village, a 46-year-old man of Sunny Enclave, Kharar, a 37-year-old woman of Baltana, a 33-year-old man of Sector 91, a 43-year-old woman of Sector 104 and a 48-year-old man of Lohgarh in Zirakpur.As of now, 285 Covid patients have been cured and there are 162 active cases in the district. Nine persons had succumbed to the virus in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sohana-eye-hospital-opd-sealed-as-4-nurses-test-ve-113618
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||High Court stays final semester exams by Panjab University||Taking into consideration the continuous increase in Covid-19 cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today ordered interim stay on the final examinations to be conducted by Panjab University this month.The direction by Justice Ritu Bahri came on a petition filed against Panjab University and other respondents by Yatin Mehta and other petitioners through counsel Harlove Singh Rajput.The petitioners were seeking the quashing of orders and notifications issued between May 26 and June 19, whereby the final year students were directed to appear for their end-semester examinations.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, the counsel referred to the notification dated June 19 before submitting that the university was to conduct the final semester examinations in July.He also referred to the judgment passed by the Delhi High Court before contending that guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission and the ministries were unanimous that there was no compulsion on the university to conduct the final year examinations.He further referred to another notification dated March 18 passed by Symbiosis International (Deemed University), whereby it had taken a decision not to conduct the final examinations. The students were to be given grades on pro-rata basis on their current semester’s internal continuous assessment.“Keeping in view the continuous increase in the number of Covid-19 patients, there shall be an interim stay of final examinations in the month of July,” Justice Bahri concluded, before fixing July 23 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-stays-final-semester-exams-by-panjab-university-113412
16-07-2020||Mohali||Babbar Khalsa International operative’s house raided in Mohali||A team of the NIA on Tuesday raided the residence of Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) militant Paramjit Singh Pamma at Phase 3B2 here and interrogated his parents.Reportedly, Pamma has been abroad for a long time. He is currently working in close association with Gurpatwant Singh Pannu.The NIA team carried out the raid with the help of the Mohali police. As per information, the Punjab Police are continuing to arrest the activists of Referendum 2020.Pamma’s parents, Amrik Singh and Ratan Kaur, said the search went on from around 10.30 am till 4 pm.The NIA team searched the entire house and also seized the passbooks of bank accounts in which Pamma was depositing money. They also inquired about Pamma’s remittances and other foreign funds and noted the details of the fixed deposit (FD) accounts of the elderly couple.Ratan Kaur said she had met Paramjit in a Portuguese jail in 2015 and since then, she had not spoken to her son.Pamma is their youngest child. Their eldest son, Parminder Singh alias Raja, was allegedly killed by the Punjab Police in a fake encounter in 1991 and Pamma was arrested and allegedly implicated in a false case of illegal arms. He spent 10 months in the Sangrur Jail then. He moved abroad in 1999 after his release from prison and is currently living in London with his family, Ratan Kaur added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/babbar-khalsa-international-operatives-house-raided-in-mohali-113427
16-07-2020||---||Panchkula sees biggest single-day spike||Panchkula, July 15In the biggest single-day spike in the number of Covid cases, the district saw as many as 24 persons, including seven ITBP personnel, testing positive for the virus today. The fresh cases raised the tally to 179.Besides, three persons from outside the district were also found infected. “Two persons from Chandigarh and one from Punjab tested positive for the virus today,” stated the Covid-19 bulletin released by the local Health Department.“The ITBP personnel — three men in their 20s and four in their 30s — had been quarantined in Bhanu after their return from respective home districts. They completed the quarantine period on July 12 and were sampled a day after. All were symptomatic. They have been shifted to the ITBP hospital in Behlana, Chandigarh, for treatment,” said an ITBP official.Seven persons from Ashiana Complex, Industrial Area, Phase 1, too contracted the virus. A 14-year-old boy from the complex was earlier found positive. “They have been admitted to the BRS Dental College, Barwala,” sources said.Four persons from Barwala – a 24-year-old youth, a 31-year-old man, a 25-year-old woman, a 15-year-old girl – also tested positive for Covid today. A person each from Nada Sahib and Railly villages were found infected.A 44-year-old woman of Sector 7, a 61-year-old man of Sector 9, a 48-year-old man from Sector 20 and a 23-year-old youth of Sector 15 are others who contracted the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-113617
16-07-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19 pandemic: 78-yr-old man Chandigarh’s 11th fatality||A day after two city residents died of Covid-19, a 78-year-old man of Sector 19 succumbed to the virus today, raising the UT toll to 11.According to the UT Health Department, the elderly man was diagnosed with Covid at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, Panchkula, on July 14. He died there. He was a patient of chronic heart disease with coronary stenting. He was admitted to the Panchkula three days ago and was administered oxygen also.Meanwhile, 19 fresh Covid cases were reported from the city today, jacking up the UT tally to 619. As many as 149 cases are active.A 25-year-old youth and a 56-year-old man of Sector 46, two men of Bapu Dham Colony, aged 30 and 65, a 36-year-old man of Sector 25, a 49-year-old man of Khuda Ali Sher, a 29-year-old woman of Sector 63, a 30-year-old man and a 27-year-old woman of Sector 29, a 44-year-old man of Raipur Khurd, two men of Dhanas, aged 53 and 57, two men of Burail, aged 48 and 45, two men of Sector 48, aged 45 and 60, and a 57-year-old woman of the same sector, a 78-year-old man of Sector 19 and a 36-year-old woman of Sector 38.Thirteen Covid patients were discharged in the city today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-pandemic-78-yr-old-man-chandigarhs-11th-fatality-113616
