16-10-2020||---||60 fresh Covid-19 cases in Panchkula, no death||Panchkula, October 16Panchkula on Friday reported 60 Coronavirus cases, taking the district tally to 6772. No COVID-19 deaths were reported on Friday.As many as 137 health care workers have been infected in the district till date, of which two were found positive today.Among the fresh positive cases, 5 each were from Amravati Enclave, Bhainsa Tibba, Sector 16, Sector 6, 4 each from Pinjore, Sector 15 and Surajpur, 3 each from Kalka, Sector 11, Sector 12A and Sector 17, 2 each from Sector 21, Sector 27, Sector 4 and Sector 9, one each from Bakshiwala, Barwala, Indira Colony, Mahadev Colony, MDC Sector 5, Sector 10, Sector 2, Sector 8.According to the latest COVID-19 bulletin, 344 cases are still active, while 6323 have been discharged or cured.The district’s recovery rate stands at 93.36.So far, the Panchkula district has conducted 79,161 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-panchkula-no-death-156646
16-10-2020||---||Man kills wife in Dhakoli, flees||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, October 15A man allegedly killed his wife by attacking her with a sharp weapon over some dispute at their house in Vasant Vihar, Phase 2, Dhakoli.Brutal attackThe suspect, Ashok Saini, attacked the victim, Sudesh, so brutally that her left thumb was chopped off as she tried to save herself from the attack.Couple fought oftenSaini often used to have fights with his wife. A few days ago too, they had a heated argument and fight over some issue.Mother gone to aunt’s place, children toldWhen children asked Saini where their mother was, he told them she fought with him and went to her aunt’s home. After this, the suspect left the house. When the elder son called him up in the afternoon, Saini confessed to having killed Sudesh.The suspect, Ashok Saini, who is into the business of building aluminum doors, is on the run. The victim has been identified as Sudesh (45). The couple’s elder son, aged 22, informed the police about the incident today. Soon after getting information, the local police and a forensic team reached the spot.Saini often had fights with his wife. A few days ago too, they had a heated argument and fight over some issue. Yesterday night, the matter went out of control. The suspect allegedly attacked Sudesh with a sharp weapon. He allegedly dragged her into the bathroom and bolted it from outside.The next morning, the children asked Saini where their mother was. He told them she fought with him and went to her aunt’s home. After this, the suspect left the house.When the elder son called up his father in the afternoon, Saini confessed to having killed Sudesh. Thereafter, the victim’s son informed the police.The police have registered a case against the suspect.Sources said the suspect attacked her so brutally that her left thumb was chopped off as she tried to save herself from the attack. Dhakoli police post in-charge Narpinder Singh said teams had been formed to trace the suspect.The body has been kept at a mortuary in a Dera Bassi hospital. The couple has two sons. The elder one is doing BA while the younger, aged 15, is in Class V. The suspect’s father, Chudiya Ram, too lives with them. He said their lives were now shattered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-kills-wife-in-dhakoli-flees-156475
16-10-2020||---||Three vehicles set afire at Mani Majra||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15Three vehicles, owned by a resident of New Indira Colony, Mani Majra, were set on fire by an unknown person during the wee hours of today. Earlier, three cars were burnt at Mauli Jagran and Ram Darbar on the intervening night of October 3 and 4.Sohail reported that his Tata Safari, Tata Ace and Nano were parked outside the house in the colony. At 4.14 am, his neighbour noticed the vehicles on fire. The neighbour informed Sohail and his family.Recent incidentsThe Fire Department was informed following which fire engines were rushed to the spot and the flames doused.“There are no CCTV cameras near the spot where the vehicles were parked. However, there are cameras on the lane leading towards the spot. We will scrutinise the footage,” Sohail said.The police were informed. An investigation has been initiated into the matter at the IT Park police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-vehicles-set-afire-at-mani-majra-156476
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths push Chandigarh toll past 200||The city today reported two Covid-19 fatalities, taking the toll to 201.The city also saw 83 new cases. The UT case tally now stands at 13,477. A 43-year-old man from Khuda Ali Sher, who was suffering from acute chronic kidney disease, succumbed to the virus at the PGI.A 66-year-old man from Sector 47, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, died at the GMCH-32. — TNSTwo more die in Mohali, toll 211Mohali: The district witnessed two more Covid fatalities during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 211. Besides, 59 fresh cases surfaced in the district. The new cases included 37 from Mohali (Urban), eight each from Dera Bassi and Lalru, four from Dhakoli and two from Gharuan. Meanwhile, 66 more patients in the district have defeated the virus. So far, 11,618 cases of Covid have been reported from the district and 10,547 of these have been cured. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-push-chandigarh-toll-past-200-156477
16-10-2020||Panchkula||28 cases, 1 more death in Panchkula||The district reported 28 new coronavirus cases and one more death today, taking the case tally to 6,712 and toll to 105.A 59-year-old woman from Sector 15, who was suffering from diabetes, succumbed to the disease.Among the fresh cases, six are from Sector 27, five from Pinjore, four from Sector 15, two from Sector 14 and one each from Amravati Enclave, Bakshiwala, Devinagar, ITBP, Kalka, the MDC, Sector 5, Sector 16, Sector 25, Sector 26, Sector 4 and Surajpur. While 321 cases are still active, 6,286 patients have been cured. Panchkula has conducted 78,283 tests.Docs support campaignTo promote the importance of wearing mask and practising social distancing, Civil Hospital doctors on Thursday extended their support to the mask signature campaign launched by NGO Parivartan Welfare Association, along with the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.The signatures were taken on the 36-foot-long mask under the campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/28-cases-1-more-death-in-panchkula-156479
16-10-2020||---||Broken Zirakpur roads trouble commuters||Zirakpur, October 15Roads continue to trouble residents and other commuters in the town.While societies and houses mushroomed over the years, the condition of roads here did not improve much. The condition of inner roads is poor.During a random check, it was found that one of the oldest stretches, VIP Road, is in a dismal state. Other than its name, there is nothing ‘VIP’ about the road. Kalgidhar-Baltana, Dhakoli, Pabhat and other internal roads offer a bumpy ride to commuters.“Big potholes can be spotted at various places. Broken roads damage our vehicles, besides causing accidents. During rain, the situation deteriorates as commuters, especially two-wheeler riders, fail to notice how deep a water-filled pothole is. So, road mishaps are common here. Most small accidents go unreported,” said Navdeep Kumar, a local resident.Another local resident Jagmeet Singh said, “There are several stretches, which seem to have not been recarpeted for a long time. Mostly, the local authorities get patchwork done. They must identify the worst road first and start the recarpeting work in a planned manner.”Residents said a few unmetalled roads not only trouble motorists but also irritate residents as passing vehicles raised dust.Kuldeep Bawa, Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Dera Bassi, said, “The road and beautification work on the Zirakpur flyover is on. For roads like Pabhat and others, tendering process is under way and the work will be done in the next one or two months.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/broken-zirakpur-roads-trouble-commuters-156480
16-10-2020||---||Chandigarh heritage items fetch Rs2.11 cr at London auction||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15Heritage furniture items from the city were sold for a record Rs2.11 crore during an auction conducted by Bonham, an auction house, in London today.As many as 10 heritage items designed by French architects Le Corbusier and Pierre Jeanneret went under the hammer. Among the items auctioned was a ‘committee table’. It fetched Rs71.57 lakh.The items auctioned in London included a press chair (Rs9 lakh), a pair of low chairs (Rs33.44 lakh), eight office armchairs (Rs28.66 lakh), a pair of advocate and press armchairs (Rs19.13 lakh), a writing table (Rs16.74 lakh), a bench (Rs7.21 lakh), a public bench (Rs9.59 lakh), an easy armchair (Rs11.38 lakh) and a folding screen (Rs4.58 lakh).In a letter to S Jaishankar, the Union Minister for External Affairs, Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, stated that auction of Indian heritage items by foreign auction houses was going on and on, causing a huge loss to the nation’s prestige apart from violating the ban. As such, it was appealed that all foreign embassies (of India) be alerted and the UN be approached reminding its international commitment to UNESCO to combat trafficking of cultural objects, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-items-fetch-rs2-11-cr-at-london-auction-156481
16-10-2020||---||Restore normalcy in OPDs, institutes told||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today ordered that all medical institutions must try to restore normalcy in OPDs, since the burden of Covid cases had come down substantially.During a review meeting on the pandemic, the Administrator directed Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, UT, to explore the possibility of strengthening satellite medical centres in various sectors by providing weekly service of specialists from major hospitals, including the PGI, so that there was no over-crowding in the OPDs of the PGI and other medical institutions.Badnore also directed that regular fogging, sanitisation and cleanliness should be undertaken to ensure that there was no outbreak of malaria, dengue or other vector-borne diseases.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, mentioned that normalcy was restored in orthopaedic, gynaecology, dental and paediatric OPDs at the GMSH, Sector 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restore-normalcy-in-opds-institutes-told-156482
16-10-2020||---||Caretaker ties man, flees with Rs 15K, 2 phones||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15A man working as a caretaker has been booked for stealing Rs15,000 and two mobile phones after tying a 74-year-old man with a turban at his house in Sector 35.According to the police, the complainant, Dr Shivshankar Parthak, stated that he, along with his brother Omparkash Pathak (78) and his wife Sheela, stay together in Sector 35. He stated that they had kept a caretaker, Jagsir Singh, to look after his brother. Jagsir was given a room to stay on the top floor of the house.The complainant stated that Jagsir had told them that he would leave the room on October 14, following which the complainant went to the top floor to check whether Jagsir had vacated the room or not.The complainant alleged that he asked Jagsir to get his belongings checked before leaving the room following which Jagsir entered into an altercation with the complainant. He alleged that Jagsir tied him with a turban and escaped after taking Rs15,000 from his pocket and two mobile phones.The police were informed about the incident following which they reached the spot and initiated an investigation.A case under Sections 342 (wrongful confinement) and 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to committing of the theft) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the suspect at the Sector 36 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/caretaker-ties-man-flees-with-rs-15k-2-phones-156483
16-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||ISA urges Chandigarh Administration to review criteria for fee payment||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15The Independent Schools Association (ISA) is at inquisitive phase after one of their internal reports hinted that only 12 to 15 per cent parents are ready to send their children to schools. However, the UT Administration has issued no directives as to whether parents should start paying full fee or not.Regular classes from November 2?The District Education Officer (DEO) on Thursday issued guidelines for reopening of schools. He instructed that the existing practice of calling students of Class IX to XII on a voluntary basis with 50 per cent teaching staff on alternate days would continue till October 31. It was also directed that schools may reopen for regular teaching of Class IX to XII in a phased manner for which detailed instructions would be issued later. Meanwhile, schools have been asked to make arrangements for starting regular classes from November 2. With other guidelines to encourage online teaching of students after taking a written consent, the rule of no enforcement of attendance will continue to be adopted by schools.Around 80,000 to 90,000 students are enrolled in local private schools. The Administration had asked parents to pay only tuition fee since the imposition of lockdown.Now, when the MHA has allowed phased opening of almost everything, local schools want that the Administration should come up with a concentre plan to give clarity on this issue.“Most parents don’t want to send their children to school. We cannot host both online and offline classes. Our teachers won’t be teaching a same class in different modes at the same time,” said HS Mamik, president, ISA.“The MHA has opened everything in Unlock-5. The UT Administration should also direct parents to pay full fee. Those who are unable to pay fee can continue to do so for the time being after giving an affidavit to the school authorities. A confusion has been created by the UT Administration over fee payment and the authorities should make things clear,” he added.According to sources, ISA office-bearers will meet later this week to decide the future course of action and decide on taking the issue of full fee payment with the UT Administration.Sources maintained that schools, their staff, functionaries and other attached to institutions had to bear huge losses due to non-payment of fee in this pandemic.“We have to pay salaries. For how long the Administration expects us to continue without taking full fee? Our staffers are underpaid, but still performing full duties. Moreover, when everything is allowed to open why parents, who can pay full fee, don’t do so. Help has been given in genuine cases and they will continue to get support from us. However, those who can pay full fee easily should be covered under some directives. The Administration should review the situation,” said office-bearers of one of the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/isa-urges-chandigarh-administration-to-review-criteria-for-fee-payment-156485
16-10-2020||---||Proposal for installation of ex-Sports Director’s portrait at PU department||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15Panjab University Controller of Examination (CoE) has proposed to instal a portrait of Dr Parminder Singh Ahluwalia, former Director, Sports (PU), at the Sports Department of the university and its affiliated colleges. Dr Ahluwalia died of cardiac arrest recently.In a letter to the Vice-Chancellor, Principals, Syndics and all professors, the CoE stated, “Keeping in mind the achievements of the PU made under him, a portrait should be installed in his memory. Under his guidance, the PU won MAKA Trophy twice after a gap of 25 years.”“I request all colleagues to moot a proposal for installing a portrait at the PU Sports Department, to keep his memories alive and give inspiration to all of us,” he added.“His family should be allowed to stay on the campus till he was to get superannuation from the university. I also propose conferring of Khel Rattan Award on him (posthumously) to recognise his contributions,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/proposal-for-installation-of-ex-sports-directors-portrait-at-pu-department-156486
16-10-2020||---||Panjab varsity seeks fresh advice for Senate elections from Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15The matter of conducting or postponing the Panjab University (PU) Senate elections is likely to take a centre stage as the authorities have decided to take fresh advice from the UT Administration before taking any decision.Till the time the Administration gives some directions, the PU Vice- Chancellor has postponed elections for the time being. The term of current house will end on October 31. Many fear that there will be no House under the New Education Policy.In an update to Syndics, PU acting Registrar said, “The authorities have decided to approach the UT Administration considering new Unlock-5 guidelines.”A statement forwarded by PU Registrar Vikram Nayyar states, “It will be better to seek fresh advice of the UT Administration regarding conducting PU Senate elections. I as the PU Vice-Chancellor exercise power conferred under Regulation 12.2, Chapter-II B of Panjab University Calendar Volume-I (2007) to postpone, for the time being, the date(s) of election of all constituencies till further orders. Next course of action will be decided on receipt of fresh advice from the UT, Administration.”Syndics have already blamed the PU Vice-Chancellor for intentionally postponing Senate elections. However, many believe that it may turn a new chapter in the PU history.This announcement will heat up politics at the PU in coming days, believe sources close to the matter.“The decision has not gone down well with Syndics. The politics on the matter is likely to heat up in the coming days. The disappointment level is at all time high. They are eager to call a meeting. The PU Vice-Chancellor has taken a decision without calling the House, which is not a normal thing,” said a Syndic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-varsity-seeks-fresh-advice-for-senate-elections-from-chandigarh-156487
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Postponement of meeting by VC irks PUTA members||Members of the newly elected Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) were furious after the Vice-Chancellor (VC) allegedly postponed a scheduled meeting at the eleventh hour.The association claimed that on October 10 its president requested the Vice-Chancellor to meet the newly-elected body. “After not receiving any reply till October 13, a reminder was sent on October 14 and a meeting was fixed on October 15 at 4.30 pm at the PU guest house.While members were expecting to meet the VC, a message was received at 3.29 pm, informing that the meeting stands postponed, said PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar.“We strongly condemn the unprofessional attitude of the Vice-Chancellor towards the elected body of teachers,” said Amarjit Singh Naura. “It is the darkest day of this university. We had sought a meeting not to seek any favour, but as a gesture of respect,” he added.“A democratic body is always far more authentic than any nominated office because it is chosen by the people on the basis of its performance. We are committed to our teachers and their cause, come what may,” said PUTA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/postponement-of-meeting-by-vc-irks-puta-members-156488
16-10-2020||---||Betting racket: Suspects sent to judicial custody||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 15The two suspects involved in betting and drug rackets, arrested by the police from Homeland Society in Sector 70 here, were sent to judicial custody in Sangrur jail by the Mohali court today.Suspects Vipan Kumar and Rakesh Manchanda, alias Rinku, were indulging in betting on the ongoing IPL matches along with their accomplices, Tarush Dhawan and Malkit Singh, who are still at large.DSP (City 1) Gursher Singh said, “The arrested suspects were sent to judicial custody today. Teams have been searching the possible hideouts of the absconding suspects. We hope to nab them soon.” Bank accounts of the suspects, through which they did transactions, were frozen, the DSP added. “We have got all details of their bank accounts. Soon, financial investigation will be initiated by involving banks,” the DSP said.The Mataur police station SHO, Inspector Rajiv Kumar, said, “During interrogation of the suspects, it came to the fore that they used to purchase drug from Delhi and sell it to their customers in the tricity at higher rates.”The police recovered four laptops, 14 mobile phones, a phone landing machine and 570 gm-heroin worth Rs2.85 crore from their possession on October 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/betting-racket-suspects-sent-to-judicial-custody-156489
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Shaurya excels in essay writing competition||A Class XII student of Shishu Niketan Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22-D, Shaurya Chanana, brought laurels to the institution by emerging as the sole podium finisher from the tricity in the All-India Eighth Korea-India Friendship Essay Competition 2020.Chanana won the second prize of a free trip to Korea in the senior category of the event. The competition was organised by Republic of Korea embassy.Chanana is the only contestant, who qualified for the competition, from the tricity. Principal Amita Khorana congratulated Chanana and his parents for the achievement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shaurya-excels-in-essay-writing-competition-156490
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Grain market traders to go on strike from today||Members of the Grain Market Association have decided to observe an indefinite strike from tomorrow in protest against implementation of arbitrary parking tender at the Sector 26 mandi area.The UT Administration began a paid parking facility at the Sector 26 grain market, despite traders' stiff resistance here today.The 24-hour operational parking lot with 15 parking sites has been allotted on a contract of Rs2.21 crore. Also, CCTV cameras have been installed at the market to keep a tab on every incoming vehicle, especially on loading and unloading trucks.The Grain Market Association president, Ram Karan Gupta, said due to the Covid 19 pandemic businesses were already suffering huge losses. The Agriculture Market Committee did not agree to association’s suggestion to lower parking rates, he added. The market committee’s decision to levy five times higher parking fee would put additional burden on customers, he said. Members of the Fruit and Vegetable Market Association would join the indefinite protest from Saturday, he added.Chandigarh Beopar Mandal chairman Chiranjeev Singh said the two-hour limit for single entry of vehicles was unjust. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/grain-market-traders-to-go-on-strike-from-today-156491
16-10-2020||---||Defaulters owe  Rs 56 crore to Housing Board||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has released a list of defaulters of commercial properties.Highest amount Rs1.35 crThe highest amount due is Rs1.35 crore from the allottee of a booth in Sector 38 (West).An official said a sum of more than Rs56 crore in the form of instalment, ground rent and interest was pending against defaulters of the Housing Board properties in the city for years altogether.Defaulters are mainly located at the Booth Market in Sector 38 (West), motor markets in different sectors and the grain market in Sector 26. The highest amount due was Rs1.35 crore from the allottee of a booth in Sector 38 (West).The Housing Board will issue notices to all defaulters to urge them to deposit the outstanding amount at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/defaulters-owe-rs-56-crore-to-housing-board-156492
16-10-2020||---||High Court notice to PU on scrapping of entrance tests||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued a notice of motion on a petition for setting aside Panjab University’s October 1 decision upholding the scrapping of all entrance tests for admission to professional courses, including undergraduate law entrance examination, and for carrying out admission on the basis of marks obtained in the Class XII examination.The pleaThe counsel for the petitioner requested the HC for directions to the university to conduct the entrance tests as envisaged at the time of issuing prospectus on April 1.The notice for October 16 by the Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta came on a petition filed against Panjab University and other respondents by Chiraag Malli through counsel Abhinav Gupta.Appearing before the Bench through videoconferencing, Gupta contended the decision was derogatory to the observations made by the High Court in its earlier orders and against the well-established principles of law, causing serious prejudice to the rights of the candidates.Gupta also requested for directions to the official respondents to conduct the entrance examination as originally envisaged at the time of issuing prospectus dated April 1. Directions were also sought to the respondent university to maintain uniformity in the admission process followed by all national law schools, universities and colleges across the country for admission to BA/BCom LLB.Referring to the “specific directions” issued by the High Court on the issue of holding examinations while taking up an earlier petition, Gupta added the matter was not reconsidered. “Infrastructure was available with the respondent university, but still, there was no reconsideration,” Gupta submitted.Elaborating, Gupta contended that the High Court vide its order dated September 1 issued specific directions to the respondent university to reconsider its decision to scrap the UG-law entrance examination for five-year course.Another petition in the matter was filed by Shruti Nayar seeking directions to Panjab University for quashing the decision related to the scrapping of the entrance examination for admission to the five-year integrated law course. The petitioner, through counsel Deepak Nayar, contended that it was illegal, arbitrary and unjustified in view of the order earlier passed by the High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-notice-to-pu-on-scrapping-of-entrance-tests-156493
16-10-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Nod to 390 vehicles for Chandigarh waste segregation project||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has allotted a tender for 390 vehicles to collect segregated waste for Rs29 crore against the cost of Rs35 crore.The decision was approved by the Board of Directors of the firm during a meeting today. Also, a tender for setting up a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system has been allotted for Rs5.5 crore against the price of Rs8.20 crore.According to the terms and conditions of the tender, the vehicles need to be delivered within three months while a six-month deadline has been fixed for the SCADA tracking system. “The vehicles will come first and the tracking system will be installed in them later,” said NP Sharma, General Manager, CSCL.Much hinges on these 390 vehicles as far as the waste segregation at source is concerned in the city.The MC has already deployed close to 100 vehicles to collect segregated garbage, but once the new lot arrives, it will mark the beginning of waste segregation in real sense in the city. The civic body is racing against time to implement the National Green Tribunal’s direction to implement the complete segregation of waste in every ward of the UT by October 31.The MC has already missed the June 2020 deadline to ensure 100 per cent waste segregation. Another issue yet to be taken up by the MC is bringing independent garbage collectors under its fold. Officials say they were willing to come under the MC fold, except for a few.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nod-to-390-vehicles-for-chandigarh-waste-segregation-project-156494
16-10-2020||---||Youth’s body found in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 15The Patiala police today found the body of a 24-year-old resident of Urban Estate from an old petrol pump in Bahadurgarh. Officials said the youth had been missing for the past two days.SHO Pardeep Singh Bajwa of the Sadar police station said the body of the youth, Rishabh (24), was recovered from the petrol pump. “The body has knife marks. His father Sanjeev Kumar had submitted a missing complaint on Tuesday after which, the search had started,” he said.Officials said they have registered a case against Rishabh’s friend Gursewak Singh of Bahadurgarh under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. He said Gursewak had called Rishabh to Bahadurgarh. Both dealt in share market together. Gursewak is reportedly absconding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youths-body-found-in-patiala-156495
16-10-2020||---||Panchkula administration braces for Navratri fest||Panchkula, October 15The Panchkula administration is bracing for the Navratri fest, scheduled to be held from October 17 to October 25.To ensure safe, secure and hassle-free ‘darshans’, special arrangements have been made for washing of hands and feet, thermal screening and proper sanitisation of devotees as per the SOPs issued by the Centre and state governments.For paying obeisance, devotees will have to obtain an e-token from the website of the Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board — www.mansadevi.org.in.Now, 11,000 devotees can pay their obeisance at Mata Mansa Devi Temple each day.The facility to conduct rapid antigen test of devotees entering the temple has also been made. On a trial basis, “Preferential Darshan” has also been introduced. To avail of the facility, a special token for Rs50 will be issued. Those availing of the facility will be allowed to enter the temple from a separate gate bypassing the crowds.Nearly 100 devotees in one hour and total 1,600 devotees each day will be allowed “preferential darshan”.Children below 10 years of age and persons above the age of 65 years have been advised to not visit the temple in view of the Covid situation. For the first time, “Parsaadam Scheme” (both online and offline) has also been introduced to provide ‘prasad’ of packed dry fruits weighing 100 grams and 200 grams.Devotees can only book rooms in the temple ‘dharamshala’ after producing a negative Covid test report.Arrangements have also been made for live ‘darshan’ through Facebook channel, You-Tube Channel (maamansa devi) and application.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-administration-braces-for-navratri-fest-156496
16-10-2020||---||Thieves decamp with Rs 3L, 20 POS machines||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 15Unidentified miscreants allegedly broke open an online delivery-based private firm’s office in Kumbra village here and decamped with Rs3.72 lakh, 20 card-swipe machines and a DVR.The manager of the company, Gurdeep Sing, lodged a complaint with the police last night. He said the incident took place on the night of October 11 when the office was shut. Next morning, the locks of the office gate were lying broken and 20 point-of-sale (POS) machines, along with Rs3.72 lakh, was missing. He said the miscreants also took away a DVR recorder used for storing the CCTV footage.Investigation officer ASI Rakesh Kumar said: “The incident took place on October 11 but the company manager informed us last night. We have registered a case and started investigation. There is no clue to the suspects yet, but we will arrest them soon.”A case has been registered against the unidentified suspects under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the IPC at the Phase 8 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-decamp-with-rs-3l-20-pos-machines-156497
16-10-2020||---||Chandigarh to move pre-fab shelter occupants to EWS flats||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15The UT Administration has decided to relocate the residents of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 to EWS flats constructed by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) in Maloya-I.Yashpal Garg, CEO, CHB, said the project would be implemented under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme of the Centre.He said the allottees would be required to pay a monthly rent of Rs3,000 which would be increased biennially by 8 per cent. The total rental period would be for maximum 25 years, he added.He said a list of occupants at pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 had been prepared after a survey was conducted from September 29 to October 1.He said the list had been uploaded on the official website of the CHB. Any persons having any objection to the names in the list may give complaint or suggestion in writing to the Secretary, CHB, on or before October 22, he added.He said a list of occupants of 1,692 pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 69 pre-fab shelters in Sector 56 had been prepared who would be allotted the EWS flats in Maloya-I.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-move-pre-fab-shelter-occupants-to-ews-flats-156499
16-10-2020||---||Sewer man succumbs at Patiala hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 15Three days after a cleanliness worker died after inhaling toxic gases emanating from a sewer line, his co-worker, Vicky Kumar, breathed his last on Wednesday while undergoing treatment at a private hospital here in Rajpura.Sanjeev Kumar (35), a resident of Rajpura, had died on October 12 after he inhaled toxic gases while cleaning the sewer line in the evening hours.The Rajpura City SHO, Balwinder Singh, said, “Both were working privately at the sewer lines near the Tahli wala chowk after working hours. Sanjeev Kumar who is a MC employee died on the spot after he slipped and fell into the sewer line.”He said Vicky Kumar was admitted to Rajindra Hospital and the family later took him to a private hospital in Rajpura. Balwinder Singh said the police have registered a case under Section 174 of the IPC and started investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sewer-man-succumbs-at-patiala-hospital-156500
16-10-2020||---||Take precautions against dengue, Patiala residents told||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 15In the wake of rising dengue cases, the Health Department has appealed to residents to wear full-sleeved shirts and use mosquito repellent to keep mosquitoes at bay. The Health Department asked people to take extra precautions against dengue this year. Reason: the health care system is already under strain — owing to the Covid-19. In such a situation, precautions and extra care are the only way to curb dengue.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said: “People are advised to apply mosquito-repellent creams during daytime and wear full-sleeved shirts and pants. Mosquito coils should be used, and, if necessary, mosquito nets should also be used while sleeping at night.”He said people should play an active role in curbing the disease and empty their coolers, trays of refrigerator pots and tyres.Dr Harish said 71 dengue cases had already been reported. Meanwhile, one suspected dengue death had also been reported.He appealed to people to visit nearest health centre as soon as possible if dengue symptoms appear, which include high fever, severe headache, joint and muscle pain.“We have already tested over 600 persons for dengue so far. People should avoid self-medication, instead they should visit nearest health centre for treatment,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/take-precautions-against-dengue-patiala-residents-told-156501
16-10-2020||---||Wife among 3 booked for abetting suicide||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 15A case of abetment to suicide has been registered by the local police against a woman and her two family members, residents of Sector 25, after her husband committed suicide.Victim Abdul Razak had committed suicide at his house in Dhanas on September 22.According to the police, complainant Abdul Jamid, a resident of Sector 52, reported that his brother Abdul had got married to Pooja, aka Reena. It was a love marriage. In 2013, the couple gave birth to a girl child.The complainant alleged that a few months after the marriage, Pooja’s conduct changed towards her husband and she started residing with her mother Sunita and brother Sahil, aka Sunil, in Sector 25.The complainant has alleged that Pooja started harassing her husband and pressuring him to pay Rs2 lakh and leave her.It is alleged that Pooja, along with her mother and brother, also threatened her husband, Abdul Razak, that she will implicate him in a false case.Last month, Abdul committed suicide by hanging.Acting on the complaint, a case under Sections 306 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the suspects at the Sarangpur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wife-among-3-booked-for-abetting-suicide-156502
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||I-T Dept raids advocate's premises||The Income Tax Department has raided a "leading" Chandigarh-based advocate's premises on the charges of tax evasion and receiving at least Rs217 crore "in cash", said tax officials on Thursday.They said the department had raided 38 premises linked to the lawyer in Haryana, Delhi and the NCR on Wednesday.Cash amounting to Rs5.5 crore was seized during the raids carried out against the advocate practising in the field of commercial arbitration and alternate dispute resolution."The Chandigarh advocate was suspected to have been receiving substantial amounts in cash from his clients to settle their disputes. Incriminating documents of unaccounted cash transactions and investments made by the assessee over several years have been found," the department said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/i-t-dept-raids-advocates-premises-156503
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||Women should have employment opportunities at fuel outlets: Badnore||VP Singh Badnore, UT Administrator, today inaugurated two retail fuel outlet in Sector 51 and Raipur Kalan. The Sector 51 outlet will be operated by the Municipal Corporation and CITCO will operate the one in Raipur Kalan.Badnore lauded the efforts of Indian Oil Corporation for commissioning of the outlets in just three months. He said women should be given equal employment opportunities at the new outlets. He directed the officials concerned to ensure quality services at the outlets.Manoj Kumar Parida, Adviser to the Administrator, also lauded the MC’s efforts towards setting up the Sector 51 outlet. He said the outlet would be profitable due to its strategic location. He said the fuel stations would strengthen the bond between Indian Oil and the Chandigarh Administration.Mayor Raj Bala Malik said the CNG facility would be added to the Sector 51 outlet in the near future. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/women-should-have-employment-opportunities-at-fuel-outlets-badnore-156504
16-10-2020||Mohali||Mohali allows staging of Ramlila||The administration today allowed the staging of Ramlila in the district.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the organisers would have to take permission of the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) concerned for Ramlila in open spaces.He said adhering to safety protocols, provision of thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitisers would be mandatory. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-allows-staging-of-ramlila-156505
16-10-2020||Chandigarh||PU centres to remain closed today to mark Banda Singh Bahadur birthday||Results announcedChandigarh: Panjab University announced results for MSc (Hons school zoology), fourth semester, BSc (Fashion an lifestyle technology), second semester, MA (Music instrumental-Tabla), second semester, pos stgraduate diploma in library automation and networking, second semester, masters in remote sensing and GIS, fourth semester, MPhil (Psychiatric social work), second year, MPhil (Clinical psychology), second year, MSc (Information technology), fourth semester, and MSc (Microbial biotechnology), fourth semester. TNSWebinar dwells on NEP 2009/2020Chandigarh: The Department of Computer Science and Applications, Panjab University, organised a webinar on “NEP 2009/2020: Open standards for interactive computing”. Prof VR Sinha, Dean (Research) and officiating Dean, University Instructions, PU, highlighted the mandate of NEP 2020, which will make the education system holistic and multidisciplinary and encourage the use of technology for effective teaching. TNSPU Enactus team bags Rs50K grantChandigarh: “The Enactus team of Panjab University has once again brought fame to the institution by winning a grant of Rs 50,000 for its ‘Project Dhra’ and ‘Project Uday’,” said Prof Seema Kapoor, faculty advisor, Enactus team. Enactus Panjab University is a community of students using the power of entrepreneurial action to uplift underprivileged sections of society. The team in its endeavour to make bigger impact had applied for the KPMG Business Ethics Grant, 2020. Out of 58 Enactus teams nationwide that contested for the grant, the PU Enactus was selected among the top 10. TNSInt’l conference website launchedChandigarh: Panjab University has launched the website —www.icamse2021.weebly.com — for the International Conference on Aspects of Materials Science and Engineering to be held on March 5 to 6. All accepted papers of the conference will be published in Elsevier’s Scopus indexed journal “Materials Today: Proceedings”. Conference coordinator Dr Shankar Sehgal, also Managing Guest Editor of “Materials Today: Proceedings”, welcomed guests. He said more than 250 papers would be presented at the conference. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-centres-to-remain-closed-today-to-mark-banda-singh-bahadur-birthday-156506
