16-12-2020||Chandigarh||67 fresh COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported 67 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the city’s infection count to 18,843.There are 627 active COVID-19 cases, according to a medical bulletin.(Click here for the latest developments on Covid-19 epidemic)No death due to the infection was reported from the city on Wednesday and the toll stands at 304.A total of 75 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 17,912, as per the bulletin.So far, 1,64,254 samples have been taken for testing and of them, 1,44,548 tested negative while reports of 159 samples were awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/67-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-185222
16-12-2020||---||Social gatherings restricted to 100 persons in Mohali||Mohali, December 16Along with the existing restrictions of night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am in all the towns and the closure timing of hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces by 9.30 pm till December 31, the Mohali District Magistrate has imposed new restrictions.Social gatherings have been restricted to a maximum of 100 persons for any indoor event, and 250 persons in outdoor gatherings till December 31.Any violation of these guidelines shall be punishable under sections 51to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 besides legal action under section 188 of Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, 34 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the district today. As many as 111 patients have recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours. In a major relief, no Covid-related death was reported from the district today. Among the new cases reported today, 33 were from Mohali urban and one case was from Dera Bassi.The total positive cases in the district are 17,203, of which 14,858 have been cured. The active cases in the district are 2,027. With no death today, the toll stands at 318 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/social-gatherings-restricted-to-100-persons-in-mohali-185187
16-12-2020||---||Vijay Diwas commemorated at Chandimandir||Chandigarh, December 16To commemorate Vijay Diwas, that marks India’s spectacular victory over Pakistan in 1971, homage was paid to martyrs during a solemn wreath laying ceremony at the Veer Smriti war memorial at Chandimandir here on Wednesday.On behalf of the General Officer Comanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen Yogendra Dimri, Chief of Staff, Western Command, paid floral tributes at the memorial.A number of senior veterans, including former Army Chief Gen VP Malik, former Air Chief, Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa, former Navy Chief, Admiral Sunil Lamba, Lt Gen Tej Sapru (retd), Lt Gen Amar Aul (retd) and Vice Admiral HCS Bisht (retd), were also present on the occasion and paid their tributes.Vijay Diwas this year also marks the commencement of Golden Jubilee year of the 1971 Indo-Pak War, which is being celebrated across the nation as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’.A year-long tri-services commemorative event also commenced on Wednesday at the National War Memorial, New Delhi, with the lighting of the Victory Flame.Western Command had played a stellar role in the 1971 Indo-Pak war that was fought both, on the eastern and western fronts, from December 3-16, culminating in the surrender of Pakistan and the emergence of Bangladesh as an independent nation.The 13-day war is among one of the fastest and shortest campaigns in military history. With 93,000 Pakistani soldiers taken prisoners-of-war, it was also the largest surrender since the Second World War.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vijay-diwas-commemorated-at-chandimandir-185162
16-12-2020||Mumbai||Varun Dhawan tests negative for COVID-19; to resume 'Jug Jugg Jeeyo' shoot in Chandigarh||Actor Varun Dhawan has tested negative for COVID-19 and is currently gearing up to resume shooting for "Jug Jugg Jeeyo".The 33-year-old actor was diagnosed with COVID-19 alongside his "Jug Jugg Jeeyo" co-stars Neetu Kapoor, Maniesh Paul and director Raj Mehta while they were shooting for the film in Chandigarh in the first week of December.According to a source close to the film, both Dhawan and Mehta have now recovered and will resume the shoot from December 19 in Chandigarh. Neetu Kapoor, who flew back to Mumbai after her actor-son Ranbir Kapoor made necessary arrangements, tested negative for the virus on December 11.However, there has been no update about Paul's health.Last week, Dhawan had opened up about his COVID-19 diagnosis, urging people to be "extra careful" amid the pandemic.He also admitted that he could have taken more precautions to safeguard himself from the disease.The film's other cast members—Anil Kapoor, Kiara Advani and Prajakta Koli—had tested negative."Jug Jugg Jeeyo" is backed by filmmaker Karan Johar. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/varun-dhawan-tests-negative-for-covid-19-to-resume-jug-jugg-jeeyo-shoot-in-chandigarh-185109
16-12-2020||---||Minister offers free treatment to injured||Mohali, December 15Punjab Health and Labour Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has offered free-of-cost treatment to those injured in the Bhagomajra road accident at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6.Sukhdev Singh (70) of Dadiana village and Deep Singh (65) of Popna village succumbed to the injuries, while three farmers with spine injury have been referred to the PGI. Three others are undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital, Mohali.Daljit Singh, SHO, Sohana, said, “We conducted the postmortem of both deceased at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 today. A case under Sections 279, 337, 304-A and 427 of the IPC has been registered against the unidentified truck driver. The owner of the truck has been identified through its registration number and the driver will be identified soon. The truck has already been impounded.”The farmers were returning from the Singhu border after participating in the protest. Around 9 pm, their pickup collided with a truck laden with gravel near Bhagomajra village.Cabinet Minister Charanjit Singh Channi today asked the Mohali Deputy Commissioner to send the case report to the Chief Minister so that the victim’s kin cand be provided with compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-offers-free-treatment-to-injured-184877
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Deposit dues online on CHB website||A Sector 34 resident has complained that he was duped of Rs80,000 by a fraudster.According to the police, complainant Ramnik Singh reported that he posted an advertisement on OLX to sell accessories of his camera.On May 21, the complainant received a call from a person, who introduced himself as Rakesh, a resident of Dhanas.A deal was fixed for Rs16,000 and the buyer agreed to pay Rs8,000 advance, while the remaining amount was to be paid at the time of the delivery of the items. However, a few minutes later, the suspect sent a screenshot stating that a payment of Rs16,000 had been made to the victim. The suspect then asked the victim for a refund and sent him a QR code on his mobile phone, through which a total of Rs80,000 was debited from two bank accounts of the victim. A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deposit-dues-online-on-chb-website-184878
16-12-2020||---||Eight SHOs among 12 UT cops shifted||Chandigarh, December 15  In a major reshuffle, 12 cops, including eight SHOs of the Chandigarh Police, were transferred today.  A day after a team led ASP (South) Shruti Arora nabbed 11 persons, including a head constable, while gambling in an area under the jurisdiction of the Sector 31 police station, Paramjit Kaur,  the SHO of the police station, was sent to the Police Lines, Sector 26. She has been replaced by Narinder Patial, who was the SHO of the Sector 26 police station. Jasbir Singh, SHO, Sarangpur police station, has been posted as the SHO of the Sector 26 police station. Lakhbir Singh, SHO, IT Park police station, is now the SHO, Sarangpur police station.  Shadi Lal, who was the SHO, Sector 19 police station, has been posted as the SHO of the IT Park police station. Malkit Singh, who was in the traffic wing, will discharge his duties as the SHO, Sector 19 police station. Baldev Kumar, SHO, Sector 34 police station, has been transferred to the traffic wing and replaced by Rajiv Kumar, SHO, Sector 11 police station. Ranjodh Singh, SHO, Sector 36 police station, has been appointed as the SHO, Sector 11 police station. Maninder Singh, who was in the traffic wing, has been posted as the SHO, Sector 36 police station. Besides Inspectors, two sub-inspectors were also transferred. Sarita Roy, incharge, Sector 43 police post, has been transferred to the Sector 36 police station and Ravdeep Singh has been shifted from the Industrial Area police station and posted as the incharge of the Sector 24 police post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-shos-among-12-ut-cops-shifted-184879
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 34 resident duped of Rs 80,000||A Sector 34 resident has complained that he was duped of Rs 80,000 by a fraudster.According to the police, complainant Ramnik Singh reported that he posted an advertisement on OLX to sell accessories of his camera.On May 21, the complainant received a call from a person, who introduced himself as Rakesh, a resident of Dhanas.A deal was fixed for Rs16,000 and the buyer agreed to pay Rs 8,000 advance, while the remaining amount was to be paid at the time of the delivery of the items. However, a few minutes later, the suspect sent a screenshot stating that a payment of Rs16,000 had been made to the victim. The suspect then asked the victim for a refund and sent him a QR code on his mobile phone, through which a total of Rs 80,000 was debited from two bank accounts of the victim. A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-34-resident-duped-of-rs-80-000-184880
16-12-2020||---||BJP’s Goyal files his nomination papers||Panchkula, December 15“The Congress believes in horse trading and has no concern for development works. Everyone knows that a former Congress Mayor adopted tricks to stop development works while remaining in power during the previous term,” said Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta after inaugurating the poll campaign office of the BJP candidate for the post of Mayor, Kulbhushan Goyal, in Sector 8 this afternoon.He said the funds given by the BJP for the development of the city were not allowed to be spent on works and urged people to vote in favour of Goyal to speed up development works in the city.Meanwhile, accompanied by Gian Chand Gupta, Sham Lal Bansal and other senior leaders of the party, mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal filed his nomination papers today.Addressing workers, he said he had plans to develop the city on the lines of foreign countries. He said his main agenda would be to develop picnic spots at various places, shifting of dumping ground, safe drinking water, proper sewer system, recarpeting of roads, beautification of parks, replacing street lights withLED lights, covering the nullah in the Mansa Devi Complex and providing facilities to people living in sectors across the Ghaggar.BJP district president Ajay Sharma, general secretary Paramjit Kaur and Jannayak Janata Party district president OP Sihag were among those who accompanied Goyal to the officer of the returning officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjps-goyal-files-his-nomination-papers-184881
16-12-2020||---||Suspects’ three aides nailed||Mohali, December 15Three accomplices of the robbers, who shot at a goldsmith in Sector 23, Chandigarh, on December 9, have been arrested.The police have identified the two prime suspects as Lovepreet Singh, a resident of Nagoke village in Tarn Taran, and Pargat Singh, a resident of the Urban Estate, Phase II, Patiala.The arrested suspects have been identified as Baljit Singh, alias Balli, and Balwinder Singh, alias Billa, both residents of Fazilka, and Preetinder Singh, a resident of Budhlada in Mansa.The trio was in the real estate business, said the police. Balli was also working with an animation company.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said Lovepreet and Pargat, along with Jaspreet Singh, had committed the crime. Later, they killed Jaspreet as they feared of being arrested when his identity was revealed. “During their interrogation, the accomplices of the prime suspects confessed that they used to help Lovepreet and Pargat in hiding. They were also allowing them to use their bank accounts for depositing the looted amount. Lovepreet, Pargat and Jaspreet used to offer them some share in the spoils. Lovepreet and Pargat will be nabbed soon,” said the SSP.On December 9, a goldsmith was shot at by the assailants at his shop in the busy Sector 23 market. The suspects, who wanted to rob the victim, arrived at his shop on the pretext of selling gold. After shooting the goldsmith, the assailants fled the spot.Later, the police found a body in Sohana, which was later identified as that of one of the suspects in the Sector 23 firing incident. Jaspreet was found dead inside his Tata Tiago car in Sector 86 on Nanumajra village road. He had two bullet marks on his head.A case was registered under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25-54-59 of the Arms Act.Suspects also involved in carjacking: SSPMohali SSP Satinder Singh said the two prime suspects were also involved in a carjacking that took place in Sector 82 on November 11. The suspects had made off with a Ford Endeavour from Jasdeep Singh at gunpoint and later dismantled the vehicle. “We have recovered the SUV’s stepney along with an electronic device of the owner from the possession of the arrested persons. The SUV will be recovered soon,” the SSP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspects-three-aides-nailed-184882
16-12-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Flyover only solution, says Chandigarh Administration||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15After deliberating for over a year on various issues that stood in the way of the construction of a flyover at Tribune Chowk, the UT Administration has come to the conclusion that there is no alternative to it and its construction is the only lasting solution to the traffic congestion.This means that the UT Administration will have to axe 700 trees to pay the way for the 1.2-km project on Dakshin Marg.In view of traffic bottlenecks at the roundabout and rising pollution, the UT Administration has decided to go ahead with the city’s first flyover, as all other alternatives to the project were found unfeasible, said UT Adviser Manoj Parida.Initially, the UT Administration had planned a 7-km-long flyover, but the Union Government reduced the length to 3.5 km. Later, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways further reduced the length of the flyover to 1.2 km.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had laid the foundation stone of the project in March 2019. The Centre had approved the Rs183-crore project in February 2019 to decongest Tribune Chowk.On a petition filed by the Run Club against the cutting and uprooting of nearly 700 trees for the flyover, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had stayed the construction of the elevated road in November 2019 and had asked for a public opinion to find an alternative to the flyover.On the directions of the High Court, a public hearing was held in December last year to obtain suggestions and objections of people and experts on the project. A majority of residents, professionals and architects had opposed the construction of the flyover.After the hearing, a committee was constituted to examine the technical suggestions on alternatives to the project. The panel scrutinised all seven models and found these unviable.In December last year, the Municipal Corporation had even passed a resolution in the favour of the construction of a flyover at Tribune Chowk.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said they would submit a report in the favour of the construction a flyover at Tribune Chowk during the next hearing in the case in the High Court in the January next.If the UT Administration got an approval from the High Court, the flyover could be constructed in three phases, said sources.Citing a violation of the Chandigarh Master Plan-2031, which was prepared by the UT Administration, several residents opposed the decision of the Administration to construct a flyover at Tribune Chowk. Rahul Mahajan, an environmentalist, said he was against it as so many trees would be felled. “The flyover is an added burden on the city residents and the environment. It will only serve people travelling from outside Chandigarh,” he said, adding that the taxpayers’ money would be wasted in the construction of the flyover. “The character of the City Beautiful designed by Le Corbusier should be maintained,” he added.Expressing similar views, RK Garg, president, Second Innings Association, said the flyover project was being pushed against the popular opinion. “On December 23, while public hearing was arranged most of residents were against the very concept. The Administration has not exercised all available options like alternative routes by coordinating tricity resources.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flyover-only-solution-says-chandigarh-administration-184883
16-12-2020||Mohali||Fresh programme for preparing Mohali, Zirakpur electoral rolls||A fresh programme for the preparation of electoral rolls for the Dera Bassi, Lalru, Zirakpur and Mohali municipalities has been issued, as was directed by the State Election Commission.Deputy Commissioner-cum-Mohali Electoral Officer Girish Dayalan said the inspection of the work of electoral registration officers brought to fore that the electoral rolls were not published in a proper format. This was brought to the notice of the State Election Commission following which the earlier electoral rolls preparation programme was withdrawn and a revised one issued.Dayalan said since the preparation of the electoral rolls was the foundation on which entire process rests, the date for claims and objections had been extended by a week. He said the fresh programme included the preparation of electoral rolls on December 16, draft publication of electoral rolls on December 17, last date for filing claims and objections on December 23, disposal of claims and objections on December 30 and the final publication of electoral rolls on January 5, 2021.‘The democratic right of residents was being denied by the ruling party. If the new electoral rolls do not rectify the anomalies, we will again highlight their wrongdoings,” said NK Sharma, Dera Bassi MLA.“We believe in winning by getting the votes of people, not by cutting their names from the voters list,” said Deepinder Dhillon, Dera Bassi Congress in-charge. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fresh-programme-for-preparing-mohali-zirakpur-electoral-rolls-184885
16-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||3 firms file technical bids||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15The 24X7 water supply project for Mani Majra may now move ahead as three agencies have expressed interest in it.This could be a result of relaxations in the financial conditions approved for the project during a meeting of board of directors of Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL). Earlier, the authorities had failed to find any takers for the Rs160-crore project despite floating tenders several times.In July, the CSCL even decided to offer the project via joint venture, but that too didn’t cut an ice with bidders. In the technical bids opened today, SPML Infra Limited, Vishvaraj Environment Pvt Ltd and SB Enterprises filed their papers.“We will evaluate the technical bids. The whole process will take a month. Following which financial bids will be opened and the firm bidding the lowest amount will be allotted the project,” said NP Sharma, General Manager, CSCL. Once the work is allotted, the successful bidder would be given a deadline of one-and-a-half years to complete the job, he said.According to smart city officials, there are two components — capital and installation of water meters — under the project. A total of 13,700 water connections have been planned to be covered in Mani Majra under the project. Main focus is to reduce water leakage from the existing 50 per cent to 15 per cent.According to the plan, pipelines will be laid in the outer parts as well as inside the houses to keep water contamination at bay. Earlier, the Municipal Corporation used to lay down pipelines outside the houses. People used to misuse it by connecting more pipelines to it on their own. This caused the water to contaminate.After the pilot project, the CSCL would start the work on providing 24X7 water supply to the entire city.The CSCL will be borrowing Rs440 crore on interest at the rate of two per cent from a French firm. It will pay Rs60 crore available with it, while the remaining Rs380 crore will be paid through consumers by increasing the water bills effective from 2027. The agenda regarding the increase in water rates for this purpose is already approved by the MC General House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-firms-file-technical-bids-184886
16-12-2020||---||Now, January 31 last date for EWS admissions||Chandigarh, December 15The UT Education Department has extended the last date to apply for admissions to private schools under the economically weaker section (EWS) category to January 31. There are around 730 EWS seats reserved by 56 private schools in Chandigarh.The office of Deputy Commissioner has started issuing income certificates to parents belonging to the economically weaker section and disadvantaged groups for admission to private schools. The income certificates are being issued by the tehsildar(s) of the sub-division concerned and attested by the sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) of the area concerned.The EWS parents have to declare their income from all sources in the application form. The form does not ask for any proof or evidence for their income. The only documentary evidence sought for the issuance of an income certificate is a proof of residence, proof of identity and proof of date of birth.The particulars required to be disclosed are a monthly income of other family members, total annual family income from all sources and total monthly family income from all sources in the application form. Parents also have to declare that if any information for obtaining the income certificate is found to be false at any stage, the admission of their ward will get cancelled and an appropriate action will be taken under the RTE Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-january-31-last-date-for-ews-admissions-184888
16-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Unrecognised schools in Chandigarh on brink of closure||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 15Students of unrecognised schools in the city are left to their own fate due to the Covid-19 pandemic as neither can they afford online classes nor can they go to schools. Unrecognised schools, on the other hand, are facing financial crisis and on the brink of closure.There are over 20,000 such students enrolled in 91 unrecognised schools of Chandigarh. A majority of these schools are in the peripheral areas of the city, including Mauli Jagran, Maloya, Hallo Majra, Dadu Majra and Dhanas.VB Kapil, president, Rural Education Welfare Association, said, “More than 50 per cent students enrolled in our schools have migrated to others states and have not yet returned. The remaining have no money to buy smart phones for online classes. Their parents are also labourers, who don’t have much work left due to the pandemic.”Sarita, mother of a child, who studies in Dhanas-based school said, “My child has not studied for the past eight months as we do not have a smart phone and neither have we paid school fee. Schools are closed due to the pandemic. So, I can’t send my child to school.”Around 80% schools are upto primary level (till Class VIII). On average, these schools charge an annual fee of over Rs6,000 per child and are running pre-nursery to Class XII.“Only 10 to 30 per cent students are able to pay their monthly fee. Due to this, owners of unrecognised schools are finding it difficult to pay salaries to teachers and rent of buildings. So many schools are on the brink of closure,” Kapil added.Last year, the UT Education Department had chalked out a plan according to which over 3,340 students from 37 unrecognised schools were to be adjusted in government schools of the city while 15,899 pupils from other 54 unrecognised schools could have been left out.The department had also ‘named and shamed’ 91 unrecognised schools, along with their addresses, in the public domain. An inspection of these schools carried out by the department had revealed that they lacked fire safety measures, proper ventilation, playground and other amenities.While final decision on these schools is yet to be taken by the UT Education Department, unrecognised institutions are demanding recognition for those, which fulfil safety norms.“Our students, who have shifted to other states, are facing problems in getting admission in other schools. They don’t have proper school leaving certificates. We request the Administration to give recognition to us based on the inspection carried out last year,” said Kapil.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unrecognised-schools-in-chandigarh-on-brink-of-closure-184890
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Cong objects to Chandigarh's draft notification||The city Congress unit today filed its objection to the UT Administration’s recent draft notification regarding the ward delimitation.Harmail Kesri, member, Congress, said: “The notification is incomplete. The areas mentioned are against the principle of contiguity and moreover, some areas that are non-existent due to rehabilitation are mentioned and notified in different wards, which proves that the notification was issued without going through the ground realities.”He added: “There are so many differences of voters between the wards. Time for objections given by the Local Government Department is only seven days, which is very less.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-objects-to-chandigarhs-draft-notification-184891
16-12-2020||Panchkula||Lawyers suspend work over parking||Members of the Panchkula Bar Association raised slogans against a district and sessions judge over unavailability of parking space near the Judicial Complex here this afternoon.The lawyers suspended the work and blocked the road for about two hours causing traffic jam and harassment to the commuters. ACP Nupur Bishnoi, traffic inspector and other officials reached the site and assured the lawyers parking arrangements would soon be made. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lawyers-suspend-work-over-parking-184892
16-12-2020||---||Don’t hand over Sector 16 hospital to private player: AAP||Chandigarh, December 15Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Prem Garg has questioned the rationale behind handing over Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, to a private player.“The private player will sell MBBS, MD and other paramedical seats in crores and will also provide medical facilities to the public for hefty charges,” he said.“The government is duty bound to provide medical facilities to the general public at affordable rates. If the government doesn’t have funds to run the hospital and the proposed medical college, it will be better to start the medical college with fully paid seats, instead of free seats, as will eventually be done under the public-private partnership mode also,” he said.“The medical college with fully paid medical seats will take care of the hospital expenses also. Under such an arrangement, patients will continue to get medical treatment at affordable rates and public confidence would also remain intact, it being a government hospital. Patients will not feel being fleeced, like in private hospitals,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-hand-over-sector-16-hospital-to-private-player-aap-184893
16-12-2020||---||Uniform water, sewerage user charges in Mohali from January 1||Mohali, December 15 In a major relief to residents of new sectors of the city, uniform water and sewerage charges will be applicable pan-Mohali from January 1. This was stated by Cabinet Minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu here today. At present, residents of Sector 66 to 69 and Sector 76 to 80 were paying relatively much higher user charges to GMADA as compared to those paid by their counterparts in other areas of the city to the Mohali Municipal Corporation. Balbir Singh Sidhu said it would give a major relief to residents of these sectors. There was a huge disparity since GMADA charged nearly Rs5 to Rs20 per kiloliters (1,000 litres) depending upon residential/ commercial and other types of water connections, while the Municipal Corporation charges varied from Rs1.80 to Rs5 per kl. Sidhu said the official resolution for operation and maintenance of Public Health Services had been passed and GMADA had handed over the first instalment of Rs25 crore, while another instalment of around Rs20 crore would be given in March 2021. The Minister said the city’s development would be given a major push under the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UEIP) and Rs20 crore had been received under it. City’s beautification and development works worth Rs100 crore were underway. Comprehensive development would be ushered in every nook and corner of Mohali. He said from April 1 next year, the Municipal Corporation would take over the maintenance of city roads and parks from GMADA. A survey regarding the completion of works by GMADA was on. Thereafter, operation and maintenance would be taken over. Maintenance would be easier, quick and to the satisfaction of people as local councillors would be able to identify and follow up requisite repairs and maintenance of roads and nearly 565 big and small parks of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uniform-water-sewerage-user-charges-in-mohali-from-january-1-184894
16-12-2020||---||Aryan, Harleen in tennis finals||Chandigarh, December 15 Second seed Navya Verma and top seed Aryan Thakur moved into boys’ U-16 singles final of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament at the CLTA Complex, Tennis Stadium, Sector 10, here, today. Navya defeated Aditya Chauhan 9-5. In another semi-final, top seed Aryan Thakur won easily from Akshat Dhull 9-2. In the girls’ U-16 singles final, top seed Harleen Kaur Dhanda will play second seed Radhika Vasudeva. Radhika blanked third seed Maitreyi Phogat 9-0. In another semi-final, top seed Harleen Kaur Dhanda defeated Gurmanat Kaur Sandhu 9-2. In the quarterfinal match, Harleen defeated Bhumika Gupta 9-2. Boys’ and girls’ singles finals will be played from 9:30 am onwards tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aryan-harleen-in-tennis-finals-184895
16-12-2020||---||Hold direct elections for Mayor’s post, say traders||Chandigarh, December 15The Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, has demanded direction elections for the Mayor’s post with five-year term.Association president Kamaljit Singh Panchhi urged UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore to take a concrete decision on amending the Municipal Corporation Act regarding electing the Mayor directly by residents of Chandigarh. Haryana had already adopted the pattern of direct elections for the Mayor’s post with five-year term. This needs to be considered in Chandigarh also.Seeking increase in the number of nominated councillors in the Municipal Corporation (MC), Panchhi stated that the civic body was formed in 1994. “There is a provision for nominated councillors who are experts in the fields and give their advice on the working of the MC run by the Mayor and elected councillors,” he said.Panchhi said the Administration had issued a draft notification increasing the number of elected councillors from 26 to 35. Similarly, the number of nominated councillors should also be increased.He urged UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore to increase the numbers of nominated councillors from 9 to 13. Increase number of nominated councillorsChandigarh Traders Association president Kamaljit Singh Panchhi said the Administration had issued a draft notification increasing the number of elected councillors from 26 to 35. Similarly, the number of nominated councillors should also be increased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hold-direct-elections-for-mayors-post-say-traders-184896
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Freight earnings rise this month||The Ambala Division of Northern Railways has recorded a significant jump in freight earnings ever since farmers’ rail roko protest moved from railway tracks to the national highway. This month, the division recorded its freight earnings at Rs140.91 crore in the past 13 days, which is 23 per cent higher than its earnings in November. The figures are expected to rise, said officials. Farmers across Punjab had given a call for Punjab Bandh on September 25 after the controversial farm bills were passed by the Centre. On November 26, the farmers decided to take their demands and agitation to Delhi. Vivek Sharma, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Ambala Division, said: “From September till November end, we were loading only from four stations in Haryana. However now, we are now loading from over 30 stations.” In October this year, the division’s freight earnings stood at Rs64 crore, whereas in November, the earnings stood at Rs114.39 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/freight-earnings-rise-this-month-184897
16-12-2020||Panchkula||Former Dy CM inaugurates campaign office in Panchkula||Former Deputy Chief Minister of Haryana and Congress leader Chander Mohan inaugurated the party’s poll office, kick-starting the campaign of Congress’ Mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia in Sector 14 here today.A postgraduate from Panjab University, Chandigarh, Upinder had remained the Panchkula Mayor from 2013-18. During her tenure, she had carried out several development works and projects in the town.Addressing the party workers, Ahluwalia said: “We will start from where we left in June 2018. All development works and projects started during our tenure are lying incomplete. After being elected, all incomplete projects will be given consideration on a priority basis”.Talking about the agenda for the elections, Ahluwalia said due to the Covid, health and sanitation would be her priority. Dumping site and landfill would be shifted away from the residential areas. We will set up a stray cattle shelter and check stray dog menace in the city. Uplift of slum areas, increased police patrolling, installation of CCTVs, maintenance and beautification of public parks, old-age homes in villages and shelter homes for the underprivileged and setting up public libraries in community centres and villages will be her other agendas.Benu Rao files papers as Independent candidateBenu Rao became the first candidate to file nomination papers as an Independent candidate from Ward No. 6 for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections to be held on December 27. Rao has done masters in Public Administration and an MBA in Marketing from Panjab University, Chandigarh. An educationist and motivational speaker, she has been imparting training in personality development, spoken English, interview skills and soft skills to students. She has been an active social worker. She said her agenda was to make Panchkula a beautiful and planned city. Checking encroachment by vendors in the Sector 7 market, improving condition of community centres and public washrooms, installation of street gates in Sector 18 and re-carpeting of roads in her ward were her some of main agendas. — TNS Know your candidateA postgraduate from Panjab University, Chandigarh, Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia had remained the Panchkula Mayor from 2013-18. During her tenure, she had carried out several development works and projects in the town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-dy-cm-inaugurates-campaign-office-in-panchkula-184898
16-12-2020||---||Raise tenure to 5 years, Babla urges Badnore||Chandigarh, December 15  Leader of the Opposition in the MC House Devinder Singh Babla has written to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore requesting him to raise the tenure of the Mayor to five years. Earlier, former BJP MP Satya Pal Jain had also made a similar request. “I request you that the forthcoming Chandigarh Municipal Corporation elections in 2021 should be held on the lines of Punjab and Haryana. The Mayor should be directly elected by residents. The tenure of the Mayor should also be five years,” the senior Congress councillor wrote.  “When the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation comes under the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, why cannot the elections be held under the same Act? A tenure of one-year is too little for a Mayor,” Babla wrote further. “The election of Mayor is necessary for the development of the city so that the Mayor can exercise his/her powers without hesitation. As of now, the bureaucracy barely allows the Mayor |to interfere in the decision making processes,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/raise-tenure-to-5-years-babla-urges-badnore-184899
16-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 62 cases, 2 deaths||3 more succumb in Mohali districtMohali: Three more deaths were witnessed due to Covid in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 318. Meanwhile, 101 fresh cases surfaced in the district, while 134 more patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, 69 were from Mohali (urban). TNS 25 test positive in PanchkulaPanchkula: Twenty-five fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 9,521. No new fatality was reported till Tuesday evening. There are 426 active cases with 135 deaths in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-62-cases-2-deaths-184909
16-12-2020||Mohali||Man booked for raping 16-yr-old||Youth killed as car, bike collideMohali: A 27-year-old youth died after his bike collided with a car near Jhajj taxi stand in Phase IX. The victim has been identified as Ramesh, a resident of Jagatpura village. He was working as a security guard in Mohali. According to the police, the incident took place on Monday evening. The car driver, identified as Kapil, a resident of Jalandhar, was arrested on the spot and a case under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of the IPC was registered against him at the Phase VIII police station. TNSI-T team seizes Rs 2-cr jewelleryChandigarh: Besides Rs 4 crore, a team of the Income Tax Department, which raided the office of a Sector 9-based pharmaceutical company and its managing director’s house, also seized jewellry worth Rs2 crore, said sources. The raid at the office of Nectar Lifesciences and the house of its MD Sanjiv Goyal was going on since Sunday morning. I-T sleuths, led by Principal Director LK Aggarwal, Joint Director Ankur Alya and Deputy Director Robin Bansal conducted the raid, carried out in connection with a benami land deal of 117 acres in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. tns‘Farm laws will boost economy’Chandigarh: A “vishal panchayat” was organised by the BJP at Daria on Tuesday to make farmers aware of the benefits of the three farm laws. “The farm laws will help double farmers’ income. These bills will not only help the agriculture sector, but also strengthen the country’s economy,” said city BJP organisational general secretary Dinesh Kumar at a rally. Mayor Raj Bala was also present. City BJP chief Arun Sood, who joined the rally virtually, also addressed the people. TNS‘Right to health’ drive launchedChandigarh: Renowned ayurveda proponent Manish has unveiled a unique initiative — ‘Right to Health Campaign’ — at Press Club here on Tuesday. He said: “The motive of ayurveda is a disease-free body. Ayurveda also means complete knowledge of life.” The initiatibe will continue for six months. TNSPGI department gets awardChandigarh: The Department of Nuclear Medicine, PGI, won the best scientific paper award at the 52nd annual conference of the Society of Nuclear Medicine at AIIMS-Raipur, Chhattisgarh. The virtual conference was attended by more than 800 national and international delegates. More than 25 international speakers were invited, including the leaders of the world societies of nuclear medicine. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-raping-16-yr-old-184914
