16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two more coronavirus deaths, 82 fresh cases in Chandigarh||Two more fatalities due to coronavirus in Chandigarh pushed the toll to 250 while 82 more cases took the infection count to 15,886, the medical bulletin issued on Monday stated.There are 1,052 active cases as of now in the Union Territory, according to the bulletin.A total of 116 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 14,584, as per the bulletin.A total of 1,23,326 samples have been taken for testing so far with 1,06,714 testing negative while reports of 132 samples were still awaited, the bulletin added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-coronavirus-deaths-82-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh-171201
16-11-2020||---||One more fatality due to Covid in Mohali||Mohali, November 16One more fatality was witnessed due to Covid in the Mohali district during the past 24 hours taking the total number of deaths to 255.Meanwhile, 104 fresh Covid positive cases have come to the fore during the past 24 hours taking the total number of cases to 13,678 in the district. As many as 57 patients were cured and discharged from the hospitals till Monday evening.Out of the total 104 new cases, 86 came from Mohali urban, 11 from Dhakoli, six from Gharuan, one from Kharar.As of now, there are 13,678 positive cases out of which 12,377 patients have been cured and discharged. There are 1,046 active cases with 255 deaths in the district.Covid test RT PCR  were conducted on the employees of the district information and public relations office at the district administrative complex at the Covid sample centre set up at Khel Bhawan, Sector 78. Reports of all the employees came out negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-more-fatality-due-to-covid-in-mohali-171188
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Rains lash Haryana and Punjab, temperatures dip||Many places in Haryana and Punjab received rains, causing a dip in the mercury on Monday, the Meteorological Department said.A few places, including Chandigarh, received showers on Monday morning as well.Among other places which received rains on Sunday are Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Panchkula, Ambala, Sonipat, Gurgaon, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Jind and Hisar.Isolated places in Haryana were also lashed by a hailstorm.The minimum temperature in the two states dropped by a few notches after the rains, Met department officials said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rains-lash-haryana-and-punjab-temperatures-dip-171113
16-11-2020||Mumbai||‘Jug Jugg Jeeyo’ starts shooting in Chandigarh, team celebrates Neetu Kapoor’s return to films||Actors Varun Dhawan, Kiara Advani, Anil Kapoor and Neetu Kapoor on Monday began filming their upcoming comedy “Jug Jugg Jeeyo” in Chandigarh.The film is directed by Raj Mehta, who helmed the 2019 hit “Good Newwz”, and is backed by filmmaker Karan Johar’s Dharma Productions.“With all your loving blessings, starting this journey on the right clap — lights, camera & action #JugJuggJeeyo,” the official handle of Dharma Productions tweeted.New beginnings with the right blessings!🙏 #JugJuggJeeyo pic.twitter.com/cunbsksM6v  The film marks the return of Neetu Kapoor on the big screen, seven years after “Besharam”, which also featured her actor son Ranbir Kapoor and late husband Rishi Kapoor.The 62-year-old actor took to Instagram and posted a picture of herself from her make-up room. Neetu Kapoor said she was feeling “scared” to be all by herself but is happy to return to work.“Back on set after so many years. To new beginnings and the magic of the movies. I feel your love and presence. From mom, to Kapoor Sahab, to Ranbir always being with me, now I find myself all by myself. Feeling a little scared but I know you are always with me,” she wrote.A post shared by neetu Kapoor. Fightingfyt (@neetu54)  Anil Kapoor took to Instagram story and posted a picture of Neetu Kapoor with a note of encouragement for the veteran actor.A post shared by neetu Kapoor. Fightingfyt (@neetu54)  “So happy to have you back on set! We all are here for you and have full faith that you’ll take the screen by storm again! I’m super excited to be a part of the ‘Jug Jugg Jeeyo’ journey with you,” the actor said.A post shared by neetu Kapoor. Fightingfyt (@neetu54)  “Jug Jugg Jeeyo” also marks the big screen debut of YouTuber Prajakta Kohli. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jug-jugg-jeeyo-starts-shooting-in-chandigarh-team-celebrates-neetu-kapoors-return-to-films-171112
16-11-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh witnesses rainfall, hail; residents wake up to chilly morning||Chandigarh on Monday witnessed rains and hail, after which the mercury dropped by a few notches.The city, and parts of Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh witnessed rain and thunderstorm due to a western disturbance on Sunday as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-witnesses-rainfall-hail-residents-wake-up-to-chilly-morning-171062
16-11-2020||---||Fire breaks out at PRTC workshop near Patiala's Sirhindi gate||Patiala, November 15Documents kept at a PRTC workshop near the Sirhindi gate were destroyed in a fire on the workshop premises here today evening.Fire officials said they reached the site in time and managed to douse the flames in a hall where documents were kept.Madan Gopal Jalota, fire sub-officer, said, “We received a call at 4.35 pm after which a fire tender was sent to the site. As much as 25 per cent record kept on the workshop premises was damaged in the fire. We managed to douse the flames in a little over an hour.”The exact cause of the fire was not known yet, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-at-prtc-workshop-near-patialas-sirhindi-gate-170974
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh breathes better this Diwali||The Air Quality Index (AQI) value of the city dropped heavily from 341 last year to 140 this year. While the air quality was ‘very poor’ on Diwali last year, it fell under the ‘moderate’ category this time.“The credit for the better air quality goes to people. There was a remarkable reduction in air pollution despite the fact that last year, Diwali was on October 27 when air pollution is comparatively less than November,” said Debendra Dalai, Vice-Chairman, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee. “The ambient air quality on Diwali this year is almost equivalent to the days preceding the festival,” he said.Ravindra Khaiwal, Additional Professor of Environment Health, Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGI, said, “As per our assessment, it is the lowest AQI since 2011 when we started evaluating it at theSector 25 station.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-breathes-better-this-diwali-170978
16-11-2020||Mohali||One death in Mohali district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-death-in-mohali-district-170984
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Drop in cases of burns, eye injury||Chandigarh hospitals witnessed 83 per cent drop in cases of burns and eye injury this Diwali with only 27 cases being reported compared to 162 cases last year.Eight patients visited Eye Emergency of the GMSH-16 and nine more reported with hand burns. Dr Swati Sharma, Eye Surgeon on duty on Diwali night, said patients were treated for firecracker-related injuries, mainly of lid injuries, lacerations, corneal burns, hyphema and abrasion. At the PGI, seven cases of eye injury were reported. Only one patient among them was from the UT. Two serious patients were admitted to Advanced Trauma Centre.Dr Jagat Ram, Director of PGI, said: “The number of cases reported this year is one-third less than last year. In Chandigarh alone, there used to be more than 60 patients. This is all due to the ban on firecrackers.”Safe Diwali in PanchkulaCivil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said no case of cracker injury was reported on Diwali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drop-in-cases-of-burns-eye-injury-170985
16-11-2020||Mohali||25 FIRs registered in Mohali district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-firs-registered-in-mohali-district-170986
16-11-2020||---||Car godown, house gutted in Mohali||Mohali, November 15Around 25 used cars and other equipment kept in a godown at Bhelolpur village were gutted yesterday while 26 fire calls were received at fire stations in the district on Diwali evening.Fire officer Mohan Lal said the owner of the godown, Jagdish Chand, claimed that he had lost goods worth Rs 10 lakh in the fire. A firecracker reportedly caused the fire, he said.Meanwhile, a fire broke out at a house in Bhabat village, Zirakpur. A leather factory was also gutted near Shiva Enclave, Zirakpur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-godown-house-gutted-in-mohali-170988
16-11-2020||How to check pollution & prevent 2nd covid wave?||Shun complacency, be cautious||Follow thumb rule to control spreadPeople are not following guidelines issued to control the spread of Covid -19 pandemic. It is utmost important to follow the thumb rule i.e. sanitise hands, wear mask and keep social distance (2 gaj ki duri) at public places. Further, NGOs/RWAs must educate people to control the spread of virus. There is no other cure except to follow the thumb rule.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliMonitor air quality regularlyThe authorities have become complacent about challaning violators, who do not wear masks or maintain social distance. In this festive time during winters, social distancing at shops, public places and offices has to be maintained. Many people believe that there is no Covid and do not take required measures. The authorities should regularly monitor air quality, find steps to reduce pollution and stubble burning.Abhinav Kapil, ChandigarhScale up virus control measuresLast month there was some relief from Covid cases, which made the respective administrations in the tricity somewhat complacent. People started avoiding masks or observing social distance. The authorities should enforce precautionary measures strictly as surge in Covid-19 cases is expected in the coming months due to the festive season, pollution and cold weather.KC Rana, ChandigarhImpose fine for not wearing maskTo prevent the second outbreak of the virus, schools and other institutions must remain closed. Hefty fines must be imposed on residents, who don’t wear masks. Teachers and employees must work from home. Hygienic conditions should be maintained. Home quarantine must be encouraged for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic cases.Shobhna Kalra, PanchkulaUse battery-operated vehicles in tricityAir pollution in the tricity is due to multiple factors. The solution lies in encouraging use of public transport, shared taxis, rental bicycles/electric two-wheelers, battery operated three-wheelers and car pooling. A behavioral change is required among citizens until they realise the gravity of the Covid crisis.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurMasses, traders must coordinateMasses need to act responsibly to avoid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic during the festival season. One person per house should step out for shopping. Shopkeepers should make WhatsApp groups to display their products and provide home delivery while following protocols. Coordination between shopkeepers and masses can prevent the second outbreak of the virus.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliTake Pledge not to burst firecrackersIt is worrisome that a second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is feared in the tricity. People and the authorities should realise the severity of the situation. Residents should pledge not to burst firecrackers. Farmers must stop burning stubble in their fields in the larger interest of the humanity. The government should help farmers monetarily to adopt other methods to dispose of stubble.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhBan firecrackers everywhereThe second wave of coronavirus is expected due to decrease in temperature and increase in air pollution. The UT Administration banned use of crackers. Unfortunately, the Punjab Government allowed the sale and bursting of firecrackers on Diwali. This would increase pollution manifold and add to Covid positive cases. Better ban firecrackers everywhere.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliWearing mask should be compulsoryTo stop second the Covid wave wearing masks should be compulsory. The authorities should distribute masks free of cost among residents. Social distancing should be a norm. As the tricity has highest educated population rules can be easily enforced in the area.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhDon’t venture out unnecessarilyMany people roam on roads, in streets and markets without wearing masks. Coronavirus can be controlled if residents in the tricity take safety measures like wear masks, maintain social distance and sanitisation. Celebrate festivals, but do not venture out unnecessarily.MR Bhateja, NayagaonLife important than celebrationsCovid-19 will not spread if we follow dos and don’t. Life is more important than celebrating festivals or enjoying marriage parties. Nothing will happen if we don’t celebrate festivals. The authorities are allotting spaces to traders in markets, which might spread virus in the tricity. In the prevailing situation Covid cases will trigger. Avoid going to public places, sit home and pray for safe and bright new year ahead.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhDon’t lower guard against pandemicThe Administration and the health authorities are warning from time to time to not lower our guard against the pandemic. As there is steady increase in Covid-19 cases due to the cold weather and air pollution, residents of the tricity should heed to their advice. Wear face mask, use sanitiser and maintain social distance religiously. Go to markets when absolutely necessary. Don’t burst firecrackers.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliStop burning crop residueStudies reveal that the people, who live in polluted areas, more likely contract Covid-19. Air pollution harms lungs and increases respiratory diseases. Farmers are burning crop residue, which is causing air pollution. This practice has to be stopped immediately.Akshar Kumar Singla, ChandigarhPrecaution is only panaceaEverybody dreads the repeat of the coronavirus outbreak. Precaution is the only panacea so far. People should not burst firecrackers. Avoid large gatherings to prevent the transmission of virus. It’s incumbent upon one and all to religiously abide by the new norms. When self-regulation fails, the administrations in the tricity must not be negligent. Moreover, the country cannot afford fresh lockdown.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaBan gathering at public placesPublic gathering at public places should be banned in the winter season. Cashless transactions should be promoted. Shopkeepers must wear gloves and masks. Emphasis should be on social distancing and wearing masks. Only precautions can protect us and prevent the second virus outbreak in the tricity.Anita Tandon, KhararAssns must commit to follow normsThe tricity might witness second wave of Covid -19. The pandemic has already affected the health and financial condition of residents. The administration in the tricity should allow economic activities with all guidelines in place. Traders’ associations in the tricity must commit to follow Covid prevention norms in markets.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhAll is not wellA Hindi idiom ‘Savdhani hati durghatna ghati’ fits in the present Covid-related situation in the tricity. Day to day activities and rush in market places gives an impression that all is well. Not to mention social distancing people have even stopped wearing masks. They should understand that all is not well and follow norms to prevent the second outbreak of virus in the tricity.Gobind Ahuja, ChandigarhFollow safety normsEvery body should follow Covid prevention norms. Do not lower guard against the pandemic. Pollution will aggravate the virus. So, avoid bursting firecrackers during the festive season.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaPrecautions the only remedySecond wave of the pandemic may strike again considering the prevailing situation in the tricity. Wear masks, frequently wash hands and observe social distancing till vaccine arrives. Residents should contribute by maintaining cleanliness in their surroundings. Discipline can prevent the spread of the virus.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhDo not be complacentThough the pandemic in the UT seems to be under control, it will take longer to free the city from the dreaded disease. Covid-19 vaccine is still under trials. Under such circumstances, residents must not be complacent with the increasing recovery rate and decreasing positive cases. Rather, they should always keep in mind three letters – SMS – sanitising hands, wearing masks and social distancing for self-protection.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliAuthorities don’t seem to be worriedIf at all the authorities would have been cautious to prevent a second outbreak of virus, then Diwali was the right time. The allotment of huge number of stalls to vendors in Sector 19 and Sector 23 speaks for itself. The MC earned revenue at the cost of residents’ health. Residents should themselves be careful and not burst firecrackers.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliKeep a check on vendorsGive special attention to social distancing at public places and in local buses. Keep a check on fruit/vegetable vendors, who do not follow guidelines. Schools, colleges and other educational institutions should not reopen. People should use sanitisers, wear face masks and keep social distance.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohali QUESTIONThe sale and bursting of firecrackers was banned on Diwali in Chandigarh by the Administration. How successful was the ban in the Union Territory? Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shun-complacency-be-cautious-170989
16-11-2020||---||Teen murdered at Nayagaon, 2 boys among three held||Mohali, November 15Three persons, including two juveniles, were arrested for allegedly murdering an 18-year-old migrant at Nayagaon here on Saturday.The victim has been identified as Rajveer, a resident of Ganganagar. He was putting up in a rented accommodation at Dashmesh Nagar in Nayagaon and working as a mason. Basu (20), a resident of Adarsh Nagar in Nayagaon, along with his two accomplices, both juveniles, was arrested for the murder.Rajveer had an old rivalry with Basu. While he was returning home from work around 7 pm, the suspect met him and they had a heated exchange. Basu called his two juvenile accomplices and the trio allegedly assaulted the victim. Basu allegedly attacked Rajveer with a wood on his head. The trio then fled the spot.Rajveer was admitted to the PGI in Chandigarh. He succumbed to his head injuries this morning.Nayagaon SHO Jagjeet Singh said, “We nabbed the suspects from their houses. They would be produced in a court tomorrow.”A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC at the Nayagaon police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teen-murdered-at-nayagaon-2-boys-among-three-held-170991
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two deaths, 168 new cases in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-168-new-cases-in-chandigarh-170993
16-11-2020||Panchkula||No death in Panchkula for 10th day||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-death-in-panchkula-for-10th-day-170994
16-11-2020||Amit Bathla||80 jhuggis burnt at slum in Saketri, 220 homeless||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, November 15A fire that broke out at a slum of Saketri in the afternoon yesterday reduced around 80 jhuggis to ashes, rendering more than 220 migrants homeless. No loss of life was reported.“After receiving an alert around 3:15 pm, 12-13 fire engines, including one from Kalka, were rushed to the spot. It took them more than 3 hours to put out the fire,” said a fire official. The cause of fire is yet to be ascertained, he added.The next morning around 7 am, Sukh Devi, a mother of five, was rummaging through the charred remains of her home, hoping to recover even a small portion of Rs 80,000 she and her husband had saved with their hard work.“I lost around Rs 80,000 kept inside the house. I and my husband work as bricklayers,” she said. The family, including her bed-ridden mother-in-law, spent the night in the fields.Kishan Wati claimed to have lost jewellery and other precious items worth over Rs 2.50 lakh. She said: “Firstly, the virus brought us to knees and now this fire has devastated us.”Most of the jhuggis in the area belong to daily wage labourers.Several NGOs and social workers arranged shelter, adequate potable water and food for the slum dwellers.Joginder Sharma, Tehsildar, said: “The authorities did what best they could have with the help of local residents. The rehabilitation work is under way. The victims are being provided with cooked food, blankets and ration items,” he said.‘Help came late’Local Congress leader Ranjeeta Mehta alleged the fire engines reached the spot late. “Two fire engines couldn’t be used due to unknown reasons. The local authorities had to call in fire engines from Chandigarh,” she said.Firefighters ill-equippedAn official of the Fire Department said the department had been grappling with issues such as shortage of firefighting vehicles and machinery. It is severely affecting fire operations in the district, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/80-jhuggis-burnt-at-slum-in-saketri-220-homeless-170996
16-11-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration fails to enforce complete cracker ban in City Beautiful||Chandigarh, November 15The UT Administration miserably failed to enforce a complete cracker ban in the city on Diwali. Only 12 FIRs were registered for violating the ban on Diwali night compared to 13 cases registered under Section 188, IPC, at 16 police stations in the city last year.Many residents complained about the Administration’s lack of seriousness in strictly enforcing the complete ban. There was no check on the offenders in most parts of the city as the police restricted themselves to the job of patrolling with loud siren and showing no resolve to act sternly.The UT Adviser, Manoj Parida, drew critical comments from the city residents as soon as he tweeted, “No noise pollution from crackers till now… Feels good (5:59pm).”Residents from Sectors 15, 19, 20, 22, 25, 26, 29, 30, 32, 34, 35, 44, 45 and 46, Mani Majra, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Dhanas and Maloya complained of noise from bursting crackers and air pollution. Residents in Sectors 35, 42 and 51 were irked that there was no police presence in the markets after 9 pm.The UT had promised much to implement the ban by invoking the Disaster Management Act 2005 besides booking offenders under Section 188, IPC. While the former mandates two-year imprisonment, the latter carries a maximum jail of three months.A few residents opined that the idea of imposing a ban on crackers was more or less a meaningless exercise when relaxations were given in the neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula. “The ban can dissuade law-abiding citizens. To deter offenders, you need to enforce it aggressively. Sadly the enforcement part was missing,” said Shashipal Nehra, a resident of Sector 18.The president of the Chandigarh Residents Associations Welfare Federation (Crawfed), Hitesh Puri, said the soft-heartedness of the police was there for everyone to see. “The blanket ban imposed by the Administration on crackers was just not possible,” said a resident of Sector 43.Ward No. 1 councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said: “People complained of noise produced by bursting crackers from Mani Majra, Nayagaon, Kishangarh and the nearby villages.”Crackers bought from Mohali, KuraliMost residents of Chandigarh bought crackers from Mohali and Kurali. People were seen lining up at shops selling firecrackers in Phase-7 of Mohali. Kurali, one of the biggest markets of crackers in the region, provided an easy option for those wanting to have a blast.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-fails-to-enforce-complete-cracker-ban-in-city-beautiful-170997
16-11-2020||Chandigarh||One arrested for theft||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-arrested-for-theft-170998
