17-08-2020||Chandigarh||In highest single-day spike, Chandigarh reports 114 new coronavirus cases||Chandigarh reported 114 new coronavirus cases on Monday, a medical bulletin said---making it the biggest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases yet.An 82-year-old man from Burail died of the virus at Sector 32’s Government Medical College on Sunday night, a bulletin issued by Chandigarh administration said, making him the union territory’s 30th fatality. The bulletin said he died of respiratory failure because of a complex lung injury that the infection had caused.The development takes Chandigarh’s coronavirus tally to 2,216. About 45 per cent of the cases are still active.The development comes on a day when Mohali recorded 102 new coronavirus cases---its highest single-day spike yet---and Panchkula reported four new COVID-19 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-highest-single-day-spike-chandigarh-reports-114-new-coronavirus-cases-127450
17-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali administration imposes stricter restrictions as district reports new high in COVID cases||Mohali reported 102 new coronavirus cases on Monday, district officials said---the biggest single-day spike the district has seen since it saw its first COVID-19 case in March.The development took the district’s coronavirus count to 1,911 cases, 47 per cent of which are still active. The district has seen 36 COVID-19 deaths so far.The alarming rise of Mohali’s cases has led to Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan announcing some additional restrictions with the municipal limits. These include a ban on all movement of people except for those involved in offering essential services between 9 pm to 5 am---night curfew hours in Punjab---and imposing new closing time for shops and commercial establishments that offer non-essential services. According to the new order, the hospitality industry---restaurants and hotels--- as well as liquor shops must close by 8:30 pm. Shops and shopping malls cannot stay open beyond 8 pm.Those involved in essential services as well as industries---including those working in shifts ---and those travelling to their destinations from bus and train stations and airports will be exempted from the new movement restriction. This will also not apply to the movement of people and cargo on national and state highways.The new order says any violation is punishable under the Disaster Management Act of 2005 as well as the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-administration-imposes-stricter-restrictions-as-district-reports-new-high-in-covid-cases-127447
17-08-2020||---||2,512 digitised cards made for Persons with Disabilities in Mohali||Mohali, August 17As many as 7,294 applications for unique ID cards for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) have been received in Mohali district out of which 2,512 have been issued and remaining are being processed in Mohali district.“We target to cover all the PwDs under the project in the next three months,” said Mohali DC Girish Dayalan.To get the cards made, under the Unique ID for PwDs project, www.swablambancard.gov.in portal has been made, informed the DC.  Any Divyang can register on it either online or by visiting the nearest Sewa Kendra, Health Centre, Office of the Civil Surgeon or District Social Security or that of the Child Development Project Officer, he said.The DC urged the PwDs to register themselves at the earliest in order to obtain the unique ID cards and digitised certificates.Harvinder Singh Rahi, District Social Security Officer (DSSO), informed that apart from all facilities extended under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016, the cardholders are entitled to half fare in the buses of Punjab Roadways and the PRTC and the pension benefit provided by the Social Security Department under the Financial Assistance Scheme. Besides, they are entitled to concessions given from time to time by the government in the recruitment and promotions.They are also entitled to concessions in road tax and excise duty on vehicles for special needs persons.Divyangs are also exempted from toll tax on their personal vehicles. Scholarships are given by the Department of Education and Social Security to Divyang students. Apart from this, these unique identity cards and certificates will be helpful in providing them the assistive devices and prosthesis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-512-digitised-cards-made-for-persons-with-disabilities-in-mohali-127416
17-08-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 4 more Covid deaths; district toll rises to 8||Four more coronavirus patients succumbed to the disease in Panchkula on Monday, taking the district's COVID toll to eight.On Sunday, the district reported 42 new Covid-19 cases today, taking the tally to 1,209.The fresh cases included eight from Kalka, six from Sector 20, five from Pinjore, four from Sector 7, two each from Abheypur, Sector 12-A, Sector 16, Sector 21 and Mansa Devi Complex, one each from Sector 10, Raipur Rani, Sector 6, Rally village, Sector 4, Nanakpur, Sector 25 and Sector 15.A 27-year-old man from the ITBP also contracted the virus. At least seven persons, who tested positive, are being traced and are yet to be added to the total count. The district now has 444 active cases. As many as 761 patients have been cured and discharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-4-more-covid-deaths-district-toll-rises-to-8-127412
17-08-2020||Open House||For jobless youth, focus on skill development||One of the major reasons for increasing incidents of crime is the growing unemployment, especially among youngsters. Due to lack of employment opportunities, youngsters are robbing people to earn their bread. The government has to create employment opportunities. More and more jobs should be generated for those who have lost jobs due to the Covid crisis. As the authorities and the police are busy managing Covid, the scope of crime has increased. The focus should now be back on catching thieves and snatchers. For this, the police should have advanced weapons and vehicles. CCTV cameras should be installed on streetlights. Regular nakas should be set up on internal and external roads at all times. Incentives should be given to those who share information about criminals. The police should be vigilant at all times. Steps should be taken to generate employment and shift the focus back to robberies and purse and jewellery snatchings in the City Beautiful.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhNexus needs to be brokenChain snatching incidents in the city were rampant before the lockdown also. After the Covid-induced lockdown, business and trade has come to a grinding halt and rendered youths jobless. Several steps should be taken to check the crime rate. There is a need for smashing the nexus between the police, criminals and politicians. The police should coordinate with the adjoining states and CCTVs should be installed at prominent places. The police should take people in confidence by holding meetings with NGOs. Criminal justice delivery system needs to be very quick.SK Khosla, ChandigarhAvoid wearing jewelleryThe city is virtually in the grip of snatchers. Pedestrians, especially women, are highly unsafe on roads. To keep snatchers at bay, women should not wear heavy gold items and carry heavy cash or mobile phones in their bags. Women should stay cautious. In any such case, they should raise an alarm immediately and try to note down the number of the vehicle. The police should patrol the city in civil clothes at vulnerable areas.Dr Shruti K ChawlaLack of govt support a factorThe Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on the Indian economy. Due to the alarming increase in unemployment, people are resorting to criminal activities to make both ends meet. In some cases, educated people with no criminal history have been found committing such crimes. Unemployment is paving way for economic crisis. Lack of security, negligence, lack of awareness on preventing crime and no help by government to the unemployed youth are among the factors leading to increasing crime.Charu Malhotra, MohaliCops must be equipped to deal with snatchersChain snatching and other crimes are not something new to the city. However, unemployment due to Covid-19 is the latest stimulant for chain snatching. The youth is idle and desperate. We have to look for jobs for them. A hungry man can do anything. Then, the UT Police have to take stock of the problem and gear itself to deal with the young chain snatchers. Accordingly, the police must be equipped to beat the snatchers in their own game.Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttHelp those hit due to lockdownDaily wagers, labourers and street vendors are among the worst hit due to the lockdown. Because of the huge financial losses, they are indulging in criminal activities. The authorities concerned should take stringent steps to mitigate the effects of the lockdown.Nakhpreet Kaur, SangholNGOs should come forwardThere is no gainsaying the fact that the recurring incidents of snatchings in the tricity have touched a new high, sending shivers down the spine. Women have become an easy prey amid the scare of Covid-19, which has reduced the human activity to minimal. Many of us can vouch for the fact that the younger generation with no jobs at hand for now could be cited as a plausible reason for the crime in the city. To help those rendered jobless becomes our responsibility as society. Their parents and NGOs can play a major role in preventing them from going astray The jobless youth may be given lessons in skill development to eke out a living.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhSituation will worsenPandemic-induced unemployment is definitely one of the factors behind youngsters taking to snatching. However, this is just the beginning. I envisage the worst scenario in the months to come. The fear of death from starvation will outgrow that of death by the infection. Youngsters and the desperate folks precariously pushed to the threshold would openly rob. The authorities should pay heed to the warning signs.Dr SS Bhatti, ChandigarhTrained offenders committing crimeFollowing the pandemic, a large number of migrants have left for their hometowns and the remaining have sufficient work after the lockdown relaxations. In the case of the tricity, the condition of unemployment is not so grim. It seems the handiwork of the same old trained offenders who have come out in a severe attacking mode after a brief halt due to the lockdown because it has become easier for them to hide their identities under the cover of mask. Therefore, people should simply avoid wearing jewellery. The police have to act in a more strategic way to nab the culprits.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliInculcate moral values in youngstersThere is no denying the fact that pandemic has brought a tremendous change in our lifestyle. It has given birth to crimes such as chain snatching. Unemployed youngsters are resorting to criminal activities to fulfil their needs. It is our joint responsibility to inculcate moral values in the young minds.Anita K Tandon, KhararStringent punishment for offendersUndoubtedly, Covid-19 has thrown the life of everyone out of gear, pushed people into penury and has brought endless miseries. This is one of the reasons for growing incidents of snatching. Intense patrolling and stringent punishment can deter the miscreants. CCTVs and well-lit roads will come handy to catch the culprit. Criminals needs to fear the law.Veena MahajanHelp those in needEven though the restrictions are being lifted, several helpers at houses have not been reemployed due to the fear of pandemic. Their income has reduced drastically. People should pay their house helps even if they aren’t coming to work. This is a social responsibility.Gurdev Singh, MohaliAdopt Puducherry model against crimeFear of law is essential to tame criminals. Criminals and Covid know no boundaries but the Administration and politicians do. For effective law and order, UT's ambit should be expanded to include Mohali and Panchkula urban estates with a legislative assembly under a Lieutenant Governor on the Puduchery model.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaEnhance patrolling in wee hoursThe joblessness created due to the Covid-19 pandemic has added fuel to the already prevailing cases of snatching and other criminal activities in the tricity. Unemployed youths are adopting easy ways of earning by indulging in the snatching of gold and cash from residents with women as soft targets. Police patrolling has to be highly aggressive in the wee as well as late night hours, particularly on the inner roads of all sectors, and any doubtful person should be caught and questioned by the police. If required, he/she should be booked as per the law. The courts should penalise such defaulters quickly in a fast track mode with stringent penalties to create fear among the miscreants. The police and Administration should publicise about such persons and penalties imposed on them. Functioning of CCTV cameras should also be checked periodically.SANJAY CHOPRALaws are toothlessThe existing laws are toothless and do not provide harsh punishment without bail/remission on any grounds to criminals. This leads miscreants to resort to snatchings or thefts. Such cases should be decided within 3 months without resorting to the business of stay orders, bails and unlimited adjournments. The judicial and police reforms must be a priority of the authorities concerned.KC Rana, ChandigarhResidents should take precautionsIn a way, those wearing gold jewellery on roads are also responsible for snatching incidents. The tricity police must intensify the patrolling across the region. Precautions taken by tricity residents and intensified patrolling are only ways to curb the menace.Bhateja, NayagaonPolice, locals should work togetherReduction in wages of workers and addiction to drugs and alcohol are the factors responsible for increasing incidents of crime in the city. This can be eradicated if the police and residents of the tricity work in tandem with each other.Bharat Bhushan SharmaQUESTIONOf the 1,809 neighbourhood parks in Chandigarh, 760 are being maintained by 60 RWAs. While the RWAs have been demanding a raise in the maintenance cost, the MC has told these to get PAN or pay 20 per cent tax on the maintenance cost in future. The RWAs have threatened to surrender the parks if the new measures are implemented. In such a scenario, what steps can be taken to ensure proper maintenance of the parks in the city?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/for-jobless-youth-focus-on-skill-development-127114
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Youth caught stealing mobike||A 19-year-old youth was nabbed while stealing a motorcycle from Sector 22. The bike owner, along with residents, nabbed the suspect.Complainant Pardeep Kumar, a resident of Maloya Colony, reported that he had parked his motorcycle in Sector 22 on August 14. On returning, he found it missing. He started looking for it and found a youth riding the bike. With the help of passersby, he nabbed the suspect, Gursewak, a resident of Patiala district. A case has been registered against him at the Sector 17 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-caught-stealing-mobike-127091
17-08-2020||Sandeep Rana||Car, scooter markets closed for 5 months, MC, dealers suffer losses||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 16The city’s only permitted scooter bazaar in Sector 41 and car bazaar in Mani Majra, where second-hand vehicles are sold and purchased, have been lying shut for five months, causing a huge loss to the MC and dealers.According to the MC records, the corporation used to earn Rs13-15 lakh per month from car bazaar by allocating spaces to dealers for 56 sites each Sunday, whereas from scooter bazaar, it was earning Rs40-50,000 per month from 23 sites.However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the places are lying closed and the corporation did not earn even a single penny from there. Roughly, the MC lost about Rs75 lakh in five months. MC officials said dealers of both markets had demanded to allow opening of the bazaars so that they could earn livelihood and they were exploring the possibilities.However, Rajesh Gupta, a trader, feels otherwise. He said, “Gathering of more than four persons is not allowed. People who will come to buy vehicles will touch different cars, which will be a risk. So, it should not be allowed for the next two months.”Another trader said, “Bazaars should be opened as soon as possible. For small dealers, it is a big loss as they do not own shops and have no place to run their business during this pandemic. When everything has opened, why can’t they allow us?”MC earnings this yearCar bazaar, Mani MajraJanuary: Rs13.86 lakhFebruary: Rs15.05 lakhMarch (till 15): Rs7.21 lakhApril, May, June, July, August: 0Scooter bazaarJanuary: Rs71,600February: Rs38,000March (till 15): Rs17,000April, May, June, July, August: 0||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-scooter-markets-closed-for-5-months-mc-dealers-suffer-losses-127096
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||CRPF IG unfurls Tricolour||At the Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) North-West sector headquartered in Chandigarh, Inspector General Vijay Kumar unfurled the National Flag and highlighted the sacrifices made by the freedom fighters. He highlighted the achievements of the CRPF and read out the names of those personnel who have been conferred upon gallantry awards this year.CSIO highlights success in combating CovidAt Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO), the director, Prof S Anantha Ramakrishna, unfurled the national flag in the presence of scientific, technical and administrative staff. Prof Ramakrishna said the CSIO responded magnificently to the national needs during this present pandemic crisis by transferring many Covid mitigating technologies to the industry such as contactless automated hand sanitiser dispenser, UV light-based disinfection system, protective eyewear and aerosol restricting canopy.BBMB honours Covid warriorsThe Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) celebrated Independence Day with enthusiasm. Dr Gulab Singh Narwal, member (irrigation), unfurled the national flag at the BBMB Secretariat here. — TNSPU celebrates dayPanjab University Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar unfurled the national flag during the Independence Day celebrations at the PU. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crpf-ig-unfurls-tricolour-127097
17-08-2020||---||Provisional merit list of colleges out||Chandigarh, August 16The Director, Higher Education (DHE), Chandigarh, on Saturday issued provisional admission list of both centralised and non-centralised courses with allotted colleges.According to the list, the highest cut-off for BCom went on to 115.20 per cent for the UT pool and 116 per cent for outside pool. For BBA, the highest cut-off was 100 per cent for outside pool and 96.80 per cent for the UT pool. For BCA, the highest cut-off was recorded at 114.94 per cent for the UT pool and 115 per cent for outside pool. For BSc (medical), it was 97.80 per cent for outside pool and 97.40 per cent for the UT pool, whereas for BSc (non-medical), the highest cut-off list was 98.67 per cent for outside pool and 97.20 per cent for the UT pool.According to the prospectus, the first online admission schedule for the UT pool will start from August 17 (12 pm onwards) and for general pool, it will begin on August 19 (12 pm onwards). The second online admission schedule is from August 25. If an applicant does not attend the first online admission schedule or pay fee within 24 hours, his/her seat will be cancelled. Such applicants can avail of second chance in the second online admission schedule only if he/she give his/her willingness online on website www.dhe.chd.gov.in on August 20 by 2 pm. The applicants, who have been offered provisional admission, have to deposit fee online on www.dhe.chd.gov.in/DHE/StudentList.aspx within 24 hours of the date of admission as per the schedule given above.Non-centralised coursesThe list of provisional admissions in BA for four government colleges, PGGC, Sector 11, PGGCG, Sector 11, PGGCG, Sector 42, and PGGC, Sector 42, was also released on website http://dhe.chd.gov.in. The provisional merit cut-off for BA in private colleges was also uploaded on their respective websites on August 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/provisional-merit-list-of-colleges-out-127098
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Senate elections postponed||Panjab University (PU) has postponed the Senate elections for all constituencies till further orders. The announcement was made by the PU Registrar on August 15.The orders stated: “Consequent upon the advice conveyed by the Adviser to the UT Administrator, the VC in exercise of powers conferred Regulation 12.2, Chapter Il-B, PU Calendar, Volume I, 2007, has postponed the date(s) of election of all the constituencies with immediate effect for two months or till the the MHA Covid-19 guidelines are revised and permission granted by the UT Administration, whichever is earlier.” The poll for the 91-member Senate, which is the apex governing body of the university, was scheduled in August and September this year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senate-elections-postponed-127100
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Thieves strike at two houses||Balram Ji Dass Tandon lectureChandigarh: Balram Ji Dass Tandon was a leader of the first generation, who belonged to politics of ideology and not politics of power, said national BJP chief JP Nadda while virtually addressing the second Balram Ji Dass Tandon Memorial Lecture organised by Panjab University (PU) and Balram Ji Dass Tandon Charitable Foundation. Sanjay Tandon, president of the foundation and PU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar were also present on the occasion. TNS178 units of blood donatedChandigarh: The Canara Bank Officers’ Organisation, Chandigarh, in association with the Department of Transfusion Medicine, PGI, organised its 49th blood donation camp at Shri Satyanarayan Mandir and Dharamshala, Sector 22-C, Chandigarh, on the occasion of Independence Day. More than 250 persons attended the camp and 178 units of blood were donated on the occasion. TNSOffice-bearers electedChandigarh: The executive committee of Gurudwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, Sector 7-C, elected office-bearers from August 2020 to July 2022. Rachpal Singh has been elected as president, Gurcharan Singh senior vice-president, Jaswinder Singh vice-president, PPS Sodhi general secretary and Salinder Singh cashier. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-strike-at-two-houses-127101
17-08-2020||---||Flight from Chennai lands at Chandigarh airport||Mohali, August 16Passengers can now board flights to and from Lucknow, Jaipur and Chennai from the Chandigarh international airport.The first IndiGo flight from Chennai landed here at 5:10 pm and departed at 5:50 pm today. The service is available on Mondays, Thursdays and Sundays.The Lucknow flight will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.The flight to Srinagar will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays and the Jaipur flight will operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Sundays.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flight-from-chennai-lands-at-chandigarh-airport-127111
17-08-2020||Panchkula||Pinjore youth electrocuted||A 20-year-old youth from Pinjore was electrocuted allegedly due to the negligence of the Electricity Department.The victim, Rohit, died after he came in contact with a live wire hanging around 3 to 4 ft from the ground on a kutcha road between Pritam Colony and Sitoo Majra.He was rushed to the CHC, Kalka, where he was declared brought dead by doctors.According to the police, the incident occurred around 10 am on Friday when the victim was on his way to his friend’s house at Sitoo Majra.In her complaint, the victim’s mother alleged that she lost her son due to the callous attitude of the Electricity Department. She demanded action against officials responsible for the negligence. A case has been registered under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pinjore-youth-electrocuted-127113
17-08-2020||Mohali||Covid-19: 3 more die in Mohali||The district today reported three Covid-19 deaths, 68 new cases and 48 recoveries.A 53-year-old woman of Sector 91 died at the GMCH, Patiala. She was suffering from hypertension and Hepatitis C. A 35-year-old woman of Lalru succumbed at the Civil Hospital, Ambala. She had uncontrolled diabetes. A 25-year-old woman of Dera Bassi breathed her last at the PGI in Chandigarh.Zirakpur reported 11 new cases of Covid and New Chandigarh six. Five new cases each surfaced in Kharar and Phase 10. On August 15, the district had reported two deaths, 58 new cases and 17 recoveries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-3-more-die-in-mohali-127092
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||Biggest single-day surge of 93 in Chandigarh||The city today recorded the biggest single-day spike of 93 Covid cases. The UT also witnessed its 29th fatality.An 87-year-old patient, a resident of Sector 40, died at the PGI. He had a history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease. The new cases have been reported from Sector 4, 7, 8, 15, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 26, 29, 32, 33, 34, 37, 38, 38 (West), 39, 40, 41, 42, 45, 47, 48, 49, 56 and 63, Khuda Lahora, Dhanas, Mani Majra, Ram Darbar, Maloya, Hallo Majra, Palsora, Faidan, Daria, Dadu Majra, Mauli Jagran and the Industrial Area, Phase 1.Two clerks and a steno at the UT Adviser’s office have been found positive for Covid-19. Meanwhile, 19 patients were discharged today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biggest-single-day-surge-of-93-in-chandigarh-127093
17-08-2020||---||Covid-19: 42 more contract virus in Panchkula||Panchkula, August 16The district reported 42 new Covid-19 cases today, taking the tally to 1,209.The fresh cases include eight from Kalka, six from Sector 20, five from Pinjore, four from Sector 7, two each from Abheypur, Sector 12-A, Sector 16, Sector 21 and Mansa Devi Complex, one each from Sector 10, Raipur Rani, Sector 6, Rally village, Sector 4, Nanakpur, Sector 25 and Sector 15.A 27-year-old man from the ITBP also contracted the virus. At least seven persons, who tested positive, are being traced and are yet to be added to the total count. The district now has 444 active cases. As many as 761 patients have been cured and discharged.+ve woman flees from hospitalPanchkula: A Covid patient allegedly ran away from the Covid care ward of the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, here on Saturday and reached her home. The 56-year-old woman from Sector 16 is reportedly suffering from mental health issues. According to the hospital authorities, she will be kept under home isolation. Though the authorities had filed a complaint with the Deputy Commissioner of Police, no action has been initiated against her. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-42-more-contract-virus-in-panchkula-127094
17-08-2020||---||Chandigarh to be a medical hub: Badnore||Chandigarh, August 16Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore on Saturday said they were prepared to make the city a medical hub.Addressing a function on the 74th Independence Day after unfurling the National Flag, Badnore listed the achievements of the Administration in various fields and also gave away commendation certificates to Covid warriors.We all know that until a vaccine is developed to fight the pandemic, we will have to take care of ourselves and our families. Let us all resolve to fight this together and emerge stronger. —  VP Singh Badnore, UT Administrator“Today, we are collectively facing the Covid pandemic threat that has created a global health crisis and has had a deep impact on our lives. The war against the virus is going to challenge us more, and we are prepared for it. A lesson is well learnt, and we are all geared up to make Chandigarh a medical hub with exceptional facilities to tackle any such health threat,” he said.It would be unfair not to mention the hard work and dedication of our true corona warriors who have been at the forefront of fighting this pandemic. Chandigarh and Punjab have shown the way in tackling the virus, he said, adding that the WHO had also recognised the success of the UT Administration, particularly in containing the spread of the infection in Bapu Dham Colony.On the occasion, a state-level drug de-addiction campaign, “Nasha Mukt Bharat”, focusing on awareness, treatment and rehabilitation, was launched as per the directions of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.He said to provide relief to ex-servicemen who were without pension and were above the age of 65, the financial assistance had been increased from Rs2,500 to Rs5,000 per month and the financial assistance of widows of Subedar Major Rank or of the same rank in the Navy and the Air Force had also been enhanced from Rs500 to Rs1,000 per month.To reduce the hardships of commissioning mothers and surrogate mothers, maternity leave will be granted to all outsourced/contractual employees of the Administration.He commended the Mayor, councillors, MC Commissioner and staff members who contributed to the war against Covid by providing essential commodities on the doorstep of residents during the curfew.Badnore said he was happy to announce that the construction of Government High School in Mani Majra was at an advanced stage and the construction of additional 216 houses for UT police personnel would begin soon. A new mini sports complex in Sector 8 had been completed while another one in Sector 27 was at an advanced stage of completion. The construction of an international-standard shooting range in Sector 25 and infrastructure for billiards and snooker at the Sports Complex, Sector 42, would begin shortly.The Chandigarh Housing Board had planned to rent out 2,500 vacant small flats in Maloya for migrant labourers and urban poor under the Centre’s recently announced Affordable Rental Housing Complex Scheme.He said Chandigarh had once again secured the first position in the country in the Performance Grading Index, 2018-19, declared by the MHRD. Teachers had smoothly shifted to online teaching during the pandemic so that the learning of students was not disrupted, he added.Badnore complimented the police for their excellent work in the fight against Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-be-a-medical-hub-badnore-127086
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||65-yr-old man’s body found at Dhanas lake||The body of a 65-year-old man was found floating under mysterious circumstances at the Dhanas lake yesterday.The police said Dharampal, a watchman at the lake, said he had seen the victim roaming at the lake alone.After sometime, the victim’s body was found floating in the lake. The police pulled out the body and shifted it to the mortuary at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.The police have ruled out any foul play in the incident. There was no injury mark on the body, said a police official.The official said it was suspected that the victim committed suicide. However, there was also a possibility that he might have slipped into the water, the official said. No suicide note was found from the spot.The victim was later identified as Sudhir Kumar, a resident of Sector 40.The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter at the Sector 11 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/65-yr-old-mans-body-found-at-dhanas-lake-127087
17-08-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Local cricketing fraternity remembers ‘captain cool’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 16After former Indian cricket team skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni announced his retirement yesterday, the local cricketing fraternity went down memory lane and recalled a few moments with the “captain cool”.Only a few are aware that Dhoni played a Ranji Trophy match at the Sector 16 stadium. He was representing Jharkhand against hosts Haryana in 2005. The Jharkhand lad caught the eyes of many by scoring 109 off 75 balls. His innings included 13 boundaries and six sixes.Two players, including Joginder Sharma, fell prey to his stumping. The match ended in a draw, but a fine performance by Dhoni helped him bag a TV set as the Man of the Match award.“Dhoni outshone all in this match. Jharkhand was bundled out for 308 in reply to Haryana’s first innings total of 453. He came four down, when the team was struggling at 53/4. This was for the first time that the local fraternity saw him playing. Later, everyone went to meet him at a hotel in Sector 35,” said Surinder Singh ‘Baijee’, former general secretary of the Haryana Cricket Association.PMS Banga, member executive of the Punjab Cricket Association, who was the local manager of the Indian cricket team for years, also remembers Dhoni as the calmest cricketer in the Indian history.Dhoni’s fan gets emotionalDhoni’s retirement has made his die-hard fan Ram Babu emotional, sad and happy all at the same time.“Emotional because when you follow a player for 15 years, there is a certain attachment with him and sad because we will not be able to see him playing international cricket again. I feel happy because he achieved so much for Indian cricket,” said Babu.“He is the only captain to win all main ICC trophies and what else a fan can expect from a player,” said Babu, a Phase V resident.He made his identity bare-chested with ‘Dhoni 7’ (jersey number) written on the front and Tricolour painted on the back. Last Diwali, Babu met Dhoni at his hometown in Ranchi during the third match of the India-South Africa test series.(By Gaurav Kanthwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/local-cricketing-fraternity-remembers-captain-cool-127088
17-08-2020||Chandigarh||23-yr-old hangs himself to death||A 23-year-old youth reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26. The victim, identified as Ajay, used to work at a salon in Gwalior. However, he had to leave the job and return to Chandigarh after the lockdown.After the restrictions were lifted, he started working at a salon in Dera Bassi. However, he was at home for the past one month. Sources said the victim’s sister saw him hanging at 11 am, following which the police were informed.He was rushed to the GMSH in Sector 16 where doctors declared him brought dead. The police said no suicide note was recovered from the spot. Meanwhile, the body has been kept at a mortuary. Inquest proceedings have been initiated into the matter at the Sector 26 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-yr-old-hangs-himself-to-death-127089
17-08-2020||---||Bid to stop fight costs fruit vendor his life||Chandigarh, August 16A 53-year-old fruit vendor died after he was hit with a rod as he tried to stop a fight between his two sons and four suspects, who are also fruit vendors.The victim has been identified as Mohammad Muftkeen, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26.The police said Muftkeen’s son had an argument with one of the suspects, identified as Danish, on August 14 after which they went home.On Saturday night, Danish, along with Munish, Nadeem and Kasim, again had a fight with the victim’s sons, Arbaz and Shahul, at Bapu Dham Colony. Sources said Muftkeen tried to intervene when he was hit with a rod on his head. The suspects fled from the spot.Muftkeen was rushed to the hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. On a complaint of Arbaz, a case under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) was registered at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bid-to-stop-fight-costs-fruit-vendor-his-life-127090
17-08-2020||Amit Bathla||At 0.33, Panchkula fatality rate lowest in tricity||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 16Despite witnessing a consistent rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the fatality rate in Panchkula district has remained low. Of 1,209 cases reported so far, four patients have succumbed to the virus.The fatality rate stands at 0.33 per cent. In preventing Covid deaths, the district is doing much better than Chandigarh and Mohali, which have the fatality rate of 1.37 and 1.99, respectively. While Chandigarh has witnessed 29 Covid-induced deaths, Mohali toll is 36.Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said, “The credit for the low rate goes to the people as well as preparedness of the Health Department. Early detection due to aggressive testing, smart contact tracing, timely isolation and referral of the patient to a higher health care facility whenever required have made a big difference.”As a rise in the caseload is inevitable, the department is focusing on preventing deaths from the contagion with identification and special treatment of patients at high risk. “Those above the age of 60 and those with co-morbidities and complications are on our priority list. From strict surveillance to keeping all persons at Covid care ward in the Civil Hospital, all preventive steps have shown positive results,” the CMO added.According to officials, three deaths took place in the district due to co-morbidities in advance-age patients. One person died due to delay in seeking treatment as he kept taking self-medication and visiting quacks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-0-33-panchkula-fatality-rate-lowest-in-tricity-127115
