17-09-2020||Chandigarh||5 deaths due to COVID-19 in Chandigarh; toll rises to 106||Chandigarh on Thursday reported five new deaths taking the death toll due to COVID-19 to 106 while 288 fresh cases took the total tally to 9,256.There are now 3,085 active cases in the city. Of the 288 new cases, 180 are men and 108 are women.An 81-year-old male resident of Sector 55, a case of diabetes, hypertension and CAD, died at GMCH-32.A 57-year-old male resident of Sector 30, a case of Type 2 diabetes mellitus, died at GMCH-32.A 61-year-old male resident of Manimajra died at Fortis Hospital, Mohali.An 18-year-old female resident of Sector 42, who was brought to hospital after death tested positive.  A 48-year-old female resident of Sector 28, a case of Sepsis and ARDS, died at GMSH-16.A total of 379 patients have been discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health and Family Welfare guidelines.As many as 6,062 people have been cured till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-deaths-due-to-covid-19-in-chandigarh-toll-rises-to-106-142544
17-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports one death and 112 COVID-19 cases; toll at 54||Panchkula reports one death and 112 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the district's death total to 54.The coronavirus tally stands at 4,608.COVID-19 death:A 54-year-old man from Sector-12A succumbed to the deadly disease. He had chronic kidney disease, hypertension, and diabetes.COVID-19 cases:The fresh cases include 13 from Kalka, 11 from Sector 21, 10 from Sector 15, 6 each from Sector 20 and Sector 7, 5 each from MDC Sector 6, Pinjore and Sector 6, 4 each from Sector 10 and Sector 24, 3 each from Rajjipur, Sector 12A, Sector 19, Sector 4 and Tipra, 2 each from Barwala, Beer Ghaggar, Sector 11, Sector 2, Sector 25, Sector 26, Sector 28 and Sector 8, one each from Abheypur, Amrawati Enclave, Bunga, Kot, MDC Sector 5, Sarakpur, Rattewali, Sector 16, Sector 17, Sector 27, Sector 9 and Shabilpur.So far, Panchkula has conducted 56,760 COVID-19 tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-one-death-and-112-covid-19-cases-toll-at-54-142535
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports 3 deaths and 278 COVID-19 cases; toll at 151||Mohali reports three deaths and 278 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the district's death total to 151. The coronavirus tally stands at 7,652. In the last 24 hours, about 236 have been cured of the deadly disease. COVID-19 death: 1. A 55-year-old man from Kharar died at Sohana Hospital. He had kidney and lung disease.2. A 60-year-old woman from village Badana at Civil Hospital, Ambala. 3. An 80-year-old man from Desumajra died at Gian Sagar.  Sharing details, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, said, that two men and one woman died due to the virus in the last 24 hours. He revealed that the deceased, include a 55-year-old male from Kharar, who died at Sohana Hospital, was suffering from kidney and lung disease, an 80-year-old man from Desumajra, who died at Gian Sagar Hospital, in Banur, and a 60-year-old woman from village Badana, who died at Civil Hospital, in Ambala.COVID-19 cases:At present, the city records 2,482 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-3-deaths-and-278-covid-19-cases-toll-at-151-142513
17-09-2020||Jalandhar||Relief for Jalandhar passengers as bus service resumes to Chandigarh||Passengers waiting for the resumption of public bus service to Chandigarh heaved a sigh of relief after the Punjab Roadways and other transport services started plying to the Union Territory (UT) on Wednesday.The development came a day after the state government gave a green signal to the movement of buses to and from Chandigarh. Over 100 buses from the district left for the UT from the city bus stand, including 52 government buses. While the buses to Chandigarh started plying early in the day, the rush of passengers was limited. As per the first seven routes of the Jalandhar depot-1 buses, around 71 passengers were ferried to UT.Kuldeepak, an official at the city bus stand, who manages the permit and routes of Roadways buses, said the buses operated with earlier guidelines only with not more than 50 per cent capacity. He said in the absence of passengers, buses operated as per limited schedule. “On the first day of the reopening of the Chandigarh route, around 110 buses of various depots, including Jalandhar, Nawanshahr, Ropar, CTU and the PRTC among other private buses left the city bus stand with passengers. The count of passengers is expected to rise in the coming days, as many enquires were earlier received regarding the bus services to Chandigarh,” Kuldeepak said.Meanwhile, drivers ferrying passengers said, social distancing norms were followed and it was ensured that passengers wore masks and their hands were sanitised, before boarding the buses. “There was no rush at most bus stands in the morning hours, but many people expressed relief at the resumption of bus services,” said Gurjit Singh, a conductor. Navraj Batish, Roadways General Manager, said: “After the suspension of buses in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the Roadways has already suffered losses in crores and even as the services to Chandigarh have resumed, the recovery rate is still low due to the 50 per cent capacity rule.”He also confirmed that inter-state movement of buses would remain terminated until the next orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/relief-for-jalandhar-passengers-as-bus-service-resumes-to-chandigarh-142357
17-09-2020||---||Talwar nodal officer to help pupils from far-off areas||Chandigarh, September 16The Controller of Examination, Panjab University (PU), has appointed Deputy Registrar (Colleges) BB Talwar as the nodal officer for addressing the queries of PU students from far-flung areas, who will be taking the blended (online/offline) mode exams.The examinations are scheduled to start from September 17.“I am yet to receive details for my work. The PU is one of the most student-friendly institutions and I will try to give my best to address students’ problems,” said Talwar.Keeping in consideration the request of students from far-off places, it was decided to appoint a nodal officer at the command centre. The officer will felicitate or assist the smooth and uninterrupted conduct of exams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/talwar-nodal-officer-to-help-pupils-from-far-off-areas-142183
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Democracy eroded: Kumar-Naura group||As the elections for the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) are just two weeks away, the two contesting groups have come up with various promises for teachers.Pattern for exams starting todayThe Assistant Registrar (Conduct), Controller of Examination office, released the pattern for attempting question paper for exit-class exams starting on Thursday. A circular stated: “For undergraduate and postgraduate classes, 50 per cent of the total questions in the exam need to be attempted. All will carry equal marks. For instance: If the total number of questions is 11, the questions to be attempted will be five. Similarly, if the total number of questions is 10, the number to be attempted will also be five.”The team led by Mritunjay Kumar and Amarjit Singh Naura claimed that their best interests would be served if teachers were not humiliated, insulted or sidelined. They claimed, “Our team has resisted all kind of arbitrary appointments, distribution of largesse on a pick-and-choose basis and autocratic decisions targeting teachers and will continue to do so with greater force. Our community needs a PUTA that can put across the grievances of teachers before the authorities without fear,” said Mritunjay Kumar, who is contesting on the post of president‘No heed to principals’Kumar’s further said: “Never before did the university face such a blatant erosion of democratic platforms of governance as now. As is evident, a coterie consisting of a few with vested interests has taken complete control of academics, administration and even governance, paying no heed to hard-earned principles of rotation, seniority, inclusion and justice. All such forces of different shades have joined hands to contest elections against us so that teachers can be put under complete suppression and rendered voiceless. You have to decide whether we go with those who speak through their propaganda on the social media, using all kind of unparliamentarily language against our own teachers, or those who are always ready to take on the authorities to for the sake of teachers’ welfare.”The PUTA elections are slated for September 25 and 26. Earlier, Mohammed Khalid and MC Sidhu group claimed that the PU faculty has suffered a lot in the past. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/democracy-eroded-kumar-naura-group-142184
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||UIET team shines at tech fest, Bags first prize of Rs 3 lakh||The results were declared on Tuesday in a virtual event. The students also secured pre-placement offers from Deloitte US (offices in the US). The competition started in February with an aptitude test in which 20,000 students from more than 100 Indian colleges participated.After clearing the initial round, the students formed a team — UIET Chandigarh_Cybersec — to participate in the competition. There were around 550 shortlisted teams for the CCTC 2020. As many as 145 teams cleared the next round that was a 16-day challenge. The participants were given problems to be solved in 24 hours.The UIET team and 13 others reached the final round. The final challenge was to solve multiple problems in nine hours. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uiet-team-shines-at-tech-fest-bags-first-prize-of-rs-3-lakh-142186
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cricketer honoured||Mohammed Arslan Khan, the left-handed opener who scored a double century during his Ranji debut for the Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA), received the India Book of Records 2020 certificate today. He was awarded the certificate and medals. Playing against Arunachal Pradesh, he had made a rapid 233 not out off 234 balls in the first innings when the hosts declared their innings. “I am happy to have received the certificate,” said Khan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cricketer-honoured-142188
17-09-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula MC nets Rs 1.40 lakh as penalty||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 16The Municipal Corporation, Panchkula, has collected Rs1.40 lakh as penalty from the owners of 375 head of cattle that were found straying on roads since January this year. Last month, the civic body had collected Rs37,000 as penalty from owners by impounding 216 animals.According to officials, a penalty of Rs5,000 is imposed on offenders.Even though the MC claims to have taken stern action against offenders, the issue of stray cattle continues to haunt residents, who have to face a lot of problems while commuting in the city.Govt plan to make city cattle-free hangs fireThe ambitious plan of the Haryana Government to make Panchkula stray cattle-free seems to have failed and has missed two deadlines.In September 2019, the Khattar-led BJP government had fixed January 26, 2020, as the deadline for the implementation of the programme, which was later extended till February 28 after a request from the district administration.Work underwayThe work on the Sukhdarshanpur cattle shed, the foundation stone of which was laid by Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta in January 2018, has still not been completed.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has asked Municipal Corporation officials to complete the remaining formalities so that stray cattle can be shifted there from September 21.According to officials, the civic body will make makeshift arrangements such as providing water through tankers before permanent facilities come up.The cow shed, which is spread on 4.25 acre, can accommodate up to 1,000 head of cattle.The state government, in May this year, had transferred the power of operations of the cow shed to Madhav Gaushala Charitable Trust, a non-governmental organisation, under a lease for 10 years.Sanyam Garg, Joint Commissioner, MC, said, “As per the orders, the MC will start lifting stray cattle from roads and shift these to the cow shed in Sukhdarshanpur from September 16.”FIR against offendersAt a district-level meeting where ACP Satish Kumar was also present, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja ordered an FIR against owners who let cattle loose on roads. He said PCR vehicles should be deployed to keep tabs on such offenders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-nets-rs-1-40-lakh-as-penalty-142190
17-09-2020||---||Chandigarh police prepare list of officials on sensitive posts||Chandigarh, September 16The UT police department is preparing a list of police officers posted on sensitive posts for more than two years. An order regarding the same was issued by SP Manoj Kumar Meena.The order stated, “The Police Establishment Board (PEB) is mandated to ensure proper shuffling of police officers posted on sensitive posts as per the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) guidelines. Hence, all SDPOs and DSP (PCR), DSP (Traffic) (Administration), DSP (EOW), DSP (Crime) and DSP (Woman and Child Safety Unit) are hereby directed to identify the officials, who are working on sensitive posts for more than two years and send their names to the PEB branch within three days.”Police officials said the officials, who would be found working on sensitive posts for more than two years, would be transferred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-prepare-list-of-officials-on-sensitive-posts-142207
17-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh residents face harrowing time to get themselves tested||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 16As the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing, people are facing a harrowing time in getting themselves and their family members tested for the virus whether it is in a private institute or a government health facility.Vijay Juneja, a resident of 37, said, “I had visited the Sector 22 Civil Hospital for testing on August 17 after coming in contact with a Covid patient. I waited for two days for the report, but didn’t get any response. I then decided to visit the dispensary the next day to find out whether my samples had tested positive or not.”Juneja said, “My neighbours went to the Sector 22 hospital for Covid testing a few days after they developed symptoms. They waited for three days for the reports to come. In the meantime, one of their family members developed breathing problems and died at the PGI.”A 56-year-old man from Sector 38, who had tested positive recently, said, “I got my tests done from a hospital in Phase VI, Mohali, on September 10. The hospital authorities had informed the IDSP cell of the UT about my Covid status. I had then contacted the UT helpline number for the testing of my family members, but to my surprise, I was told to get their tests done by myself. It has been six days and no one has contacted me till now.”The Central team has also suggested that families of positive cases should be contacted by doctors within 24 hours to segregate patients from their family members, who will be home isolated or shifted to Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCCC) or Dedicated Covid Care Centre (DCHC) or quarantine high-risk contacts with co-morbidities where strict isolation is not possible.“I had waited for two days for the private lab to collect my samples from home as I was 38 weeks’ pregnant and had developed symptoms. After two days of repeated requests, I had to drive myself to the centre to give my sample,” said Akansha, a city resident.A 30-year-old woman from the city said, “Recently, my sister had visited the GMCH, Sector 32, for testing. She had to stand in a long queue to get the Covid-testing form. She had visited the centre at 4 pm and received a call for testing at 9 pm.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-face-harrowing-time-to-get-themselves-tested-142192
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar-Bandra train to halt at Chandigarh railway station from September 22||One of the three new pairs of special clone trains that will ply on the Ambala Railway Division is going to halt at the Chandigarh railway station from September 22, the division notified.Amritsar-Bandra-Amritsar weekly express will halt at the city station for five minutes at 11 am every Tuesday and 10:25 am every Wednesday.The advanced reservation period (ARP) will be 10 days. Reservation for these trains will start on September 19.Considering the huge demand for travel on specific routes, the Railways has decided to run 20 pairs of clone special trains from September 21. These clone trains will run on notified timings and will be fully reserved trains. The other two clone trains that will ply on the Ambala Division are Amritsar-Jaynagar-Amritsar tri-weekly express and Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar weekly express.These trains are to be operationalised on routes having high patronage and demand. The Clone trains have not been operated by the Railways in the past. These trains being proposed are based on the patronisation of already operating special trains with limited stoppages and faster transit time. The clone trains will be primarily three AC trains and run ahead of the already operating special trains. The clone train will have speed higher than the existing special train. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amritsar-bandra-train-to-halt-at-chandigarh-railway-station-from-september-22-142193
17-09-2020||Mohali||Man succumbs to injuries||A 50-year-old man, who met with a road accident on September 4, died at the PGI last night. The victim has been identified as Jarnail Singh, a resident of Mullanpur Garibdas. On September 4, Jarnail was going on his CT 100 bike when it collided with a Bajaj Pulsar near Omaxe society, Mullanpur. The victim received serious injuries on his arms and head following which he was admitted to the PGI. According to the police, the unknown Pulsar rider had sped away and was yet to be located. A case was registered against him at the Mullanpur police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-succumbs-to-injuries-142194
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Protests allowed only at rally ground in Chandigarh||The Administration has imposed a ban on taking out processions, rallies, protests, strikes, etc, within the territory of the UT other than the rally ground in Sector 25 for a period of two months. An order issued by District Magistrate KK Yadav states that the general public is prohibited from taking out procession, rally, protest, strike, making speeches, raising slogans, or gathering of five or more persons, etc, within the territory of the UT other than the rally ground in Sector 25, for a period of 60 days. Further, prior permission for organising procession, rally, protest, strike, making speeches, raising slogans, gathering of five or more people, etc, at the rally ground must be obtained from the competent authority. The order will come into force from midnight today and will be effective till November 15, 2020. The Administration has earmarked the rally ground in Sector 25 for taking out processions, rallies, dharnas, etc, and no permission has been granted to organise processions, rallies, dharnas, etc, elsewhere in the city other than the designated location at the Rally Ground and the same has been done to avoid traffic congestion, keeping in view the convenience of the general public. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protests-allowed-only-at-rally-ground-in-chandigarh-142195
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||CTU resumes bus service to Punjab, Haryana||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) today resumed its inter-state bus service to Punjab and Haryana.On the first day, 33 buses departed from the ISBT, Sector 17, and the ISBT, Sector 43, on 16 routes in Punjab and Haryana. However, most of the buses reported low occupancy. Buses from Punjab and Haryana also arrived in Chandigarh. Both bus stands did not see many passengers.As the buses are to operate with 50 per cent passenger occupancy keeping in view the social distancing norms and guidelines issued by the UT Administration, only 26 passengers are allowed to sit in a bus with a capacity of 52 seats.An official said most of the buses departed with 10 to 12 passengers on board. Only one or two buses with 26 passengers on board left for their destinations.He said 19 buses left for various destinations in Punjab and 14 in Haryana. The CTU is yet to start AC buses on long routes.In Punjab, the buses are covering destinations such as Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Amritsar, Patiala, Mehatpur, Ludhiana, Dina Nagar and Bathinda. In Haryana, the buses are covering cities like Panipat, Rohtak, Yamunanagar, Jind, Hisar, Sirsa, Hansi and Delhi (up to Kundli border). However, the UT Administration is yet to resume its bus service to other states such as Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, New Delhi and Rajasthan.Following the nationwide lockdown, the CTU had suspended the bus service on March 23. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-resumes-bus-service-to-punjab-haryana-142196
17-09-2020||Mohali||Pulse polio campaign to be held in high-risk areas||A pulse polio campaign will be undertaken in high-risk areas of polio on September 20. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the Ministry of Home Affairs had allowed a few activities in areas outside the containment zones and allowed essential services in the containment zones.  The Ministry of Home Affairs has provided an exception to conduct a pulse polio programme in the containment zones considering the activity an essential service. The campaign will be carried out in containment zones, buffer and beyond buffer areas. The Pulse Polio Sub National Immunisation Day programme will be undertaken in all identified high-risk areas of polio, including containment zones, as per the Covid guidelines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pulse-polio-campaign-to-be-held-in-high-risk-areas-142197
17-09-2020||Mohali||Farmer unions protest agri ordinance in Mohali||Various farmers’ organisations held a protest march against the agriculture amendment ordinance and the Power Amendment Bill promulgated by the Centre.The protesters, which started from Amb Sahib Gurdwara in Phase VIII, were heading to the Governor’s house in Chandigarh when they were stopped at Chandigarh-Mohali border near YPS Chowk. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), Bharti Kisan Union (BKU- Lakhowal) and Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) were among other unions that took part in the procession.They alleged that the Central Government wanted to sell the commodities to the corporate houses and demanded that the right price should have been given to the farmers instead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/farmer-unions-protest-agri-ordinance-in-mohali-142198
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police nail proclaimed offender after 14 years||UT to get new IPS officer soonChandigarh: A 2018-batch AGMUT-cadre IPS officer Shruti Arora will soon be serving in Chandigarh. Shruti has been posted in the city upon completion of her IPS Phase II training. Shruti is a daughter of 1983-batch Haryana cadre IAS officer Keshni Anand Arora. Posting orders of Shruti and six other IPS officers were issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). TNSJewellery, LPG cylinder stolenChandigarh: A house theft was reported from Tin Colony, Sector 52. The complainant, Sanjay, said an unknown person stole gold and silver jewellery, some documents and an LPG cylinder from his house between September 9 and 15. A case has been registered at the Sector 36 police station and an investigation has been initiated. TNSThree booked for assault on womanChandigarh: Three persons, including two women, have been booked for assaulting a woman at Sector 38 (West). According to the police, the complainant alleged that Sunil, alias Raju, and two women, all residents of Sector 38 (West), assaulted her with sticks outside her house on August 30. The complainant was injured and was admitted to the GMSH, Sector 16. A case has been registered under Sections 325 and 34 of the IPC at the Maloya police station and an investigation has been initiated. TNSOne held for illegal miningPanchkula: The police have nabbed a man on the charge of illegal mining. The suspect has been identified as Jarnail Singh, a resident of Ambwala village in Pinjore. He was produced in a court, which sent him to judicial custody. According to the police, mining officials on April 26, 2019, had lodged a complaint against two persons for illegal mining in the Ghaggar at Jallah village. The police had registered an FIR against both suspects under relevant sections of the Mines and Minerals Act and 379 of the IPC. TNSHike in CHB Quota for disabledChandigarh: The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has increased the quota for the disabled persons in the allotment of flats. A notification issued by the CHB stated that the reservation quota for the disabled persons has been enhanced from 3 per cent to 5 per cent in the allotment of dwelling units and flats under the Chandigarh Housing Board (Allotment, Management and Sale or Tenements) (Amendment) Regulations, 2020, with immediate effect. An official said on the directions of the court, a proposal in this regard was approved by the board in a meeting held in March this year. TNSHomage paid to Air MarshalPatiala: Students of 3PB AIR SQN NCC Patiala from Senior Secondary Model School paid homage to Indian Air Force Marshal Arjan Singh on his death anniversary through a virtual meet. Cadets Riya, Jot Saroop Kaur and Manmeet Khanna shared their views. ANO Satvir Singh Gill highlighted Arjan Singh’s achievements and motivated the students to join the Indian Air Force. TNSSuitcase at HC triggers panicChandigarh: The bomb disposal squad rushed to the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Wednesday after a suitcase was found lying near the gate No. 5. The police cordoned off the area and the bomb squad started an investigation. In the meantime, a couple arrived at the spot and claimed that it was their suitcase. The couple said they were from Rajasthan and had come to get their marriage registered. The couple had left the suitcase, which was empty, and had gone to have food in the canteen. TNSCU bags top ratingChandigarh: Chandigarh University (CU), Gharuan, has bagged the overall diamond rating in the QS I-Gauge 2020 Indian University Ratings Ranks. It is Punjab’s first university to have bagged the spot. Chandigarh University also tops the rankings in innovation parameter. “Chandigarh University has become the first university of Punjab to be among the top 20 elite educational institutes of India. It is also the only university in North India to have bagged the Diamond Rating in seven parameters,” said Chancellor Chandigarh University, Satnam Singh Sandhu. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-nail-proclaimed-offender-after-14-years-142201
17-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||PIS gymnasts struggle to pursue their studies||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 16Young gymnasts at the Punjab State Institute of Sports (PIS) are limping back to normalcy. Their practice hours have been fixed and their tournament schedule is out for which they are preparing with full dedication.However, a few of them are struggling to pursue their studies due to non-availability of resources. National silver medallist Sathak Walia, whose father works as a peon at a private school, and another national-level gymnast Aman, whose parents work as daily wager, have limited means to pursue studies.While Walia has to visit his uncle’s house in Zirakpur to get print outs and scan study material for various projects, Aman waits for his father to return home in evening to go through the lessons.“I want them to have computers or laptops for which I will have to approach higher authorities. I just wish this doesn’t affect their practice. They are brilliant gymnasts. I have been training dozen of gymnasts and we do help them, but this is something big we are asking for,” said coach Samir Deb.Walia said he wished to become an engineer and help his father live a comfortable life. “My father got me a second-hand mobile phone on which I attend online classes from 9 am to 1 pm, but the major problem is reading and collecting material for projects. Since I don’t have a computer, I have to visit my uncle’s house in Zirakpur. Cyber cafes are too expensive for this thing,” said the 14-year-old.He said, “I make sure not to use mobile phone for more than two straight hours. I don’t want any damage to my eyesight, which may affect my gymnastics’ career. I am trying hard to get to through the Khelo India or any other scholarship to get some financial support.”The story of Aman is no different. He has five siblings — four brothers and one sister — and his mother earns by doing household works. His father is a daily wager. He uses his father’s mobile for online classes. He was staying at the PIS academy’s hostel, but due to the nationwide lockdown, he had to come back.“The only drawback of my career is injuries. I was dropped from the Indian (U-14) due to the same reason. Earlier, I used to stay in a hostel and get help from my teammates. I don’t have big dreams to excel in gymnastics and become a coach. I have to look after my siblings and my family too. I hope, Deb sir gets help for my studies and proper diet,” said Aman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pis-gymnasts-struggle-to-pursue-their-studies-142202
17-09-2020||---||Chandigarh declares 27 more affected areas micro-containment zones||Chandigarh, September 16The UT Administration today declared 27 affected areas in the city as micro-containment zone in order to break the chain of coronavirus transmission.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the issue was examined by a committee following which the decision on more micro-containment zones was taken. The affected areas declared as micro-containment zone are parts of Sectors 15, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23. 27, 29, 32-A, 32-D, 35-A, 37-A, 38-D,40-C, 41-A, 42-B, 46-B, 46-D, 47, 52 and 63, Pipliwala Town, Indira Colony, Behlana, Mauli Jagaran and Vikas Nagar.The UT Administration also modified four micro-containment zones. The modification was done on the basis of a recommendation received from the Affected Areas Assessment Committee in parts of Sectors 15, 21 and 42-C and Shanti Nagar, Mani Majra. The modified containment zones are house number 3331-3335 in Sector 15; 100-109 and 137 in Sector 21; 2237-2240 and 2241-2244 in Sector 42-C; and parts of Gali No 8, Shatri Nagar, Mani Majra.Restrictions removedThe UT Administration today removed restrictions from five micro-containment zones in the city. The curbs have been removed from house numbers 1197-1205 and 1198-1206 in Sector 15; 2512-2513 in Sector 19; 497, 498, 499, 500, 501, 508, 509, 510, 511 and 512 in EWS Colony, Dhanas; 120, 121, 121/122, 126/1 and 126/A in Hallo Majra; and 610-620 in Ram Darbar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-declares-27-more-affected-areas-micro-containment-zones-142203
17-09-2020||Panchkula||Covid-19: 14-year-old girl, man die in Panchkula||With 110 fresh Covid-19 cases surfacing in the district, Panchkula’s tally rose to 4,496 on Wednesday.The death toll in the district mounted to 53 after two more persons succumbed to the disease. Besides, 207 more people have recovered from the virus. A 60-year-old man from Pinjore and a 14-year-old girl from Indira Colony, who was suffering from TB, died due to Covid. This is the second teenager to fall prey to the virus this month.Earlier on September 6, a 14-year-old boy from Kundi village had died of the disease. The fresh cases include 14 from Marranwala, 13 from Pinjore, eight each from Raipur Rani, Sector 11 and Sector 20, seven from the MDC, Sector 5, six from Sector 4, five from Sector 21, four each from Sabilpur and Sector 12, three each from Sector 26, Sector 6 and Sector 7, two each from Barwala, Bhagwanpur, Sector 15, Sector 17, Sector 19 and Sector 28 and one each from Abdullapur, Industrial Area, Madanpur, Kalka, Ramgarh, Sector 10, Sector 18, Sector 24, Sector 25, Sector 9, Sector 8 and Tibbi Majra. A woman doctor at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, was among the new patients. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-14-year-old-girl-man-die-in-panchkula-142204
17-09-2020||---||Teacher kills wife, tries to eliminate 13-year-old son||Chandigarh, September 16A 40-year-old government schoolteacher was found murdered at her government accommodation in Sector 23 on the intervening night of September 15 and 16. The victim’s husband, Mandeep Singh (43), a teacher at a government school in Sector 47, who is absconding, has been booked on charges of murdering his wife and attempt to murder his elder son. Mandeep tried to eliminate his 13-year-old son Ishmeet Singh by pushing him into a canal near Ludhiana. However, he managed to survive.The victim has been identified as Jyoti Rani, who was a teacher at a government school in Karsan, Ram Darbar. Her body was found in a pool of blood, wrapped in a blanket with a severe injury on the rear side of her head. She was hit with an object that led to her death.The police said the victim’s elder son, Ishmeet, stated that on September 13, his father told him and his brother Jashandeep (9) that their mother had tested Covid positive following which she was taking rest in a room on the first floor of the house.The next morning, on September 14, Mandeep told his sons that he was taking them to a gurdwara in Ludhiana to pay obeisance. He drove his sons to Ludhiana in a Maruti car and later at night took them to a canal near Ludhiana.Ishmeet, in his police statement, revealed that while his brother kept sitting in the car, his father took him towards the canal and pushed him into it. Fortunately, he managed to survive after which he went to a nearby gurdwara from where the local police were informed. A team of the Katani Kala police post reached the gurdwara.Ishmeet narrated the entire incident to the police, who then reached Chandigarh on Tuesday night.Punjab Police personnel informed the Chandigarh Police following which both police teams reached House No. 25 in Sector 23, which was found locked. The police broke the lock and went to the first floor where Jyoti’s body was found.The spot was videographed. A forensic team also reached there for investigation.The body was shifted to the mortuary at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. Police officials said Mandeep was at large. There is no information about the victim’s second son, Jashandeep. “We hope he is fine,” said a cop. The police said the victim’s Covid test was conducted and the report turned out to be negative. The autopsy was conducted and the body handed over to the victim’s kin.A case under Section 302 for murdering his wife and under Section 307 for trying to murder his son has been registered against Mandeep at the Sector 17 police station.The police said the victim’s mobile phone was not found from the house. It is suspected that Mandeep took the phone along. “The mobile phones of both the victim and Mandeep are switched off,” said a cop.The police in Punjab and Haryana have been informed about the number of the Maruti car. A team of Child Helpline was informed and Ishmeet was sent to Snehalaya. Sources said Mandeep and Jyoti had met at their workplace after which they fell in love and got married.Mandeep was not in touch with familySources said Mandeep had last spoken to his father, who stays in Fathegarh Sahib, around five years ago. Mandeep’s neighbours in Sector 23 said Mandeep hardly interacted with any of them. Mandeep’s interaction with his colleagues was also very less.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teacher-kills-wife-tries-to-eliminate-13-year-old-son-142173
17-09-2020||---||Chandigarh Mayor Raj Bala Malik tests +ve||Chandigarh, September 16Mayor Raj Bala Malik tested positive for Covid-19 today.In a tweet, she wrote: “Was not feeling well for the past two days, so got tested for corona and (report) came positive today. I request all who have come in contact with me in the past three days to isolate themselves and get tested in case of any symptom.” An MC spokesperson said her office had been closed for public dealing and was being sanitised.The public dealing in the MC office in Sector 17 has been crippling with its employees, including senior officials, testing positive. The booking department, vendor registration office and the fire department have been the worst hit due to the pandemic.With the Mayor going into isolation, there is a cloud over the next monthly coordination committee meeting between her and the UT Adviser.Yesterday, Senior Deputy Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and two MC employees had tested positive. In a Facebook post, Sharma had stated that he had already isolated himself seven days ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-raj-bala-malik-tests-ve-142174
17-09-2020||Naina Mishra||90% active cases in Chandigarh asymptomatic, mild||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 16Around 90 per cent patients in the city are either asymptomatic or mild cases while the remaining have moderate to critical Covid-19 illness.The World Health Organisation had recently stated that people who are in their 20s, 30s and 40s often tend to be asymptomatic and are hence the drivers of the disease.Rajesh Kumar, former Head, Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGI, said, “The probability of passing the infection from asymptomatic patients is lower than that of symptomatic patients. However, asymptomatic patients are more in number and producing more cases of infections. For example, 90 asymptomatic patients with probability of 0.5 per cent may infect 45 more persons while 10 symptomatic patients with probability of 2 per cent can infect 20.”Kumar said, “The transmission mode is obvious for symptomatic people i.e. coughing or sneezing. On the other hand, an asymptomatic patient can transmit the virus while singing or talking loudly. Therefore, the use of masks should be advocated strongly. This can prevent inadvertent spread by an asymptomatic person who is not aware of his/her positive status.” As on September 15, there were 2,991 active cases in the city.A data shared by the UT Administration shows that a majority of the patients (2,319), who have opted home isolation, and 384 patients lodged at Covid care centres are either asymptomatic or mild cases. A total of 117 patients, who are moderate to critical cases, are admitted to the dedicated Covid hospitals — the PGI and the Civil Hospital, Sector 48.Besides, 171 patients are admitted to the dedicated Covid health centres — the GMSH-16, the GMCH-32 and the civil hospitals in Sector 22 and 45 and Mani Majra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/90-active-cases-in-chandigarh-asymptomatic-mild-142175
17-09-2020||---||Woman ends life, husband booked||Mohali, September 16A 25-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan at her house in Kambala village here last night.According to the police, the victim, Neetu, committed suicide as she was allegedly being harrassed by her husband and in-laws for dowry. The police have booked the victim’s husband, Ankesh, in this connection.The victim’s father, Amarpal Singh, alleged that his daughter was murdered by her in-laws and her body hanged from a ceiling fan to show it as a suicide.In a complaint to the police, Amarpal said Neetu got married in March 2015. Her husband, along with his family, was harassing her since then for dowry. She gave birth to a son, who is now aged one.The complainant said his daughter returned to his house thrice due to the harassment by her in-laws, but each time Ankesh took her back after feeling sorry.“We had spent enough on Neetu’s marriage and her son’s birth. Still, they kept harrasing us for more dowry. I am sure she was murdered. The police have not done anything yet. They tore my first written statement saying that it was wrong. Today, I again recorded my statement. Her feet was touching the floor when she was found hanging, indicating it wasn’t a suicide,” alleged Amarpal Singh.The vicitm was found dead in her house in the morning. No suicide note was recovered from the spot. The postmortem was conducted and her body handed over to her father, who performed her last rites today.SHO Daljeet Singh and the investigation officer did not respond to calls despite several attempts.A case has been registered against the victim’s husband under Section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Sohana police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-ends-life-husband-booked-142176
17-09-2020||---||Rs 2.5 lakh looted at gunpoint at Sohana shop||Mohali, September 16Three masked men allegedly looted a bag containing Rs2.5 lakh from a shop in Sohana at gunpoint last night.The victim, Ashish Kumar Agarwal, who runs a shop dealing in hardware items near Arya School, said the incident took place around 8 pm. Two masked men came to his shop and asked for some hardware items. After getting the items, they told Ashish that they did not have cash and their partner would come and pay.Ashish asked them to hurry up as it was time to close the shop. At this, one of them pointed a pistol at him and threatened him to hand over whatever cash he had.The miscreants also searched the cash box. They also tried to snatch the victim’s gold chain, but failed. Then they picked up a bag containing cash and fled in a Hyundai i20 car, in which the third accomplice came.The complainant told the police that the snatched bag contained Rs2.5 lakh.A case has been registered under Sections 379-B, 511 and 34 of the IPC and relevant Sections of the Arms Act at the Sohana police station.According to the police, the incident was captured on a CCTV camera. “We are investigating the case and working on some leads. The miscreants will be nabbed soon,” said ASI Satnam Singh, the investigating officer. A raid was also conducted to arrest suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-2-5-lakh-looted-at-gunpoint-at-sohana-shop-142177
17-09-2020||---||Youth stabbed to death at Dadu Majra Colony||Chandigarh, September 16A 20-year-old youth was stabbed to death at Dadu Majra Colony in Sector 38 (West) here late this evening.The victim has been identified as Karan, a resident of the colony.The police were informed about the incident following which cops rushed to the spot.The victim was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead. The body was shifted to the mortuary.The police have initiated an investigation into the incident at the Maloya police station. Cops were verifying the information regarding the murder till the filing of the report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-stabbed-to-death-at-dadu-majra-colony-142178
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||6 Chandigarh residents succumb to virus, toll crosses 100 mark||Six persons died of Covid in the city today, taking the toll past the 100 mark.Among the deceased were a 94-year-old man from Sector 11, who had chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and hypertension, a 78-year-old man from Sector 35, who suffered a respiratory failure.A 75-year-old man from Sector 22 suffered a cardiac arrest while a 60-year-old man from Ram Darbar and a 46-year-old man, who were diabetics, and a 60-year-old man from Sector 29 were the other victims.The Covid death pertaining to a 76-year-old man from Ram Darbar, which was reported on September 1, has been deducted from the UT toll figure. The man reportedly belongs to Haryana, clarified the GMCH-32. The UT toll now stands at 101.Meanwhile, 366 new cases of Covid were reported from the city. A total of 181 patients have been reportedly recovered from the disease, taking the total recoveries in the city to 5,683. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-chandigarh-residents-succumb-to-virus-toll-crosses-100-mark-142179
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Now, no posters outside Covid patients’ houses in Chandigarh||Now, no posters will be affixed outside the houses of patients under home quarantine in the city.To follow PunjabUT Adviser Manoj Parida said they had decided to follow the Punjab Government practice after complaints were received from affected people regarding social ridicule and stigmatisation.After Punjab, the UT Administration has decided to discontinue with the practice and stamping hands of quarantined persons.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said they had decided to follow the Punjab Government practice after complaints were received from affected people regarding social ridicule and stigmatisation.So far, the Administration had been following the practice of affixing posters outside the houses of Covid-19 patients to make people aware of the infected people in their neighbourhood. A large number of patients requested the Administration to discontinue with the practice as they feared social isolation due to pasting of posters outside their houses.The Punjab Government had recently revoked the earlier decision of putting posters outside the houses of Covid patients under home isolation or quarantine.At present, the UT has 3,171 active Covid-19 cases and 24,866 persons have completed the home quarantine period since the outbreak of the virus in March. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-no-posters-outside-covid-patients-houses-in-chandigarh-142180
17-09-2020||---||At GMCH, 155 more beds for Covid patients||Chandigarh, September 16The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has set up 155 more beds to tackle the rising number of patients suffering from the virus.During a review meeting, Dr BS Chavan, Director-Principal, GMCH, said they had created additional 155 beds for moderate and severe Covid-19 patients at the medical college. At present, the GMCH has a facility of 100 beds.Complimenting the GMCH for it, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the PGI to enhance antigen testing and to go for confirmation with the RT-PCR test only in case of a doubt.Badnore asked the PGI to convert Infosys Serai fully into a Covid hospital so that at least 200 more patients could be accommodated.Bandore asked the PGI and the GMCH to ensure that a dedicated facility was available for the dialysis of mild Covid patients, who were in home isolation.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said during the review meeting with the Union Home Secretary, the steps taken by the UT Administration for increasing the testing almost by four times were appreciated. He said as advised, the Administration would give equal priority to the treatment of non-Covid cases.The Administrator directed that greater care should be taken of patients who were in home isolation. Doctors should make regular phone calls to them to ask about their condition and suggest remedial measures.He said a special camp should be organised to test police personnel and mediapersons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-gmch-155-more-beds-for-covid-patients-142181
17-09-2020||Mohali||3 deaths, 249 cases in Mohali||Three Covid-19 deaths and 249 new cases were reported from Mohali district on Wednesday.A 39-year-old man from Dera Bassi died of the virus at Shalby Hospital. He had diabetes and hypertension. A 75-year-old man from Kharar died at the PGI. He had hypertension. A 31-year-old man from Karkaur died at Mission Hospital, Ambala. Among the new cases, Mohali urban reported 69, Kharar 32, Gharuan 47, Dhakoli 46, Dera Bassi 20, Lalru nine, Boothgarh four, Kurali 11 and Banur nine. A total of 123 patients recovered from the virus on Wednesday. The fresh cases have taken Mohali’s tally to 7,374. There are 2,443 active cases now. As many as 4,783 have been cured of the disease. The district has seen 148 deaths. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-deaths-249-cases-in-mohali-142182
17-09-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Quarantine posters go, Chandigarh residents debate benefits||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 16Families scrapping the home-quarantine boards from outside their houses in the city is just one side of the story as there are those too who are exactly doing what needs to be done.A resident of Sector 8, who is a retired Army officer, called up the area councillor himself to get a board affixed after testing positive for Covid.Another example of a responsible citizen: A golf club member, whose family had tested positive, waited for two days for the Municipal Corporation officials to come and remove the board. “Till then, the whole family remained inside and waited patiently,” said Ward No. 1 councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu.City residents feel it is natural for the neighbours of a quarantined family to live in paranoia, but in many cases, the quarantined family suffers too.In Sector 7, two sons of a family in quarantine went out to the market to buy bread but the shopkeeper refused selling it to them. “The shopkeeper knows us since our childhood. Yet he behaved so erratically,” recounted a youngster. Jittery neighbours complaining about the family members in home quarantine has become a daily occurrence in the past eight months.MC officials have done the bulk of the contact tracing, pasting quarantine boards and garbage collection. MC Additional Commissioner Anil Kumar Garg, who is in-charge of the three tasks, said: “Only the boards will go, rest of the protocol remains the same. As many as 75 people are involved in contact tracing. As the cases are rising, more and more teams are being inducted.”Six months and 8,958 cases later, the Administration has decided to stop pasting quarantine posters outside houses due to the social stigma. Whether the decision will do good or bad, it remains to be seen but it has evoked a fierce debate over the benefits and ill-effects of the practice.District Magistrate Mandip Brar had issued an order stating, “The list of all persons in home quarantine will be updated on the UT website... An apprehension has been raised that some people will not adhere to the home quarantine thereby endangering public safety. Any breach of this order would invite action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/quarantine-posters-go-chandigarh-residents-debate-benefits-142191
