17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports no fresh COVID-19 case for fourth consecutive day||The number of COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh, on Sunday, stood at 191 as the Union Territory did not report any fresh case for the fourth consecutive day.According to a health bulletin, a total of 2,812 samples have been tested so far and of them, 2,604 samples are negative while the reports of 16 samples are awaited.Fifty-one patients have recovered while three died, leaving 137 active cases here. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-no-fresh-covid-19-case-for-fourth-consecutive-day-86061
17-05-2020||Vijay Mohan||New training programme for top ITBP officers on promotion||Tribune News serviceChandigarh, May 17With additional posts being approved in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) following a cadre review, officers will have to undergo a mandatory pre-promotion course before being elevated to newly created posts at the apex level.According to ITBP sources, cadre officers of the rank of Inspector General (equivalent to major general in the army), who would be promoted as Additional Director General (ADG) will be required to undergo a training programme before assuming their new responsibilities.“The Training Directorate at ITBP headquarters has been tasked to formulate the new course as promotion rules for ADG make it compulsory to attend such a course,” a senior officer said. “The contents of the course would include aspects pertaining to geo-strategic environment, operations, administration, human resources and material management as well as aspects pertaining to the government’s rules of business, inter-department coordination and policy formulation,” he added.In October 2019, the union cabinet had approved the ITBP’s cadre review, creating two new posts of ADG for ITBP officers. At present, the single post of ADG at ITBP headquarters is held by an officer on deputation from the Indian Police Service (IPS).In addition, the cadre review, which is now in the process of being implemented, created 10 new posts of Inspector General (IG), 10 posts of Deputy Inspector General (equivalent to Brigadier) and 13 posts of Commandant (equivalent to Colonel), in addition to some more posts at lower levels.While the Director General of all Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) under the Ministry of Home Affairs is an IPS officer, other higher level posts are tenable by a mix of IPS and cadre officers. Till now, cadre officers could only reach up to the level of IG.In ITBP, 50 per cent of the posts at the level of IG are filled by IPS officers on deputation, whereas at the rank of DIG, 80 per cent posts are held by cadre officers and the remaining 20 per cent by IPS officers. This ratio of IPS officers to cadre officers varies in other CAPFs. There are also instances of an IPS officer coming on deputation to CAPFs at the level of Commandant.IPS officers being deputed to CAPFs has been a bone of contention, with cadre officers pointing out that this had led to promotional avenues being restricted, thereby resulting in stagnation. Parliament’s Standing Committee on Home Affairs has also raised this issue and recommended that the deputation of IPS officers be reduced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-training-programme-for-top-itbp-officers-on-promotion-85998
17-05-2020||---||‘Quarantine foreign returnees at home’||Chandigarh, May 16 Parents and relatives of children and persons who want to return home from foreign countries have raised a question over the decision of the UT Administration to quarantine foreign returnees in hotels or a hostel. In a statement, Advocate Jaspreet Singh stated that they were aggrieved by the unjust and unfair policy of the UT Administration whereby children or relatives would be quarantined in hotels. “Why the UT Adviser is not realising that this inhuman approach is acting as a deterrent for those who so badly want to come back to their homes. Why should they be quarantined in hotels when they have their own homes?” he said. He said they were also apprehensive of the safety and security of women.  He said they had appealed to the UT Administrator and the Adviser to take a humane approach. “We are ready to abide by any conditions laid by the authorities for home quarantine,” he said. He said a single person would have to pay about Rs 80,000 to Rs 1 lakh for being quarantined in a hotel even though he or she has his or her own house in the city. “A person who lands in India has to download Aarogya Setu app. If a person has no Covid-19 symptoms, then why he/she should be quarantined in a hotel. In fact, the best place to be quarantined is the home,” he said. Meanwhile, Councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu tweeted: “Foreign returnees should be home-quarantined instead of sending them to hotels.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/quarantine-foreign-returnees-at-home-85785
17-05-2020||---||PGI nurse suicide: 7 days on, no arrests yet||Mohali, May 16 Even after seven days, the police have failed to arrest four suspects in the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) nurse suicide case.  The victim, Davinder Kaur (44), had alleged that she faced harassment by senior nurses at the premier institute. The victim had committed suicide by injected poison at her residence in Kamao Colony, Nayagaon. In her suicide note, the victim had alleged that four of her seniors Sunita, Jaspal Kaur, Navneet Dhaliwal and Neelam Chand had been harassing her. Inspector Ashok Kumar, Station House Officer, Nayagaon police station, said, “Our investigation is underway. The suspects have not reported to duty after registration of case. We have conducted raids to nab them. Mobile phones of the suspects are switched off. We are trying our best efforts to trace the suspects.” Amit Kumar, the victim’s husband, alleged, “I am waiting for justice, but to no avail. I suspect that the authorities at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research are pressurising the police.” The Nayagaon Police had registered a case against the suspects under Sections 306 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code on May 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-nurse-suicide-7-days-on-no-arrests-yet-85786
17-05-2020||---||Two trains take 2,430 to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar||Chandigarh, May 16Today, two trains left from Chandigarh to Bihar and UP, taking 2,430 migrants to their hometowns.The afternoon train for Supaul, Darbhanga and Saharsa in Bihar chugged off 15 minutes late at 2.15 pm with 1,188 passengers.The train to Beharich and Gonda (Uttar Pradesh), slated to leave at 8 pm, will carry 1,242 persons.166 persons leave for LadakhToday, 166 persons from Ladakh were medically screened at the Sector 17 market and sent by seven special buses to Leh. Previously, on Wednesday, 242 stranded persons were sent to Ladakh.2,582 board trains from MohaliMohali: As many as 2,582 migrant workers left for Uttar Pradesh from different stations today. At the Mohali railway station, they were given a warm send off by the District Administration represented by under training IAS officer Manisha Rana. A train carrying 1,341 migrants left for Hardoi in the morning while an evening train carried 1,241 to Gorakhpur. The migrant population going back to their native places, especially the children, expressed gratitude to the District Administration for providing them with food, water, biscuits and making elaborate preparations for their journey back home. Meanwhile, 23 students were sent back home to Jammu from Kharar.494 leave from KhararKharar: As many as 494 migrant labourers left for their hometowns from the Kharar sub-division on Saturday. Sources said, 129 left for UP, 265 for Utrakhand and 100 for Bihar. Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain (IAS officer) distributed biscuits among children. — OCRestless migrants demand more trains— Satinder Pal Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-trains-take-2-430-to-uttar-pradesh-bihar-85788
17-05-2020||Amit Bathla||24K migrants register in Panchkula; 1K ferried so far||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 16Though Saharanpur-bound buses were supposed to leave at 11 am, Brij Kumar (29), a migrant from Rae Bareli, Uttar Pradesh, reached the Kalka bus stand at 6 am. Finally, he felt relieved at 10.30 am when an official called out his name and asked him to board the bus.“These two months were most difficult for us. We hardly had anything to eat. We begged for food. Even the policemen beat us. Officials showed no sympathy whatsoever,” said, Brij with tears running down his cheeks.Waiting for their turnNumerous stranded labourers from Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh, who had gathered at the Kalka bus stand since early morning were a harried lot.As per the Haryana Government’s policy, migrants from distant states will be sent through trains. However, the Panchkula administration is yet to announce schedule.“This is a cruel joke. We have gone through the entire process, including getting a fitness certificate from doctors. Then why officials are not allowing us to head back to our homes,” said Kanhaiya Kumar (32), who hails from Tikamgarh, Madhya Pradesh, and visits the bus stand daily.He wasn’t able to attend last rites of his father, who passed away on May 10. Kanhaiya had approached the Kalka SDM office to attend his father’s funeral, but officials allowed only two people to go back.“I couldn’t leave behind my wife and children. Villagers conducted last rites of my father,” he said. Kanhaiya said they would travel on foot if no arrangement is made.Kalka Sub-Divisional Magistrate Rakesh Sandhu, said, “We have ferried around 1,000 stranded migrants to Saharanpur in 33 special buses. This include a few buses from temporary shelter homes as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24k-migrants-register-in-panchkula-1k-ferried-so-far-85790
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Private schools to operate with 33% staff from tomorrow||The Independent Schools’ Association (ISA) has announced opening schools for minimum (teaching and non-teaching) staff from May 18. In a meeting held on Friday, the ISA submitted their presentation to start schools for streamlining work and also accepted the suggestion of collecting monthly fee instead of quarterly.“We are likely to call teachers for online classes and the non-teaching staff to look after pending works on the minimum attendance basis from May 18. We had a meeting with local officials. We have been facing problems in dispersing salaries and the Administration should understand this. We are moving towards starting the operations,” said HS Mamik, president, ISA.Director Public Instructions (Schools) Rubinderjit Singh Brar said the department was awaiting the new directions of the Administration. “Schools can only open offices with 33 per cent staff; no classroom teaching will be permitted,” said Brar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-schools-to-operate-with-33-staff-from-tomorrow-85791
17-05-2020||---||Telecardiology OPD at PGI||Chandigarh, May 16 Telecardiology and virtual conferencing OPD has started in the Department of Cardiology, PGI.  The department has started this OPD for patients with heart failure, CAD and post-PCI. Initially, the same was advertised in the PGI cardiology website and communicated via All India Radio, Global Television channel and social media. Previously, telecardiology was conducted as per the regular OPD days of consultants. The number of calls received since then has progressively increased from 20-30 per day initially to around 80 calls. The maximum number of calls received was 86 on May 13. Prof Yash Paul Sharma, Head of Department, Cardiology, said: “The official website of the PGI can document the case studies and special treatment regimes by specialists and also the novel diagnostic techniques used by them. We may include provision for the common man to ask questions about specific problems, which can be answered by a panel of specialist doctors belonging to the PGI.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/telecardiology-opd-at-pgi-85792
17-05-2020||Naina Mishra||2 Bapu Dham schools to quarantine 30 each||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 16Two government schools at Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, will accommodate at least 30 persons each for quarantining in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Bapu Dham is a congested locality, which includes economically weaker section (EWS) flats and houses where over six people reside in a single room.Staff posted at both the schools (Government Primary and Government Middle School) will undertake day-to- day operations and principals will be overall in-charge of the school.The Indian Red Cross Society will provide meals to those under quarantine at schools. A team of doctors will regularly monitor health of people.The Director Social Welfare will depute a counsellor and caretaker in both the schools to counsel the residents.The schools will offer bathing and drinking water facility, besides CCTV cameras will be installed.UT ropes in GMCH-32The UT Administration has requested the GMCH-32 to counsel residents of Bapu Dham Colony regarding the Covid-19 pandemic. The Director Health Services wrote, “The outbreak of pandemic has mandatorily restricted social mobility of general public and also of the persons placed under isolation and quarantine, which is leading to various mental and physical issues.”“Since the GMCH-32 has a full-fledged department and dedicated staff, it shall benefit public at large,” reads the letter. Of 191 total cases (63 per cent) in the city, 121 are from Bapu Dham Colony.Move to prevent overcrowding||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-bapu-dham-schools-to-quarantine-30-each-85793
17-05-2020||Mohali||United Sikhs donate utility kits for patients||The United Sikhs on Saturday handed over utility kits meant for Covid patients at quarantine centres in Mohali to the Health and Family Welfare Minister, Balbir Singh Sidhu. The kits comprise toothpaste, toothbrush, mosquito repellent, sanitiser, masks, soap, tissue papers, oil, vitamin-C tablets, biscuits and lemon drink.  Sidhu said, “The present situation (Covid-19) is a war-like situation. Frontline warriors, including doctors, medical staff and the police are playing a very crucial role.”  Gurpreet Singh, director, United Sikhs, said, “We will provide such utility kits to all the individuals in every centre in Punjab.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/united-sikhs-donate-utility-kits-for-patients-85794
17-05-2020||---||‘Less interference with nature led to purification’||Chandigarh, May 16 Ex-chairperson of the National Green Tribunal and former Judge of the Supreme Court Justice Swatanter Kumar said Covid-19 had adversely affected the health and socioeconomic level globally. “But less interference of humans with nature and environment had resulted in purification and cleanliness of air, water and soil. It had also led to lesser waste disposal,” he said.  Justice Kumar was interacting with students during a webinar, “Covid-19: Effects on Nature & Environment”, organised by the Aryans College of Law at Rajpura. Advocate Gagan Pradeep Singh Bal was the conversationalist. Aryans Group chairman Dr Anshu Kataria said the webinar was attended by LLB and BA-LLB students. Justice Kumar said the virus had shaken the earth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/less-interference-with-nature-led-to-purification-85795
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Inmate on parole ‘kidnapped’||A Burail jail inmate, Balwant, who is out on parole, was allegedly kidnapped by a few persons from Dhanas on Friday evening.Later, Balwant was found in the forest area of Colony number 4.Balwant alleged he was kidnapped and thrashed by men of Bunty, a resident of Teen Colony, Sector 52, who is also out on parole.A case of kidnapping has been registered at Sarangpur police station. — TNS8-yr-old found unconsciousA day after an eight year was found unconscious at her house in Mauli Jagran, a case of attempt to murder against unidentified person(s) was registred. The minor was taken to a hospital on Saturday evening from where she was referred to the PGI. Sources said her condition is critical . Cops are not ruling out the possibility of sexual assault. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inmate-on-parole-kidnapped-85796
17-05-2020||---||Relaxations as per MHA guidelines, says UT Adviser||Chandigarh, May 16After the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, officials of the UT Administration and Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) held a meeting through video-conferencing today.Adviser Manoj Parida said the MHA did not find any fault with the relaxation order of the UT Administration. He said the relaxations were as per guidelines of the Central Government.The HC had yesterday virtually rapped the UT Administration for practically treating Chandigarh as a “green zone” and indulging in adventurism.In a petition, Pankaj Chandgothia had contended that the MHA had extended the nationwide lockdown to May 17. However, the UT Administration had decided to grant liberal relaxations to the citizens from neighbouring states.Senior standing counsel for the UT, Pankaj Jain, undertook that the authorities would continue to strictly implement the MHA guidelines on Covid.Since the present guidelines were applicable for another two days up to May 17, officials of the UT Administration and the MHA would sit together and resolve all issues within 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/relaxations-as-per-mha-guidelines-says-ut-adviser-85797
17-05-2020||Mohali||67-yr-old with comorbidities defeats virus||A 67-year-old man has won the battle against Covid despite his comorbidities. He was discharged from Ivy Hospital today.The man, a resident of Phase 10, was admitted to the hospital on April 30 for the treatment of urine infection and kidney problems. He was treated by a team of doctors, including Dr Raka Kaushal, Dr Sachin Verma and Dr Kulwant Singh. “We got suspicious after seeing the patient’s condition and tested him for Covid and the report turned out to be positive. Now, he has defeated the virus successfully and his kidneys are also recovering, said Dr Raka.Rupinder Kaur, head of the facility, said the hospital had set up separate negative pressure isolation wards for Covid-19 patients. We had developed a protocol from the arrival of the patients till discharge so that no damage could be done on the either side.Week on, no new caseNo new case of Covid has been reported in the district in the past one week. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “The district is on a recovery spree. As many as 35 patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur late on Friday.” Now, there are seven active cases in Mohali. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/67-yr-old-with-comorbidities-defeats-virus-85799
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||12 more from city cured, no new case in 3 days||Twelve persons from the city, who were under treatment for Covid-19 at the PGI, were discharged today, taking the total number of recovered cases in the city to 51.With this, the city’s recovery rate has improved to 26.3 per cent, but it is still lower than the national average of 35 per cent. Among the recovered patients were 10 from Bapu Dham Colony, a 41-year-old from Sector 30 and a 67-year-old man from Sector 15.No fresh case has been reported in the city for the past three days.The PGI Director, Prof Jagat Ram, said, “It is a matter of jubilation. It also marks a milestone for our frontline warriors, giving them a reassurance that their efforts can help patients win the Covid battle. With this increased pace of recoveries, we hope to send home other patients too.” — TNS3 more recover in PanchkulaPanchkula: Three more patients belonging to Panchkula were discharged on Saturday, bringing down the number of active cases in the district to three. The recovered patients were a 45-year-old truck driver from Majri village, who was discharged from a private hospital in Sector 26, a 59-year-old man from Raipur Rani (discharged from a private hospital in Sector 21) and a woman cook at the Sector 5 police station (discharged from the Civil Hospital, Kurukshetra). So far, Panchkula has reported 25 cases, of which 22 patients have recovered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-more-from-city-cured-no-new-case-in-3-days-85800
17-05-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration already on job to privatise power department, consultant hired||Chandigarh, May 16Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman today announced privatisation of power distribution companies (discoms) in the union territories. However, the Chandigarh Administration had already started working in this regard.UT Finance Secretary AK Sinha said the Administration had recently hired a consultant, Power Finance Corporation Limited, a Government of India undertaking, for preparing a comprehensive proposal for corporatisation of the Electricity Department.The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) had already issued directions to the UT Administration for restructuring and reformation of the department, which is mandatory as per the Electricity Act, 2003.On privatisation, the department will become an autonomous body registered under the Companies Act 1956, which will be controlled by managing director and directors.To provide better services to the residents, the autonomous body will be divided into the State Transmission Utility (STU) and State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC). The STU will be responsible for smooth transmission of power and the SLDC will be the main body to ensure integrated operation of the power system.During a press conference in Delhi, Sitharaman stated that the move would address the sub-optimal performance of power discoms. It would lead to better service to consumers and improve operational and financial efficiency in distribution, she added.Opposing the privatisation/corporatisation of the Electricity Department, Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary, UT Powermen Union, said it was the most profit-earning department of the UT and had never been in the red even as it does not generate power. He said the department was accredited as the best utility for its services in the country by the JERC and bagged the tag consistently for the past five years. Despite staff shortage, the department was serving the public with the best services, he added.The line losses in the city were 9 per cent to 10 per cent, which was an example for other states, he said, adding that the Central Government had required that the line losses should be less than 12 per cent. The department had achieved the proficiency level of 99.99 per cent as per the target fixed by the JERC, he said. The power supply was metered to the tune of 95 per cent, he said.He said engineers and employees of the department were in field to ensure uninterrupted power supply even during the curfew and lockdown.2.5 lakh consumers in cityThere are 2.5 lakh power consumers in the UT. Among them are 2.15 lakh domestic consumers, who account for over 87 per cent of the total power consumers, while the remaining are categorised as commercial, small, bulk, public lighting, agriculture and temporary supply consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-already-on-job-to-privatise-power-department-consultant-hired-85801
17-05-2020||Chandigarh||Masks donated||Tandon foundation distributes rationChandigarh: The Balramji Das Tandon Foundation distributed free ration among roadside dhaba workers at Kahsyap Rajput Bhavan, Sector 37, on Saturday. The ration was distributed by foundation Chairman Sanjay Tandon. Sanjay Tandon said his father used to distribute free ration among widows. “There is a need for helping the poor who had been rendered unemployed due to the pandemic,” he added. TNSNew due date for property taxChandigarh: The Municipal Corporation has extended the due date for depositing tax for commercial as well as residential properties to July 31. The rebate available up to May 30 will now be valid till July 31. TNSWoman ends life in DhanasChandigarh: A 23-year-old resident of EWS Colony in Dhanas allegedly committed suicide by hanging at her house on Saturday. The victim was rushed to the GMSH, Sector 16, where she was declared brought dead. The police said no suicide note was recovered from the place but inquest proceedings had been initiated. TNSEight booked for assaultMohali: The police have booked eight persons of Shampur village yesterday for allegedly assaulting two women and a boy over a disputed land in the village. The victims have been identified as Rachni Devi (72), Akvinder Kaur and Neeraj Kumar, all residents of Shampur village in Mohali district. The accused have been identified as Angrej, Meeta, Daljeet, Sandeep, Gagan, Gurpreet, Sumedh and Janti. The police have registered a case against the accused under Sections 323, 325, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC. They are yet to be arrested. TNSCar catches fireDera Bassi: A man had a narrow escape after his Alto car suddenly caught fire and reduced to ashes near Gholumajra village, Dera Bassi, on Saturday evening. The incident took place when car owner Neeraj, a resident of Gholumajra, Dera Bassi, was heading back home from gym. Neeraj saw smoke coming out of the engine of the vehicle. When he stopped the car to see what had gone wrong, the vehicle caught fire and was badly damaged. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/masks-donated-85802
17-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||LAC decision to announce award under High Court scanner||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 16The decision of the Land Acquisition Collector (LAC) to announce the award or compensation to landowners has come under judicial scanner just about six months after the acquisition of land in Dhanas and Dadu Majra to connect Dakshin Marg to “PR-4” in Punjab was challenged.The new bypass or PR-4 will start from the high-level bridge at Dadu Majra to the UT boundary on the Mullanpur side. The proposed road will come up on 18.13 acres to be acquired in Dadu Majra village and Dhanas.The petitioners’ counsel, Charanpal Singh Bagri, contended that the collector had on March 13 declared in haste that the award would be announced on May 18, irreparably affecting their rights. He added the matter was to come up for hearing on April 22 and May 15, but could not be taken up.Accepting Bagri’s request, the High Court advanced the date of hearing in July to Monday.The acquisition of land for the purpose was challenged in November last year after a petition was filed alleging that the value of land belonging to politicians and bureaucrats there would increase by several crores.The petitioners, Jaspal Singh and others, had earlier contended that the Dhanas-Mullanpur-Siswan road connecting Punjab to Dakshin Marg in Chandigarh was just 2 km from the proposed connecting road. The acquisition would not serve public purpose but amounted urbanisation.Bagri contended that numerous residential and commercial projects were being set up by “famous private companies and builders” in Punjab abutting the PR-4 road. Bagri added “it would serve the ulterior motives of builders, developers and politician who have already started their development projects as such amounting to urbanisation,” he submitted.Bagri added that the UT Administrator, just prior to acquisition of land in Dhanas and Dadu Majra, also notified “Policy for Land Acquisition through Negotiation”, which was in contravention of the mandatory procedure and provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act.Bagri had also told the court that this was the first-of-its-kind acquisition process initiated without updating the revenue record or the record of rights of the land concerned. He added that the same had not been updated for the last so many decades.Bagri also sought directions for considering the rate of land in question on a par with the rate of commercial and residential area, which was part and parcel of the same village. Elaborating, he submitted half area was part of Milk Colony in Dhanas and remaining part was subject matter of acquisition, where collector rate was more than Rs 19 crore per acre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lac-decision-to-announce-award-under-high-court-scanner-85813
17-05-2020||---||Consumer court cases to be heard via video-conferencing||Chandigarh, May 16The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission and two district consumer forums will hear cases through video-conferencing from Monday.The commission will hold hearings from 11 am to 1 pm on all working days. The Forum 1 will hold hearing from 1:30 pm to 2:30 pm (Monday to Wednesday) and Forum 2 from 3 pm onwards (Monday to Wednesday). For Thursday and Friday, the timings of the two forums will be inter-changed.The litigant can send soft copy of their cases or applications by email to the court concerned, scdrcchandigarh19@gmail.com for the commission, registrardf1@gmail.com for the district forum 1 and registrardf1@gmail.com for the district forum 2. Queries can be made to the Secretary of the commission at 9988871967. The concerned advocates/parties will be sent the VC link on their mobiles in advance and all advocates are required to adhere to the dress code as prescribed by the Supreme Court.Advocate and consumer activist Pankaj Chandgothia pointed out that the Chandigarh consumer courts were first in the country to start hearing of all cases through video-conferencing. Advocate Narender Yadav said: “The Covid outbreak has necessitated the immediate adoption of modern technology to dispense the justice to litigants.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consumer-court-cases-to-be-heard-via-video-conferencing-85817
17-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Now, pay more for liquor in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 16The UT Administration has finally decided to adjust and refund licence fee of local liquor vends, which remain closed due to the countrywide lockdown.In a notification issued today, the Administration stated: “The licence fee, which has already been paid by the retail sale licensees for the period from March 23 to 31 when they could not run their retail sale liquor vends due to the lockdown and the curfew imposed by the UT Administration to contain the spread of Covid-19, will be adjusted in the licence fee to be paid for the extended period. The licensees, who have not applied for extension/renewal of their licences and those who do not opt now to get their licences extended/renewed for the extended period, their licence fee for the period from March 23 to 31 will be refunded.”The Administration has also decided to fix the basic quota of each retail store, but on operational basis.Extending the liquor and Excise Policy till June 30, the Administration has announced to impose ‘cow cess’ during the extension period. The circular read; “On January 30, the Administration had notified ‘cow cess’ to be levied on liquor and the same will be applicable for the extended period of the Excise Policy for the year 2019-20, which is from May 16 to June 30. The cess will be levied at the rate of Rs 5 per bottle of 750ml of country liquor, Rs 5 per bottle of 650ml of beer and Rs 10 per bottle of 750ml of whisky. It will be deposited by the wholesale licensees in the dedicated bank account of the Municipal Corporation.”*Licence renewal chanceDue to the extension of the period of the Excise Policy 2019-20, from May 15 to June 30, the licensees of wholesale and retail sale liquor licenses (within the radius of 500m from the national/state highway) and retailers who opted for extension/renewal of their licences from April 1 to May 15, are given an option to get their licences further extended/ renewed from May 16 to 30.Key takeaways from UT notification||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-pay-more-for-liquor-in-chandigarh-85818
17-05-2020||ATM van||ATM route plan for today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-route-plan-for-today-85820
