17-12-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 62 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 62 new coronavirus cases, taking the infection count to 18,905 in the Union Territory, according to a medical bulletin.There are 584 active cases as of now, it said.(Click here for the latest developments on Covid-19 epidemic)No death due to the infection was reported from the city on Thursday and the toll stands at 304, the bulletin said.A total of 105 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 18,017, as per the bulletin.It said that a total of 1,65,414 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,45,646 tested negative while reports of 135 samples are awaited. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-62-new-cases-in-chandigarh-185691
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||With 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan' theme, 4th Military Literature Festival starts||The fourth edition of the Military Literature Festival (MLF) will kick-start on Friday with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh delivering the inaugural speech virtually.Prominent speakers like Governor of Punjab, VP Singh Badnore, former Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, NN Vohra, Punjab Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh and General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen RP Singh will also address the event.Formally launching the festival, here, on Thursday, Lt Gen TS Shergill (retd), Senior Advisor to the Punjab Chief Minister said, that the theme of the festival this year is "Jai Jawan Jai Kisan" as both are motivational figures for the society.Due to COVID-19 restrictions, the festival is conducted virtually.Lt Gen Shergill said, that the panel discussions and other events can be streamed live through popular social media platforms for a global audience.Already, a few events held as a prelude to the festival has witnessed over 16 lakh views online.A total of 12-panel discussions by experts will be held over the three-day event. This is focused on contemporary strategic and geo-political topics.The opening day would focus on issues like Sabre Rattling in Ladakh, Chinese Air Power Capabilities and the Deep States in India and Pakistan.A separate session on "Jai Jawan Jai Kisan" would be organised to discuss the current issues—related to the solider and the farmer— which will include the prominent political leaders from the region.Other topics like Emerging Indo-Pacific Naval Alliance, Self Reliance Towards Defence Preparedness and Military Leadership would be part of the discussions. This is in addition to the discussion on books and highlights on the newly inducted Rafale Fighter Aircraft, Siachen operations and legacy of the Gurkha soldier.The Headquarters Western Command would present a curtain-raiser on the 1971 Indo-Pak war.Former service chiefs, Gen VP Malik, Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa, Admiral Arun Prakash, Admiral Sunil Lanba and Air Chief Marshal NAK Browne, Members of Parliament Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tiwari, Rakesh Sinha, Mahua Moitra and Rajeev Chandrashekhar, Ram Madhav, Lt Gen DS Hoods, Lt Gen SS Mehta, Vivek Katju, Kanwal Sibal, Shyam Saran, Dr C Rajamohan, Gul Panag, Mona Ambegaonkar, David Scott, Dr Christine Fair and Andrew Erikson are among the few speakers at the event.The literature festival is an annual affair conducted by the Punjab Government and the Western Command to honour and commemorate the legendary, brave, and sacrifices of the Indian soldiers.This is also to bring a common platform for experts to deliberate on the contemporary military, security, and geo-political issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/with-jai-jawan-jai-kisan-theme-4th-military-literature-festival-starts-185652
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Online session on inner excellence||Aids awareness campaignMandi Gobindgarh: The School of Nursing of Desh Bhagat University organised an AIDs awareness campaign to sensitise students about the disease. Various activities like poster making, Rangoli and speech competitions were organised to make students aware about the disease. More than 1,500 students were covered during the drive. Meanwhile, the School of Business Management, Commerce and Economics of Desh Bhagat University observed Energy Conservation Day on Wednesday. A competition and poster making competition and a seminar on “Save energy to build a better India” were organised on the occasion. TNSWebinar on India’s victory in 71 warChandigarh: The Department of Life Long Learning and Extension organised an online webinar to celebrate the Golden Jubilee of India’s victory over Pakistan in the 1971 war. Faculty members, students, alumni and the university staff attended webinar. Dr Paramjit Singh Kang, department chairperson, revealed the history of the 1971 Indo-Pak War. Kang said this war was imposed on Indian by Pakistanis, who were supported by the USA and China. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-session-on-inner-excellence-185421
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Man falls prey to online fraud||Resident duped of Rs8.80 lakhChandigarh: A case of cheating has been registered against a Sector 37 resident for allegedly duping a man of Rs8.80 lakh on the pretext of sending the complainant abroad. According to the police, complainant Rajan Sangari, a Panchkula resident, alleged that Rajesh Kumar and others cheated him on the pretext of providing him with Canadian Permanent Residency. A case of cheating has been registered. tnsCouple thrashed in Mauli JagranChandigarh: A couple was allegedly thrashed by some persons at Mauli Jagran. Complainant Lakhmi Chand, a resident of Mauli Jagran, alleged that some miscreants — Amit, Sonu, Rahul, Bittu and five others — attacked him and his wife with sticks on December 16. The suspects allegedly also threw stones at the complainant’s house. A cases was registered. tnsMan found dead in Balongi villageMohali: A man was found dead under mysterious circumstances near a nullah in the forest area of Balongi village here on Wednesday. According to the police, the deceased, who seems to be in his in his 30s, is yet to be identified. The police received the information about the body around 6 pm. The disfigured body has been sent to the mortuary of the Civil Hospital, Kharar. It will be kept there for next 72 hours for the identification purpose. TNSDrugs seized from chemistChandigarh: In a drive against the misuse of allopathic drugs and sale without prescription, Amit Duggal, Senior Drugs Control Officer, Chandigarh, checked a medical store in Sector 41-D here on Wednesday. During investigation, the person could not produce purchase and sale records for four types of allopathic drugs. The officer seized allopathic drugs worth Rs36,000. These drugs include formulations of cough syrup containing codeine and tramadol capsules. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-falls-prey-to-online-fraud-185427
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Navya, Radhika win tennis titles||Second seeds Navya Verma and Radhika Vasudeva outplayed their top-ranking rivals to win their respective titles on the concluding day of the CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament here today. In the boys’ U-16 final, second seed Verma stunned top seed Aryan Thakur in straight sets. Verma won the first set 6-3, followed by identical 6-3 win in the second set to grab the title. Verma played a consistent game and used variation in his shots. He faced some resistance in the second set when Thakur won three games in a row to make it 3-3. However, he kept his head high to close the match in his favour. Meanwhile, another second seed Radhika won the girls’ U-16 title by defeating top seed Harleen Kaur Dhanda 6-4, 7-5. Radhika won the first set easily. However in the next, she faced a tough competition from Harleen. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/navya-radhika-win-tennis-titles-185411
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Homage paid to 1971 war heroes||Retired Honorary Commissioned Officers, under the banner of the National Federation of Defence Honorary Commissioned Officers (NFDHCO), lighted candles in memory of those who laid down their lives and attained martyrdom in the Indo-Pak war in 1971, here today. Capt Jagdish Verma (retd), chairman of NFDHCO, said several veterans of the federation were active participants of the 1971 war. He himself was deployed in the Barmer Sector of Rajasthan. At 4.31 pm on December 16, 1971, armed forces of India forced Lt General AAK Niazi along with Pakistan’s 93,000 troops to surrender at Ramana Race Course Ground of Dacca in East Pakistan, he said. He said: “In 1972, during the Simla Agreement, a golden opportunity was lost by releasing surrendered troops of the 1971 war and also land captured through the sacrifice of the life of nearly 3,000 soldiers without any precondition. Had India taken strong and clear-cut stand to get the PoK vacated and then repatriate Pakistan troops and the land, the Kashmir problem could have been solved once for all.” Flight Lieutenant DS Bindra, Flying Officer BL Dhiman, Capt Hardev Singh Saini, Flying Officer SC Bhardwaj, Capt RS Dahya, Sub-Lieutenant RK Kapoor among others were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/homage-paid-to-1971-war-heroes-185409
17-12-2020||---||Wreath-laying ceremony marks Vijay Diwas at Chandimandir||Chandigarh, December 16To commemorate Vijay Diwas, that marks India’s spectacular victory over Pakistan in 1971, homage was paid to martyrs during a solemn wreath-laying ceremony at the Veer Smriti war memorial in Chandimandir today.On behalf of the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen Yogendra Dimri, Chief of Staff, Western Command, paid floral tributes at the memorial. A number of senior veterans of all three services were also present on the occasion and paid their tributes.Among them were former Army Chief Gen VP Malik, former Air Chief, Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa, former Navy Chief, Admiral Sunil Lamba, Lt Gen Tej Sapru (retd), Lt Gen Amar Aul (retd) and Vice-Admiral HCS Bisht (retd).Vijay Diwas this year also marks the commencement of Golden Jubilee year of the 1971 Indo-Pak War, which is being celebrated across the nation as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’. A year-long tri-services commemorative event also commenced today at the National War Memorial, New Delhi, with lighting of the Victory Flame.The Western Command had played a stellar role in the 1971 Indo-Pak war that was fought both, on the eastern and western fronts, from December 3 to 16, culminating in the surrender of Pakistan and the emergence of Bangladesh as an independent nation.The 13-day war is among one of the fastest and shortest campaigns in military history. With 93,000 Pakistani soldiers taken prisoners-of-war, it was also the largest surrender since the Second World War.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wreath-laying-ceremony-marks-vijay-diwas-at-chandimandir-185410
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Clear air on privatisation of GMSH-16: Union||The Joint Action Committee (JAC) of Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, and allied dispensaries, UT, has sought clarification over media reports on handing over the GMSH-16 to a private player.In a statement, Shishpal, chairman of the committee, said an urgent meeting of the JAC, GMSH-16, and allied dispensaries comprising CPTE union, nurses union, Ayush union, Class IV union, ministerial staff union and sweeper union was held today to discuss the alleged plan of the Chandigarh Administration to handover GMSH-16 to the private player under a public-private partnership (PPP) mode.He said it was decided unanimously by the representatives of the committee to seek clarification regarding the media reports and alleged intent of the Administration for handing over the GMSH-16 to the private player.“There is a strong resentment among the staff of the GMSH-16 and allied dispensaries regarding the media reports,” he said.Shishpal said the Joint Action Committee had sought immediate reply and clarification from the hospital administration. Otherwise, they would be forced to take necessary action to protect the rights of employees in general and public in particular. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clear-air-on-privatisation-of-gmsh-16-union-185412
17-12-2020||---||Chandigarh reclaims govt land worth Rs 115 cr in Sector 56||Chandigarh, December 16The UT Administration has reclaimed government land worth over Rs115 crore in Sector 56.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), said all occupants of pre-fab shelters in Sector 56 had been relocated to EWS flats at Maloya-I under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.“The initiative of the Chandigarh Administration has not only provided an opportunity for dignified living to the families staying in pre-fab shelters, but also the government land worth more than Rs115 crore has been recovered,” he said. The Administration was taking a view about the best possible use of the valuable land.He said the project was undertaken under the guidance of UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore. The entire process of allotment of flats under the affordable rental scheme and smooth shifting of families was closely monitored by UT Adviser Manoj Parida, who is also the chairman of the CHB.During the process of relocation, he visited the site of pre-fab shelters and Maloya Housing Complex several times and interacted with the families at both places to ensure that the process is completed with minimum inconvenience.During the last visit of the UT Adviser, the beneficiaries expressed their gratitude for providing them the opportunity of dignified living. The Councillor of the area also extended full cooperation to the relocation process.It is a significant step for the urban poor and will definitely promote economic activities also as per the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ clarion call of the Prime Minister, which is the vision behind this unique scheme of the Ministry.“Chandigarh is the first state/UT in the country to implement the scheme and also completing more than 80 per cent target within a short period of less than four months,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reclaims-govt-land-worth-rs-115-cr-in-sector-56-185413
17-12-2020||Naina Mishra||100 beneficiaries per vaccine session in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 16In line with the Centre’s directions, the UT has decided to vaccinate at least 100 beneficiaries per session. The number may increase depending upon need.The Administration has earmarked Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, and all civil hospitals as the vaccination sites. The sites will have separate entry and exit points.At the vaccination sites, only pre-registered beneficiaries will be vaccinated and there will be no provision for on-the-spot registrations. The Covid vaccine intelligence network (Co-WIN) system, a digitalised platform, will be used to track the enlisted beneficiaries for vaccination on a real-time basis.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said: “If need arises, we will increase the number of vaccinators at session sites. Initially, the number of beneficiaries to be vaccinated will remain 100 per session.”The advisory on Covid-19 vaccine sent by the Centre states that all measures should be taken to avoid exposing the vaccine carriers, vaccine vials or ice packs to direct sunlight. Vaccines and diluents should be kept inside the carrier with a closed lid until a beneficiary comes to a centre for vaccination.“There may not be vaccine vial monitors and date of expiry on the label of a Covid-19 vaccine. However, this should not discourage vaccinators from using the vaccine. At the end of the session, the vaccine carrier with all ice packs and unopened vaccine vials should be sent back to the distributing cold chain point,” reads the advisory“The latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and legislative assembly election will be used to identify the population aged 50 years or more,” the Centre’s guidelines stated.Five-member vaccination teamVaccinator officer 1 Doctors (MBBS/BDS), staff nurse, Pharmacist, Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) and Lady Health Assistant (LHV); anyone legally authorised to give injection may be considered as a potential vaccinatorVaccination officer 2 At least one person who will check the registration status of the beneficiary at the entry point and ensure guarded entry to the vaccination session.Vaccination officer 3 Verifier who will authenticate/verify the identification documentsVaccination officer 4 & 5 Two support staff, who will be responsible for crowd management, IEC/communication and support to vaccinator||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-beneficiaries-per-vaccine-session-in-chandigarh-185414
17-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh to get Rs 402-cr loan from French firm, Rs 96-cr EU grant||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 16Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) will get about Rs402 crore loan from French firm Agence Française de Développement (AFD) and Rs96 crore grant from the European Union (EU) to execute its pan-city 24X7 water supply project.This was approved in a board meeting of the AFD held in Paris today. A senior UT officer confirmed, “We got the communication after it was cleared in the AFD’s board meeting today.”‘Official communication soon’Officials said since there was a time difference between India and France, they had received unofficial communication right after the meeting. They would receive the official communication soon.Major boost for UTThe move has come as a major boost to the city to have round-the-clock water supply. The remaining Rs60 crore required for the project is available with Chandigarh Smart City Limited.Officials said since there was time difference between India and France, they had received unofficial communication right after the meeting. They would soon receive the official communication.The move has come as a major boost to the city to have round-the-clock water supply. The remaining Rs60 crore required for the project are available with the CSCL.“It is great that our project was liked and the grant was approved. Otherwise, we will have to take more loan for it,” said an official.In November 2019, the MC House had approved to increase water tariff from 2027 to pay back the loan to the AFD. The tenure of loan repayment is 15 years with six years of moratorium period.The move was criticised by resident welfare associations. They held that it would end up in wastage of water as well as money, besides putting an additional burden on them.At present, the MC has initiated 24/7 water supply pilot project for Mani Majra, but work on the pan-city project will now begin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-get-rs-402-cr-loan-from-french-firm-rs-96-cr-eu-grant-185415
17-12-2020|| ---||SHOs transferred in Mohali district||Mohali, December 16 The police administration has shuffled 22 officials, including station house officers (SHOs), within Mohali district with immediate effect.  As many as three SHOs of Mohali city — Manphul Singh (Phase 1), Rajneesh Chaudhary (Phase 8) and Rajiv Kumar (Mataur) — have been sent to the Police Lines. The Kurali Sadar SHO, Baljit Singh, has also been sent to the Police Lines.  Officials said major changes have been made to improve the functioning of the district police. The Mohali SSP, Satinder Singh, played down the shuffling by terming it as “‘just administrative changes”.  In major changes, the Sohana SHO, Daljit Singh Gill, has been swapped with the Kharar City SHO, Bhagwant Singh. The Mohali airport police station SHO, Shivdeep Singh Brar, has been posted as the SHO of the Phase 1 police station. Himmat Singh has been posted as the Airport police station SHO.  Inspector Rajesh Kumar of Kharar Sadar police station has been posted as the Phase 8 police station SHO and Inspector Ashok Kumar has been posted as the Mataur police station SHO.  Similarly, Inspector Deepinder Singh has been posted as the Dhakoli SHO, Inspector Amardeep Singh, earlier Balongi police station SHO, has been posted in the Mohali EO Wing and Inspector Sukhbir Singh has been posted as the Lalru police station SHO.  Inspector Ajitpal Singh has been posted as Kharar Sadar police station SHO, Inspector Malkit Singh has been posted the Kurali police station SHO and Inspector Gurmel Singh has been posted of the district CIA staff Mohali in-charge. Yogesh Kumar has been posted as the Mullanpur Garibdas SHO while Kailash Bahadur has been posted as the Nayagaon SHO.  Narpinderpal Singh has been posted as Additional Chief Officer Kurali city police Station and Amandeep Singh has been posted as the Majri police station SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shos-transferred-in-mohali-district-185406
17-12-2020||Mohali||Returning officers, assistant returning officers appointed||The State Election Commission (SEC) has appointed officers as Returning Officers (ROs) and Assistant Returning Officers (AROs) for holding the Municipal Corporation, Municipal Council/Nagar Panchayat elections - 2021.The SDM, Mohali, will be the RO for the Municipal Corporation, Ward No. 1 to 25, and the Divisional Engineer (Civil 2), GMADA, will be the ARO for the same region. The Director Public Instructions (DPI), School, Secondary Education, will be the RO for the Municipal Corporation, Ward No. 26 to 50, while the Divisional Engineer (Civil), GMADA, will be the ARO.The District Revenue Officer will be the RO for the Municipal Council Banur and the Naib Tehsildar, Banur, will be the ARO. Similarly, for Municipal Council, Nayagaon, the Assistant Commissioner (G), Mohali, will be the RO supported by the Executive Engineer, Water Supply and Sanitation, Division No.3, Mohali, as the ARO.The SDM, Dera Bassi, will be the RO for the Municipal Council, Dera Bassi, and the Executive Engineer (B&R), Provincial Division, PWD, Mohali, will be the ARO. For the Municipal Council, Lalru, the Estate Officer (Housing), GMADA, Mohali, will the RO and the Executive Engineer, Water Supply and Sanitation, Division No. 2, Mohali, will be the ARO. In the Municipal Council, Kurali, the Assistant Commissioner (UT), Mohali, will be the RO and the Naib Tehsildar, Majri, will be the ARO. For the Municipal Council, Kharar, the SDM, Kharar, will be the RO and the Naib Tehsildar, Kharar, will be the ARO. For the Municipal Council, Zirakpur, the Estate Officer, (Plots) GMADA, SAS Nagar, will be the RO and the Naib Tehsildar, Agrarian, Mohali, will be the ARO. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/returning-officers-assistant-returning-officers-appointed-185407
17-12-2020||---||Auto driver’s murder case cracked, 3 held||Mohali, December 16The Mohali police claimed to have cracked the murder case of an auto driver, Avtar Singh (40), who was found dead at Mehrampur Taprian village on December 12.The police have arrested three suspects, identified as Kulveer Singh, a resident of Mehrampur Taprian, and Jasveer Singh and Gurdeep Singh, both residents of Ropar.A police team, led by Mullanpur DSP Bikramjit Brar, arrested the suspects and recovered the weapon used in the crime.Avtar’s body was found on the road near a roadside eatery on December 12. He was killed with a sharp knife, the police said. The police had registered a murder case on the statement of the victim’s wife, Harveer Kaur, at the Majri police station and initiated investigations.Mullanpur DSP Bikramjit Singh Brar said: “The body of the victim was found near an eatery owned by Kulveer Singh. The victim’s auto was also found nearby. Kulveer informed the police about the body and pretended to be a complainant in the case. During investigation, it came to fore that Kulveer and two other accomplices had killed Avtar following a dispute. Kulveer was arrested on December 12 and the knife was also recovered from his possession. Following his interrogation, two other suspects were also arrested yesterday.”Kulveer was already in the police custody. He would be produced before a court on Thursday, while other suspects were sent to four-day police custody. Old rivalry between the victim and Kulveer led to the murder, said Brar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-drivers-murder-case-cracked-3-held-185408
17-12-2020||Deepankar Sharda||BoF meet put off, PU heads for another row||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 16Panjab University, which is already witnessing politics at its peak, is now heading towards another row after the postponement of the Board of Finance (BoF) meeting.The meeting, which was scheduled for December 15, was postponed after members demanded a physical meeting while the authorities concerned preferred online meeting. This is not the first time that any important meeting has been postponed for the same particular reason.“It’s for the first time that the university has witnessed such adamant behaviour of both the authorities and its governing body. There should be a way to solve such issues otherwise there’s will be headway,” said a senior official.The BoF meeting is now expected to be held next year in January. Sources claim that the authorities are in no mood for conducting a physical meeting.Also, the term of the current Syndicate is going to end on December 31, which is another reason of concern. After the term of the Syndicate, the executive body of the PU, ends, the university will be left without a governing body. Earlier, the term of the Senate ended on October 31. Till now, there is no news about holding Senate elections.According to the PU Calendar, the executive body has the power to consider and make recommendations to the Senate. It also grants power to the Syndicate to pass orders on various university matters.“We are looking at an important change here. The BoF meeting is its latest example. The meeting was held almost a year ago and is important for approving PU’s estimated budget and take clearance from members on balance sheet. In another 14 days, the term of Syndicate will end and there’s is no Senate. This has never happened in PU’s history. If some reforms are been made, they should be in favour of all stakeholders. The authorities should make clear if this is just a delay due to Covid-19 pandemic,” said another PU official.“This is the time when the PU Chancellor needs to intervene and act as a mediator in the ongoing tussle,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bof-meet-put-off-pu-heads-for-another-row-185403
17-12-2020||---||Cong shedding crocodile tears, says AAP||Chandigarh, December 16The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) city unit today slammed the leader of the opposition in the MC House, Devinder Singh Babla, over his communication to the UT Administrator, VP Singh Badnore, requesting him to raise the tenure of the Mayor to five years.In a press release today, AAP leader Chander Mukhi Sharma alleged, “Babla is only shedding crocodile tears over the issue. He should ask their leader Pawan Kumar Bansal, who was the MP when this Bill was presented in the parliament, but he failed to act at the appropriate forum at that time.”“Today, the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation is toothless only because of failure on part of Pawan Kumar Bansal, who did not utter a single word on the issue when he was the MP and represented the city,” Sharma added.Also, coming down heavily on the BJP, Sharma said former BJP MP Satya Pal Jain had also made a similar request, which was again an example of inefficiency of the saffron party.Jain should write to the party president, Sharma added. The AAP leader further alleged that the party’s two-time MP Kirron Kher failed to bring the issue in the parliament, which clearly showed BJP’s indifferent attitude towards the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-shedding-crocodile-tears-says-aap-185404
17-12-2020||Amit Bathla||Kulbhushan Goyal declares assets worth Rs 62 cr, Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia Rs 82 cr||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 16A real estate developer by profession, BJP’s Mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal has declared assets worth Rs 62.08 crore in his election affidavit.According to the affidavit filed before the returning officer for the Panchkula MC poll and ADC Mohd Imran Raza, Goyal’s individual movable assets grew from Rs 13.82 crore in 2014 to Rs18.01 crore this year. The amount includes includes Rs1.60 lakh cash in hand, an Innova car purchased in 2012 with current market value of Rs 4 lakh, a fixed deposit worth Rs 6 lakh in Punjab and Sind Bank, Rs 14.46 crore investments in shares, Rs 2.81 crore loans to friends and relatives, 30-gm gold worth Rs 1.53 lakh and diamond worth Rs 5 lakh.Goyal’s wife's movable assets include Rs 10,000 in cash, Rs 5.37 lakh in bank account, an FD of Rs 12 lakh, investment in shares worth Rs 5.60 crore and Rs 31.08 loan to others.His wife Anjali also has over 2-kg gold worth Rs 1.12 crore, diamond worth Rs 4.90 lakh and gold ‘ginnis’ worth Rs 7.20 lakh (17 pieces).On the other hand, Goyal’s individual immovable assets came down by Rs  4.78 crore in the past six years. He co-owns a showroom Sector 2, Panchkula, with his wife, which has an approximate market value of Rs 2.25 crore.Apart from commercial property, Goyal has one house in Bathinda (market value Rs 45 lakh), three bungalows in Sector 6 (overall market value Rs 18.80 lakh crore), one house in Sector 2 (market value Rs4 crore) and one house in HP’s Jwala Ji (market value Rs22 lakh).His wife’s immovable assets include one commercial building (market value Rs 30 lakh).As per the affidavit, Goyal has a loan of Rs 2.22 crore against him. Meanwhile, their family income last year was Rs 61.44 lakh.Goyal has mentioned his highest educational qualification as BTech (Civil) from Guru Nanak Engineering College, Ludhiana (Punjab University). He is working as a director in seven companies in the name of his father Amar Nath Aggarwal and as a partner in one.Ahluwalia’s affidavitCongress’s Mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia has declared her total worth at Rs82.30 crore with movable assets amounting to Rs2.3 crore and immovable assets Rs82.14 crores.Her movable property includes Rs1.25 crore of FDs, a Mitsubishi Pajero Sport purchased in 2012, Farmtac tractor and several agricultural equipment.She also has gold jewellery worth Rs53.55 lakh. Her family owns jewellery worth Rs12.75 lakh and other small ornaments amounting to Rs50,000. She also owns silver worth Rs95,000.As for immovable property, Ahluwalia and her family own agricultural land in Panchkula and Dera Bassi villages, including Mani Majra, Mouli village, Boona village, Natwal village, Bhanu village, Nadalana village, Khetparali village, Manak Tabra village and Ramnagar.She also owns non-agricultural land in Kundi and Fatehpur, along with commercial buildings in Chandigarh and other areas. Ahluwalia and her family own a house in Sector 21 and another in Fatehpur village.She has also taken loans worth Rs2.14 crore. Meanwhile, the family’s annual income for the last year was Rs26.25 lakh. Ahluwalia has shown her highest educational qualification as Master of Sciences (MSc) from Panjab University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kulbhushan-goyal-declares-assets-worth-rs-62-cr-upinder-kaur-ahluwalia-rs-82-cr-185420
17-12-2020||---||Vistadome coach chugs up the hill track,  once again||Solan, December 16The much-hyped vistadome coach, providing a picturesque view to commuters through its see-through glass rooftop, today resumed service on the Kalka-Shimla railway track after nine months. It was discontinued in March due to the Covid lockdown.Though its trip to Shimla saw less than 10 passengers when the train started from Kalka at 7 am, the business is expected to pick up soon, said railway officials.To begin with, only one trip will be made by the coach in a day and it will begin its journey back to Kalka at 3.50 pm from Shimla. It will reach back at Kalka at 9.15 pm. One can make online bookings for the coach where a ticket costs Rs800.“It provides almost an uninterrupted journey to tourists as it barely halts for 10 minutes at Barog and doesn’t stop anywhere else. In view of the Christmas and New Year tourist rush, it has been timed to provide connectivity to Howrah Mail at Kalka,” said an official.This coach was introduced on the UNESCO’s world heritage railway track in December 2019 and is the first-of-its-kind aesthetically designed coach on this track. It offers a seating capacity of 100. Two passenger trains had also resumed services. About 50 per cent occupancy has been registered by the trains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vistadome-coach-chugs-up-the-hill-track-once-again-185431
17-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Hope floats as Chandigarh sees dip in cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 16Covid cases in the city continue to show a decreasing trend even in December when the mercury has fallen significantly. This fortnight, Chandigarh recorded over 200 less cases as compared to the previous one.From 1,140 active cases on November 29, the number of infected persons has come to 635 in the city, comprising only 3.4 per cent of the total confirmed cases.‘Second wave may not hit UT’With the positivity rate gradually coming down, there seems to be hope that a second wave may not hit Chandigarh. However, there is absolutely no room for complacency as the pace of transmission might have slowed down, but the infection is very much here and the fear of transmission is very real. — Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGIIn the past one week, the number of new infections has grown at an average of 0.4 per cent every day, while for every 100 confirmed cases, 95 have recovered from the virus. The overall positivity rate of Chandigarh stands at 11.5 per cent while the national average is 6.5 per cent.For every 10 lakh people in Chandigarh, as many as 1,38,245 persons have been tested and among them, 15,925 have tested positive for the virus.VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent-cum-Joint Director of the UT Health Department, said, “The cases have come down in the recent past as people have become more conscious about social distancing and Covid appropriate behaviour. The same is reflected in the positivity rate among health workers. At any given time, 40-50 health workers were Covid positive, but now only four-five remain infected with the virus. Despite the functioning of OPDs, the infectivity is low in the hospital premises as well.”Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “With the positivity rate gradually coming down, there seems to be hope that a second wave may not hit Chandigarh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hope-floats-as-chandigarh-sees-dip-in-cases-185396
17-12-2020||---||34 fresh cases, one death in Panchkula||Panchkula, December 16The district reported 34 fresh coronavirus cases today, taking the tally to 9,555. It also witnessed one Covid death. The toll now stands at 136. Among the fresh cases, four each were reported from Sector 10, Sector 12-A and Sector 17, and three each from Manaktabra, Sector 12 and Sector 8. While 9,094 patients have defeated the virus so far, 325 cases are still active. The recovery rate of the district is 95.17 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/34-fresh-cases-one-death-in-panchkula-185397
17-12-2020||Mohali||No death in Mohali, 34 fresh cases||Thirty-four fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the district today. As many as 111 more patients recovered from the virus during the past 24 hours. In a major relief, no Covid death was reported today.Among the fresh cases, 33 were reported from Mohali (urban) and one from Dera Bassi.Cap on social gatheringsSocial gatherings have been restricted to a maximum of 100 persons for any indoor event and 250 for outdoor events till December 31. Any violation of these guidelines shall be punishable. — TNSChandigarh sees 67 casesChandigarh: The city on Wednesday reported 67 new Covid cases, taking the tally to 18,843. As many as 139 persons recovered from the infection. The total number of recovered patients stands at 17,912. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-death-in-mohali-34-fresh-cases-185398
17-12-2020||Chandigarh||Balloon seller nabs snatcher in Sector 22||A balloon seller in Sector 22 nabbed a snatcher, who was escaping after snatching a mobile phone from his minor son.DGP gives Rs5,000 rewardAccording to the police, complainant Jamna Lal (30), who sells balloons at the mobile market, Sector 22, was sitting with his wife and six-year-old son near a wine shop on Tuesday evening. His son was playing games on the mobile phone when a boy arrived and snatched the phone. The suspect ran towards the Sector 17 bus stand.The complainant chased him and nabbed him. The police were informed and the suspect was handed over to them. The police said the suspect had been identified as Sunny (19), a resident of Sector 28. A case has been registered against him at the Sector 17 police station.UT DGP Sanjay Baniwal today rewarded Jamna Lal with Rs5,000 as a token of appreciation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/balloon-seller-nabs-snatcher-in-sector-22-185399
17-12-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula MC poll: Cong candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia files papers for Mayor’s post||Congress mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia submitted her papers on the last day of filing of nominations today.She was accompanied by former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan and other leaders of the party.Banking upon the works done by her during her last stint as the Mayor, Ahluwalia said she was confident of a win this time too with a big margin. She added: “Around 1.90 lakh voters from 20 wards can’t be fooled by false propaganda.”No dissidence, says party chief SeljaPanchkula: Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja dismissed the rumours of dissidence in the party. She was addressing the media at a hotel in Sector 10 here. Selja said all party leaders and workers were united and working tirelessly for the victory of Ahluwalia as the Panchkula Mayor and party’s candidates in all 20 words.Later, state Congress chief Kumari Selja addressed party workers at the election campaign office in Sector 14 to boost their confidence.Ahluwalia’s main opponent – BJP’s Kulbhushan Goyal – had filed his nominations papers yesterday in the presence of Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta.Gupta and Mohan had locked horns in the 2019 Assembly elections and Gupta had emerged the winner in the close contest.As many as 93 people filed nomination for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections today, including nine for the post of Mayor.The scrutiny of nominations will be done tomorrow and candidates can withdraw their nominations till 3 pm on December 18 and final candidates will be allotted symbols the same day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-poll-cong-candidate-upinder-kaur-ahluwalia-files-papers-for-mayors-post-185400
17-12-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||CHB to construct 728 flats at IT Park||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 16The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will soon construct 728 flats for the general public at Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Information Technology Park (IT Park).A senior official of the CHB said drawings of the project would be placed before the Board of Directors for approval during a meeting on Friday. After getting a nod in the meeting, a sanction by the plan approval committee of the UT would be required for the launch of the project, he said. He said the process, including getting environment clearance, would take nearly three to four months. The scheme could be launched in March or April next year, he added.He said the CHB would replace the mandatory EWS flats with two-bedroom flats in the scheme. The advisory council’s standing committee on urban infrastructure and planning had already given its approval that EWS flats would not be constructed at the site. He said a survey was being conducted for the construction of flats under the EWS category at some other place. Two more towers of two-bedroom flats would be constructed in place of EWS flats in the project, added the official.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had given his consent to the project in July this year. Under the scheme, the CHB would construct nearly 728 flats of different categories, including two-bedroom and three-bedroom. The board has 123 acres in its possession at the IT Park where 20 sites will be developed. The board will construct 728 flats at two sites, while the remaining 18 sites will be given to private builders for development. The housing scheme will come up close to the high-end officers’ flats to be constructed for the governments of Haryana and Punjab and the UT Administration.The Chandigarh Housing Board will develop the scheme on two plots, measuring 10.51 acres and 6.43 acres. The prices will be fixed after approval of the drawings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-to-construct-728-flats-at-it-park-185401
17-12-2020||---||Brace for cold weather||Chandigarh, December 16The Chandigarh Meteorological Department has issued a forecast for “cold days” and “cold wave” from December 17 to 19 in the tricity.The Met Department considers a “cold day” when the maximum temperature is 4.5°C-6.4°C below normal. A “cold wave” is when the minimum temperature is less than 4°C.According to the weatherman, the next four days will witness dry weather. Cold to severe cold day conditions are likely for the next 24-48 hours. Cold to severe cold wave conditions are also likely during the next three-four days with the minimum temperature likely to be below 4°C at a few places and below 2°C at isolated places. The region may also witness dense to very dense fog for the next 24 hours. Today, the maximum temperature was six notches below normal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/brace-for-cold-weather-185402
