18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports one death and 31 COVID-19 cases; UT's death toll at 12||Chandigarh reports one death and 31 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the city's death toll to 12.A 55-year-old woman from Ram Darbar succumbed to the deadly virus. After complaining of severe abdominal pain, she was moved to Government Medical College & Hospital, Chandigarh, Sector 32 on Friday—where it was declared she was brought dead.She tested COVID-19 positive on Saturday.With 31 infections, the union territory's tally stands at 691.At present, Chandigarh has 194 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-death-and-31-covid-19-cases-uts-death-toll-at-12-114729
18-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports one death and 21 COVID-19 cases; district's death toll at 10||Mohali reported one death and 21 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the death toll to 10.The deceased was a resident of Preet Colony, Zirakpur. The 43-year-old man was suffering from blood sugar. He died at GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh.With 21 infections, the district's tally stands at 513. At present, Mohali has 185 active cases and 318 patients have recovered from the deadly disease and discharged from the hospital.With seven COVID-19 positive staff members, the district health authorities have sealed both the Sohana Multi-Specialty Hospital and Eye Care Hospital.Confirming the same, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that the new infections include five females— a 22-year-old, 23-year-old, 26-year-old, 27-year-old and 50-year-old. Besides them, two males—a 22-year-old and 29-year-old from Sohana hospital.On Friday, four staff members of the hospital were infected, he added.Dr Manjit Singh said the other cases, include two men— a 34-year-old and 48-year-old, two women—17-year-old and 20-year-old—from Sector 125, Sunny Enclave Kharar, a 55-year-old man from AOM Enclave, Mohali, a 52-year-old man from Motia Regal Dhakoli, a 65-year-old man from Sunny Enclave, Zirakpur, a 30-year-old woman from High Land Park, Zirakpur, a 29-year-old woman, a 27-year-old man and 49-year-old woman from Sector 69, Mohali, a 35-year-old man from Mohali, a 25-year-old man from Kharar and a 39-year-old man from Peer Muchhala.Dr Singh said that eight patients were cured of the deadly virus and discharged from the hospital.These included a 69-year-old man from sector 97, a 35-year-old man from Phase 4, a 15-year-old woman from Kurali, a 40-year-old man from Sector 78, a 25-year-old man from Phase 3, a 34-year-old man, a 58-year-old woman and a 38-year-old man from Kharar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-one-death-and-21-covid-19-cases-districts-death-toll-at-10-114712
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Retired pilot 'shoots self' in Chandigarh’s Sector 51||A retired commercial pilot allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself at his house on Saturday morning. The 75-year-old reportedly "shot himself in the head with his licensed pistol".No suicide note was found from the spot.The victim has been identified as Shivaji Ahluwalia a resident of Police Society in Sector 51.The victim's servant, who went to his room to give his tea, was the first to see the victim lying in his pool of blood.The police said that the victim was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead."Victim's daughter revealed that he was upset from last two weeks", said a police official.At Sector 49 police station, the police have initiated an investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/retired-pilot-shoots-self-in-chandigarhs-sector-51-114696
18-07-2020||Amit Sharma||Rash driving to blame for 92% accidents in 2019||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17Rash driving was the root cause behind 92 per cent of the road accidents reported from the city during 2019. Of the 305 accidents, 282 were caused due to rash driving. Meanwhile, 104 accident deaths were reported of which a majority were of two-wheeler riders and pedestrians.According to a report of the Road Crash Analysis Cell, rash driving led to 282 road accidents, which works out to 92 per cent of the road accidents, followed by 12 accidents due to red light jumping, which works out to 4 per cent, eight accidents due to drunken driving and three due to wrong side driving, which work out to 3 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively.The report further reveals that two-wheeler riders and pedestrians are at maximum risk on city roads as these two comprised a majority of the road accident deaths reported from Chandigarh during 2019.According to the report, 46 two-wheeler riders died in road accidents, which comprises 44.23 per cent of total accident deaths. Meanwhile, with 36 deaths, pedestrians accounted for 34.61 per cent of the deaths and 9.61 per cent were cyclists with 10 deaths.Of the 104 deaths, 84 were male and 20 female. Among 275 people injured, 216 were male and 59 female.The analysis of the Road Crash Analysis Cell further reveals that among those killed, the maximum (25.96 per cent) belonged to the age group of 25 to 30 years, followed by 18.26 per cent each belonging to the age groups of 35 to 45 and 45 to 60 years, while 15.38 per cent, 13.46 per cent and 8.65 per cent belonged to the age groups of 60 and above, 18 to 25 and below 18 years, respectively.More deaths than 2018The road accident deaths went up in 2019 as compared to 2018. While 104 road accident deaths were reported in 2019, the number was 98 during the previous year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rash-driving-to-blame-for-92-accidents-in-2019-114422
18-07-2020||Amit Sharma||Punjab vehicles behind 27% fatal mishaps in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17Vehicles from Punjab accounted for a majority of the fatal road accidents reported from the City Beautiful during 2019. While vehicles from Punjab were behind 27 per cent of the fatal accidents, unidentified vehicles led to 30 per cent of the fatal accidents.14 black spots in ChandigarhAccording to a report of the Road Crash Analysis Cell of the Chandigarh Traffic Police, vehicles from Punjab led to 27 per cent of the fatal accidents followed by Chandigarh (22 per cent). From the neighbouring Haryana, vehicles were behind 14 per cent of such accidents, while vehicles from Himachal Pradesh led to only 7 per cent of the fatal accidents in the city.Chandigarh, being a transit point and education hub, witnesses the arrival of people from different states due to which involvement of outstation vehicles is high, said a police official.The report further reveals that 63 per cent of the “victim vehicles” in fatal accidents were from Chandigarh, 27 per cent were from Punjab, 8 per cent from Haryana and 2 per cent from Himachal Pradesh.Accident-prone spotsWith the highest number of fatal accidents, the Sector 46/47/48/49 light point and the road stretch between the Airport light point and CRPF Campus, Hallo Majra, were the most dangerous spots among the 14 black spots in the city identified by the Chandigarh Traffic Police on the basis of road accidents reported in 2019.The Sector 46/47/48/49 light point witnessed seven fatal crashes and nine non-fatal accidents. The road stretch between the Airport light point and CRPF Campus, Hallo Majra, also figured among the black spots with seven fatal and eight non-fatal crashes.Five of the 14 black spots fall on the national highway that includes the stretch from the Airport light point to CRPF Campus, Hallo Majra, the stretch from the Poultry Farm chowk to the BSNL turn, the Hallo Majra light point, Tribune Chowk and the road in front of the ISBT, Sector 43.The road from the Poultry Farm chowk to the BSNL turn and the road outside the ISBT, Sector 43, witnessed four fatal accidents each, besides non-fatal accidents. The Mandela light point, Tribune Chowk, the Sector 35/38 light point and the Press light point witnessed three fatal crashes each, while the Railway light point and Badheri Chowk witnessed two fatal crashes each.The Transport light point, the Hallo Majra light point and the Sector 31/Industrial Area light point witnessed one fatal accident each. The Kalagram light point also figures among the black spots. However, only seven non-fatal accidents were reported from there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-vehicles-behind-27-fatal-mishaps-in-chandigarh-114423
18-07-2020||---||Goods worth lakhs destroyed in Sector 46 department store fire||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17Goods worth lakhs were destroyed in a fire at a department store in Sector 46-C here this morning.Four fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames. No loss of life was reported. However, grocery items and goods worth lakhs were destroyed in the fire. The exact cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. However, the possibility of a short-circuit cannot be ruled out.Passersby saw smoke coming out of the showroom around 8 am and informed the firemen and the shop owner. Soon, fire tenders reached the spot and initiated rescue operations.“There was a panic in the area for sometime as a huge crowd gathered at the spot. The fire tenders reached on time and brought the situation under control,” said Rashmi Saluja, a passerby.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/goods-worth-lakhs-destroyed-in-sector-46-department-store-fire-114424
18-07-2020||---||Badnore launches e-challan system||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore digitally inaugurated the state-of-the-art e-challan system here today.A comprehensive digital solution for enforcement of traffic rules delivered through an Android-based mobile application, e-challan is a pan-India project of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC). It provides a number of user-friendly features covering all major functionalities of the traffic enforcement system such as issuance of traffic e-challan, on-the-spot cashless payment, real-time excess of Vahan and Sarathi database, access to previous records and integration with DigiLocker and m-Parivahan apps using a hand-held device.57 e-challans issued on Day 1As soon as UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore inaugurated state-of-the-art e-challan system at 11.30 am here on Friday, the traffic police started enforcement through hand-held e-challan devices. The traffic police issued 57 e-challans using these devices between 1 pm and 6 pm. Of this, 31 e-challans were paid on the spot through cashless mode. A total of 158 postal challans were paid online using the website of the UT Traffic Police.With e-challan, violators will be able to pay traffic fines on the spot using cashless means and from their homes using online payment gateway. This project has been implemented in the city with zero cost to the department in association with the NIC, SPIC and Axis Bank.e-Sampark payment gateway is being used for online and on-the-spot cashless payment. For this project, Axis Bank has provided 200 handheld e-challan devices free of cost to the UT police. Axis Bank will also provide on-the-spot field support to the traffic police for the project.The traffic police today sent bulk SMSes to over 60,000 motorists informing them about the online gateway for payment against their pending postal challans. An MoU was recently signed between the Chandigarh Traffic Police and the Indian Postal Service for the delivery of postal challans through speed post.The Administrator also inaugurated a website of the UT traffic police, https://chandigarhtrafficpolice, which is the first official website to be hosted on the NIC’s Chandigarh state cloud. This website provides with citizen-friendly online services such as payment of postal challans, driving history record and no entry permission. The website also has informative and educative material related to safe and responsible driving. Badnore also released the 10th edition of the annual report on “Road Safety in Chandigarh-2019”, which is a systematic compilation of information about road accidents that have occurred in the UT in 2019.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-launches-e-challan-system-114436
18-07-2020||---||7 of family among 25 +ve in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17As many as 25 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the city today, taking the tally to 660.Seven of a family in Dhanas contracted the infection. They are five women, aged 45, 35, 57, 21 and 48, and two men, aged 59 and 62. They live in the house of a previously diagnosed positive case. A 65-year-old man from Dhanas also contracted the virus.A 28-year-old man from Sector 45 also tested positive. He has five family members and all of them are asymptomatic. A 53-year-old woman from Sector 45 was also found infected. She is the family member of a previously diagnosed case.A 55-year-old man from Sector 46, a 29-year-old woman from Sector 45, a 45-year-old woman from Ram Darbar, a 75-year-old woman from Sector 44, a 65-year-old woman from Sector 35, a 46-year-old man from Burail and a 32-year-old man from Sector 30 were also found suffering from the contagion.A 25-year-old woman and a 28-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony and a 23-year-old woman and a 63-year-old man from Sector 29 also contracted the infection. They are the family contacts of previously diagnosed positive cases.A 14-year-old boy, a 20-year-old girl and a 43-year-old woman from Sector 63 and a 52-year-old man from Sector 20 also tested positive for the contagion. They are the contacts of previously positive cases of Panchkula.Four patients dischargedFour patients were discharged after defeating the virus from Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46, here on Friday. They are a 57-year-old woman and a 29-year-old man from Sector 43 and a 28-year-old woman and a 31-year-old man from Sector 45.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-of-family-among-25-ve-in-chandigarh-114449
18-07-2020||Mohali||20 more contract virus in Mohali||Twenty fresh Covid cases have surfaced in Mohali district, taking the count to 492. Meanwhile, 16 patients have been cured and were discharged from hospital today.The health authorities sealed the Civil Hospital, Kharar, after a 52-year-old woman staffer tested positive today. The authorities have also sealed a private bank where a 25-year-old woman, working as a cashier, had tested positive.Similarly, a public sector bank in Zirakpur was sealed after a 43-year-old man, working as a manager, had tested positive. Among the new patients are an 18-year-old girl from Phase 3, a 28-year-old woman from Banur, a 54-year-old woman from Sector 71, a 28-year-old woman from Phase 1, a 29-year-old man from Aerocity, a 36-year-old woman from Kharar, a 64-year-old man from Baltana, a 23-year-old woman from Lalru, a 75-year-old woman and a 36-year-old woman from Kharar, a 24-year-old youth from Phase 5, a 65-year-old woman from Zirakpur, a 16-year-old boy from Kharar, a 33-year-old woman and a 37-year-old woman from Sector 80, a 61-year-old man from Baltana and a 37-year-old woman from Mohali.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said 16 patients had been cured and were discharged from the hospital today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-more-contract-virus-in-mohali-114451
18-07-2020||---||Highest single-day spike in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 17In the highest single-day spike in the number of Covid cases, Panchkula district saw 43 persons testing positive for the virus today.Now, the tally of positive cases in the district has risen to 241. The first case in the district was reported from Khark Mangoli in Old Panchkula on March 21.How cases progressedWhile the district took 97 days to cross the 100-mark, the cases doubled in the next 22 days, which is a worrying trend.Reasons behind surgeFive persons from a family in Maheshpur tested positive for the virus. They are a 76-year-old man, a 70-year-old woman, a 38-year-old woman and two boys, aged 11 and 10. They are the contacts of an already infected person.A 75-year-old man from the same locality also contracted the infection. As many as 13 ITBP men, aged 26 and 52, were found suffering from the virus. They were under quarantine after returning from their home districts.Four persons from Marranwala also contracted the infection. They are a 47-year-old man, a 38-year-old woman, a 40-year-old man and a 58-year-old woman. Two men from Kalka, aged 22 and 33, were among found positive. A 37-year-old woman and two girls, aged 18 and 14, from Barwala also contracted the infection.A 40-year-old man from Sector 9, a 21-year-old woman from Nada Sahib village, a 35-year-old man from Sector 2, a 51-year-old man from Sector 4, a 42-year-old woman from Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 5, a 15-year-old girl and a 41-year-old woman from Sector 26 and a 30-year-old man and a 50-year-old man from Sector 25 were also found suffering from the contagion. Two men, aged 35 and 46, and a 45-year-old woman from the DMER, Sector 16, a 28-year-old man from Chandimandir, a 22-year-old woman from Barwala and a 29-year-old woman from Pinjore were also found infected. Most of the fresh patients are the contacts of already infected persons. Five outsiders also tested positive for Covid-19 today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/highest-single-day-spike-in-panchkula-114452
18-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court raps Chandigarh for flagrant misuse of powers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17Rapping the UT authorities for flagrant misuse of powers, misdemeanour and misconduct by illegally detaining an accused after he was ordered to be released on bail, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered his release from custody.Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted that the court was stopping short of ordering the UT and another respondent to pay compensation for illegal detention. However, the order would not come in the petitioner’s way if he chose to seek compensation for illegal detention or invoke any other legal recourse available to him.Justice Fateh Deep Singh, at the same time, made it clear that the authorities were at liberty to seek legal opinion in such a situation where they were unable to determine legal implications. “The UT has legal experts and a department for this and, thus, could have escaped from this misdemeanour and misconduct,” Justice Fateh Deep Singh said.The admonition came on a petition by Vinay Kumar against the UT and another respondent. The Bench was told that the accused was directed to be released on bail on June 20 by the UT Additional Sessions Judge in a cheating and criminal conspiracy case registered on September 28, 2019, under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 17 police station.However, the accused was not released on the pretext that production warrants, dated February 11, stood issued against him by a Metropolitan Magistrate in Mumbai in another case. “Once the order of bail, dated June 20, has been passed in favour of the petitioner, his detention is illegal,” his counsel had contended.The UT counsel, on the other hand, submitted that production warrants had been issued by a Mumbai court in the second case. As such, the respondents did not have any option, but to ensure that he was kept in custody till transit to Mumbai. “What has baffled this court is that at the sight of production warrants, the authorities appeared to have frozen in their response... It emancipates from the observations that valuable inherent constitutional right of the petitioner, provided under Article 21, had been grossly circumvented arising out of this flagrant misuse of powers by the respondents,” Justice Fateh Deep Singh asserted, adding that the conduct of the respondents and their officers/officials certainly required to be denounced.Before parting with the order, the Bench directed the forwarding of a copy of the order to the UT Adviser “so that such a remiss does not reoccur”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-raps-chandigarh-for-flagrant-misuse-of-powers-114453
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||26-yr-old man found hanging in forest area||A 26-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree in the forest area on a road between the Khuda Lahora bridge and Dhanas lake here this morning.The victim has been identified as Sohan Kumar of Kansal, Mohali district.The police said they received information about the incident at 9.30 am. A PCR vehicle reached the spot and rushed the victim to the GMSH, Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police ruled out any foul play during preliminary investigations. Inquest proceedings have been initiated into the matter at the Sector 11 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/26-yr-old-man-found-hanging-in-forest-area-114454
18-07-2020||Chandigarh||Man found dead at park  in Palsora||A 56-year-old man was found dead at a park in Palsora village last night. The victim used to work at a tailor’s shop.According to the police, information regarding a man lying unconscious at a park was received following which a police team reached the spot.The victim, identified as Dyal (56), was rushed to the GMSH, Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead.The police said the victim took liquor after which he fell asleep on a bench at the park. The police said no injury mark was found on the body. “Prima facie, no foul play came to light,” the police said.The body has been kept at the mortuary and inquest proceedings have been initiated into the matter at the Sector 39 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-found-dead-at-park-in-palsora-114455
18-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court to take call on denial of benefits to acquitted staffer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice of motion to the state of Punjab on a petition calling upon it to determine whether an employee acquitted by a court and exonerated in the departmental proceedings could be deprived of benefits he was entitled to.The issue was raised by police official Raghbir Singh, who moved the High Court against Punjab and other respondents. His counsel Ranjivan Singh submitted that the petitioner was exonerated in a criminal case registered against him. He was also found innocent in a departmental inquiry conducted against him. The petitioner was, as such, illegally deprived of the benefits he was entitled to.The notice issued by Justice Lisa Gill to the state, its Director-General of Police and Mohali Senior Superintendent of Police was accepted by Punjab Additional Advocate-General Lavanya Paul, who prayed for time to file a reply. “May do so well before the adjourned date,” Justice Gill asserted before fixing the case for August 19.Raghubir Singh had moved the High Court challenging the denial of restoration of salary and promotion despite being acquitted and exonerated. Going into the background of the matter, Ranjivan contended the petitioner was on PCR duty when an FIR was registered against him under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act on December 17, 2012.He was dismissed from service on that very day by the Mohali SSP without holding any inquiry. But the Mohali special court, vide judgment dated September 12, 2017, acquitted the petitioner while accepting the untraced report submitted by the prosecution.Consequently, the DGP ordered the petitioner’s re-instatement, but simultaneously directed the initiation of a departmental inquiry against him. The petitioner, accordingly, was allowed to join duty on October 15, 2018, but was granted pay he was drawing at the time of termination of his services in December 2012.He was exonerated in the departmental inquiry on February 18, 2019. However, his request for restoration of salary by way of granting annual increments, arrears for the period his services remained terminated and promotion was turned down by the department, which, according to the counsel, was illegal and unconstitutional.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-to-take-call-on-denial-of-benefits-to-acquitted-staffer-114456
18-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||More trouble in store for suspended SI Jaswinder Kaur||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17A day after the CBI court issued arrest warrants against suspended sub- inspector (SI) Jaswinder Kaur, the Deputy Inspector General (DIG) has stated that sanction for the prosecution against her is under consideration in a bribery case.The reply was filed by District Attorney in the form of an affidavit on behalf of the DIG during the hearing of the case before Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI court, today.The CBI court sought reply from the police after Prem Singh Bisht, a complainant in a bribery case, filed an application that deemed prosecution sanction may be taken against Jaswinder Kaur and she may be summoned as accused in the case.In the application, Bisht stated that a case was pending before the court awaiting sanction for the prosecution against the accused. The court had forwarded the matter to the police for sanction for the prosecution, but the latter did not reply despite lapse of five months, he added.While citing a Judgment of the Supreme Court in Subramaniam Swami versus Dr Manmohan Singh and others he said, “The Supreme Court has held that all proposals for the sanction placed before any sanctioning authority empower to grant the sanction for the prosecution of a public servant under Section 19, Prevention of Corruption Act. These proposals must be decided within the period of three months of receipt by the authority concerned.”“More than five months have lapsed and still no intimation has been received for the sanction of the prosecution against accused Jaswinder Kaur. It is, therefore, deemed that the sanction may be taken against Jaswinder Kaur and she may be summoned as an accused in the case,” he added.On the other hand, public prosecutor KP Singh also filed a reply on behalf of the CBI mentioning that the court may pass any order deemed fit in the case.The case pertains to October 2017, when Prem Singh Bisht had alleged that sub-inspector Mohan Singh, who was the investigating officer in an attempt to murder case, was demanding Rs 9 lakh to drop the names of three of his employees from the FIR.Bisht had alleged that Inspector Jaswinder Kaur had directed him to fulfil the demand of Mohan Singh otherwise, the complainant and his employees would be harassed and chargesheeted in the case.Later, the CBI held Mohan Singh while accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh from Prem Singh Bisht from the Sector 31 market. Bisht filed a complaint with the CBI. However, in the chargesheet filed in August 2018, the CBI did not make Jaswinder Kaur an accused in the case, but recommended regular departmental action for major penalty against her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-trouble-in-store-for-suspended-si-jaswinder-kaur-114457
18-07-2020||---||2 arrested for robbery attempt||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 17The local police have arrested two miscreants, who were going to commit robbery at a factory in Mohali.The suspects have been identified as Rajiv Kumar (30), a resident of Kaithal (Haryana) and Ravi Kumar (25), a resident of Aligarh (Uttar Pradesh).The police also recovered a country made .32 revolver along with three live cartridges from their possession during their arrest from a dumping ground in Industrial Area, Phase 8-B, here, on Thursday evening.The suspects were produced in a local court today, which sent them to two-day police remand.ASI Avtar Singh, in-charge, Industrial Area police post, said, “Following a tip-off we nabbed the suspects from a dumping ground and recovered a weapon from Rajiv while cartridges were recovered from Ravi.” During preliminary investigation, it was established that Rajiv had a large criminal background, the ASI added. “Both suspects are history-sheeter. Around nine cases have been registered against Rajiv at various police stations in Haryana, including two murder cases. He is also absconding in three cases and involved in kidnapping and extorting Rs 10 lakh from a doctor in Kaithal,” the ASI said.The SHO, police station, Phase I, Inspector Manphul Singh, said, “We will interrogate them for finding out their involvement in crimes and accomplices if any.”A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 393 (Attempt to commit robbery), 401 (Punishment for belonging to gang of thieves), IPC, and Sections 25, 54 and 59, Arms Act, at the Phase 1 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-arrested-for-robbery-attempt-114459
18-07-2020||---||Five SHOs among 10 inspectors transferred||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17Ten inspectors, including five SHOs, were transferred by the UT Police Department today.Sarangpur Station House Officer (SHO) Ram Rattan has been transferred to the Sector 17 police station, whereas Sector 17 SHO Jaspal Singh has been transferred to the security wing.While Sector 3 SHO Jaspal Singh has been transferred to the traffic wing, Sher Singh, who was in the crime branch, has been posted as Station House Officer at the Sector 3 police station.Ranjit Singh, who was in-charge at the crime branch, has been transferred as SHO to the Maloya police station, Jasbir Singh, who was SHO, Industrial Area police station, has been posted as SHO at the Sarangpur police station.Meanwhile, Harminderjit Singh, who was posted in RTC, will now be SHO at the Industrial Area police station.Rajdeep Singh, who was SHO at the Sector 31 police station, has been transferred to the security wing. He has been replaced by Paramjit Kaur, presently posted in the security wing. Ram Dayal, who was posted in the Police Lines, has been transferred to PCR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-shos-among-10-inspectors-transferred-114460
18-07-2020||Mohali||Parents protest against private school, demand fee waiver||High drama was witnessed at Lawrence Public Senior Secondary School as hundreds of parents gathered in front of the school opposing the decision to demand fee from the students.More than 250 parents gathered at the school gate and raised slogans against the school management for demanding fee for the past four months. They said the matter was in the High Court and the school management was unduly harassing the parents by threatening to remove their wards from the school rolls.The school management had asked the protestors to send a delegation of four members so as to hold talks in this regard, but the protestors refused. The school management had also informed the police, which arrived at the spot.Gagandeep Singh, Paramjit Pammi, Neha Grewal and Pooja Manchanda said the school principal had sent them a notice to either deposit the fee or their children would be removed from the school rolls. They said they were already under stress as they had not received salaries during the lockdown period while some of the parents had even lost their jobs.However, the school management said they had to pay salaries to teachers and other staff also.Principal Veena Malhotra said the Punjab and Haryana High Court had given the decision in their favour. She said they had to pay salary to the teachers and other staff from the fee collected from the students. She said if parents would not pay the fee, they would have no option, but to close down the school. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-protest-against-private-school-demand-fee-waiver-114461
18-07-2020||---||Fire tragedy: Sector 32 PG owner denied bail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17Finding prima facie guilty of the offence in the death of three girls, residing at a PG in Sector 32-D due to fire, the Court of Rajesh Sharma, Additional Sessions Judge, has rejected the bail application of accused Nitesh Bansal, who was running the facility.The court stated, “There are serious allegations against accused Nitesh Bansal, who after having taken house No. 3325, Sector 32-D, Chandigarh, for running a PG on lease from its owner Gaurav Aneja, raised temporary fiber and wooden partition/structures.”Somehow, fire broke in the house, due to which, girls, who were staying in the house as paying guests, got trapped and three of them even died while few others got injured, the court added.In the reply, the prosecution said during investigation, statements of relatives of deceased were recorded, from which it transpired that Nitesh Bansal was running an illegal PG, the court stated.“Therefore, accused Nitesh Bansal is prima facie guilty of the offence under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code. So, this court is not inclined to grant the concession of bail to the petitioner,” the court added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-tragedy-sector-32-pg-owner-denied-bail-114462
18-07-2020||Panchkula||Advanced surgery on patient of brain haemorrhage||A team of doctors comprising Vivek Gupta, head, interventional neuroradiology, and Anil Dhingra, associate director, neurosurgery, Paras Super Specialty Hospital, Panchkula, performed an advanced neuro-interventional surgery on a brain haemorrhage patient.A 41-year-old paralysed man was brought to the hospital in an unconscious state from Kurukshetra. Diagnostic tests revealed that a critical artery in the brain had a blister aneurysm that had burst causing bleeding inside the brain. After this advanced surgery, the patient recovered fully. The neuro-interventional surgery is an advanced and relatively new field and there are less than 100 specialists in this field in the country. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/advanced-surgery-on-patient-of-brain-haemorrhage-114463
18-07-2020||---||6 new cases surface in Fatehgarh Sahib||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, July 17Six new Covid cases were reported from Fatehgarh Sahib today.An employee at the Deputy Commissioner’s Office was among those found infected. Meanwhile, 10 patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur after recovery.A health team, led by Civil Surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal, today visited the Hamayunpur area, a micro-containment zone, where five members of a family tested positive to take the samples of the residents, but they refused to give samples.The Civil Surgeon said that with the help of the police and the civil administration 55 samples were collected. He called upon people to help the government in containing Covid by coming forward to give samples.He said 379 samples were collected today. He said 13,883 samples were collected till today, of which 13,010 tested negative and 192 positive. Now, there are 51 active cases in the district.He urged the people to strictly follow the guidelines of the Health Department to defeat the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-new-cases-surface-in-fatehgarh-sahib-114464
18-07-2020||---||Posting rakhis? Send by July 25||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 17If you want your rakhi to be delivered by August 3, post it by July 25, it has been advised by the Chandigarh postal division.A spokesperson said the division was anticipating more people to mail rakhis, instead of visiting each other on the festival, due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the department has launched a special drive to ensure timely delivery of rakhis.The special drive has been introduced for delivery of rakhi mail on August 2 (Sunday) wherein delivery of rakhi mail will be made in two shifts, 8 am and 11 am.In order to ensure that rakhi is delivered by August 3, the cut-off date for posting has been fixed as July 25 for other states and July 28 for within state, which is Punjab and Chandigarh.“Posting after 25th/ 28th of July is also permitted although delivery before August 3 cannot be assured due to the lockdown, containment zones and disruption in air transport and trains,” the spokesperson said.For foreign countries, rakhi mail destined to 35 countries can be sent through speed post only.Rakhi can be sent through ordinary post, registered post as well as speed post within India. However, the postal division has stated it is preferred to send the greetings via speed post, keeping in view the prevalent situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/posting-rakhis-send-by-july-25-114465
18-07-2020||Panchkula||Ex-Army man shoots self, hurt||Bikers snatch woman’s purseChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a purse from a woman in Sector 34 here on Thursday. According to the police, the purse contained Rs1,000, a mobile phone, an ATM card and some documents. The victim failed to note down the registration number of the motorcycle. The police have registered a case. TNSSector 52 man duped of Rs5.85LChandigarh: A resident of Sector 52 here was duped on the pretext of providing maturity claim of an insurance policy. The complainant, Mukesh Kumar of Kajheri, alleged that Rahul Sharma, Rahu Virender, JPS Rawat and Rajeev Nagpal called up on his mobile phone and cheated him of Rs5.85 lakh on the pretext of proving him maturity amount of his Bharti AXA Life Insurance. The police have registered a case. TNSProbe marked into harassment caseChandigarh: The UT Police Department marked an inquiry into an anonymous complaint reportedly filed by a woman constable alleging harassment by two senior constables posted at the Operation Cell. The woman cop alleged that the two constables had been harassing her by luring her of giving favourable timings and duty assigned. The complaint went viral after which an inquiry was marked, which will be conducted by a woman DSP. In the complaint, the cop also alleged that the two cops in question started consuming liquor in the office and used abusive language, making it difficult for the women cops to stay there. It was alleged that both cops had been posted at the Operation Cell for around 10 years. TNS50th anniv of world tourChandigarh: The alumni association of DAV College (Lahore), Ambala, on Friday observed the 50th anniversary of the world tour by its students, Jagmohan Singh Kang and KK Gupta. A webinar to share their experiences was also organised. On July 17, 1970, two lads of the college had covered the country onto the global map and ended their tour in December. During their six-month tour, they visited Iraq, Iran, Turkey, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Italy, Switzerland, France, England, Belgium, Germany and Austria besides other countries. TNSPGI shopkeepers’ issue discussedChandigarh: Former city BJP president Sanjay Tandon took up the grievances of the shopkeepers at the PGIMER with Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan. The shopkeepers have been served notices by the PGI authorities to deposit rent during the curfew/lockdown and vacate their respective shops. Tandon had earlier discussed the matter with the PGI director, Jagat Ram, and deputy director Kumar Gaurav and made them aware of the problems of the shopkeepers during the lockdown. TNSBadnore warns of curfewChandigarh: Expressing concern over the increasing number of Covid cases, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has appealed to the residents to strictly follow the guidelines issued for containing the spread of the infection, else weekend curfew may be imposed in the city. During the review meeting, the Administrator directed the residents to stay indoors, maintain social distancing and wear masks. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-army-man-shoots-self-hurt-114467
