18-08-2020|| ||4 people die of Covid-19 in Mohali, toll up to 40||Mohali, August 18Four Covid-19 deaths, 93 new cases and 18 recoveries were reported from Mohali district on Tuesday.A 76-year old man from Sector 65 died of the viral infection on Tuesday. He was suffering from high blood pressure, diabetes and tuberculosis.In Mamupur, a 56-year-old woman with a history of diabetes lost her battle to coronavirus. A 42-year-old mam from Dera Bassi was the third casualty. He was reported to be hypertensive. In Zirakpur, an 87-year-old man, with severe lung disease, succumbed to the infection.The total case load in the district has crossed the 2,000-mark. Two 78-year-old men, one each from Zirakpur and Phase 7, Mohali, were the oldest patients detected while a nine-year-old girl from Mundi Kharar was the youngest patient to have contracted the virus. Twelve cases from Zirakpur, 10 from Kharar, and six each from Dhakoli and Mundi Kharar were reported among others. As of now, there are a total of 2,004 cases in Mohali with 969 being active. As many as 995 patients have been discharged from various hospitals in the district. The death count in Mohali has touched the 40-mark. On Monday, the district reported the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases with 102 positive cases and 28 recoveries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-people-die-of-covid-19-in-mohali-toll-up-to-40-127944
18-08-2020||---||Chandigarh records 89 COVID-19 cases; tally reaches 2,305||Chandigarh, August 18Chandigarh on Tuesday recorded 89 COVID-19 cases, taking the caseload in the Union Territory to 2,305.The total number of active cases stands at 1,030 as 1,243 patients have been cured to date while 30 have succumbed to the virus.As per the health officials, Sector-4, 8, Bapu Dham colony, Sector-29, 30, 32, 35, 39, 42, 44, 47, 52, 56, 63, Mani Jagran, Maloya, PGI, Kajheri and Khuda Alisher reported one case each while two cases each were recorded from Sector-10, 22, 37, Dadumajra, Hallo Majra, Mauli Jagran, Raipur Kalan, Dhanas and Kishangarh.Three cases each surfaced in Sector-15, 19, Khuda Lahora.Five cases were reported from Sector-38 and 61 while Sector-45 recorded six cases.Sector-40 reported the highest number of cases at nine.A total of 22,198 people has been tested for novel coronavirus in the city so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-89-covid-19-cases-tally-reaches-2-305-127931
18-08-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula sees yet another high; reports 62 new coronavirus cases||Panchkula reported 62 new coronavirus cases---the highest single-day spike for the district yet---on Tuesday, officials said.This takes Panchkula district’s tally to 1,267.The health department meanwhile said that 19 people whose tests came back positive could not be tracked down, primarily because they provided wrong contact details when their swabs were taken. The health department said that these cases will not be taken into account in the overall tally.Nine of the new cases came from Sector 15; four Sector 8, 3 each from Sector 21, Pinjore, Sector 9, Sector 20, Sector 10, Sector 19 and ITBP, one each from Sector 25, Sector 2, Mansa Devi Complex Sector 4, village Kundi, Sector 4, Mansa Devi Complex Sector 5, Kalka, Sector 27 and Sector 17.The district has 398 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-yet-another-high-reports-62-new-coronavirus-cases-127925
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Tera Hi Tera Mission Cheritable Hospital inaugurated in Chandigarh||Also read: When religion meets humanity: Chandigarh-based NGO starts langar of free eye surgeries||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tera-hi-tera-mission-cheritable-hospital-inaugurated-in-chandigarh-127887
18-08-2020||---||Panjab University, CCS Agri varsity among top govt-aided varsities in Edu Min rankings||New Delhi, August 18Chandigarh’s Punjab University and Haryana’s Chaudhary Charan Singh Agricultural University are among the top five government-aided varsities in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2020 launched by Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday.The list, piloted by Education Ministry, ranks institutions in various categories.While Panjab University and CCS Agricultural varsity are placed second and third among government-aided universities, Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Maharashtra, tops this category.IIT Madras leads the rankings in the category of Institute of National Importance, central varsities and centrally-funded technical universities followed by IIT Bombay, IIT Delhi, Bengaluru’s Indian Institute of Science, IIT Kharagpur, IIT Kanpur and IIT Mandi.The government and government-aided college section see College of Engineering, Pune, topping the charts followed by PES Institute of Engineering, Karnataka.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-ccs-agri-varsity-among-top-govt-aided-varsities-in-edu-min-rankings-127885
18-08-2020||Vijay Mohan||‘Invisible’ shield developed to add stealth capability to military platforms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 18In a novel innovation, Indian scientists have designed a metal mesh structure to construct a transparent shield against electromagnetic interference (EMI). This ‘invisible’ shield can be used in various military stealth applications and can cover electromagnetic wave emitter or absorber devices without compromising aesthetics.Besides the physical shape, reducing the electromagnetic signature, which includes radar waves and radio signals, is an important element for enhancing the stealth capability of a weapon platform.These transparent and flexible EMI shields have been fabricated by scientists at the Centre for Nano and Soft Matter Sciences (CeNS) from metal meshes using the crack templating method and spray coating, which is pioneered in their laboratory. These can be used instead of a continuous film coating on the desired substrates or surface.The CeNS team has developed a copper metal mesh on a polyethylene terephthalate (PET) sheet as its substrate, which is claimed to have exhibited a visible transmittance, a parameter of visible transparency, of about 85 per cent.Instead of a continuous film coating of a metal like copper on any transparent substrate such as glass or PET, where transparency can be compromised, the CeNS team deposited metal mesh networks on the substrate, which covered only seven per cent of the substrate’s area. This metal mesh can be created on any desired substrates such as acrylic, polycarbonate, glass, etc. without compromising the conductivity of the electrodes.This makes metal mesh transparent compared to the continuous metal film that covers the entire area of the substrate. A metal mesh is said to provide better electromagnetic shielding compared to the same thickness of the continuous metal film. The team’s findings, published in the journal ‘Bulletin of Materials Science’, showed remarkably high values for total EMI shielding.“This invention has the potential to satisfy the huge demand for highly effective transparent and flexible EMI shields, which can cover electromagnetic wave emitter and absorber devices without compromising their aesthetics,” Dr Ashutosh K Singh, scientist working on this project at CeNS, said.The team lead by Prof GU Kulkarni, along with his co-workers from CeNS and an industrial partner, Hind High Vacuum Private Limited, have set-up a semi-automated production plant funded by Department of Science and Technology’s Nanomission in the CeNS campus for production of transparent conducting glasses which shows the potential for transparent EMI shields as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/invisible-shield-developed-to-add-stealth-capability-to-military-platforms-127883
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Three arrested for breaking open ATM at Mani Majra; to be produced in court||Three miscreants, who attempted to break open an ATM, have been arrested by the Chandigarh police on Tuesday. The miscrenats had attempted to break an Axis ATM bank at Subhash Nagar, Mani Majra. The suspects are residents of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26. "CCTV footage led to the identification of the suspects," said the police. They added that they will be produced in the court today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-arrested-for-breaking-open-atm-at-mani-majra-to-be-produced-in-court-127872
18-08-2020||New Delhi||SC Collegium approves elevation of advocate Rajesh Bhardwaj as judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Supreme Court Collegium on Tuesday recommended names of seven advocates for their elevation as judges in the Delhi High Court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The Collegium recommended the names of six advocates for appointment as judges of the Delhi High Court. Those recommended for elevation to the Bench are Jasmeet Singh, Amit Bansal, Tara Vitasta Ganju, Anish Dayal, Amit Sharma, and Mini Pushkarna.The Collegium recommended the appointment of advocate Rajesh Kumar Bhardwaj as a Judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sc-collegium-approves-elevation-of-advocate-rajesh-bhardwaj-as-judge-of-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-127847
18-08-2020||Panchkula||4 lose battle to virus in Panchkula||The district witnessed four more fatalities due to coronavirus today, taking the toll to eight. The deceased have been identified as a 62-year-old woman from Bareilli village, a 57-year-old woman from Kona village, a 61-year-old man from Sector 21 and a 59-year-old man from Sector 9. The 62-year-old woman was undergoing treatment for some other illness at a Mohali hospital. During this period, she tested positive for Covid. Subsequently, she was referred to the Panchkula Civil Hospital where she was declared brought dead. The 57-year-old woman had an acute kidney injury with pneumonitis, the 61-year-old man had diabetes mellitus and the 59-year-old man was suffering from diabetes. The fatality rate in the district now stands at 0.65 per cent. Meanwhile, a PA of the DGP, Haryana, was among 14 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the tally to 1,224. The fresh cases include four from Sector 10; two from Sector 9; one each from Sector 4; MDC, Sector 5; Sector 15; Sector 8; an unspecified location in the MDC; Bhareli village; Sector 6; and Mouli village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-lose-battle-to-virus-in-panchkula-127634
18-08-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh set to privatise Power Department by December-end||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17The UT Administration has set a target to complete the process of privatisation of the Electricity Department by the end of this year.The Power Finance Corporation (PFC), a Government of India undertaking, had recently appointed Deloitte, a private firm, as a consultant to prepare a comprehensive report on unbundling of the department.In May, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of power distribution companies (discoms) in the union territories, but the Chandigarh Administration was already on the job.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said efforts were on to complete the process of privatisation of the Electricity Department by the end of December this year.The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) had already issued directions to the UT Administration for restructuring and reformation of the department, which is mandatory as per the Electricity Act, 2003.On privatisation, the department will become an autonomous body, which will be divided into the State Transmission Utility (STU) and the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC). The STU will be responsible for smooth transmission of power and the SLDC will be the main body to ensure integrated operation of the power system.Opposing the privatisation of the department, Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary, UT Powermen Union, said it was the most profit-earning department of the UT and had never been in the red even as it does not generate power. Despite staff shortage, the department was serving the public with the best services, he added.The line losses were 9 per cent to 10 per cent, which was an example for other states, he said, adding that the Central Government had mandated that the line losses should be less than 12 per cent.However, the Administration had clarified that employees would not be retrenched and all their benefits would be safeguarded on privatisation of the department. The Administration also cleared the doubts on increase in tariff due to privatisation and stated that the tariff would continue to be governed by the defined criteria as was being done at present.Department will become autonomous bodyOn privatisation, the department will become an autonomous body, which will be divided into the State Transmission Utility (STU) and the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC). The STU will be responsible for smooth transmission of power and the SLDC will be the main body to ensure integrated operation of the power system.2.5 lakh consumers in cityThere are 2.5 lakh power consumers in the UT. Among them, 2.15 lakh are domestic consumers, who account for over 87 per cent of the total power consumers, while the remaining are categorised as commercial, small, bulk, public lighting, agriculture and temporary supply consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-set-to-privatise-power-department-by-december-end-127635
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Vendor’s death: 4 suspects held||The four suspects who had allegedly assaulted a fruit vendor, leading to his death, have been arrested. They have been identified as Danish, Maunish, Naddem and Kasheem. Mohammad Mushatkeem (53), a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, had died after he tried to stop a fight between his sons and four suspects. The victim had suffered an injury after being hit by a rod. He was admitted to the hospital where he died. The police have registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The victim’s autopsy was conducted today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vendors-death-4-suspects-held-127636
18-08-2020||---||Surge continues, 114 cases, 1 death in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 17The city today reported 114 new coronavirus cases, the biggest single-day spike yet.An 82-year-old man from Burail died of the virus at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, last night, making him the 30th fatality of the UT. He died of respiratory failure due to a complex lung injury that the infection had caused.The coronavirus tally of the city has now reached 2,216. About 45 per cent of the cases are still active. The new cases have been reported from Sector 7, 38, 4, 35, 45, 48, 34, 27, 49, 15, 63, 50, 23, 42, 14, 49, 44, 40, 37, 22, 10, 12, 23, 33, 47, 19, 50, 26, 20, 41, 38 (West), 52, 32, 29, Khuda Ali Sher, Ram Darbar, Mani Majra, Behlana, Mauli Jagran, Daria, Dadu Majra, Khuda Lahora, Dhanas,Hallo Majra, Behlana, Industrial Area and Kishangarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/surge-continues-114-cases-1-death-in-chandigarh-127637
18-08-2020||Naina Mishra||110 more Covid beds at PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17Following directions of the UT Administrator, the PGI has decided to create 80 more beds at Nehru Extension Hospital, a dedicated Covid facility at the institute, and 30 beds at the Advanced Paediatric Centre for young Covid patients.However, the problem of insufficient skilled manpower is a big challenge before the institute and training will be imparted to health care workers (HCWs) before assigning Covid duties.We have created 80 more beds at the NHE, which is already a dedicated Covid facility, and 30 more beds at the Advanced Paediatric Centre. The beds at the paediatric centre will be used for young Covid patients. We have received 10 more ventilators from the Centre. — Prof Jagat Ram, PGI DirectorA senior doctor at the PGI said, “Around 250 HCWs are deployed at the Covid ward. After seven days, these workers are quarantined and a new batch of HCWs is deployed on Covid duty. The challenge ahead is that more HCWs will require training before they are assigned duties. Not all residents and nursing staff can look after the respiratory isolation unit as the protocols are different. We have ventilators but need HCWs who know how to use these.”A group of senior doctors from the PGI had recently published a paper highlighting “lack of trained manpower to work in an infectious disease facility.”According to the paper, the staff deployed for outpatient services, elective admissions and surgeries at the PGI were allocated to the new Covid facility. However, the new staff posed a challenge as the HCWs were inexperienced as there were different protocols for a respiratory isolation unit.To overcome the problem, the PGI trained HCWs on an urgent basis and several teams were created to impart training on ICU protocols, infection-control practices, including donning and doffing of PPE kits and the movement of staff, patients and material inside the new facility.Meanwhile, the PGI Director, Prof Jagat Ram, said, “We have created 80 more beds at the NHE, which is already a dedicated Covid facility, and 30 more beds at the Advanced Paediatric Centre. The beds at the paediatric centre will be used for young Covid patients. We have received 10 more ventilators from the Central Government.”He added, “The beds will be made operational in phases as we will also be training our manpower before assigning them Covid duties.”The NHE is a 200-bed hospital, which is separate from the main hospital. As many as 141 patients are admitted to the Covid ward, of whom 49 belong to Chandigarh, 53 to Punjab, 15 to Haryana, 11 to Himachal Pradesh and the remaining to other states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/110-more-covid-beds-at-pgi-127638
18-08-2020||
||Sukhna level 2.25 ft below danger mark||Chandigarh, August 17 The water level of Sukhna Lake has reached 1,160.75 ft due to rain in the region in the past few days. The water level is 2.25 ft below the danger mark. Last month, the water level in the lake was 1,157 ft. “If it rains further, the water level is expected to increase,” said an official of the Engineering Department, UT. The official said: “If the water level reaches the danger mark of 1,163 ft, the floodgates of the lake will be opened”. The official said: “Even if it rains in the hills, it will have an effect on Sukhna Lake as water of the Saketri and the Kansal rivulets enters the lake. At present, the water level is far below the danger mark, but the Administration is ready to deal with any kind of situation”. The floodgates had to be opened last year after the water level of the lake reached 1,164 ft.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sukhna-level-2-25-ft-below-danger-mark-127639
18-08-2020||
||GMSH-16 told to start mobile testing facility||Chandigarh, August 17 To prevent further transmission of coronavirus, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, to start mobile testing so that teams can go in vans and collect samples and give test results on the spot. “This will be helpful to senior citizens, who are reluctant to go to hospitals for such tests,” he said while reviewing measures for the containment of the Covid-19 pandemic. Badnore said the focus of the Administration should be on early detection of cases, particularly patients with comorbidities, so that fatalities could be kept at the minimum. The Administrator directed that the services of area volunteers or social workers should be utilised to keep a watch on influx of people from outside, who come to Chandigarh to avail of better medical facilities. “Such visitors from outside should be tested so that they do not become sources of infection,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmsh-16-told-to-start-mobile-testing-facility-127640
18-08-2020||Mohali||In Mohali, 102 found infected||Mohali district today recorded the highest single-day spike of 102 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 1,911.Ten cases were reported from Kharar, nine from Zirakpur, six from Dhakoli, three from Mullanpur and five from Nayagaon.Other cases were reported from Balongi, Baltana, Peer Muchalla, Bhago Majra, Sohana, Sector 68, 69, 70, 71, 77, 79, 125, Phase 1, 2, 3B1, 5, 9 and 11.Meanwhile, 28 patients were discharged today after being cured.As many as 228 cases and five deaths have been reported from the district in the past three days.On being asked if there are specific areas from where more cases are being detected, Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said: “Now, cases are being detected from almost every area sporadically. We are testing close to 600-700 persons on a daily basis. Sometimes, report of two-three days leads to a spike in the number of cases.”‘Wife’s body kept lying at GMCH-32 for four days’Dera Bassi: A senior citizen from Dera Bassi has alleged that his wife's body kept lying at the GMCH-32 for four days. No PPE kit or ambulance was provided to him to shift the body to a crematorium, he alleged.On August 17, he, along with a group of volunteers, transported the body to the Balongi electric crematorium to perform last rites.The Dera Bassi hospital authorities said that the ambulance had gone to ferry a patient to Patiala. Later, there was no slot available at the designated crematorium.Gurmeet Singh, who is partially paralysed and a diabetic, shifted his wife, Malkiat Kaur, from the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, to the GMCH-32 on August 12.She died of Covid-19 on the night of August 13.Later, no arrangements were made for three days to crematethe body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-mohali-102-found-infected-127641
18-08-2020||---||Students, parents for entrance tests||Chandigarh, August 17The Supreme Court’s decision to dismiss a petition to defer the NEET (medical entrance exam) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) has evoked positive response by parents and students in the city.Despite being concerned about the safety in wake of the pandemic, they say the tests should be conducted to save careers.The apex court had stated that the careers of students could not be put under jeopardy.“Life cannot be stopped. We have to move ahead with safety... Are students ready to waste one whole year? Education sector should be opened up. Covid may continue for another year. Do you know how much loss will be caused to the country and to the students?” said Justice Arun Mishra, who headed a three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court that passed the orders.Dr Nivedita, a city-based parent, said: “Cases are on a rise but on the other hand, children are depressed as they are preparing for the same thing repetitively. It is an ordeal for children and we want the exams to end soon so that students get clarity.”Hritika Singh, a student preparing for NEET, said: “It has been very long now. Although it is difficult keeping in mind the present scenario, at least we will get rid of the burden of preparation.”Vinay Makin, a faculty at Allen Career Institute, said: “Students who are preparing for exams for the past two years or more want exams to be conducted so that they get rid of the pressure. Only the students who have not prepared for the entrance want the exams to be deferred. We have been taking online classes of students since March.”While the JEE is scheduled from September 1 to 6, the NEET exam is scheduled for September 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-parents-for-entrance-tests-127642
18-08-2020||
||Fellows want PU VC to conduct Syndicate meet, announce date for Senate elections||Chandigarh, August 17 Two days after Panjab University (PU) postponed the Senate poll, a delegation of the Navdeep Goyal-Ashok Goyal group met the Vice-Chancellor (VC) and asked him to conduct an immediate meeting of the PU Syndicate. Sources said the group demanded that the VC should announce the new dates for conducting elections and counting of votes in the meeting, which should be called in a week. They also demanded that the VC should produce a documentary proof on the basis of which the decision to postpone the elections was taken. The elections were supposed to be a two-cornered contest between the Goyal alliance and the BJP-DAV alliance. Both alliances had differing stances on the conduct of the Senate poll and had also written to the PU Chancellor about it. Senator Navdeep Goyal alleged that Senators were misguided and harassed by the VC’s office throughout the day. “We will sit on a strike at the Registrar’s office till the time they give us the copy of the document on the basis of which the decision to postpone elections was taken,” said Navdeep Goyal. Senate to be dissolved? Sources said the decision to postpone the elections for two months has got gone down well with Senators, “who believe that this may be the first step to introduce a Board of Governance to replace the PU Senate, as notified by the MHA in the New Education Policy.”  Power to VC Meanwhile, as per the election of ordinary fellow Rule(s) 12.2, “The VC may, in case of any emergency and for reasons to be recorded, postpone at any stage the date of election or elections or the dates for transaction of any business connected with the elections, and the matter shall reported to the Syndicate.” Sources said the VC took the decision on this basis and reported to the same to the Syndicate and the UT Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fellows-want-pu-vc-to-conduct-syndicate-meet-announce-date-for-senate-elections-127643
18-08-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Sexual harassment case was stage-managed:  Former Vice-Chancellor||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 17Former Panjab University (PU) Vice-Chancellor Arun Kumar Grover, after receiving a clean sheet from the independent internal committee (IIC) looking into the allegations of sexual harassment against him, has come down heavily on the role of PU Senators and Syndicate members in the case against him.He alleged that the sexual harassment issue was stage-managed against him and that he was stopped from working for the welfare of the university. He recently wrote a letter to the PU VC and demanded to form an ethics committee.“What will the Senators do now when one of their subordinates fail to prove her allegations? Will they take action against her? They were the ones who did not let me work for six straight years. I was demoralised and defamed by the Senate members on every front during my tenure,” said Grover.He added: “The Senate and Syndicate won’t let the VC work. What kind of justification will they now give? I had plans to work for the welfare of the university, but remained busy fighting legal battles in courts. Sexual harassment cases, PF fraud cases, shortage of fund cases and case against Senators found committing illegal activities at guest houses — I kept fighting it all.”He said he had never said anything to the complainant. “There was only one incident wherein she congratulated me on getting an extension as the PU VC and wished that university would achieve new heights during my tenure. I replied that I need corporation not confrontation by the Senate members. After this, I was put under scanner for sexual harassment. Senators had humiliated me. She failed to appear before the IIC and no Senator had signed in her support. Why don’t the current Senators or the PU ask her the motive behind defaming me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sexual-harassment-case-was-stage-managed-former-vice-chancellor-127645
18-08-2020|| 
||2,512 specially abled issued digitised cards in Mohali||Mohali, August 17 As many as 7,294 applications for unique ID cards for Persons with Disabilities (PwDs) have been received of which 2,512 have been issued and others are being processed in Mohali.  “We target to cover all PWDs under the project in the next three months,” said Mohali DC Girish Dayalan. To get the cards made under the Unique ID for PwDs project, swablambancard.gov.in portal has been made. Any divyang can register on it either online or by visiting nearest sewa kendra, health centre, office of the Civil Surgeon or district social security or that of child development project officer. He urged the PwDs to register themselves earliest in order to obtain unique ID cards and digitised certificates.  Harvinder Singh Rahi, District Social Security Officer (DSSO), said apart from all facilities extended under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, the card holders are entitled to half fare facility in Punjab Roadways and PRTC buses and the pension benefit provided by the Social Security Department under the Financial Assistance Scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-512-specially-abled-issued-digitised-cards-in-mohali-127649
18-08-2020||
||Prolonged power outages leave New Chandigarh residents fuming||Chandigarh, August 17 With humid weather continuing to be at its peak, residents of Ecocity-1 in New Chandigarh have been battling power pangs due to alleged poor quality underground cabling done by the real estate developer. On some days in the past week, some pockets barely got power for eight to nine hours, claimed residents. Around 700 families have been residing in this Mullanpur Sector 6 project, which was launched with much fanfare by the Punjab Government and the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA).  A resident, Inderpreet Kukreja, claimed, “No such problem existed in other New Chandigarh projects, including DLF and Omaxe, or even surrounding villages. It’s a daily struggle.”  As the real estate developer left underground cabling incomplete, officials were now unable to detect where the fault lied, said Kukreja. “They temporarily connected cables from one meter to another. Moreover, live wires are hanging precariously over roads,” he added. Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) member Gurinder Singh said, “The PSPCL took charge of underground cables and other power infrastructure in March this year without properly examining the quality of work done by the real estate developer,” he claimed. The RWA has also written to Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and the PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prolonged-power-outages-leave-new-chandigarh-residents-fuming-127650
18-08-2020||Mohali||Capt virtually inaugurates Rs31-cr project in Mohali||Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today virtually inaugurated the construction of Punjab Biotechnology Incubator’s Building in Knowledge City, Sector 81, Mohali. The announcement was made during a state-level function on Independence Day.The construction work of the building on one-acre land at a cost of Rs31 crore was started by the PWD (B&R) amid the Covid-19 lockdown.Punjab Biotechnology Incubator (PBTI) is the first public sector multi-field NABL-accredited lab in Punjab with more than 2,500 parameters covered under its scope. It became the first lab in India to establish nuclear techniques based on honey authenticity testing facilities in 2015It will benefit industries, exporters, traders, farmers, bee-keepers, entrepreneurs, start-ups and regulators of the country and Punjab by the availability of these facilities on their doorstep.The PBTI has also established a Covid-19 testing lab in record time with a capacity of 1000 tests per day and contributed in the state’s initiative to enhance testing capacity through non-medico laboratories. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/capt-virtually-inaugurates-rs31-cr-project-in-mohali-127651
18-08-2020||---||AAP 51-member executive panel for Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 17The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday reconstituted the executive committee of Chandigarh unit of party.The party convenor, Prem Garg, said that the total strength of the executive committee would be 51 members, consisting of volunteers from all walks of life and representing all areas and sections of the city.Vikram Pundir, organising secretary, said that all ward in-charges should also be ex-officio members of the executive committee. Vijay Pal Singh, retired Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) from the Chandigarh Police, has been nominated as secretary of the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-51-member-executive-panel-for-chandigarh-127652
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 21 RWA marks signs in park to stop walkers from getting too close||The Citizens’ Association, Sector 21, today marked signs on tracks in a local park asking people to walk in a clockwise direction to lower the chance of transmission of the Covid-19 infection. Chandigarh Tribune had earlier reported that residents walking or running in opposite direction in city parks were more susceptible to catching the infection. According to experts, if people are moving in the same direction, it will prevent them from crossing each other on the same sidewalk and will help maintain social distancing. “We are going to do it in all parks in Sector 21. We will exhort other resident welfare associations (RWAs) to do the same. It will create awareness among people and will help in prevention of the infection. It should be encouraged in all public parks,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, president of the Citizens’ Association, Sector 21. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-21-rwa-marks-signs-in-park-to-stop-walkers-from-getting-too-close-127653
18-08-2020||---||Technical committee okays 2 firms to provide 390 vehicles||Chandigarh, August 17The technical committee of Chandigarh Smart City Limited today approved two firms to provide 390 segregated waste-collection vehicles in the technical bidding process.Four companies had applied, but only two got through in the technical bid. Now, both companies will be assessed in the financial bidding process and one of them will be allotted the work. These will have GPS-based tracking system.More than 100 segregated waste collection vehicles were bought last year, but since waste segregation did not start in urban areas, many of these could not be used. Thus, buying more vehicles for the project, which never remained unsuccessful, is too early. MC officials claimed that they were using the vehicles for awareness and collecting segregated garbage in UT villages.It may be recalled that waste collectors have not agreed to use the MC’s waste collection vehicles and insist on collecting segregated waste on cycle carts and privately.Also, the committee approved an extra amount of Rs6.20 crore required to build about 90 smart classrooms in government schools. The project will have interactive boards, 3D animations, e-content, computers, CCTV cameras, modern lighting and flooring. Sanitary landfill and water ATMs projects were was also approved.Meanwhile, around four firms have qualified for the sterilisation drive by the MC. They will now go through the financial bidding process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/technical-committee-okays-2-firms-to-provide-390-vehicles-127654
18-08-2020||---||Chandigarh Mayor gives commendation certificates to Covid warriors||Chandigarh, August 17Covid-19 warriors were honoured at the Municipal Corporation office here today.Mayor Raj Bala Malik and Commissioner KK Yadav distributed the commendation certificates to officers and officials of the UT Administration and the corporation.Among the awardees, who worked to provide essential services to the citizens during the Covid-19pandemic, were Najuk Kumar, SDM, Anil Kumar Garg, Additional Commissioner, officer Rakesh Popli, Jarnail Singh from market committee, Sanjay Arora, SE (B&R), Ravinder Sharma, executive engineer, Medical Officer of Health (MOH) Dr Amrit Warring, Social Development Officer Vivek Trivedi, enforcement wing inspector Sunil Dutt and others.Their names were announced on the occasion of Independence Day. Due to strict restrictions, the Administration avoided to call all awardees for the function and handed over their commendation certificates to the HODs concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-gives-commendation-certificates-to-covid-warriors-127655
18-08-2020||---||More restrictions within Mohali municipal limits||Mohali, August 17The district administration issued additional restrictions within the municipal limits of the city with effect from August 18 till further orders.The new restrictions regarding the night curfew are that the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain prohibited between 9 pm and 5am within the municipal limits of the city.However, essential activities, including operation of multiple shifts, movement of persons and goods on national and state highways and unloading of cargo and travelling of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes will be permitted. Similarly, all industries running into 2-3 shifts will also remain open.Restrictions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-restrictions-within-mohali-municipal-limits-127656
18-08-2020||---||Man attacks neighbour, arrested||Chandigarh, August 17The UT police have arrested a man for attacking a person with a blade.According to the police, the complainant, Sachin, a resident of Shahpur Colony, Sector 38 (West), reported that his neighbour, Kamal, attacked him with a blade.The duo had an altercation over some issue. The victim, who suffered injuries in the attack, was admitted to the the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.The police have registered a case against the suspect at the Maloya police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-attacks-neighbour-arrested-127658
18-08-2020||Chandigarh||Youth hangs self to death||2 arrested for robbing driverChandigarh: Two persons have been arrested for allegedly robbing a pick-up driver at the vegetable market in Sector 17. The victim, Sanjeev Kumar, alleged that Gajender and Bharat, residents of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, robbed him of his purse containing Rs1,000, an ATM card and documents on August 16. He was sleeping in his jeep when the suspects threatened him with a knife. A case has been registered at the Sector 17 police station. TNSThieves strike at two housesChandigarh: Two theft incidents have been reported from the city. Complainant Sanjeev Gupta reported that Rs50,000 and some goods were stolen from plot number 921 in the Industrial Area, Phase II. A case has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. In another incident, Nand Kishore reported that a mobile phone and a laptop were stolen from his house on August 16. A case has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. TNSAcademic session starts at CUChandigarh: Chandigarh University (CU) started the 2020-21 academic session with an online induction ceremony for engineering students. Vice-Chancellor SS Sehgal and other functionaries interacted with the students of the new batch and apprised them of the virtual learning model to be adopted during Covid-19. TNSCET registration: August 20 last dateChandigarh: Panjab University has extended the date for registration/fee payment/uploading information and photograph for admission to PU-CET (UG) B Pharmacy and BSc (Hons School) under the framework of choice-based credit system till August 20. tnsOrders on fee payment revoked Patiala: Punjabi University has deferred the orders regarding the last date for the collection of fee from students of intermediate classes. Students of various organisations held a protest in this regard on Monday after which the university decided to cancel the notification that mentioned August 1 as the deadline for fee payment. TNSReturning Officer for PUTA electionsChandigarh: PUTA appointed Returning Officer for the PUTA elections. Association president Rajesh Gill appointed Prof Vijay Nagpal, Department of Laws, as the Retuning Officer. However, Prof Mohammed Khalid, member, PUTA executive, wrote to the PUTA secretary raising concern on the appointment of returning officer. In his letter, Khalid said that the appointment of the returning officer to conduct the PUTA elections for the next term was against the norms. TNSEsha is netball association headChandigarh: Esha Gupta was unanimously elected as the working president of the Netball Sport Promotion Association of Chandigarh for two years. The annual general body meeting was held on August 15. The calendar for the upcoming session was issued. TNSI-Day celebrated at Mohali schoolMohali: To mark Independence Day, DPS, Mohali, organised the virtual Independence Day celebrations on August 15 and invited all students and their parents. The event featured the flag hoisting ceremony on the school premises in the presence of a very limited gathering. TNSSenior citizens celebrate I-DayChandigarh: Members of the Chandigarh Senior Citizens’ Association virtually celebrated the Independence Day. Association president IP Puri hoisted the National Flag. Songs and dances were presented. TNSBlood donated at PGIMERChandigarh: Volunteers of KP Blood Bank donated blood at the PGIMER to mark the 74th Independence Day. Amar Vivek donated blood for the 153rd time and Ashwani Sadhu for the 40th time. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-hangs-self-to-death-127659
18-08-2020||Amit Bathla||Vendors sit pretty on Panchkula roads||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 17Though the Municipal Corporation and the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) claim that they remove rehri/pharis from roads and streets at regular intervals, encroachment by street vendors still thrives in major markets such as those in Sector 7, 9, 15 and 20, causing inconvenience to people.For instance, at the Sector 20 market, vehicle drivers can be heard honking constantly after finding it difficult to move ahead due to encroachment by street vendors.KK Jindal, president of the Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 20, said: “We have approached the authorities concerned several times regarding encroachment by street vendors in and around the market, but to no avail. It not only deprives pedestrians of their right to walk, but also causes traffic chaos as people randomly park their vehicles along the roadside to purchase fruits, vegetables and other items.”“The authorities remove street vendors, but they return after the anti-encroachment drive is over. Moreover, they don’t observe social distancing norms and can be seen without a face mask,” he said. MC Commissioner Mahavir Singh didn’t respond to repeated calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vendors-sit-pretty-on-panchkula-roads-127671
18-08-2020||---||Chandigarh drops plan to buy electric buses for now||Chandigarh, August 17In the wake of Covid-19, the UT Administration has suspended the plan to buy electric buses for the time being.Last year, it had floated a tender for purchasing 40 medium-sized buses to reduce air pollution in the city.A senior officer of the Transport Department said the procurement had been suspended for the time being due to Covid-19 and the project would be reviewed again in December.The UT had planned to buy the buses with an aim to reduce air pollution.A few years ago, the UT had even undertaken a test drive of buses. An electric bus has a life span of 10 years and costs between Rs1.25 crore and Rs1.40 crore. As a long term measure, the UT had planned replacing its entire fleet of diesel-run buses with electric buses in a phased manner.The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking has over 400 buses to cover nearly 75 routes in the city and nearly half of the buses have nearly completed the operational life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-drops-plan-to-buy-electric-buses-for-now-127672
