19-09-2020||Chandigarh||6 COVID-19 deaths in Chandigarh; infection tally 9,796||Chandigarh reports six deaths and 290 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the Union Territory's death total to 116.The coronavirus tally stands at 9,796. The city records 2,911 active cases. COVID-19 deaths: 1. A 30-year-old man—a resident of Manimajra—died. He suffered a cardiopulmonary arrest at GMCH-32.2. A 40-year-old man—a resident of Sector 52—succumbed to the deadly disease. 3. A 47-year-old man—a resident of Daddu Majra—died of the virus. He suffered from Chronic Kidney Disease, Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Hypertension.4. A 54-year-old man—a resident of Mauli Jagran—died due to a cardiac arrest after testing COVID positive, has expired due to cardiac arrest at GMSH-16.5. A 58-year-old man—a resident of Mauli Jagran— died at GMSH-16. He suffered from diabetes.6.A 60-year-old woman—a resident of Sector 26— died at PGIMER. He had diabetes. About 351 patients have been discharged. These also include people under home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per MoHFW guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-covid-19-deaths-in-chandigarh-infection-tally-9-796-143514
19-09-2020||New Delhi||Centre reviews oxygen status in 12 top COVID-burdened states, including Punjab, Chandigarh||The central government on Saturday reviewed the availability of medical oxygen in 12 top COVID-burdened states of the country with the Commerce Ministry and Cabinet Secretary holding separate virtual meetings. Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal in a virtual meeting asked the 12 states---Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Chandigarh, Telangana, Kerala, Delhi, Punjab and West Bengal---to analyse district level and health facility level status of oxygen and effectively plan and manage logistical issues related with oxygen availability.About 80 per cent of the COVID caseload in the country---over 53 lakh cases today---is concentrated in these states and UTs.Cabinet Secretary Rajeev Gauba also held a virtual meet attended by Union Health Secretary, Secretary, Department of Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, senior officials of the Health Ministry, Ministry of Home Affairs and Chief Secretaries of the 12 State and UTs.He expressed concern that the case fatality rates of several states are still higher than that of the national average and urged them to analyse mortalities district and hospital wise for identification of critical areas of intervention.  Gauba also exhorted states to ensure optimal utilization of RT-PCR capacity.He underlined the need for ensuring that no symptomatic negative case (tested by Rapid Antigen Tests) is missed and all such cases are mandatorily administered RT-PCR test. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan presented a detailed status note of COVID-19 on all these states with particular focus on the number of tests being conducted in each state and UT, their positivity rate and their average daily case fatality rate, availability of health infrastructure and their district wise oxygen availability.Bhushan had earlier said there was no dearth of oxygen availability in India but states needed to issue alerts of stock outs in time to ensure the supplies were not interrupted.India as of today has 53,08,014 COVID cases, of which 42,08,431 have recovered and 85,619 people have died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-reviews-oxygen-status-in-12-top-covid-burdened-states-including-punjab-chandigarh-143498
19-09-2020||Panchkula||5 COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours; Panchkula closing in on 5,000 cases||Panchkula reports five deaths and 162 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the district’s death toll to 62.The coronavirus tally stands at 4,927.COVID-19 deaths: A 55-year-old woman from Mankapur, a 56-year-old woman from Sector 4, a 60-year-old woman, from MDC, Sector 4, a 64-year-old woman from Sector 9, and a 70-year-old man from Tipra succumbed to the virus. All of them had comorbidities.  COVID-19 cases: Fresh cases include 12 from Sector 11, 11 from Raipur Rani, 10 each from Pinjore and Sector 20, 9 from Sector 19, 7 from Sector 9, 6 from Sector 26, 5 each from Amravati Enclave, Garhi Kotaha, Kalka, Sector 12, Sector 15 and Sector 7, 4 each from Indira Colony, Sector 10, Sector 21, Sector 4 and Sector 8, 3 each from Dandardoo, Morni, Sector 12A, Sector 25 and Toda, 2 each from Haripur, Police Line, Power Colony, Sector 16 and Sector 18, one each from Abheypur, Bhagwanpur, Bhainsa Tibba, Chandimandir, Buddanpur, Devi Nagar, Industrial Area, Kharak Mangoli, Kheri, Kutbewala, Kherawali, Nada Sahib, Rajiv Colony, Rattewali, Ramgarh, Sector 17, Sector 2, Sector 24, Sector 27, Shahpur, Tagra Hakimpur and Tipra.While 1,321 cases are still active, 3,544 people have been discharged or cured. So far, Panchkula has conducted 58,450 COVID-19 tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-covid-19-deaths-in-24-hours-panchkula-closing-in-on-5-000-cases-143495
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports two deaths and 239 COVID-19 cases; tally crosses 8,000-mark||Mohai reports two deaths and 239 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the district's death total to 157.The coronavirus tally stands at 8,228. In the last 24 hours, about 162 have recovered from the deadly disease.COVID-19 deaths:1. A 44-year-old man from Phase-7 succumbed to the deadly disease.2. A 53-year-old woman from Dappar died. She had diabetes and hypertension.COVID-19 cases:So far, 5,458 have cured of the deadly disease. The city records 2,613 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-two-deaths-and-239-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-8-000-mark-143492
19-09-2020||---||Chitkara College of Education celebrates International Ozone Day||Chandigarh, September 19In order to commemorate the 35 years of the Vienna Convention and 35 years of global ozone layer protection, Chitkara College of Education, in association with the Punjab State Council for Science and Technology, the Ministry of Environment, Forest, Climate Change (MOEF), and the Environmental Information System (ENVIS) celebrated Ozone Day under ED Social Module.Alpha teachers of Chitkara College of Education actively participated in a poster-making competition. The students of Chitkara International School, Chandigarh, participated in an online quiz competition titled ‘Ozone-o-logy’. The objective of this quiz competition was to refresh the knowledge of the students about the ozone layer and its preservation.The celebration of Ozone day started with the expert talk on the theme ‘Ozone for Life’ by Dr Sumit Arora, who is working as capacity building and institutional strengthening specialist under the State Mission Management Unit of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation. The talk helped in sensitising the audience about less usage of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) and the consequences of damaging ozone. The session ended with a lot of a question-answer session.Another expert talk focused on inculcating the skills among the Alpha Teachers of Chitkara College of Education on the theme ‘Kitchen Gardening’ by Dr Puneet Arora, founder, Ecologic Corporation and member of NGO Social Substance. The talk instilled in the Alpha teachers the importance of home-grown food and its benefits. Various methods to recycle the kitchen waste at the source were also discussed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chitkara-college-of-education-celebrates-international-ozone-day-143402
19-09-2020||---||Relief for home-quarantined kidney patients in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 18To mitigate the suffering of kidney patients, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has directed that all three medical institutions must make exclusive and separate arrangements so that Covid-19 patients, who are in home quarantine, could come and take the benefit of maintenance dialysis.During a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, stated that two such machines exclusively devoted to routine maintenance dialysis of Covid patients had been earmarked.Now, all patients needing routine dialysis can approach the PGIMER, the Government Medical College & Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, for the needful and SS Gill, Education Secretary, will coordinate the operation.Earlier, the UT Administration had directed Dharam Hospital, Sector 15-C, and Rahi Care Dialysis, Sector 22-C, to reserve two dialysis machines each for Covid patients.Both private centres were allowed to charge Rs800 from Covid patients over and above the normal charges in lieu of extra cost to be incurred on observing the precautions for dialysis of infected persons.For the benefit of home-quarantined, Dr BS Chavan, Director-Principal, GMCH-32, stated that they had engaged doctors to make telephonic calls to home-quarantined persons to ask about their well-being.The Administrator directed that Covid care centres should be regularly inspected and proper cleanliness maintained. He also directed that regular sanitisation should be done and disposal of garbage, medical waste, used PPE kits and gloves should be streamlined.Badnore directed that proper monitoring of containment zones should be done so that the spread of infection could be restricted. Ambulance service should be available round-the-clock in case of an emergency.Dr Jagat Ram further mentioned that there had been substantial deduction in the positivity rate. He also mentioned that the PGI had 30 ventilators for Covid patients and more were being added.‘Inspect Covid care centres regularly’UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed that Covid care centres should be regularly inspected and proper cleanliness maintained. He also directed that regular sanitisation should be done and disposal of garbage, medical waste, used PPE kits and gloves should be streamlined.Education Secy to coordinate operationNow, all patients needing routine dialysis can approach the PGI, Government Medical College & Hospital, Sector 32, and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, for the needful and SS Gill, Education Secretary, will coordinate the operation.Substantial deduction in positivity rate: PGI DirectorDr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, mentioned that there had been substantial deduction in the positivity rate. He also mentioned that the PGI had 30 ventilators for Covid patients and more were being added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/relief-for-home-quarantined-kidney-patients-in-chandigarh-143087
19-09-2020||---||Rs 500 concession okayed in monthly street vending fee||Chandigarh, September 18The Municipal Corporation Town Vending Committee has approved a maximum concession of Rs 500 in the monthly street vending fee for those street vendors who will avail of the benefit of the PM SVANidhi Yojana.It will be effective from the date of approval of the loan till the loan period (12 months). The committee, headed by MC Commissioner KK Yadav, also discussed about the progress of the PM SVANidhi Atma Nirbhar Yojana.The committee also discussed about the surveyed street vendors, but not registered yet, for availing of the benefit under the PM SVANidhi Yojana. The work has already been completed under the phase 1. The registration under the phase 2 will commence shortly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-500-concession-okayed-in-monthly-street-vending-fee-143091
19-09-2020||Amit Bathla||14 teams to monitor health of Panchkula patients in home isolation||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 18The Health Department will regularly monitor the health of Covid-19 patients under home isolation.From now on, health teams will visit the house of every patient under home isolation on the third, seventh and 10th day after anyone tests positive, officials said.At least 14 teams have been constituted for the purpose in the district. Covid patients opting for home isolation are advised to completely isolate themselves at home for 10 days and self-monitor their health for another seven days.Patients in home isolation make about 70 to 80 per cent of the total active cases in the district as of Friday.“The teams will not only track the patient’s residence but also check their health and ensure the supply of required medicines. The team members will go from house to house of Covid patients in home isolation and conduct their necessary tests, including blood pressure, body temperature and oxygen level. They will also give them proper medication and medical advice,” a doctor at the Civil Hospital said.“This will help the Health Department in properly monitoring those aged over 55 years and others having co-morbid conditions,” he said.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, said their intent was that there should be no health complication to any patient in home isolation and fatalities should be kept to a minimum.“In several instances, we have seen that patients undermine the seriousness of their symptoms. This step will help us in addressing the issue,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-teams-to-monitor-health-of-panchkula-patients-in-home-isolation-143093
19-09-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Sector 26, Chandigarh arhtiyas, vendors not happy with ghar wapsi||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18After operating for around four months at the ISBT, Sector 17, vegetable vendors and arhtiyas are not liking it to be back in Sector 26 here.They say the ISBT-17 was far better and spacious than the Sector 26 mandi. The four-month stint away from the Sector 26 vegetable market has fuelled their desire to shift to the proposed vegetable market in Sector 39, which is hanging fire for years now.Unregistered vendorsRule of thumb to identify unregistered vendors at the Sector 26 market is anyone sitting alongside the road and selling stuff. A majority of the consumers visiting the market end up buying vegetables and fruits from sellers whom the Administration terms encroachers.A majority of the vendors are not happy with ‘ghar wapsi’ at the Sector 26 market.Arhtiyas complain of space constraints and unloading charges, while licensed vendors complain of slow business. Unregistered vendors are not even allowed to enter the mandi. The market is also out of bounds for the common man, who is forced to shell out Rs5 to Rs10 extra per kg/per vegetable in sector markets.“We request the UT Administration to shift us soon. Ultimately, it has to shift the market to Sector 39, so why not now? If the Administration is willing to do it, it is just one month’s work,” said Rattan Kumar Jain, president of the Arihant Vegetable Aarti Association.In the last four months, MC officials said roughly 800 vendors with ‘green pass’ entered the Sector 17 bus stand everyday and sold vegetables in sector markets. The number of registered arhtiyas in the market is 168.Marketeers say the number of vendors without MC licence could be equal to the number of licensed vendors or even more.Ashok Gujjar, president of the Small Vegetable Vendors Association, said: “The Administration is not allowing retail business. Some of the vendors are doing it clandestinely, but the police take them away.”Kasturi Lal Sharma, owner of an SCO in the market, said: “These people are either on road unemployed or brave police batons every day. The market is closed for retail business. Where will the common man go?”Jarnail Singh, secretary of the Market Committee, said: “No unregistered vendor is being allowed to enter the market. The market is closed for retail business.”In June, the UT Adviser had called up the licensees and sought suggestions and the list of requirements for the proposed market. Since then, they had not heard from the Administration.The approximate area of the existing vegetable market in Sector 26 is around 20 acres. The proposed market in Sector 39 is spread in 73 acres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-26-chandigarh-arhtiyas-vendors-not-happy-with-ghar-wapsi-143094
19-09-2020||---||Husband, in-laws booked on charge of dowry harassment||Panchkula, September 18The police have booked three persons, including the victim’s husband, in a dowry harassment case here.The police have registered a case against victim’s husband Vikram, her father-in-law Tara Chand and her mother-in-law Chameli Devi under Sections 323, 406, 498-A and 506 of the IPC.On September 17, the victim, Ranji, a resident of Bhima Devi Colony in Pinjore, had filed a complaint with the police alleging that she was mentally and physically harassed by her in-laws for dowry for the past over four years.The victim told the police that she got married on November 26, 2015, and her parents spent a lot of money on her marriage.“Since the beginning of the marriage, the victim’s in-laws were harassing, humiliating and maltreating her on the pretext that her parents had not given sufficient dowry items,” the FIR read.The victim’s husband, as per the FIR, was a habitual drinker and he forcibly established physical relations with her several times.“They were demanding Rs6 lakh more as dowry. The victim’s husband and in-laws started torturing her for bringing more dowry. After sometime, they threw her out of the house. The victim’s family members tried their best to solve the issue, but they didn’t mend their ways,” read the FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/husband-in-laws-booked-on-charge-of-dowry-harassment-143088
19-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali Police keep eye on youth creating ruckus at Phase 3B2 market||The Mohali police have started keeping an eye on youth creating ruckus in the Phase 3B2 market here in view of the increasing cases of eve-teasing.Gursher Singh, DSPMore than 50 challans were issued to violators in the market and around 10 vehicles were impounded during the drive on Thursday night.Teams of the Mataur police station and the Phase 1 police station led by DSP (City 1) Gursher Singh conducted checking of all vehicles in the market for continuous three hours last night.DSP Gursher Singh said more than 50 challans were issued to violators in the market and around 10 vehicles were impounded during the drive last night.Notably, the Phase 3B2 market is one of the busiest markets of the town. Youth can be seen roaming around in the market on their vehicles as well as on foot. This area is known as “gedi route of Mohali” among youth.“Several eve-teasing incidents were reported from the market in the recent past. So, we decided to keep a check on miscreants disturbing the atmosphere of the market. The cops will remain deployed in the market in the coming days also to maintain tight security. Our objective is to stop eve-teasing here,” said the DSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-keep-eye-on-youth-creating-ruckus-at-phase-3b2-market-143090
19-09-2020||---||Three held for thrashing tax consultant in Kharar||Mohali, September 18A day after a tax consultant was seriously injured after five miscreants allegedly beat him up with cricket bats, the Kharar police today arrested three suspects. Meanwhile, two suspects are yet to be nabbed.Those arrested have been identified as Akashdeep Singh, alias Pannu, a resident of Kharar, Harinder Sahota, a resident of Salora village in Ropar, and Jasjit Singh, a resident of Morinda in Ropar.The two suspects, who are still at large, have also been identified. They are Baljit Chaudhary and Bhavjit Gill, both residents of Kharar.The suspects had beaten tax consultant Arun Sharma after barging into his house near Janata Chowk in the wee hours of Thursday. The miscreants had also fired several rounds to terrify him. The two parties had an old dispute regarding court cases, which led to the attack. Arun was admitted to Indus Hospital.Inspector Bhagwant Singh, Station House Officer of the City Kharar police station, said: “We are investigating the case with the help of various teams. The two suspects are yet to be arrested. We are conducting raids on the houses of their friends and other possible hideouts. Their mobile phones are switched off, but we are following other leads. We will nab them soon.”Meanwhile, the victim’s kin today protested against the police. They alleged that Aman, a resident of Bhagomajra, was also present when the firing took place. However, the police were not including his name in the FIR due to political pressure.SHO Bhagwant Singh said: “They are pressuring us to include the name of a person in the FIR. We will add his name only after verifying the facts. During preliminary investigations, it came to the fore that he was not present at the crime spot, which was recorded in the CCTV footage.”The incident took place around 3 am when the assailants knocked at the door of his house. They entered inside and started beating up Arun Sharma. They also threatened his son. The suspects also fired at CCTV cameras and damaged the victim’s car.A case was registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 450 (house trespass), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and under the Arms Act.Victim’s kin protest against policeThe victim’s kin on Friday protested against the police. They alleged that Aman, a resident of Bhagomajra, was also present when the firing took place. However, the police were not including his name in the FIR due to political pressure.The incidentThe incident took place around 3 am when the assailants knocked at the door of his house. They went inside and started beating up Arun Sharma. They also threatened his son. The suspects also fired at CCTV cameras and damaged the victim’s car.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-held-for-thrashing-tax-consultant-in-kharar-143086
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Snatcher who dragged, injured woman near Elante Mall, Chandigarh denied bail||A snatcher, who allegedly dragged a young woman and injured her near Elante Mall here, has been denied bail by Rajeev Goyal, Additional Sessions Judge, after the police told the court about their intention of invoking Section 379-B of the IPC against the accused.The new section, if proved, may invite jail term up to 10 to 14 years.The police had arrested the suspect on the spot and registered a case against him under Sections 392 and 411 of the IPC on the complaint of the woman.While opposing his bail application, public prosecutor JP Singh said the accused in the event of being granted bail might indulge in issuing threats to the victim.The police had arrested the snatcher on August 23, 2018 on the complaint of Renu. The complainant had alleged that when she was returning from Elante Mall, the accused dragged her towards the jungle area after gagging her mouth. He then tried to snatch her mobile phone and a purse. However, she raised an alarm, following which the crowd gathered and caught the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatcher-who-dragged-injured-woman-near-elante-mall-chandigarh-denied-bail-143107
19-09-2020||---||Cops yet to trace husband in teacher’s murder case||Chandigarh, September 18The Chandigarh Police are yet to trace the 43-year-old Mandeep Singh, who is accused of murdering his wife.Meanwhile, sources said the Maruti car in which the suspect had left the city with his two sons was found abandoned in Punjab. However, police officials are tight-lipped over the recovery of the car.Victim Jyoti Rani (40), a government school teacher, was found dead at her house in Sector 23 on the intervening night of September 15 and 16. She had an injury on the rear of her head, which led to her death.Mandeep had left home with his two songs, aged 13 and 9 on September 14, on the pretext of paying obeisance at a gurdwara. After paying obeisance at a gurdwara in Ludhiana, he took both his sons to a canal near Ludhiana and stopped the car claiming it had developed some snag. Mandeep then took his elder son towards canal and pushed him into it. However, his son managed to survive.Had left home on September 14The suspect, Mandeep, had left home with his two songs, aged 13 and 9 on September 14, on the pretext of paying obeisance at a gurdwara. After paying obeisance at a gurdwara in Ludhiana, he took both his sons to a canal near Ludhiana and stopped the car claiming it had developed some snag. Mandeep then took his elder son towards canal and pushed him into it. However, his son managed to survive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-yet-to-trace-husband-in-teachers-murder-case-143103
19-09-2020||---||Year on, mother & child care centre at GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh yet to see the light of day||Chandigarh, September 18Even after a year, the new state-of-the-art mother and child care centre at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, is yet to see the light of day.In September last year, the UT Administration had approved the construction of the emergency-cum-trauma centre and the mother and child care centre at the GMCH with an estimated cost of Rs52,77,45,000 and Rs38,06,56,210, respectively.The Engineering Department, UT, had recently floated tenders for the construction of 200-bedded Emergency and Trauma Block in front of the existing Emergency and the construction was to be completed within 18 months after the allotment of the work.Sources said the work on the long-pending 348-bedded mother and child care centre could not be started as the GMCH had some objection with the design of the centre.A senior doctor at the GMCH said the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, GMCH, had made some changes in the design of the centre and the same would be sent to the Administration within a day or two for approval. After getting approval, the Engineering Department would start the process for construction of the centre, he added.With the construction of the twin projects, the GMCH will get a major boost in healthcare facilities, which will benefits patients from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and other states.The new emergency-cum-trauma centre will come up in Block A replacing the old emergency, which will have to be demolished. The mother and child care centre will come up in the K block area of the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/year-on-mother-child-care-centre-at-gmch-sector-32-chandigarh-yet-to-see-the-light-of-day-143105
19-09-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib MLA’s resignation comes as a bolt from the blue||The sudden resignation by Kuljit Singh Nagra, MLA from the Fatehgarh Sahib constituency, has come as a bolt from the blue not only for people of his constituency, but also the entire Congress leadership.Addressing dharnas at Sirhind and Ranwan in Khamano recently, he had announced that he was addressing them not as an MLA but as a son of a farmer and he was ready to make any sacrifice for the cause of the farmers. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-mlas-resignation-comes-as-a-bolt-from-the-blue-143110
19-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Not more than 15 students per class, says Chandigarh Education Department||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18In view of the reopening of schools on a voluntary basis, the UT Education Department has decided that not more than 15 students are seated in a single classroom and the number must be restricted to 10 in case the size of the classroom is small.In the first phase, the students of Classes X and XII will be called. This will be followed by the students of Class XI and the last phase will involve calling of the students of Class IX.The students coming to schools for guidance will be called in two sessions of two hours each, with a gap of one and a half hours between the two sessions. According to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the department today, the reopening of schools will be carried out in a phased manner.For visiting the schools from September 21, the students will be required to carry a written consent of their parents or guardians. The students and teachers residing in micro-containment zones will not be allowed to visit the schools. Students, teachers and employees will be advised not to visit the areas falling within the micro-containment zones.The students will be discouraged to carry eatables to the school to avoid sharing among the peers and the canteens will not be allowed to open. The students will be encouraged to carry their own drinking water bottles.The teaching and non-teaching employees concerned, up to 50 per cent of the strength, may be called to schools for online teaching or tele-counselling and related work. Instead of biometric attendance, alternate arrangements for contactless attendance shall be made by the school administration.The principals and heads of schools have been asked to specifically ensure that online or distance learning should continue to be permitted and encouraged and that the students of Classes IX to XII should be permitted to visit their school on a voluntary basis only for taking guidance from their teachers.GuidelinesWhat’s prohibited||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-more-than-15-students-per-class-says-chandigarh-education-department-143095
19-09-2020||Panchkula||Parents apprehensive about safety of children in Panchkula||The government’s decision to allow students of Classes IX to XII to visit schools on a voluntary basis from September 21 to seek academic guidance has evoked a mixed response from teachers, parents and other stakeholders.Officials at government schools said it would benefit the students, particularly those who could not afford a smartphone for online classes.But parents are still apprehensive about the safety of their children.“A majority of the students in our school hail from the families of migrant workers. Those, who weren’t been able to attend online classes or receive study material sent via WhatsApp or emails, will get better guidance if allowed to visit schools,” a teacher at Saarthak Government Integrated Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 12-A said.Another teacher of the school, who was looking after the administrative duties in absence of Principal Kamlesh Chauhan, said they were taking all precautions and proper sanitisation was being done to protect against the infection.He, however, made it clear that the school was yet to receive orders from the District Education Officer (DEO) for Covid testing of teachers.The Khattar-led Haryana Government has also made it compulsory for teachers to undergo Covid testing before resuming classes.The DEO could not be contacted for comments on the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-apprehensive-about-safety-of-children-in-panchkula-143096
19-09-2020||---||3 juveniles nailed for youth’s murder||Chandigarh, September 18Three juveniles have been apprehended by the UT police for the murder of a 20-year-old youth at Dadu Majra Colony.The victim, Karan, was stabbed near the Community Centre at the colony on Wednesday night.The police said old enmity was the reason behind the murder.The suspects had escaped to Ludhiana in an auto. The police went to Ludhiana, but the suspects returned to Chandigarh last night.The police said they were nabbed on their return to the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-juveniles-nailed-for-youths-murder-143100
19-09-2020||---||Covid-19: 15-yr-old girl, 3 others fall prey to virus in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 18The city today reported 260 fresh cases of Covid-19 and four deaths due to the virus. The tally of confirmed cases stands at 9,506, while 2,978 are active and 110 persons have died.Among the new fatalities, the youngest one to die was a 15-year-old girl from Sector 52, a case of sepsis and disseminated intravascular coagulation. She died at the GMCH, Sector 32.A 60-year-old woman from Sector 43 died at the GMSH, Sector 16. She was suffering from sepsis and acute respiratory distress syndrome.The third fatality was of a 70-year-old man from Sector 46. He was suffering from Type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension. He died at the GMCH. A 71-year-old woman from Sector 30 died at the GMCH. She was suffering from acute coronary syndrome and lateral wall myocardial infraction.A total of 353 more patients were discharged, taking the recovery rate to 67 per cent.Curbs removed from 3 zonesChandigarh: The UT Administration on Friday removed the restrictions from three micro-containment zones in the city. Adviser Manoj Parida said the restrictions had been removed from house number 2168 to 2175 in Sector 38-C, house number 2143 to 2145 in Sector 27-C and house number 3408 to 3413 in Sector 27-D on the basis of recommendations received from the Affected Areas Assessment Committee. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-15-yr-old-girl-3-others-fall-prey-to-virus-in-chandigarh-143112
19-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Centre’s projection — 14,376 Covid cases in Chandigarh by October 13||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 18The UT is likely to witness 14,376 cases of Covid-19 by October 13. The projection has been made by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.The ministry has also estimated the requirement of intensive care infrastructure, as per which the city would need 624 oxygen-supported beds, 208 ICU beds and 104 ventilators by mid-October.According to the data available with the Centre, the city had 820 oxygen-supported beds, 93 ICU beds and 46 ventilators on September 13.Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary, Home, UT, said, “The ministry has made some estimates based on mathematical modelling. However, the actual trend prevailing today is slightly different. If it is taken into consideration, the infrastructure required in October will be much lower as compared to what has been projected by the Centre.”“The available infrastructure with the ministry is also slightly under-reported as Chandigarh has 160 ICU beds in dedicated Covid hospitals and 95 ventilators,” said Gupta. The Union ministry has projected 14,376 cases by October 13, taking into consideration the doubling rate of 29 days as on September 13 when there were 7,480 Covid-19 cases in the city.Of the cases projected for October 13, the ministry has estimated 4,200 active cases. Around 15 per cent (624) of them may require oxygen-supported beds, five per cent (208) may need ICU beds and 50 per cent of ICU patients (104) may require ventilators.Gupta added, “If this modelling of required infrastructure is applied to the current situation, then of 3,200 active cases, around 480 (15 per cent) should have been requiring oxygen and 160 (5 per cent) ICU. However, this does not hold true as on date. Patients requiring oxygen in the city is only five per cent and ICU beds only two per cent.”The ministry had also said the estimates were derived on the basis of mathematical modelling and do not take into account the effort being made by states and union territories.The states and UTs may modify the estimates by factoring in variables such as positivity rate, extent and level of testing and hospitalisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centres-projection-%E2%80%94-14-376-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-by-october-13-143113
19-09-2020||Mohali||6 booked on charge of assaulting 2 cops in Mohali||The Balongi police have booked six persons for allegedly assaulting two policemen on duty near the airport chowk at Ballomajra village last night.The suspects also tore the uniform of ASI Shinder Singh, who was with his colleague in a PCR vehicle.ASI Shinder Singh, ComplainantWe have noted down the registration number of their vehicle. One of the six suspects has been identified through a video recorded on the spot. Raids are being conducted to nab him.According to the complainant, ASI Shinder Singh, the suspects were consuming alcohol after parking their Hyundai i20 car on the wrong side of the road and were also creating a ruckus. During patrolling, when the cops saw them, they asked them to leave the place. However, the suspects turned violent and started hurling abuses at the cops.The suspects also assaulted the cops and when they tried to escape, they started throwing stones on the PCR vehicle due to which the cops got injured and their vehicle also got damaged.A Brezza car that was passing by stopped to help the cops, but the car was also attacked by the suspects. The suspects then fled from the spot in the car and a bike.The ASI said, “We have noted down the registration number of their vehicle. One of the six suspects has been identified through a video recorded on the spot, whose name is Harjinder Singh, alias Jinna, a resident of Ballomajra village. Raids are being conducted to nab him. Both damaged vehicles are at the Balongi police station.”A case has been registered against Harjinder and his five accomplices under Sections 353, 186, 341, 506, 427, 148 and 149 of the IPC at the Balongi police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-booked-on-charge-of-assaulting-2-cops-in-mohali-143114
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man nabbed with 35 gm of heroin||Charanjit is Addl Public ProsecutorChandigarh: The UT Administrator has appointed advocate Charanjit Singh Bakshi as Additional Public Prosecutor to defend/prosecute criminal litigation pertaining to the Administration before the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The appointment was made after consultation with the Punjab and Haryana High Court. TNSPanchkula resident duped, 1 bookedChandigarh: A Mani Majra resident has been booked for duping a person on the pretext of providing him job. According to the police, complainant Vijay Kumar, a resident of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula, alleged that Ravi Kant cheated him of Rs1.32 lakh on the pretext of providing job. A case has been registered against the suspect at the Mani Majra police station. TNSTwo DSPs of UT police shiftedChandigarh: The UT police on Friday transferred two DSPs. Dilsher Singh Chandel, who was DSP (East), has been transferred as DSP (Communication). Gurmukh Singh, who was DSP (PCR), is now DSP (East). Sita Devi, who is DSP (Training and Recruitment), will have the additional charge of DSP (PCR). Shruti Arora, who has joined the UT police on deputation, has been posted as DSP (South). Earlier, the charge of the DSP (South) was with Neha Yadav, who was promoted. The transfer orders were issued by SP Manoj Kumar Meena. TNSYouth held for vehicle theftsChandigarh: A 20-year-old youth, Sanjay of EWS Colony in Dhanas, has been arrested for two-wheeler thefts. He was seen in CCTV footage while stealing a motorcycle, which led to his arrest. The police said his arrest led to the recovery of three more stolen bikes. TNS26k appear for 61 papers on Day 2Chandigarh: On the second day of PU exit exams, more than 26,000 students appeared for 61 papers, said Controller of Examination Dr Parvinder Singh. The exams went on smoothly. A total of 8,300 PG and 18,000 UG students appeared for the tests on Friday. Prof Parvinder Singh and his technical staff maintained that the exams were conducted in a smooth manner. He said the queries of principals/chief coordinators/chairpersons were resolved. TNSPU suspends financial subsidyChandigarh: The Panjab University (PU) has decided to suspend financial subsidy to employees for attending conferences within India and abroad for the 2020-21 session. The recommendation was made by the Austerity Measures Committee held on August 13. With the PU staring at a major fund gap amid the Covid-19 pandemic, a panel has been formed under Dean University Instructions (DUI) RK Singla to decide on austerity measures for curtailing spending. TNSSports talent scholarshipChandigarh: The UT Sports Department has decided to allow Sports Talent Scholarship to the outstanding players, who have represented the UT during the year 2019-20 (April 4, 2019, to March 31, 2020,) and attained the first, second and third positions in the recognised games such as archery, athletics, badminton, basketball, boxing, baseball, cricket, canoeing/kayaking, cycling, fencing, football, golf, gymnastics, hockey, handball, judo, kabaddi, kho kho, lawn tennis, rifle shooting, rowing, skating, swimming, softball, table tennis, taekwondo, volleyball, weightlifting and wrestling. The scholarship form shall be filled at the website, sportsdeptt.chd.gov.in, from October 1 to 31 till 5 pm. TNS23-year-old held for rape attemptFatehgarh Sahib: The Gobindgarh police have arrested a migrant labourer, who allegedly tried to rape an eight-year-old girl in a nearby village. The investigating officer Narinder Kaur said both suspect and the victim were migrants, who live in slums in the nearby village. The 23-year-old suspect is resident of Bihar and worked as a labourer. She said the suspect had been arrested and got his medical done. He was produced in Amloh court and his police remand has been obtained. A case has been registered against him under relevant sections of the IPC. OCTraders demand storage spaceChandigarh: Former Chandigarh Beopar Mandal president Kailash Jain has reiterated the long-pending demand of booth owners for storage space on roof of their shops. In a letter to the Prime Minister Jain urged him to give permission as traders were facing space constraints in existing structures. “The Chandigarh unit of the BJP has stood for booth owners in the last Lok Sabha elections, but no decision has been taken by the UT Administration on roof storage. As a result, booth owners are suffering,” he added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-nabbed-with-35-gm-of-heroin-143115
19-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula sees three deaths, 157 new Covid-19 cases||The district today reported 157 fresh Covid 19 cases, taking the district tally to 4,765. It also saw the death of three persons, aged 55, 73 and 68. The toll has now reached 57.A 55-year-old man from Ashiyana in Sector 26, a 73-year-old man from Raipur Rani and a 68-year-old woman from Sector 2, all suffering from hypertension, succumbed to the disease.The new cases include 15 from Pinjore, nine each from the Industrial Area and Sector 20, eight each from Amrawati Enclave and Sector 15, seven each from Kalka and Sector 21, six each from Sector 10, Sector 12-A, Sector 27 and Sector 28, five each from Sector 26 and Sector 6, four each from the MDC, Sector 4, Sector 9, Sector 11 and Sector 12, three each from Sector 21, Sector 16, Sector 19, Sector 4 and Sector 9, two each from Chandimandir, Indira Colony, Nanakpur, Old Panchkula, the MDC, Sector 5, Raipur Rani, Sector 17, Sector 2, Sector 24, Sector 25 and Sector 8, and one each from Kharag Mangoli, Khera Sita Ram, Madanpur, Rehore, Sector 14, Sector 23 and Sector 7.While 1,222 cases are still active, 3,486 persons have been cured or discharged in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-three-deaths-157-new-covid-19-cases-143116
19-09-2020||Mohali||3 fatalities, 337 Covid-19 cases in Mohali||The district witnessed three Covid fatalities today, taking the count to 154. It also witnessed 337 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 7,989, while 277 patients were cured or discharged from hospitals. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said two women and a man died of the virus during the past 24 hours.He said a 52-year-old woman from Dera Bassi died at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. She was suffering from cancer. A 60-year-old woman from Motamajra village, who was a diabetic, died at the GMCH, Patiala, while a 54-year-old man from Phase 7 also died at the GMCH, Patiala.Of the 337 fresh cases, 125 are from Mohali (urban), 52 from Kharar, 70 from Gharuan, 50 from Dhakoli, 22 from Dera Bassi, two from Lalru, six from Boothgarh, eight from Kurali and two from Banur.The district has so far seen 7,989 cases. As many as 5,296 patients have been cured or discharged. There are 2,539 active cases. A total of 154 persons have died of the disease in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-fatalities-337-covid-19-cases-in-mohali-143106
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||CITCO hotels set to reopen banquet halls||With the government’s directive permitting a gathering of 100 individuals in social events from September 21, Hotel Mountview and Hotel Shivalikview of CITCO have opened their banquet halls to register bookings for weddings, conference or other events.Jasvinder Kaur Sidhu, Managing Director, CITCO, said the banquets would strictly adhere to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) to provide greater care to guests and attendees. The SOPs include temperature check on arrival, mandatory masks and frequent sanitisation.Hotel Shivalikview’s famous restaurant, Cloud 9, reopened its gates today. Hotel DGM Bikram Virk said, “The new timings are 7 am - 11 pm.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/citco-hotels-set-to-reopen-banquet-halls-143104
19-09-2020||Chandigarh||Murder convict, out on bail, held for extortion bid in Chandigarh||A murder convict out on bail was arrested for threatening a chemist and demanding Rs 20,000 as extortion money.The suspect, identified as Bhagat Singh, alias Manga, was convicted of killing an 11-year-old girl.According to the police, the complainant, a Mohali resident, who runs a shop in Palsora, alleged that Bhagat Singh of Palsora visited his shop on September 12 and threatened him. He demanded extortion money from the complainant.The suspect again visited the complainant’s shop on September 17 and demanded Rs20,000 as extortion money at knifepoint. The complainant raised the alarm following which the suspect escaped from the spot.The police were informed about the incident following which a case under Sections 385 and 506 of the IPC has been registered against the suspect at the Sector 39 police station.Pinky, an 11-year-old girl and student of Class VI, was found strangled to death in a jute sack in a jungle area in Sector 52 on December 1, 2013. All suspects were arrested during the investigation in the case. In 2015, the court had convicted Suneeta, alias Billa, Rajkumar and Bhagat Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/murder-convict-out-on-bail-held-for-extortion-bid-in-chandigarh-143109
