19-06-2020||---||Punjab, Haryana record above-normal temperatures; Chandigarh at 37.8 °C||Chandigarh, June 19Maximum temperatures in most parts of Haryana and Punjab settled a few notches above normal on Friday, with Narnaul being the hottest place in the two states with a high of 43.8 degrees Celsius, the Meteorological Department here said.Hisar in Haryana also braved the heat as it recorded a high of 43.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.Ambala recorded a maximum temperature of 39 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, while Karnal recorded a high of 38 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala also recorded above normal temperatures at 39.2 degrees Celsius, 38.5 degrees Celsius and 38.9 degrees Celsius, respectively.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, which received showers earlier in the day, registered a high of 37.8 degrees Celsius, which was within the normal limits. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-haryana-record-above-normal-temperatures-chandigarh-at-37-8-%C2%B0c-101421
19-06-2020||Ambala||Ambala reports 26 new cases; district tally 263||Ambala reported 26 new cases of coronavirus on Friday, taking the district tally to 263, officials said.  Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said 13 of 26 new cases came from Ambala Cantonment, five from Ambala City, three of a family from nearby Bhalmajra village, and two of a family from Jansua village. Barara and Barauli villages each reported one case. An 11-month-old girl, 5-year-old boy and 80-year-old woman were among those tested Covid positive.Most of the new cases were either contacts of already diagnosed patients or had a recent history of travel.Thirty-four were released from hospitals on Friday.The district now has  114 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-reports-26-new-cases-district-tally-263-101420
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Police arrest 2 gangsters involved in shootout at liquor baron Arvind Singla in Chandigarh||The Punjab Police on Friday arrested the key shooter involved in the firing at the Chandigarh residence of liquor baron Arvind Singla on May 31.Nitin Nahar, a resident of Indra Colony, Jhabal Road, Amritsar, was apprehended from near Colour Resorts, Attari Road, Amritsar, along with his associate Bikramjit Singh, who had provided him with a safe hideout.The arrests came during an Intelligence-led operation by a joint team of Amritsar (Rural) Police and Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU), said a police spokesperson.Initial investigations had revealed Nitin to be a close associate of Bobby Malhotra, a gangster currently lodged in Ferozepur jail, and further associated with the Lawrance Bishnoi group, who had ordered the attack at the Sector 33 house of Arvind Singla.The arrested accused have disclosed that they had been tasked to carry out such incidents in Punjab, Chandigarh and Rajasthan also by Lawrance Bishnoi.One .32 caliber pistol, along with 40 live cartridges, one .315 caliber pistol along with 10 live cartridges, used in the crime, have been recovered from Nitin’s possession.Nitin was already wanted in three other firing incidents of Amritsar, including at his rival group members, Vipin Kumar (in January 2020) and Love Kumar (in February 2020), and on a complainant of his old case at Jhabal road, Amritsar, in April this year.During his interrogation, Nitin Nahar revealed that on May 31, he had been directed by Bobby Malhotra to carry out the attack and a black Audi car was sent by Lawrance Bishnoi to pick him up from Ludhiana and drop him on the outskirts of Chandigarh.He was subsequently picked up in a silver Ford Ikon car by other accused involved in the firing incident.They all then went together to Sector 33, and fired at the house of the businessman.Nitin Nahar was the key shooter in this and had used a .32 bore pistol in the firing.After the shooting incident, Nitin was dropped off at Kharar by the other co-accused and from there he was dropped at the safe hideout in Amritsar in a white Bolero car on the directions of Bobby Malhotra.A case FIR No. 81, dated: 19.06.2020, u/s 392, 395, 386, 384, 25, 54, 59 Arms Act & 121, 121 A, 120B, IPC PS Gharinda, Amritsar Rural District has been registered against them, and further investigations are in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-arrest-2-gangsters-involved-in-shootout-at-liquor-baron-arvind-singla-in-chandigarh-101417
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh reaches Chandigarh Air Force station, pays tribute to Galwan martyrs||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday reached Chandigarh Air Force Station to pay tribute to the soldiers who were martyred in a violent face-off with the Chinese at the Galwan Valley.The mortal remains arrived here from Leh.The Chief Minister laid wreaths on the coffins of the fallen soldiers.Among the 20 troops, four soldiers were from Punjab, including a Colonel, who was killed in the fracas.While the mortal remains of Nb Sub Satnam Singh of Gurdaspur and Nb Sub Mandeep Singh had arrived on Thursday, the mortal remains of Sep Gurbinder Singh of Sangrur, Sep Gurtej Singh of Mansa and Sep Ankush Singh of Hamirpur were airlifted to Chandigarh on Friday.However, the mortal remains are being sent to their respective homes by road.Earlier, the Chief Minister had the act of killing Indian soldiers as "horrendous" and demanded accountability for the loss of lives.On Thursday, Captain Amarinder had announced that the state government has hiked the ex-gratia payable to martyrs from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 50 lakh.Laying a wreath on the mortal remains of Sepoys Gurbinder Singh from Sangrur, Gurtej Singh from Mansa & Ankush from Hamirpur, HP at Chandigarh. Salute their supreme sacrifice at this young age. The nation is forever indebted. Jai Hind! 🇮🇳 pic.twitter.com/Ou87OZqemi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-reaches-chandigarh-air-force-station-pays-tribute-to-galwan-martyrs-101370
19-06-2020||---||Eight discharged while six new COVID-19 cases reported in Chandigarh; total tally 381||Chandigarh, June 19As many as eight people were cured of COVID-19 and discharged on Friday in the Union Territory of Chandigarh while six new cases were reported, taking the total count of cases in the UT to 381.With the eight new discharged cases, the total number of cured patients in the city has risen to 315.The new cases — 56-year-old woman, 30-year-old man, 59-year-old man, a 30-year-old woman and a 32-year-old man — the five family contacts belong to Ambala but were staying in a rented accommodation in Sector-38, Chandigarh.Of the five members, two are working in Ambala and had come in contact with an already COVID-positive patient.Two more family contacts have been shifted to isolation in PGI and will be sampled in Panchkula.The sixth case is of a 65-year-old woman, a resident of Mauli Jagran, Chandigarh. She has five family contacts, all of whom have been shifted to GMCH-32 and will be sampled.The eight discharged cases include 36-year-old woman, 65-year-old woman and 25-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony; 49-year-old man and 28-year-old man from Manimajra; 29-year-old woman and four-year-old boy from Daria; and a 45-year-old man from Sector-47.The total number of active cases in the UT now stands at 60 with only six deaths reported so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eight-discharged-while-six-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-chandigarh-total-tally-381-101318
19-06-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Rain brings respite from scorching heat in Chandigarh, neighbouring areas||Chandigarh, June 19Rain on Friday morning was a pleasant surprise for Chandigarh and Mohali residents.As the pre-monsoon showers hit the city beautiful and its nearby areas, it provided the much-needed respite from the scorching heat and extreme humid weather that had been prevailing in the region for the last few days.The day-time temperature at some parts in the region had crossed 42 degrees Celsius on Thursday, which along with the high humidity had made the living conditions tough for the people, especially those moving out of their homes.The downpour caused waterlogging at several roundabouts and roads in Chandigarh and its periphery areas leading to traffic snarls.Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala in Punjab recorded 41.4 degrees, 41.6 degrees and 41.3 degrees Celsius, respectively on Thursday.While, Chandigarh, registered a high of 42.2 degrees Celsius.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-brings-respite-from-scorching-heat-in-chandigarh-neighbouring-areas-101307
19-06-2020||Mohali||Unknown man found dead||Vidyut Prasaran gets new DirectorChandigarh: City-based chartered accountant Alok Krishan has been nominated as the Director of the Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited. A law graduate, Alok Krishan has an experience of more than 24 years in the corporate sector and as a practioner. He has authored several books on VAT and the GST and has been a faculty member of various organisations. TNSDiscontinue zoom mobile app: ParentsChandigarh: A local parents’ body has written of the UT Adviser to approve the discontinuation of the ZOOM application for online classes. The Chandigarh Parents’ Association stated in a memorandum: “The MHA had issued guidelines on how the application is unsafe. However, most private schools in the city are continuing to use the Zoom app for online teaching.” TNSLawyer booked on rape chargePanchkula: The police have booked a lawyer for allegedly raping a 35-year-old woman and blackmailing her by threatening to make her photos viral. Neha Chauhan, SHO, Women Police Station, said, “The complainant told us that the suspect first raped her at his Sector 15 office. He took Rs 8 lakh from the victim by blackmailing her. The victim has also alleged that the suspect used to beat her.” “We have registered a case,” the SHO added. TNSRoll back MBBS fee hike: DocsMohali: The State Association of Specialists Doctors has welcomed the decision of the Punjab Government to do away with the service extension facilities given to health employees due to sudden necessity due to Covid. The government should roll back hefty fee hike for MBBS/BDS courses, said association members. TNSJewellery stolen from houseChandigarh: An unknown person stole three gold rings, a gold chain, a mangalsutra, two silver anklets, an ATM card and an Aadhaar card from Sachin Kumar’s house at Mauli Jagran village on the intervening night of June 13 and 14. A case has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station and an investigation has been initiated. TNSGold chain snatchedZirakpur: A woman was targeted by snatchers in Zirakpur on Thursday. According to information, Sashi Bala, a resident of Zirakpur, was returning home after night shift when two motorcycle-borne miscreants wearing masks snatched her gold chain. The victim said she was not able to note down the registration number of the bike. A complaint was lodged at the Zirakpur police station and the police have initiated investigation. OC57 challaned for encroachmentChandigarh: The Municipal Corporation issued 57 challans to violators during an-anti encroachment drive here on Thursday. Teams of enforcement wing were deputed in different parts of the city. Shopkeepers, who had encroached corridors, and unauthorised vendors, who were sitting on roadsides, were penalised by teams of the enforcement wing. Two tempos were also seized during the drive. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unknown-man-found-dead-101090
19-06-2020||Mohali||No headway in bank robbery||A day after the broad daylight robbery at Punjab National Bank, Phase 3A, Mohali, the police are clueless about the robbers who looted Rs4.8 lakh at gunpoint from the all-woman branch yesterday.Superintendent of Police (City) Harwinder Singh Virk said, “No lead has been found yet, but we are trying our best to nab the robbers. Police teams have been formed to carry out investigations from various angles.” The robbers had gone inside the bank during the lunch break (around 1.40 pm) yesterday with their faces covered. They executed the robbery in nearly two minutes. The incident was recorded on a CCTV camera at the bank. No security guard was present inside the branch. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-headway-in-bank-robbery-101091
19-06-2020||Mohali||Eleven fresh cases surface in Mohali||Eleven more Covid-19 cases were reported from the Bhankharpur area near Dera Bassi, taking the total count in the district to 204.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the infected persons included a 34-year-old woman staff nurse of the Mani Majra Civil Hospital, two women, aged 75 and 55, and two men, aged 25 and 27, from Mubarakpur (both contacts of positive cases).Two patients aged, 25 and 35, are residents of Dera Bassi, while two, a 40-year-old man and a 14-year-old girl, are from Kurali. They had recently returned from Uttar Pradesh.The other patients aged, 66 and 25 (contact of a positive case), are from Lalru. They have been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur.Dr Manjit Singh said a 30-year-old man from Khanpur and a 39-year-old resident of Nayagaon had recovered and discharged from the hospital. He said there were now 67 active cases in the district. As many as 134 patients have recovered and three died due to the disease.While conducting a random sampling at Bhankharpur beer plant, health teams took samples of around 41 employees. Four employees of Molson Coors Beverage Company were found infected a few days ago.The Civil Surgeon said the plant had about 350 employees and the sampling work would be completed in five days. — TNSFour more found infected in cityChandigarh: Four more persons, including a 1.5 year-old-girl, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the count to 374. Of the total cases, 62 are active. A 32-year-old woman and her daughter (1.5) from Sector 31 have tested positive. Earlier, her husband, who had come from Agra, was found infected. A 43-year-old man from Sector 43 and a 30-year-old migrant from Mani Majra have also tested positive. The 43-year-old was admitted to the GMSH-16 with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms. He has four family contacts. The 30-year-old had travelled to Amritsar on June 9 and returned to the city on June 11. He has 12 community contacts. All of them have been shifted to an institutional quarantine centre. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eleven-fresh-cases-surface-in-mohali-101092
19-06-2020||---||Panchkula sees highest single-day spike in cases||Panchkula, June 18In the highest single-day spike in coronavirus cases yet, 20 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district today.As many as 12 patients belonged to Kalka and Pinjore, while others hailed from Raipur Rani and other sectors of the city, health officials said. Total count 72Most of them had a travel history or were contacts of those who had travelled, they said. The patients, who were sampled on June 16, aged between 4 and 66.Those infected include a 41-year-old man from Sector 26, a 30-year-old woman from Sector 9, her 7-year-old son, a 41-year-old man from Sector 7, a 42-year-old woman from Abheypur in Sector 19, a 31-year-old woman from Sector 16, a 28-year-old man from Buddanpur and a 20-year-old male from Raipur Rani.The remaining patients from Kalka and Pinjore include three women and nine men.“Some patients have been shifted to an isolation ward of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here. Some of them will be home isolated under the new protocol,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon.She said efforts were being made to trace their contacts.Only 14 cases have been added to the Panchkula tally as six patients are outsiders. With this, the number of cases in the district has reached 72 with 39 active cases.As many as 37 from other districts are also admitted to several health facilities in Panchkula.Mortuary employee, two sons contract virus Five cases were reported on Wednesday. These include an employee deployed at the mortuary of the Civil Hospital and his two sons. To contain the infection, Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja had designated house number 4A and 4B inside the hospital campus as a containment zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-highest-single-day-spike-in-cases-101093
19-06-2020||Panchkula||921 challaned in Panchkula||The police have issued over 900 challans in Panchkula district for not wearing face masks and violating social distancing norms so far, said officials.The police stated that 921 persons had been challaned till now for not wearing face masks. Not wearing face masks attracts a fine of Rs500 in Haryana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/921-challaned-in-panchkula-101094
19-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC to take over waste plant today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18After years of tussle, the Municipal Corporation (MC) is finally going to take over the Jaypee Group-run waste processing plant on Friday.The civic body today served a notice on the company asking it handover the plant at 5 pm on Friday. “We sought an expert advise from the UT senior standing counsel. Following which, we served them a notice,” said an MC official.“The district court had asked the company to appoint an arbitrator. But, it has not done the needful. The three-month stay order of the court is also over. And now, there is no stay from any other court,” he added.NK Vohra, in-charge of the plant, did not respond to repeated phone calls for his comments on the issue.“They have not decided on the waste processing machines yet. If the company wants to take it away they can or we will run them on own. Our main focus tomorrow will be on taking back our land,” said an official concerned of the MC.On March 12, the local court had stayed the notice issued by the MC for the termination of the contract of the processing plant, run by Jaypee Group at Dadu Majra in Chandigarh, for three months.Before this, the MC General House had approved termination of the contract with the company. Municipal Commissioner KK Yadav had issued a termination notice to the firm.The MC, in its notice to the firm, had claimed that the plant was processing only 120 metric tonnes of waste per day while the city generated 470 metric tonnes of garbage. The plant had not been working to its optimum capacity, the MC added.The plant was set up in 2008 at a cost of over Rs32 crore to process 500 metric tonnes of garbage per day without any capital subsidy from the MC. For a long time local residents were agitated due to foul smell and non-processing of the waste at plant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-take-over-waste-plant-today-101095
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration orders strict check at border points||As many visitors coming to the city have tested positive for Covid-19, the UT Administration has decided to take stringent measures to prevent the further spread of the virus.During the daily review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases.He directed Director General of Police (DGP) Sanjay Beniwal to ensure enhanced checking at the border points and making sure that only those who have registered themselves on the website for entry to Chandigarh are allowed. He also directed thermal screening and mandatory downloading of Aarogya Setu application by all visitors.Badnore also directed Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), to examine if instead of self-quarantine, the Administration can implement self-home quarantine for visitors.The Administrator wants Adviser Manoj Parida to see if those who violate the quarantine instructions can be penalised by putting them in institutional quarantine.During the meeting, the Deputy Commissioner, Mohali, stated that they have 63 active cases and the Deputy Commissioner, Panchkula, stated that they have 43 active cases.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGIMER, stated that out of 475 samples tested, seven have been found positive. Similarly, Dr BS Chavan, Director-Principal, GMCH, stated that out of 124 samples tested, five were found positive for Covid-19.The Administrator also directed KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, to ensure necessary preparations for the monsoon.Badnore instructed the Secretary, Engineering, to look after the pending works.UT defers payment of property tax in 13 villages.In view the financial crisis due to the lockdown, VP Singh Badnore decided to defer the payment of property tax by commercial establishments in 13 newly included villages of the city. All 13 villages — Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas — were merged with the Municipal Corporation in January last year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-orders-strict-check-at-border-points-101068
19-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Dept cancels Mohali MC’s tree-pruning machine order||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 18The Local Bodies Department of Punjab today terminated the purchase order for a tree-pruning machine placed with a firm by the Mohali MC. The department also indicted four employees of the MC for irregularities in the purchase of the machine.Exorbitant priceThe tree-pruning machine was ordered for Rs1.80 crore in 2017 — Rs25 to Rs30 lakh is the actual cost and Rs80 lakh was the import duty. The vetting report of the department stated that such a machine was available locally for Rs20 lakh.The department has also blacklisted the company, barring it from participating in any tendering process of the Mohali MC for three years. The firm has been told to deposit the advance amount paid by the MC with 12 per cent annual interest within 21 days from the date of issuance of the order.The order further reads that the Chief Vigilance Officer (trust), in a vetting report, opined that the work order was issued by the Mohali MC in violation of the rules of the government and that gross irregularities and other deficiencies were found on part of the firm, in connivance with MC officials. The report stated that no advertisement or public notice was issued, then how did the company came to know about the MC’s requirement for a tree-pruning machine?The tree-pruning machine was ordered for Rs1.80 crore in 2017 — Rs25 to Rs30 lakh is the actual cost and Rs80 lakh was the import duty. The vetting report of the department stated that such a machine was available locally for Rs 20 lakh.An report on inquiry, conducted by former additional district and sessions judge BR Bansal, has been submitted to the department.The indicted officers have been directed to report tomorrow before the Additional Chief Secretary, Local Bodies, Punjab, who will decide the action to be taken against the officers. The indicted officers are MC Executive Engineer (XEN) Naresh Batta, presently posted at Hoshiarpur; Deputy Controller (Finance and Accounts), Vinayak Kumar, who is currently posted in Ludhiana; Assistant Corporation Engineer Mohinder Pal Singh, now posted as the sub-divisional engineer at the head office of the Local Bodies Separtment in Sector 35, Chandigarh; and retired Junior Engineer Surinder Goel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dept-cancels-mohali-mcs-tree-pruning-machine-order-101069
19-06-2020||---||Man injured by kite string, fell unconscious||Chandigarh, June 18A 30-year-old AC mechanic sustained injuries after a kite string got entangled around his neck while he was riding a two-wheeler near the Housing Board light point. The incident was reported on the evening of June 15.The victim, identified as Ajay Aggarwal, a resident of Mani Majra, was on his back home from Panchkula when the accident took place. The victim started bleeding and fell unconscious at the spot. A few passers-by informed the police.The victim was moved to the Mani Majra Civil Hospital, from where he was referred to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. The police said victim’s condition was stable. An investigation into the matter is underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-injured-by-kite-string-fell-unconscious-101070
19-06-2020||---||Panjab University Syndicate meet preponed to July 25||Chandigarh, June 18The appointment of the Dean Student Welfare (DSW) and signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Purdue University will be among other items on the agenda of the Panjab University Syndicate meeting, which has been preponed from July 27 to July 25 due to the restriction on movement in Punjab on weekends.The meeting had been rescheduled for the comfort of Syndics coming from Punjab.In its last meeting, held on May 30, the Syndicate rejected appointing Dr Davinder Singh (law faculty) as the DSW (men) and Prof Ashok Kumar of the Department of Hindi as the Associate DSW. The Panjab University Vice-Chancellor was given the power to appoint a competent person to the post for one month. The Syndicate had decided to take a final call on the appointment in its next meeting.The Syndicate will also take a call on signing an MoU with Purdue University, Indiana (USA), for the exchange of faculty, students and other points. Further, the Syndics will discuss recommendation of improvement examination in BE courses, NRI admission guidelines and fee structure, concession for the wards of Kashmiri migrants, exemption in room rents for PhD (SC/ST) students, rectification in the number of seats at the regional centre in Hoshiarpur and modification in hostel rules. In their previous meeting, the Syndicate had deferred the fee hike proposal for an indefinite period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndicate-meet-preponed-to-july-25-101071
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Two held for attempt to murder||At least 12 miscreants allegedly attacked two youths with sharp weapons, sticks and bricks leaving them seriously injured at Hallo Majra. Mika, a resident of Phase II,  Ram Darbar, told the police that Sandeep, alias Vicky, his brother Manoj and their 10 accomplices attacked him and his friend Mohsin Khan with sharp weapons, sticks and bricks on June 17. The police reached the spot. Both victims received serious injuries and were admitted to the GMCH- 32. A case of rioting and attempt to murder was registered. Later, two of the accused — Sandeep and Manoj of Hallo Majra — were arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-attempt-to-murder-101072
19-06-2020||---||Official appreciates institutes’ contribution||Mohali, June 18 As an endeavour to make Mission Fateh a success, Vimal Kumar Setia, Director, Technical Education and Industrial Training Department, today visited the local government ITI (Women) and expressed gratitude towards the contribution of the staff in the war against Covid-19. Addressing the gathering, Setia said under the guidance of Cabinet Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and on directions of Principal Secretary of the department, government institutions had contributed by making 14 lakh masks. He said the initiative has attracted appreciation of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Union Minister Mahendra Nath Pandey. Shamsher Purakhalvi, Principal, ITI, said a contribution of 44,561 masks on the behalf of the institution was made.  The Principal assured Setia that he would undertake a comprehensive campaign, along with the college staff, for the success of Mission Fateh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/official-appreciates-institutes-contribution-101073
19-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||No summer camps for sportspersons||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18For the first time in the past two decades, the UT Sports Department is not organising summer sports-wing camps for local trainees owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The high-altitude training camps for the state-run academies have also been cancelled, while the summer tournaments have been put on hold.Every year, the department runs a minimum 15-day programme, which is called a sports-wing, wherein selected players get diet and training under professional coaches. The sports-wing seats are allotted at various coaching centres and also at schools on the basis of performance. “We cannot afford to conduct summer camps. Though our complexes are open, things will take time to settle down,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, UT.Meanwhile, the high-altitude camps for football, hockey and cricket trainees, which usually take place at the Sports Authority of India’s centre in Shillaroo, Himachal Pradesh, have also been called off. “We had fulfilled the criteria and got the permission also. But due to the countrywide lockdown and the restriction on movement, the camp has been cancelled,” added Saini. Last year, a total of 102 trainees participated in the camp, which was organised by the Chandigarh Sports Council.Tournament schedule disturbedThe summer schedule for organising tournaments has also been disturbed due to the pandemic. As per the expected schedule, the department had planned to organise inter-school archery, swimming and cricket cash prize championships in May-June. However, till date, the department has not taken any decision on the summer schedule. “We can organise championships with ‘no-spectator’ condition. But considering the increase in cases, we have decided to stay put for a while. For the safety of sportspersons, staff and officials, we may take some harsh steps, but it’s the need of the hour,” said Saini.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-summer-camps-for-sportspersons-101074
19-06-2020||---||Three aides of Bishnoi gang held with weapons, cartridges||Chandigarh, June 18Three accomplices of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, who allegedly provided assistance to those involved in the firing at hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33, have been arrested by the Chandigarh Police. Pistols and cartridges have been recovered from the suspects.Five assailants had opened indiscriminate fire at businessman and hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33, on May 31. At least 17 bullets were fired at the house.Gangster’s name on pistolAssailants had come looking for Rakesh’s brother Arvind Singla, who is an established liquor contractor. The shootout was carried at the behest of Lawrence Bishnoi, who is presently lodged at a jail in Rajasthan.During investigation, Deepak, alias Deepu Banur, was brought on production warrant from Ambala jail after Sewak, alias Guri, who provided car to the shooters and one of the shooter Karan Sharma, had revealed that they committed the crime on the directions from Deepu. The UT SSP, Nilambari Jagdale, said during his interrogation Deepu revealed that Sahab Singh, alias Sabha, a resident of Banur, had handed over weapons to Gurpreet, alias Goldy, and Sunny Ghumana, which were further passed on to the shooters.Sahab was apprehended and during interrogation a pistol, 14 live cartridges and two magazines were recovered on his disclosure from the forest area of Sector 50, the police said.The police claimed that they had also received information that two other Bishnoi gang members identified as Shiva Veeran, alias Shiva, a resident of Mauli Jagran, and Param Dutt, alias Lucky, a resident of Colony No. 4, who already had five cases registered against him at the Industrial Area police station, conducted a recce of houses of Rakesh and Arvind in Sector 33.Acting on the information both Shiva and Lucky were nabbed from Maloya while they were on way to meet Rajinder Singh, who worked as a peon on contractual basis with the Municipal Corporation (MC), Chandigarh, to discuss a bail matter, the SSP said.At the time of arrest a pistol, two magazines and 14 live cartridges were recovered from Shiva and a pistol, two magazines and 14 live cartridges were recovered from Lucky.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-aides-of-bishnoi-gang-held-with-weapons-cartridges-101075
19-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh map to enhance Sector 17 look||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 18In about two-and-a-half months, the Sector 17 Plaza will flaunt a new attraction as the construction of the city map under the revitalisation plan of the heart of the city has started. The project will be underatken at the cost of Rs90 lakh by a UT-hired private agency.According to the UT Administration, it will be set up in a 40mx40m area in front of Neelam Theatre. The unique map structure, to be built on the floor, will have all city sectors, roads, tourists and prominent places visible on it.The map will also show N-choe and Sukhna-choe. It will be of stainless steel with concrete embedded in it. To make it look attractive especially in the late evening or night hours, the map will have illuminating lights of different colours. It will attract tourists and residents.All tourists places, including Capitol Complex, Sukhna Lake, Rock Garden, Leisure Valley and Rose Garden will be there on the map with different lights.“It’s aim is to create a new attraction at the Sector 17 Plaza in order to revive its glory. We are also looking at integrating it with Rose Garden, Sector 16. People, who visit Rose Garden, can come to Sector 17 through new underpass and visit this sector more,” said an official concerned.The work is being carried out under the supervision of UT Chief Engineer Mukesh Anand.“We made all arrangements to start the work, but due to the lockdown it could not begun earlier. The work started two days ago and we hope to finish it in two and a half months or before August 15,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-map-to-enhance-sector-17-look-101076
19-06-2020||---||Cong leader’s son booked for firing at friend in Mohali||Mohali, June 18The Sohana police today booked Davinder Singh, alias Damni, son of a Congress leader, for allegedly firing at his 22-year-old friend in an inebriated condition on June 16.The suspect (24), a resident of Manauli village here, is the son of Congress leader and block samiti member Gurdeep Singh.Mohan Singh, father of victim Jagdeep Singh, a resident of Siao village here, said his son was watching TV at his house when Damni came in an inebriated condition and asked him to go out with him. When his son refused to go, Damni threatened to kill him, but said he was joking. They both then drove away in the suspect’s car.Damni then stopped the car near a petrol pump and started arguing with Jagdeep over an issue. He fired the first bullet on Jagdeep’s back with his father’s licensed 12-bore gun and the another one on his chest, leaving the victim seriously injured.Injured Jagdeep managed to call his brother Gurwinder Singh and narrated him the whole incident. Jagdeep was taken to the GMCH-32, where his condition is said to be stable.Jagdeep’s father alleged that earlier the police were suppressing the case as the suspect was the son of a ruling party leader. It was only after the villagers gathered in front of the Sohana police station today that the police registered a case against Damni, he added.Congress leader Gurdeep Singh said it was an accident as Damni was drunk. He said his son and the victim were good friends. He said he did not know when Damni picked his gun and attacked Jagdeep.When asked about the whereabouts of his son, he said he should have gone to a relative’s place.Sources said Damni was arrested from Naina village near Rajpura today. They said he was hiding in his aunt’s house. However, the police have not yet confirmed his arrest.Investigating officer Kewal Kumar said, “Police teams are conducting raids at the suspect’s house. He will be arrested soon.” Meanwhile, a case has been registered against the suspect under Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act at the Sohana police station.The police also recovered a licensed gun from the Congress leader’s house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-leaders-son-booked-for-firing-at-friend-in-mohali-101077
19-06-2020||---||Proclaimed offender arrested from Solan||Chandigarh, June 18 A Mohali resident, who was declared a proclaimed offender (PO) by the Chandigarh court, has been arrested by the UT police. The accused identified as, Vikas Walia, a resident of Sector 125, Kharar, was declared a PO on January 18 this year.  The police said Vikas had cheated Ashok Mittal of Rs 36.56 crore on the pretext of investing in diamond business and setting up a factory and showroom for the same.  The police stated that on June 17, they received secret information that Vikas was hiding at a place in Solan district (Himachal Pradesh), following which a raid was conducted and he was nabbed. While on the run, Vikas stayed in Rishikesh, Haridwar, Mumbai and Solan. Vikas was also wanted by the CBI branches in New Delhi and Mumbai, the police added.  UT police officials claimed that Vikas had cheated banks and individuals of Rs 56.60 crore.  Four other cases under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act were pending against the accused at the Chandigarh district court, the police added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/proclaimed-offender-arrested-from-solan-101078
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Shramik train to depart for UP, Bihar today||A Shramik special train with migrant workers and stranded persons from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar will depart from the Chandigarh railway station tomorrow. Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Social Welfare, UT, said after assessing the status and in consultation with the other states, a Shramik special train for different stations in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar had been scheduled for Friday from Chandigarh to Patna (Bihar) with stoppage at many railway stations of both states.  “On its way, the train will have stoppage at Saharanpur, Moradabad, Bareilly, Hardoi, Lucknow, Raibareilly, Amethi, Pratapgarh, Varanasi, Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhayaya Junction (Mugal Sarai), Buxar and Ara stations,” he said. One day before the scheduled departure of the train, telephone calls are made to registered persons asking them to reach the holding centre at Chandigarh College of Engineering Technology (CCET) in Sector 26 where the persons are medically examined and provided packed lunch. Thereafter, they are sent to the railway station by buses. “The process of contacting the registered persons through SMS and phone call to reach the holding centre on June 19 by 8 am is underway. Those who have not received any call should not come to the centre. Women with small children, pregnant women, handicapped persons and senior citizens are accommodated on priority,” he said. The process of sending migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons who were stranded in Chandigarh began on May 8. So far, 43,382 stranded persons, migrant workers and students have been sent to their native places — 38,749 by Shramik trains and 4,633 by buses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shramik-train-to-depart-for-up-bihar-today-101079
19-06-2020||---||Take final decision on restoring security to Bir Devinder: HC||Chandigarh, June 18The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the State of Punjab to take a final decision on restoring security to former Deputy Speaker Bir Devinder Singh in accordance with the law.“This court has no doubt that the decision shall be taken fairly and without any bias. The decision will be conveyed to the petitioner immediately thereafter,” asserted Justice Nirmaljit Kaur of the High Court (HC).In his contempt petition filed against Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Satish Chandra and others respondents, alleging non-compliance of the order dated July 26, 2013, vide which his prayer seeking security was rendered infructous “in view of the admitted position that he had since been provided adequate security”.His counsel Rajvinder Singh Bains contended that in spite of the threat perception still existing, the security was withdrawn only because of certain statements made by him criticising the policy and decision of the state government. In an attempt to buttress his contentions, some statements were also placed on the record.It was further stated that security granted by the state on the basis of threat perception on objective material could not be withdrawn at the whims and fancies of political executives and bureaucrats. The threat perception still existed and was part and parcel of the petitioner’s security file, the counsel added.“If it is so, without going into merits, counsel for the parties are agreed that the present contempt petition can be disposed of with a direction to the respondents to consider the present contempt petition as a representation and take a fresh decision with respect to restoration of the security so withdrawn within 10 days,” Justice Nirmaljit Kaur asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/take-final-decision-on-restoring-security-to-bir-devinder-hc-101080
19-06-2020||Mohali||2 dead as SUV rams into bike||Two bikers were killed and another injured after a speeding SUV rammed into their motorcycle on the road separating Sector 78 and 79 here late last night.The deceased have been identified as Sunil Kumar (23), a resident of Jalalabad in Punjab, and Shubham Kumar (24), a resident of Jammu. The injured, Rinkle, is also a resident of Jalalabad. He was admitted to the PGI, where his condition is stated to be critical.According to the police, the incident took place when the trio was going to a dhaba for dinner on their motorcycle. A speeding SUV, Jeep Compass, driven by Abhishek (30), a resident of Hoshiarpur, collided with their bike.Sunil and Shubham died on the spot, while Rinkle fractured his both legs in the mishap. The trio was staying in a rented accommodation near Sambhalki village here.The police have arrested the SUV driver. A case has been registered against him at the Sohana police station.The post-mortem examination of the victims was conducted at the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, here today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-dead-as-suv-rams-into-bike-101096
19-06-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Police Head Constable dies as gun goes off accidentally in Chandigarh||A Punjab Police Head Constable, posted in the security of a former Punjab DGP, died after the service weapon he was cleaning went off accidentally at the former DGP’s house in Sector 42 here this afternoon.The victim has been identified as 48-year-old Raj Singh, a native of Sangrur. He was posted in the security of former DGP Izhar Alam.The police said the victim was cleaning his SLR on the top floor of the house, where the security stays, when the weapon went off accidentally. The bullet hit the victim on the head. The UT police were informed about the incident, who visited the spot to probe the matter.The body was shifted to the mortuary at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.Raj Singh was from the IRB of the Punjab Police. The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter at the Sector 36 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-police-head-constable-dies-as-gun-goes-off-accidentally-in-chandigarh-101097
19-06-2020||---||Thief strikes at Kishangarh ATM, makes off with Rs 7.65 lakh||Chandigarh, June 18An unidentified miscreant reportedly stole Rs7.65 lakh from an ATM of the Union Bank of India at Kishangarh here last evening.He walked into the ATM booth at 8.22 pm, opened the machine from the rear and stole the money. The police suspect it to be an “insider’s hand”. The footage of a CCTV camera installed at the ATM booth revealed that a man, with his face covered, walked into the booth and turned off the lights.He then opened the machine from the rear and stole the money. The police suspect he knew the code to open the machine. The incident came to light in the morning when the ATM was not dispensing cash. On checking, the machine was found to be empty. The police were informed, who visited the spot. Forensic experts lifted fingerprints. Meanwhile, a case under Section 380 of the IPC has been registered.On May 31, miscreants had broken into the Punjab National Bank branch at Kishangarh and made an attempt to break open the deposit machine. Two days later, the police managed to apprehend four boys, including two juveniles, for the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thief-strikes-at-kishangarh-atm-makes-off-with-rs-7-65-lakh-101098
19-06-2020||---||CBI books 3 cops for graft, arrests conduit||Chandigarh, June 18Three constables of the UT police, posted at the Maloya police station, have been booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding a bribe from a Maloya resident by threatening to frame him in a case. A conduit, identified as Rajat, who was demanding the bribe on behalf of the cops, has been arrested by the investigating agency.All three suspendedFollowing the registration of a case by the CBI against cops Naseeb Khan, Krishan and Shiv, the Police Department placed them under suspension and sent them to the Police Lines.CBI complainant Deepak Shani, a resident of the EWS flats at Maloya, had stated that on June 15, he, along with his friends, was sitting near his house around 7 pm when two cops arrived there. Deepak stated that since there was strictness due to the lockdown, he and his friends ran from there and he returned home.Deepak stated that around 10 minutes later, Rajat, who was known to him, arrived at his house and told him that his friends were caught by the cops and they had been taken to the police beat box. Rajat asked Deepak to accompany him to the beat box.On reaching the beat box, Deepak found two constables, Naseeb Khan and Krishan Malik, there. As per the complaint, the cops allegedly asked Deepak whether he was selling smack in the area. The duo allegedly threatened to register a case against Deepak.The complaint further mentions that Rajat intervened and told Deepak that the cops would let him go if he paid a bribe of Rs20,000. Rajat left the spot and returned around 10 pm and told Deepak that the matter could be settled for Rs14,000, after which he would be allowed to go.Deepak had Rs4,300, which he allegedly handed over to the cops following which they returned Rs300 and asked the complainant to arrange the rest of the money. Deepak returned home after assuring them that he would arrange the money in a few hours. However, he could not arrange the money. On June 16, Rajat again called Deepak and asked him to arrange the rest of the money. Deepak, however, decided to approach the CBI and gave a complaint against Rajat and three cops — Naseeb Khan, Krishan Malik and Shiv.CBI sleuths recorded the calls between the complainant and Rajat, which established that a bribe was being demanded from him. After verifying the complaint, a case against the cops and the conduit was registered.Transcript of conversationComplainant Kitne paise dene uskoConduit (Rajat) 14 mein baat hui, tu to 10 bhi nahin de raha, tu kar le baat, abbey main nahin bol sakta en cheezon mein, baat kara sakta hun, aur isse jayada kya kar sakte hainComplainant Woh keh raha tha 10, fir bola 5 aur badha deConduit Naseeb to sipahi hai, uski kya aukat, main to Shiv haiComplainant Main Shiv hai?Conduit Lae abhi samne baat kar le, tere samne baat kar leta hun(Thereafter, conduit Rajat made a call to Shiv, a constable)Shiv Han aur sunaConduit (Rajat) Bas kuch nahin, jutte wala ladka aya hua thaShiv Hain?Conduit Jisse baat hui thi 10 jodi jutton kiShiv Haan.. haan.. haanConduit Woh keh raha mein dhakke kha kar agaya, bhai mere pas panch jodi jutte hue hainConduit Batao sirConduit Chalo theek hai, panch jodi le lete hain.. baki aap baad mein khaoge, baad main kar lengeShiv Okay||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-books-3-cops-for-graft-arrests-conduit-101099
