19-11-2020||Chandigarh||155 fresh COVID cases in Chandigarh, one death||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 155 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 16,322, according to a medical bulletin.The death of a 75-year-old man pushed the toll to 254 in the union territory, as per the bulletin.There are 1,105 active cases as of now, it said.A total of 130 patients were discharged after they recovered, taking the number of those recovered to 14,963, as per the bulletin.A total of 1,28,558 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,11,487 tested negative while reports of 116 samples were awaited, as per the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/155-fresh-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-one-death-172769
19-11-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Director Higher Education allows physical classes for final-year college students||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 18A day after Panjab University confirmed to continue online classes, the Director Higher Education (DHE), UT Administration, has issued orders that higher educational institutes and colleges in the city may open for final year students from November 23. The instructions have put these institutions into a dicey situation.In orders issued today, the DHE stated, “It has been decided to reopen higher educational institutions/colleges in Chandigarh from November 23 onwards. Final year students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses may be allowed to come to institutes for academic and placement purposes. Teaching and non-teaching staff will regularly be on duty as per the office timings fixed by respective heads of institutions.”“Hostels may be allowed to reopen from December 1only in such cases where it’s necessary as per the direction of the head of the institute subject to adherence of SOPs issued by the UCC,” the DHE added.The DHE has asked officials to follow the UGC guidelines as per their local needs/conditions. “Heads of institutes will be responsible to ensure compliance of instructions of the MHA, Government of India, Ministry of Education, UGC and the UT Administration issued from time to time,” the DHE stated.“Each institute will develop its own detailed SOP for reopening of campus keeping in view the safety and health of students and the staff,” the DHE added.Decision to conduct online classes to be reviewedMeanwhile, Dean, College Development Council (DCDC), Panjab University, said the decision to continue online classes was taken for the time being and would be reviewed every week.“Both the PU and the DHE are in regular touch. We have taken the decision of continuing online teaching for the time being, which will be reviewed every week,” said Sanjay Kaushik, the DCDC.Colleges left in the lurchAmid increasing number of Covid-19 cases, colleges are left in lurch with the new notification. As many as 12 colleges are affiliated with Panjab University (PU), Chandigarh. Also, majority of students studying in local colleges are from other cities, reason why the PU opted for continuing with online classes. However, today’s DHE orders have clearly put officials in an awkward position.“There should have been one decision. In Chandigarh, we cannot just avoid PU or DHE’s orders. As we have limited infrastructure in colleges it will be difficult to adjust students. Moreover, creating a bio-bubble is feasible for hostellers, but not for day scholars. Officials must prepare protocols and also fix responsibility in a worst case scenario,” said a college principal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/director-higher-education-allows-physical-classes-for-final-year-college-students-172518
19-11-2020||---||Adani, Tata evince interest in privatisation of Chandigarh Power Department||Chandigarh, November 18At least nine firms have evinced interest in electricity distribution in the city. UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the Request for Proposal (RFP) was today issued to nine intended bidders, including Torrent Power Limited, Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited, India Power Corporation Limited, DNH Power Distribution Corporation Limited, NTPC Electricity Supply Limited (NESCL), Sterlite Power and CESC Limited.2.5 lakh consumers in city beautifulOn November 9, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for privatisation of the Electricity Department as per the conditions set in the RFP, which was finalised by the Empowered Committee constituted for the privatization of the Electricity Department. The committee had also decided to form a company to take over assets of the department.Chandigarh was the first Union Territory to issue the RFP. Since Chandigarh was a well administered territory, there would be many bidders for the privatisation offer and decision would be taken with total transparency, said Parida.He assured that the interest of existing employees would be protected when privatisation would be completed.A Trust would be created to manage the pension obligations of government employees, who would be shifted to private company, Parida added.On privatisation, the Electricity Department will become an autonomous body, which will be divided into the State Transmission Utility (STU) and the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC).The STU will be responsible for smooth transmission of power and the SLDC will be the main body to ensure integrated operation of the power system.Earlier, the Power Finance Corporation (PFC) had appointed Deloitte, a private company, as a consultant to prepare a comprehensive report on unbundling of the Electricity Department.The Centre had decided to privatise electricity distribution in the Union Territories to provide better service to consumers and improve operational and financial efficiency.The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) had already issued directions to the UT Administration for restructuring and reformation of the department, which is mandatory as per the Electricity Act, 2003.Opposing the privatisation of the department, Gopal Datt Joshi, general secretary, UT Powermen Union, said it was the most profit-earning department of the UT and had never been in the red even as it does not generate power. Despite staff shortage, the department was serving the public with the best services, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adani-tata-evince-interest-in-privatisation-of-chandigarh-power-department-172519
19-11-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Defective navigation system costs automobile seller dear in Chandigarh||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, November 18Installing a defective navigation system has cost an automobile seller dear as the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission Chandigarh has not only directed the agency to replace the complete music system having in-built GPS navigation system with a new one carrying fresh warranty, free of cost, but also directed to pay Rs15,000 towards compensation on account of deficiency in service and causing mental and physical harassment to the complainant.The commission has also directed the dealer to pay Rs 7, 000 as cost of litigation to the consumer. Himat Singh, a city resident, filed the complaint before the consumer commission after the navigation system of his car stopped working normally soon after he purchased the vehicle.Himat said that he purchased Honda City i-vtech (petrol) car (top model) on February 3, 2016, from automobile dealer in Ambala Cantt, for Rs11.50 lakh. The car had GPS navigation (in-built with music system), he added.He reported the matter to dealer during first service and was assured by its service engineer that it would be rectified, but nothing was done.The consumer faced a lot of problems due to the defective GPS navigation system of the car. The dealer sent the GPS navigation system of the car for repair to the service centre in Chandigarh, but still it did not work properly.On the other hand dealer denied the allegation and stated that the GPS navigation was replaced, hence no further indulgence was required. Pleading no deficiency in service and denying other allegations, the dealer prayed for dismissal of the complaint.After hearing arguments the consumer commission directed respondents, which include the dealer, service centre and the manufacturer of the navigation system, to replace the complete music system having in-built GPS navigation system with a new one, carrying fresh warranty, free of cost.They have also been directed to pay Rs15,000 to the complainant towards compensation on account of deficiency in service and causing mental and physical harassment to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/defective-navigation-system-costs-automobile-seller-dear-in-chandigarh-172520
19-11-2020||---||Teachers want schools opened in phased way in Mohali||Mohali, November 18The Democratic Teachers Front (DTF) staged a protest demonstration outside the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) building in Phase 8 and demanded that all schools be opened in a phased manner and the collection of false data on teachers to show 100% online participation in the Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS) be stopped.Teachers cordoned off the Education Secretary’s office for two hours and closed both the gates. It was announced that effigies of the Chief Minister, Education Minister and Education Secretary would be burnt at the tehsil-level across the state from December 1 to 3.Addressing teachers on the occasion, front state president Davinder Singh Poonia and general secretary Jaswinder Singh said the decision to reduce pay grades and implement the central scale for new recruits in the Education Department should be revoked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-want-schools-opened-in-phased-way-in-mohali-172521
19-11-2020||---||Dr Parvinder takes over as Rayat Bahra University Vice-Chancellor||Mohali, November 18Dr Parvinder Singh, controller of examinations, Panjab University, today took over as Vice-Chancellor of Rayat Bahra University. Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor, Rayat Bahra University, congratulated Dr Parvinder on taking charge.Speaking on the occasion, Sahila Bahra, vice-president, Rayat Bahra Group of Institutions, said over the years Rayat Bahra University had carved a niche for itself in academic and extracurricular activities and was attracting students not only from different parts of the country, but abroad too.Dr Parvinder, who had taken over as the PU controller of examinations in 2013, taught chemistry in the Post Graduate Government College, Sector 42, for 22 years and also remained head of the Chemistry Department for six years.He is a life fellow of TERA (USA) and ACS (USA), Chandigarh Rattan Awardee and former member of the PU academic council, faculty of science, board of studies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dr-parvinder-takes-over-as-rayat-bahra-university-vice-chancellor-172522
19-11-2020||---||Top seeds win tennis tourney in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 18Top seeds Aditya Chauhan and Harleen Kaur Dhanda won the HPCL-CLTA-AITA Championship Series (CS-3) Tennis Tournament concluded at the CLTA Complex here today. Both players lifted their respective titles in straight sets.In the boys’ U-16 title clash, Haryana’s Chauhan easily overpowered fifth seed Punjab’s Aarush Sharma in straight sets 6-1, 6-2. Meanwhile, in the girls’ U-16 final, Haryana’s Harleen overpowered local contender and second seed Radhika Vasudeva.Harleen won the first set 6-4, followed by another 6-1 win in the second set, to win the title. The winners were awarded by Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) officials.Results (Boys’ U-16)Aditya Chauhan bt Aarush Sharma 6-1 6-2.Results (Girls’ U-16)Harleen Kaur Dhanda bt Radhika Vasudeva 6-4, 6-1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seeds-win-tennis-tourney-in-chandigarh-172523
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar by Panjab University's Philosophy Department||CHASCON from December 17Chandigarh: Panjab University in association with the Chandigarh Region Innovation and Knowledge Cluster (CRIKC) will organise the 14th Chandigarh Science Congress 2020 (CHASCON-2020) from December 17 to 19 on the theme ‘Science and technology innovations: Ushering in the era of Make-in-India” under the patronship of Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU. TNSLecture on art, literatureChandigarh: The Panjab University Alumni Association (PUAA) in collaboration with the Department of English and Cultural Studies, under Prof Deepti Gupta, Dean (Alumni relations), organised a web lecture on “Art and literature in the age of technology”. Rajan Kashyap and Prof Gurdeepak Singh delivered the lecture. The event was clubbed with an inaugural session for the new batch of MA (English) students. TNSResults declaredChandigarh: Panjab University has announced the results of BVoc (Food processing and preservation)-6th semester, MSc (Nuclear medicine)-2nd semester, postgraduate diploma in Buddhist studies, MA (Indian classical dance)-4th semester, certificate in Tibetan, diploma in Tibetan and MSc (Cosmetology and Health Care)-2nd semester. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-by-panjab-universitys-philosophy-department-172525
19-11-2020||---||Six protesting outsourced sanitation workers fired in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 18Amid the ongoing strike by sanitation workers against not being given the Diwali bonus, six outsourced sanitation workers at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, who have been a part of the agitation, were fired by their service provider here today.A letter written by the outsourced agency, Kulwant Singh Security Agency, reads: “It was brought out to the notice of the company by the principal employer that you are acting as an instigator and have been disrupting housekeeping services at the GMCH since November 13. It has also been found that you, along with others, join in nefarious activities and have been threatening and manhandling other safai karamcharies so that they do not render their services even in the emergency/ ICU wards.”“It is also heard in an audio clip that you were instigating people to dump the garbage on the hospital premises. It indicates that you are not serious in performing your duties. This kind of behavior at work can result in putting lives at risk in the hospital. It displays general negligence and irresponsibility on your part and hence, your services are no more required and you are relieved from your duties with effect from November 18. You are advised to return the ID card issued to you by our firm,” the letter further reads.Around 300-odd sanitation workers went on a strike on Monday, leaving the sanitation services of the GMCH-32 disrupted. The dustbins placed at corridors and wards reeked of medical waste.Om Kailash, the chairman of the GMCH-32 Safai Karamchari Union, said their agitation would continue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-protesting-outsourced-sanitation-workers-fired-in-chandigarh-172512
19-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Community centre still shut year after launch in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 18Even after almost a year of being inaugurated by local MP Kirron Kher, a community centre at Rehabilitation Colony in Dhanas continues to remain closed for booking.The centre, whose foundation stone was laid on May 13, 2018, was inaugurated on December 21 last year by the MP. However, it has failed to serve the propose, inconveniencing residents.A residentDue to its closure, locals are forced to look for places in other areas such as Sarangpur. The community centre in Sector 38 is out of their reach due to its high cost. Thus, the poor are the worst hit in Dhanas.“We are thankful to the MP for inaugurating it, but the MC has not opened it yet. My marriage is on December 7 and I have been running from pillar to post to book the facility. The next month will be very cold. If we can book the centre, the wedding will take place in a closed space. My father is no more and my brother is the only breadwinner. So, we can’t afford booking another place,” rued Mamata.She said the Sampark Centre staff had told them that the centre was not displayed on the MC’s website and was unavailable for booking. “There are two other community centres in Dhanas — one in the colony and another in the village. But, they are very old and do not have this kind of a hall,” she said.Meanwhile, the booking branch and Sampark Centre officials were clueless about the status of the centre. A booking staff official said perhaps the engineering wing staff, which was supposed to provide them with the list of community centres for booking, had not done it.Municipal Corporation’s Executive Engineer Ravinder Sharma said: “The UT Administration had built it. Even after its inauguration, there was leakage in the building and a small wall was broken. So, we had written to the Administration to get it repaired, after which MC had to take over. Later, we got water and electricity connections arranged for the centre. Now, it is ready and we wrote to the branch concerned of the MC to start booking the community centre for events about two months ago.” Meanwhile, an official of the booking branch said they are yet to get any communication regarding the same.Also unavailableOther community centres such as the ones in Sectors 35, 20, 21 and Ram Darbar are also lying closed. Renovation work is going on in these centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/community-centre-still-shut-year-after-launch-in-chandigarh-172513
19-11-2020||Simmi Waraich||Why Chandigarh needs group home for mentally ill||Historically, across countries and regions, the rights of persons with intellectual disabilities and mental illnesses have been the last to be achieved. The reasons are not hard to guess — public ignorance, social stigma and discrimination. Finally, in accordance with the United Nations Convention for Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNCRPD), we have the new Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016, and the Mental Healthcare Act 2017 in India.The two Acts are a radical departure from the past and for the first time enshrine several fundamental rights for persons with disabilities. One of the most important is the ‘right to community living’, i.e. persons with mental disabilities have a right to live in and not be separated from the community. The two Acts also make it clear that it is the duty of the appropriate government(s) to ensure the fulfilment of these rights.There is a widespread myth and misunderstanding that persons with chronic disabilities due to mental illness and intellectual disabilities cannot live independently in society, that they might be disruptive. However, most people with psychiatric disorders already live in the community with their parents or caregivers. Regular supervision, medication and socio-occupational rehabilitation help them live as productive members in society. These individuals would require assisted living facilities once their parents/caregivers are no longer around to provide support. The support needs vary from individual to individual — some are capable of independent living with minimal support, others have moderate support needs and still others may need a 24/7 care home. The whole idea of supported/assisted living is very similar to an old-age home i.e. some people are fully independent, some need support and care and their daily routine may need to be supervised. Assisted living is not rocket science; the challenges are not technical or financial, but social — ignorance and stigma.So how does a society or government ensure community living? What are the various models? How many persons with mental disabilities need assisted community living services? These are all valid questions and concerns.Let’s take the example of Chandigarh. By various estimates and surveys, the need for assisted living facilities for persons with mental disabilities is approximately 400-600 people (men and women belonging to different socio-economic strata). However, not all of them need it at once. The immediate need would be roughly 100-150 people; others would need it in the future as their parents and/or caregivers become very old. What could be the practical models for community living in Chandigarh? It’s important to understand that the needs and requirements of persons with mental disabilities vary. So there is no one way or the perfect model. Also, every model has its advantages and drawbacks, just as with everything else in life. To begin with, in Chandigarh, there could be 8-10 large houses spread across the residential areas in different sectors, or have some large suitable campus where different needs and requirements can be met; or perhaps a combination of both approaches.In terms of management and funding, it would be easier and cost-effective to provide different services in one campus. It is important to ensure that the place is open and accessible, embedded in the city, and doesn’t give an institutional look. CASE FOR INDIRA HOLIDAY HOMEOver the years there has been a growing need for setting up assisted-living residential facilities for persons with mental disabilities, particularly those with chronic mental illness or intellectual disability, rendering them incapable of living independently. It is requested that such a facility be created in Indira Holiday Home, Sector 24.’ Dr Savita Malhotra, Ex-Dean, PGIIndira Holiday Home is a charming, large and green campus that is just perfect for community living of persons with mental disabilities. Over the last three months, over 50 people (parents, siblings, mental health professionals, special educators and concerned citizens) have sent emails to the UT Administration, requesting for the conversion of Indira Holiday Home into an inclusive community village, where old people and persons with mental disabilities could live together like a symbiotic community. Dina Singh, a parentVocational training in sewing, embroidery, candle-making and spice packaging can be offered. Other activities such as gardening, horticulture, crafts and bakery can also be done. Additionally, a team of mental health professionals and social workers/NGOs can be formed to chalk out a management plan. Funds can be raised through individual donations and CSR. Kamal Malhi, meditation teacherWith its large campus and built-up facilities, it can be easily converted into an excellent place for community/assisted living for persons with psycho-social disabilities. Madhu Sarin, architect-cum-development plannerBeing a large space, it can easily be used for multiple programmes like old age home also. Green spaces are calming for people with mental disability and thus this place matches well with the requirement. Dr Harkamal, counsellorChandigarh is unfortunately woefully lacking in decent assisted living facilities for persons with mental disabilities. It is still stuck in a 19th century mindset when it comes to residential facilities for persons with mental disabilities. The conversion of Indira Holiday Home into an inclusive community living space may not solve the entire problem, but it will be a substantial solution. More importantly, it will help break social and mindset barriers Poonam Natarajan, ex-chairperson, The National Trust, India||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/why-chandigarh-needs-group-home-for-mentally-ill-172514
19-11-2020||---||Chandigarh Mayor launches eAwas scheme||Chandigarh, November 18Mayor Raj Bala Malik launched the ‘eAwas’ scheme for the MC pool government houses on the MC office premises here today.The Mayor said the employees of the Municipal Corporation could now submit an online application for the allotment/ change/mutual exchange of the houses through the eAwas website.The applications received on or before the 20th day of a calendar month will be considered for allotment in the succeeding month. The applications received on the 21st day to the last date of a calendar month will be entertained/considered for allotment after the succeeding month.KK Yadav, MC Commissioner, said the application form would be examined by the MC House Allotment Committee. In case of an incomplete application form or application form by ineligible applicants, the request will be rejected by the committee and the applicant will be required to submit a fresh online application on the official website.After considering the eligible applications, the seniority lists shall be updated every month, on the website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-launches-eawas-scheme-172515
19-11-2020||Mohali ||‘Those with pulmonary disease more vulnerable to Covid’||People with uncontrolled chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are at a higher risk of developing severe Covid-19 infections, said Dr Suresh Goyal, senior consultant of pulmonary medicine at a hospital in Mohali.He said there were 300 million cases of COPD in the world. “COPD is now the 3rd leading cause of death globally and is highly prevalent in low-resource countries. It is, however, a preventable and treatable respiratory disease that occurs due to airflow limitation,” said Dr Goyal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/those-with-pulmonary-disease-more-vulnerable-to-covid-172516
19-11-2020||---||Man held for student’s suicide in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 18A day after a 24-year-old student of Panjab University (PU) committed suicide, the UT police have arrested a man on the charge of abetment to suicide.The victim, named Anchal, had ended her life by hanging at her house in Dhanas.The victim had left behind a suicide note in which she had accused one Kulwant of harassing her. In the one-page suicide note, the victim had narrated some instances of Kulwant harassing her that provoked her to take the extreme step. The victim, in her note, had also stated that Kulwant used to come to her office and harass her. She had also mentioned the local address and mobile numbers of the accused.A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC has been registered at the Sarangpur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-students-suicide-in-chandigarh-172517
19-11-2020||Naina Mishra||Vitamin D supplement helped Covid-19 patients: PGI study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 18In a study published recently, doctors from the PGIMER have established the role of vitamin D supplement in achieving SARS-CoV-2 RNA negativity among Covid patients.As per the existing literature, vitamin D has an immunomodulatory effect and may reduce susceptibility and severity of viral infections.The study titled ‘Short term, high-dose vitamin D supplementation for Covid-19 disease’ was carried out by Dr Ashu Rastogi, Dr Anil Bhansali, Dr Niranjan Khare, Dr Vikas Suri, Dr Narayana Yaddanapudi, Dr Naresh Sachdeva, Dr GD Puri and Dr Pankaj Malhotra.As many as 40 asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid positive patients and those deficient in vitamin D were enrolled for the study. Patients requiring invasive ventilation or with significant comorbidities were excluded from the study.The participants were subsequently randomised (16 in the intervention arm and 24 to the control arm) in the study. A total of 10 out of 16 (62.5 per cent) participants in the intervention group achieved SARS-CoV-2 negativity compared to five out of 24 (20.8 per cent) participants in the control arm.The study concluded that a high dose of oral vitamin D supplement helped to achieve SARS-CoV-2 RNA negativity in greater proportion of asymptomatic vitamin D-deficient individuals with SARS-CoV-2 infection, along with a significant decrease in inflammatory marker.“SARS-CoV-2 RNA negativity by cholecalciferol (vitamin D) supplementation may help in reducing the transmission rate of the highly contagious SARS-CoV-2 infection,” reads the conclusion.SARS CoV-2 negativity beneficialThe newer recommendations by regulatory bodies, including the ICMR, do not mandate repeated SARS CoV-2 RNA testing to document SARS CoV-2 negativity before discharging the asymptomatic individuals. Hence, achieving SARSCoV-2 negativity in greater proportions is likely to beneficial.“A reassurance for public health workers regarding greater likelihood of SARS CoV-2 RNA negativity in individuals receiving therapeutic cholecalciferol supplementation will be encouraging,” said the study.ResultsAs many as 40 asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid positive patients and those deficient in vitamin D were enrolled for the study. Patients requiring invasive ventilation or with significant comorbidities were excluded from the study.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vitamin-d-supplement-helped-covid-19-patients-pgi-study-172476
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Keep proceedings of counselling sealed: Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed that the proceedings of counselling for the NRI seats for admission to the MBBS course at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, be kept in a sealed cover.The direction by the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh came on a petition filed by Aanchal Setia against the Chandigarh Administration and other respondents. The Bench observed that admittedly the counselling for admission to MBBS was in progress today. A query was put to the counsel representing the UT and the GMCH whether he would be able to give the Bench a clear picture about the filling of seats in various categories by the next day, to which his answer was in the affirmative.The Bench added that the counsel for the petitioner prayed that the candidate may be allowed to participate in the NRI category. “However, we notice from the application form that the petitioner originally applied in the general category. Thus, at this stage, we are not inclined to accept this prayer. However, it is directed that proceedings of the counselling for the NRI seats be kept in a sealed cover,” the Bench added.Adjourning the hearing to Thursday, the Bench asked the counsel appearing for the UT and the college to apprise the court of further proceedings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/keep-proceedings-of-counselling-sealed-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-172397
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Avoid travel to high-risk zones: Chandigarh||Keeping in view the rising Covid infections in Chandigarh and the adjoining states, the UT Health Department has asked city residents to avoid travelling to high-risk zones such as New Delhi and the NCR region unless unavoidable.Advisory‘Maintain 6 ft distance’People coming back from Delhi should maintain 6 ft distance from their family members and always wear a mask at home and limit contact with others to less than 15 minutes.The department said the probability of getting infected increased substantially when people travelled to high-risk zones.The department has also requested people travelling back from New Delhi by bus to avail of the free Covid testing facility provided at the Sector 17 bus stand.The department has made an appeal to the Delhi returnees to get tested immediately if symptomatic and opt for volunteer testing even if they are asymptomatic for the safety of their family and colleagues.The department said free voluntary testing facility was available at the GMSH, Sector 16, the Civil Hospital, Mani Majra, the Civil Hospital, Sector 22, the Civil Hospital, Sector 45, and mobile testing units as per schedule. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/avoid-travel-to-high-risk-zones-chandigarh-172400
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 145 more test positive in Chandigarh||The city today recorded 145 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 16,167. Besides, there was a fatality.A 65-year-old man from Sector 46, a case of severe acute respiratory infection, died at the GMCH-32. As many as 89 more patients have defeated the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-145-more-test-positive-in-chandigarh-172401
19-11-2020||Panchkula||Covid-19: Panchkula sees one death, 27 cases||The district today reported 27 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally to 8,049.Among the fresh cases, seven were from Sector 15, five from Sector 12-A, two each from Pinjore, Sector 24 and Sector 7 and one each from Amravati Enclave, ITBP, Kalka, Ramgarh, Sector 11, Sector 14, Sector 16 and Sector 9.The district also witnessed one death due to the virus.A 68-year-old man from Pinjore, who was suffering from hypertension and diabetes, succumbed to the disease. The district Covid toll now stands at 120.While 7,566 patients have defeated the virus so far, 363 cases are still active.The district’s recovery rate is 93.9 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-panchkula-sees-one-death-27-cases-172403
19-11-2020||Mohali||Covid-19: One death, 134 cases in Mohali||One Covid-19 death and 134 new cases were reported from the district today. As many as 96 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours.The district has so far seen 13,896 cases, while 12,540 patients have been cured. As of now, there are 1,096 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-one-death-134-cases-in-mohali-172405
19-11-2020||---||Pipeline being repaired, residents of Sector 29, Chandigarh getting erratic water supply||Chandigarh, November 18Some parts of Sector 29 are getting erratic water supply for the past five days.Residents said they had to wait for water tankers every day. Sometimes, these tankers failed to meet their requirement.“While getting ready for the office, we have another task of fetching water,” rued a resident of Tribune Colony.Another resident said they were getting water on the ground floor, but not the upper floors.MC officials said the water supply was disrupted in the area as a damaged pipeline was being repaired.“We are providing sufficient number of water tankers to meet the demand. I have asked engineering wing officials to expedite the repair work,” said area councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali.“It is shocking that for the past five days, the MC could not fix the problem. They must carry out the work on a priority as it is a big hassle for several families living here,” added a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pipeline-being-repaired-residents-of-sector-29-chandigarh-getting-erratic-water-supply-172410
19-11-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||God’s kids: Good orphanage their only hope||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 18This Diwali, the only light for Tania (8) and Badal (6) was the hope of making it to a good orphanage.Their father had already deserted them, and their mother, the breadwinner of the family, was killed in a hit-and-run on November 12.Tribune photo: VickyMeenu Chauhan (25) suffered a fatal head injury while cycling back home after finishing her job when a motorcyclist hit her at the Sector 69-70 intersection around 8 pm and fled the spot. She was taken to Mayo Hospital and later to the Civil Hospital, Phase 6. She was then taken to the GMSH-16 in Chandigarh, and finally to the PGI where she breathed her last the next morning.Her last rites were performed by her neighbours in Sohana village.Tania and Badal are now the children of God. Oblivious to the tragedy that has fallen on them, they play with the four kids of an acquaintance, Ravinder, who has promised them a feast in two days’ time. “There is a marriage in the locality. The kids will have good food once before leaving for an orphanage. The Mohali SDM has made arrangements for them at Prabh Aasra in Kharar for the time being,” said the daily wager.Unrealised dreamMeenu died with an unrealised dream of having a happy family. The Agra girl was set to marry again in 10 days to bring her life back on track. Dheeraj, her prospective husband, and his mother Anita are in a quandary over the fate of the children. Anita, 70, said, “I want to take care of these children till I am alive but who knows what happens after I am no more.”Besides the uncertainty over the kids’ future, their education too is set to get interrupted. “Before the lockdown, Tania and Badal were enrolled in a government primary school in Mataur. No one knows what lies in future for them,” said the septuagenarian with her eyes brimming with helplessness.Deserted by employerMeenu was employed as a peon in a private company at Bestech Business Towers in Mohali. The deceased and her children have been deserted by her employer too. “Except for sending a Diwali gift, the company has promised only to pay her 15-day salary,” said Rajender.Financial security of the kids is a big worry as there is a little hope of receiving compensation from an insurance firm. The police suspect that the motorcycle did not have an insurance cover and the person against whose name it was registered worked as a security guard.An eyewitness had noted down the registration number of the offending vehicle and informed the Phase 8 police station. The police have, however, not been able to arrest the suspect till now. Investigating officer Bhupinder Singh said, “The motorcyclist will be arrested soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gods-kids-good-orphanage-their-only-hope-172412
19-11-2020||---||Sector 41, Chandigarh man held for two robberies||Chandigarh, November 18A 28-year-old man has been arrested by the UT police for allegedly robbing two persons at knife-point.A team, led by Inspector Amanjot Singh, SHO of the Sector 39 police station, nabbed the suspect, Bhupinder Singh, alias Sunny, a resident of Sector 41, from near the Sector 54/55/40/41 chowk.Criminal pastIn one of the cases, Gurjinder Singh of Panchkula, who works with a courier company, had reported that he had gone to deliver couriers in Sector 41 on November 16 when an unknown person threatened him at knife-point and robbed him of his mobile phone.In another incident, the victim, Vinod Kumar, a resident of Sector 41, was robbed by the suspect the same day.Kumar had reported that while he was returning home, a man carrying a knife stopped him near the Sector 39 petrol pump. The suspect threatened the victim and robbed him of his purse containing Rs1,500 and documents.The police had registered robbery cases at the Sector 39 police station. A police official said the robbed items had been recovered from the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-41-chandigarh-man-held-for-two-robberies-172417
19-11-2020||Zirakpur||Businessman falls for oil trick, loses Rs 13 lakh in Zirakpur||Two unidentified youths fled with a bag containing Rs13 lakh from a car on the Ambala Zirakpur highway on Tuesday night.The complainant, Manoj Alwadi of Jagadhri, stated he had a plywood factory in Yamunanagar and had come here to collect a payment of Rs13 lakh from Karan Narula of Narula Plywood.Manoj stated that on the Ambala-Zirakpur highway, two young men riding a bike, pointed at the bonnet of his car, said something and drove off. He did not understand the gesture. After a while, the duo returned and pointed at the bonnet again.When he checked, there was some oil on the bonnet. Manoj came out of the car and opened the bonnet. In the meantime, a young man came from behind and fled with Rs13 lakh lying in the car.A passerby told him that a boy wearing a mask had fled with his belongings lying in the car.Woman duped of Rs 3.45 lakhChandigarh: A woman was duped of Rs  3.45 lakh by a fraudster, who promised to send her gifts from abroad.The victim, a resident of Sector 38, reported that an unknown person befriended her on social media. The fraudster promised to send her a laptop, an iPhone and 20,000 pounds as help. He claimed that a parcel had been sent, which needed to be released at the airport after paying some fee.The police said the fraudster managed to dupe the victim of Rs 3.45 lakh. A case has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/businessman-falls-for-oil-trick-loses-rs-13-lakh-in-zirakpur-172421
19-11-2020||Mohali||Biker dies in hit-and-run in Mohali||A 20-year-old youth was killed after an unknown vehicle hit his motorcycle near Dullat Resort on Airport Road here yesterday.The victim, identified as Vishal Bansal of Mata Gujri Enclave in Kharar, was studying in a private college here, said the police.The incident occurred around 11 am when the victim was going towards Mohali on his motorcycle. A vehicle hit him and sped away, leaving behind the victim in a pool of blood. Bystanders informed the police following which the victim was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 from where doctors referred him to the GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh, where he died last night.A case was registered at the Balongi police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-dies-in-hit-and-run-in-mohali-172423
19-11-2020||Chandigarh||Decomposed body of missing youth found in Chandigarh||The decomposed body of a 25-year-old youth, who had gone missing around two months ago, was found in a forest area at Mauli Jagran. The police said prima facie, it seemed to be a case of suicide.Rope tied with treeAn employee of the Forest Department saw the decomposed body lying under a tree following which the police were informed, who visted the spot. A team of the CFL also visited the spot.The police said a list of missing persons from nearby areas was checked and the characteristics of the victim were found to be similar to Birender Shah (25) of Hallo Majra, who had gone missing around two months ago. A missing report was also filed by his family at the Sector 31 police station. Shah’s family members were informed, who identified the body. “The cause of the death will be established after the autopsy,” said a police official.The police have initiated inquest proceedings. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decomposed-body-of-missing-youth-found-in-chandigarh-172425
19-11-2020||Thieves strike at Sector 20 house||Thieves strike at Sector 20, Chandigarh house||Chandigarh: A theft has been reported from a house in Sector 20. According to the police, the complainant, Mandeep Kaur, who works as a clerk at the Punjab Police Headquarters, reported that she went to her native place in Faridkot on November 15. The next day, her neighbour informed her over the phone that the locks of her house were broken. She returned to the city on November 17 and found two gold rings and Rs 50,000 stolen from her house. A case has been registered at the Sector 19 police station. TNSTax certificate facility launchedChandigarh: Mayor Raj Bala Malik on Wednesday launched the facility of issuing the clearance certificate in respect of residential property tax paid by residents of Chandigarh without making any request. She said the corporation would issue nearly 80,000 certificates within two months. She said people could now deposit their property tax dues and simultaneously get the clearance certificate without making any request. TNS2 groups clash, seven arrestedChandigarh: Seven persons have been arrested by the UT police after two groups clashed with each other at Mauli Jagran. Two cross FIRs have been registered. The police said Ranjeet Singh of Mauli Jagran alleged that Shiva, Puran, Raj Chander, Karan, Mukesh and Budh Pal, were creating nuisance outside his house. When he objected to it, the accused allegedly attacked him and his brother Bachan with sticks on November 16. The accused also vandalised several cars parked near the complainant's house, said Ranjeet Singh. A case was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station and Shiva, Puran, Raj Chander and Mukesh were arrested. Another case was registered on the complaint of Shiva, who alleged that Ranjeet, Bachan, Dharampal, alias Kalia, and others assaulted him. The three accused were held. TNSElectoral roll: Claims invitedChandigarh: The UT Administration has invited claims and objections from public for the draft electoral roll of the Chandigarh Parliamentary constituency. Official spokesperson said the draft electoral roll had been published on November 16. The claims and objections can be submitted from November 16 to December 15 in the office of the Assistant Electoral Registration Officers, Sampark Centres and Citizen Service Centres (CSCs). All relevant forms will be available in the office of the AEROs, BLOs and on the official website of department — www.ceochandigarh.gov.in. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-strike-at-sector-20-chandigarh-house-172428
