19-10-2020||Chandigarh||40 fresh COVID-19 cases take Chandigarh's infection tally to 13,686||Forty fresh cases of coronavirus infection were reported in a day in Chandigarh taking the infection tally to 13,686, while no new deaths due to the disease was reported during the period. According to a bulletin, the death toll stood at 208.  Sixty-three patients were discharged following recovery, taking the total number of cured persons to 12,617. There are 861 active cases of COVID-19 in the city as of now, it stated.A total of 95,776 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 81,509 tested negative while reports of 127 samples were awaited, the bulletin stated. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-chandigarhs-infection-tally-to-13-686-158112
19-10-2020||
||Zirakpur cops yet to trace prime accused in two murder cases||Zirakpur, October 18 The Zirakpur police have failed to arrest prime accused in two murder cases reported recently. Ashok Saini had allegedly killed his 45-year-old wife, Sudesh, with a sharp weapon over some dispute three days ago. Since then, he continues to be on the run. He has been absconding from his house Dhakoli after committing the crime. Ashok made last phone call to his son and told him that he had killed Sudesh. Since then, there has been no clue about his whereabouts. He was into the business of making aluminium doors. In the murder case of a Himachal Pradesh native, prime accused Happy Brar, a resident of Faridkot, and some other suspects are still at large. The police have failed to trace Happy Brar, who allegedly shot dead Anil Thakur (35), a native of Mandi, Himachal Pradesh, on the VIP road in Zirakpur on October 10. Anil used to reside in Kharar with his wife and a 10-month-old son. Of the total eight suspects, three, including a woman, were earlier arrested. The cops had also impounded a silver Fortuner, which had a fake registration number, and a red Swift car belonging to the suspects. Heated arguments ensue over overtaking the vehicles. Meanwhile, the police said they had formed teams to trace the suspects. They had also conducted raids at various places. “We have got some leads and arrests will be made soon,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-cops-yet-to-trace-prime-accused-in-two-murder-cases-157806
19-10-2020||---||Sector 42 drive-through centre sans swipe machine, e-payment||Chandigarh, October 18The only privately-run drive-through Covid sample collection centre at the lake in Sector 42 here for serving residents of southern sectors does not have the facility for cashless transactions for over a week now.In the absence of a card machine or online payment platforms, suspected Covid patients are left with no other option but to rush to the nearest ATM, preferably at the sector’s market.With no guidelines or SOPs on payment options for these centres, there is always a risk of spreading the infection.“First of all, they are calling it a drive-through centre, but we have to park our car away and walk to the cash counter. Even there, we are expected to pay Rs 1,200 in cash as they don’t have any card swipe machine,” said a person in the waiting line outside the cash counter.Another person, who came for Covid-19 sampling, said: “I only use card these days, but I went to the ATM to withdraw money. Now, if I test positive, I am afraid that I may have inadvertently passed the infection.”Talking about the problem, the owner of the private collection centre said: “We have not yet received the card swipe machine from the bank. Bank officials say there’s a shortage of swipe machines. However, we will get one installed at the centre today itself to assist the people.”He said, “Online payment procedure requires 10 minutes for conformation, so we discontinued it for the convenience of people visiting the centre for sampling.”UT Health Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said: “There are no separate sample collection guidelines for the drive-through centres, especially for payment. Cashless transactions should be encouraged to limit the risk of infection.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-42-drive-through-centre-sans-swipe-machine-e-payment-157807
19-10-2020||---||PUTA threatens stir over delay in CAS interviews||Chandigarh, October 18The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) threatened to sit on a dharna if the Panjab University authorities failed to finalise schedule for conducting CAS interviews by November 3.In a letter written to the PU Vice-Chancellor, PUTA said: “Despite repeated requests, both in writing as well as in person, there has been no response from the office till date. Selection Committees have been formed by various universities across the country as well as the State Public Service Commission in the past several months, both online and physically. There is no justification for not conducting these interviews when Unlock 5 has already been announced. It is a matter of concern that the authorities are not bothered to even respond to requests from PUTA.”PUTA’s decision opposedMeanwhile, MC Sidhu from the Department of Botany, who lost the recent PUTA elections, said, “The newly elected body had already written on the same issue on October 13. The VC was asked to hold interviews within 15 days or face protest on October 28. On Sunday, they extended it to November 3. PUTA had not only forgotten its earlier time limit of 15 days, but also tried to scuttle its own move,” said Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-threatens-stir-over-delay-in-cas-interviews-157808
19-10-2020||---||Rayat Bahra varsity dept gets ISRO nod||Mohali, October 18The Department of Physics at Rayat Bahra University has been accorded approval for conducting online outreach programmes of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), the top space organisation of the country.Gurvinder Singh Bahra, Chancellor of Rayat Bahra University, said online outreach programmes of ISRO would be conducted through the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS), Dehradun.Bahra said this would enable the students of Rayat Bahra University to benefit in terms of excellent exposure. The university was now the network institute of ISRO and was included in the online application form of the IIRS outreach programme.Dr Jatinder Singh Bal, Pro Vice-Chancellor, said the use of remote sensing, geographical information system, global navigation satellite system and associated geospatial technologies was increasing rapidly, creating an urgent demand for trained manpower.Dr MS Mehta, Head of the Department of Physics, said the IIRS had successfully conducted 22 such courses so far with participation of over 1.20 lakh participants from over 1,048 academic institutions, government departments and industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rayat-bahra-varsity-dept-gets-isro-nod-157809
19-10-2020||---||Navratri fest: 18,500 visit Mansa Devi shrine on Day 2||Panchkula, October 18Mansa Devi and Kali Mata temples are witnessing a heavy rush of devotees during the ongoing Navratri fest despite Covid-19 fear.DonationsAccording to Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board officials, Mansa Devi temple received Rs17.50 lakh and Kali Mata temple got Rs3.45 lakh as cash donation on Sunday.While Mansa Devi shrine received 17 gold nuggets and 85 silver nuggets, Kali Mata temple got three gold nuggets and 62 silver nuggets.Around 18,500 devotees visited Mansa Devi temple today. Over 16,000 devotees thronged the historic temple on Day 1 of the Ashwin Navratra.Kali Mata temple witnessed a footfall of 3,510 devotees today. A total of 4,490 persons had visited the shrine yesterday.While Mansa Devi shrine witnessed an increase in the footfall, the number of devotees saw a dip at Kali Mata temple.According to Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board officials, Mansa Devi temple received Rs17.50 lakh and Kali Mata temple received Rs3.45 lakh as cash donation today.While Mansa Devi shrine received 17 gold nuggets and 85 silver nuggets, Kali Mata temple got three gold nuggets and 62 silver nuggets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/navratri-fest-18-500-visit-mansa-devi-shrine-on-day-2-157810
19-10-2020||---||FOSWAC to hold protest march today||Chandigarh, October 18Residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and various political parties are unwilling to give up on their fight against the enhanced water tariff in the city.The Federation of Sector Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC) has announced to hold a protest march against the ‘unjustified’ hike in the heart of the city tomorrow.“The MC first needs to provide better services and clean drinking water before thinking of hiking the tariff,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, FOSWAC chairman.The city unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) too has intensified its signature campaign against the increased water tariff in Maloya. Party general secretary Gurdev Yadav conducted a door-to-door signature campaign today and promised residents that if AAP got the majority in the civic body, each household would receive 20,000 litre of water free as being provided by the Delhi Government.City AAP convenor Prem Garg said their party would also organise a protest.Devinder Singh Babla, a Congress councilor from ward number 18, said, “The BJP has failed on every front. The agenda for the House meetings in the last one year clearly showed that development works have come to a standstill.”Ward number 25 councillor Jagtar Singh Dhillon said, “We are against the hike and will bring a special agenda on the issue in the meeting.”Ward number 5 councillor Sheela Devi alleged that a rift between BJP councillors and Mayor Raj Bala Malik led to the issues like enhanced water tariff and the rent of Sector 23 booths being neglected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foswac-to-hold-protest-march-today-157812
19-10-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Chandigarh, MC to formalise user fee for waste collection||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18The Municipal Corporation House meeting on October 20 will formalise user charges for door-to-door collection of garbage on a per square metre basis.Five slabs have been set for residential dwelling units. These are up to 50 square metre, 50 square metre to 200 square metre, 200 square metre to 500 square metre, 500 square metre to 1,000 square metre and over 1,000 square metre. The agenda for the House meeting proposes that owners will have to pay between Rs50 and Rs350 per month to dispose of garbage on their doorstep in the form of segregated waste.Medical Officer of Health Dr Amrit Pal Warring said: “These charges have already been approved. We are just informing the House that earlier the MC was not charging any money, but now it will charge the money.”Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, councillor from Ward No. 1, said: “The charges were exponentially increased in 2017 only. It remains to be seen whether a common household will have to pay more for it now or not.”At present, independent garbage collectors collect waste from the doorstep and segregate it themselves by charging amount. The Municipal Corporation intends to do this job now and charge for it.The MC is already running vehicles in 13 UT villages to collect garbage segregated from households free of cost, but now it proposes to levy charges on it. Commercial establishments, shops, eating places such as dhabas and sweets shops will be charged Rs500 per month. Restaurants up to a seating capacity of 50 persons will be required to pay Rs2,000 and those with the capacity of over 50 persons will be charged Rs3,000. Clinics, dispensaries, laboratories (more than 50 beds) with non bio-medical waste will be charged Rs4,000 per month.The agenda also proposes to charge Rs2,000 as user charges for commercial offices, government offices, banks, insurance offices, coaching classes and educational institutions.Devinder Singh Babla, Congress councillor from Ward No. 18, said: “The BJP has burdened city residents with excessive charges, be it water or garbage. We will oppose any move to increase user charges for city residents.”Bulk generators of waste, who are unable to process their waste on site, will have to pay Rs2,000 per day for its collection, transport and processing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-to-formalise-user-fee-for-waste-collection-157813
19-10-2020||Mohali||Police meet martyrs’ kin in Mohali||The Mohali police held a meeting with family members of policemen, who were martyred during terrorism in Punjab, at the Phase 8 police station here today.Varinder Singh’s mother Dharvinder Kaur, Daljit Singh’s brother Kamaljit Singh, Gurmukh Singh’s wife Darshan Kaur and son Arshbir Singh, and Malkit Singh’s daughter-in-law Gurdiyal Kaur met with DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal. The DSP listened to the grievances of families and assured them of helping them in case of any trouble.The family members were told to contact the police anytime in future. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-meet-martyrs-kin-in-mohali-157814
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees one death, 64 fresh infections||The city today recorded one Covid death and 64 fresh cases. A 57-year-old woman from Sector 26, who was suffering from an acute kidney injury, type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, died at the PGI. The district toll stands at 208 and tally at 13,646. Meanwhile, 94 patients were reportedly recovered from the virus, taking the total number of recoveries to 12,554 in the city. There are 884 active cases. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-one-death-64-fresh-infections-157815
19-10-2020||Naina Mishra||Remdesivir ineffective in reducing mortality: PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 18Doctors who have treated Covid-19 patients at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here have agreed to the World Health Organisation (WHO) study which says Remdesivir has proven to have “little or no effect on hospitalised Covid-19 patients” as indicated by overall mortality.About the drugInterim results of trial coordinated by the WHO indicate that it has little or no effect on 28-day mortality or in-hospital course of Covid-19 among hospitalised patientsThe study, which was not peer-reviewed, found that Remdesivir, Hydroxychloroquine, Lopinavir and Interferon regimens appeared to have little effect on in-hospital mortality.The findings have put a dampener on expectations from these therapies — including Remdesivir, once seen as promising.The WHO on Thursday made available interim results from the Solidarity Therapeutics Trial — a large-scale global trial studying the effectiveness of various repurposed therapies in Covid-19 treatment.Similarly, the PGI has also not been banking upon antiviral drugs such as Remdesivir in the fight against Covid-19 as these have not proven to be “game changers” in the treatment of critically ill patients at the institute.On being asked, Dr Pankaj Malhotra from Department of Internal Medicine, PGI, said: “At the PGI, we have used Remdesivir and HCQ out of the four drugs mentioned by the WHO in its findings. The HCQ drug was given to asymptomatic patients in the beginning of pandemic. However, it is not used now. Both the Remdesivir and HCQ drugs were not found to be life-saving and will make no difference if hospitals do not have these drugs.”Prof Jagat Ram, Director of PGI, said: “Remdesivir has been found to show effectiveness on selected patients, who were given the drug during the onset of illness, i.e. first seven days when the virus is at multiplying stage. The drug, however, shows no effect on the cytokine storm effect shown in the Covid patients. Therefore, this has no role in reducing mortality.”Dr GD Puri, also from the PGI, said: “To say something conclusive about these drugs, the institute needs to carry out a randomised and controlled trial.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remdesivir-ineffective-in-reducing-mortality-pgi-157816
19-10-2020||Panchkula||28 more infected in Panchkula||The district today reported 28 new cases of Covid, taking the tally to 6,837.Among the fresh cases, seven were from Sector 25, four from Sector 7, three from Sector 15, two each from MDC, Sector 4, Sector 14 and Sector 6 and one each from Chandimandir, Kalka, Pinjore, Sector 11, Sector 12-A, Sector 21, Sector 27 and Sector 9. While 327 cases are active, 6,404 patients have recovered. As many as 106 fatalities have been reported so far. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/28-more-infected-in-panchkula-157817
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||20-year-old girl hangs herself at Maloya||A BA final-year student reportedly committed suicide at her house in Maloya here today. The victim, identified as Yashika (20), left behind a note in which she held herself responsible for the extreme step.Sources said the victim had lost her job due to the pandemic. She was last seen by her family around 8.30 am. Her mother had gone to a temple, her father was out for some work, one of her brothers was playing outside and the other sibling was sleeping when she took hanged herself.On returning home, the victim’s mother found her hanging following which she raised the alarm.The police were informed about the incident and the victim was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16, where doctors declared her brought dead.The body was shifted to the mortuary. The autopsy will be conducted after the Covid test. Meanwhile, inquest proceedings have been initiated by the police at the Maloya police station. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-year-old-girl-hangs-herself-at-maloya-157818
19-10-2020||Mohali||Virus claims four lives in Mohali||Four more persons fell prey to the deadly virus in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll to 222. Besides, 40 fresh cases surfaced in the district.As many as 27 new cases were reported from Mohali (Urban), one from Banur, three from Gharuan and four from Kharar. Further, 98 patients got better of the disease. So far, 11,753 persons were found infected with the virus and 10,783 of these had been discharged. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virus-claims-four-lives-in-mohali-157819
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Hairdresser found dead in park at Ram Darbar||A 24-year-old youth, who was missing since last night, was found dead in a park near the Ram Darbar bus stand this morning. The victim has been identified as Ajay, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase I. He worked as a hairdresser at a salon in Sector 8.Ajay had returned home from work on Saturday evening. He parked his car outside the house and left without informing anyone. He didn’t return home that night.Today, people saw him lying unconscious in the park following which the police were informed. He was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where the doctors declared him dead on arrival.The police have ruled out any foul play. “There were no injury marks on the body,” said a police official. The police suspect it to be a case of drug overdose. However, they said the cause of death could be ascertained after autopsy.Inquest proceedings have been initiated into the matter at the Sector 31 police station. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hairdresser-found-dead-in-park-at-ram-darbar-157820
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 55/56 road awaits repairs||The road separating Sector 55 and 56 is crying for repairs. Commuters travelling on this road have to endure a bumpy ride everyday but MC officials have failed to repair it.Residents living nearby, who have to take this road daily, said it had been three years since the patchwork or repair was done on the stretch.Satish Kumar, Councillor, ward number 11Hope recarpeting begins in Dec: CouncillorMost of the V-3 and V-5 roads in Sector 56 need immediate repairs. I hope the recarpeting work will be done in December.“We have not seen a repair work on this stretch for the past three years. Many residents have complained about it on individual level, but nothing, except for giving false assurance, has been done to redress the problem,” said Rajeshwar Singh, an employee of the UT Administration.Since the road leads to Kharar, it sees heavy vehicular traffic during morning and evening hours. Due to the vehicular rush, the chances of accident increase manifold. Two-wheeler riders are at the maximum risk as the road is uneven on both sides. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-55-56-road-awaits-repairs-157821
19-10-2020||---||Festive season: PGI to wait and watch before reopening OPDs||Chandigarh, October 18Fearing a Covid case surge during the festive season, the PGI has decided to wait and watch the situation before resuming service at its OPDs.During a review meeting on Thursday, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had asked the medical institutions in the city to try to restore normalcy in OPDs, since the burden of Covid cases had substantially come down.Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI‘Surge in Covid cases not ruled out’In view of the festive season and with almost every service and business having been resumed, another surge in Covid numbers cannot be ruled out.In an official release today, Prof Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, stated, “We are fully conscious of our responsibility towards non-Covid patients and are keen on opening physical OPDs. Considering a footfall of over 10,000 at our OPDs on a routine day before Covid, it is worth waiting for some more time till it becomes amply clear that the worst of the pandemic is over and the curve has actually been flattened. Any hasty decision may backfire, amounting to risking precious lives.”He added, “In view of the festive season and with almost every service and business having been resumed, a surge in Covid numbers cannot be ruled out.”The physical OPD service in gynaecology, radiotherapy and ophthalmology departments have been functional even during the pandemic. To avoid congregation of patients in the OPDs, the institute is ramping up the infrastructure required to ensure social distancing once the OPDs open.“Consultations are on with various stakeholders to work out the modalities to reopen the physical OPDs through staggered steps so as to ensure the safety of the patients visiting the hospital,” said Prof Jagat Ram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/festive-season-pgi-to-wait-and-watch-before-reopening-opds-157823
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man held by Chandigarh Police with cocaine||A man has been arrested by the Chandigarh Police with 1.58 gram of cocaine and 50 banned vials. Avinash Sharma (50), a resident of Daria village, was held near the cremation ground, Daria, while he was in his car on October 17. The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act at the Industrial Area police station and initiated investigation into the matter. Besides an I 20 car which was impounded at the spot, an Endeavor and Ertiga which were used for supplying drugs have also been impounded by the police. The police said they were investigating from where the cocaine and the vials were procured and to whom these were sold. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-by-chandigarh-police-with-cocaine-157824
19-10-2020||Panchkula||Bank manager held for Rs3.27-cr fraud by Panchkula police||The Panchkula police have arrested a bank manager in connection with a Rs3.27-crore loan fraud for which a complaint was filed with the economic offences wing of the local police in 2017.The accused, identified as Nishan Lal, a resident of Zirakpur, was posted as branch manager of the State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur in Sector 11 when he allegedly committed the fraud. He was produced before a local court which sent him to four-day police custody.According to complainant, the Branch Manager of the State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur, Sector 11, the prime accused sanctioned 19 fraudulent loans amounting to Rs3.27 crore in connivance with other accused, identified as Ashustosh Garg, Ayush Garg, Gurinder Singh, Aruna Garg, Ravinder Kumar Jain and Sonia Jain.“The proceeds of these funds were directly or indirectly diverted to another account in the name of M/s Sarvodaya Highways Ltd at the same branch, which having an exposure of Rs52.50 crore, has also been treated as a fraud and a separate complaint has been filed with the CBI’s bank recovery and fraud cell, New Delhi, by the bank,” the FIR reads. “It was found during an internal investigation by the bank that the property documents relating to six housing/mortgage loan accounts were not available at the branch. The property mortgaged to the bank in case of three housing loans has been sold without information to the bank,” the FIRadded.“Loans sanctioned for construction of the house were disbursed on the same day. In all these accounts, amounts have been transferred in some other accounts,” the FIR reads, quoting the complainant. “The prime accused accommodated the accused persons by deviating from procedures and allowing diversion of loan funds,” the complainant added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-manager-held-for-rs3-27-cr-fraud-by-panchkula-police-157827
19-10-2020||Chandigarh||1 booked for not verifying tenant in Chandigarh||Webinar held to motivate studentsChandigarh: The Centre of Value Education, Desh Bhagat University (DBU), organised a webinar on ‘Achieving Excellence in Life’ to motivate and enlighten students about the real meaning of excellence and a contented life. Over 200 students and faculty members attended the event. Dr Navneet Arora, an academician from the IIT-Roorkee, was the expert speaker. He explained the steps involved in attaining success, guided students about goal setting, staying focused and valuation of time, decision-making, self-control and personality development.” Dr Zora Singh, Chancellor of Desh Bhagat University, said: “The university always strives for imparting righteous values and ethics among students to show them the path of success and excellence along with sense of responsibility and obligation towards society and the nation.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-booked-for-not-verifying-tenant-in-chandigarh-157832
19-10-2020||---||Body with injury marks found in Pinjore||Panchkula, October 18The body of a man with injury marks on his nose was found in the bushes on the roadside in Pinjore last evening.The complainant, Surmukh Singh of Prempura village, said around 5:30 pm, he received a call from a passerby who said he had noticed the body of a youngster in the bushes alongside the main road.“When Surmukh reached the spot, he found the body bore injury marks on the nose. It appeared he had been attacked with a sharp object with the intention to kill,” the FIR said.Surmukh informed the police about the incident and a PCR vehicle reached the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/body-with-injury-marks-found-in-pinjore-157834
19-10-2020||Open house||Step up vigil, join forces with Punjab, Haryana cops||Need to curb drinking at public placesDue to lockdown and less checks hidden drinking spots have emerged in the city. Late night drinking at these places are also criminal’s planning spots. Leisure Valley, Sector 10, public parks, parking spaces and poorly lit secluded spots in sectors are popular among miscreants. In mornings, one can spot empty liquor bottles and food packets at such places. The police should increase patrolling at these spots from 7 pm to midnight. Drunk driving tests should also restarted.Col PS Gill (retd), ChandigarhQUESTIONPeople are developing complacency as festival season has started. Experts have warned of another Covid surge in the festival and winter season. What measures should the UT Administration take to curb another surge?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comDeploy more vehicles on patrol dutySpurt in crime incidents in the city shows that criminals have no fear of cops. They are executing their plans as per their wish with target, place and time of incident of their own choice and flee without any resistance from the police. Aggressive and efficient patrolling by the police along with frequent checking of vehicles particularly during late night hours can prevent crime. The number of patrolling vehicles have to increased. Cops must use their intelligence wing to nab culprits.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliReduce political interferenceOne feels sad and worried after hearing about shooting incidents in the city, but the root cause is unemployment. Secondly, politicians have corrupted minds of students. Many colleges and universities have opened in villages, but these are of no use. In other words, these are shops for minting money. It’s not fault of students, but politicians, who fund and encourage students to jump into politics. It is up to parents to prepare their children for the life ahead. The police can only keep a watch on nightclubs and pubs.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, ChandigarhCriminals act with impunityShooting and killing incidents are on rise in the City Beautiful because police patrolling is totally missing. Criminals take undue advantage of this situation and act with impunity. The UT Administration must deploy police with vehicles that should do rounds of all sectors to keep criminals away.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhVendetta germinates in students’ pollParents are responsible for the upbringing of such brats. Counselling is required for negligent parents, who do not bring up their kids, as per the right value system. The police can do a little if culprits are brought up with impunity. The Chandigarh Administration must think about scrapping Panjab University elections. Vendetta germinates here only and ends up in bloody brawls on peaceful roads of Chandigarh.Rajpartap Singh, ZirakpurPsychologists can point sites of brawlAll problems have a solution. The police can defuse ugly situation by dissipating potential troublemakers. A team of approved psychologists on patrol duty can pass information to the police for immediate steps and nipping the evil in the bud. Beat box police can reach the spot at the right moment and take action against miscreants.Japdeep Kaur Chowdhary, PatialaPsychological test must for arms licenceDiscotheques, pubs and bars should not be allowed to open till late night. Arms licence should be issued to genuine persons after psychological tests and taking in writing that they will not misuse them. Those already involved in crimes should be barred from carrying weapons. Night patrolling should be beefed up.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliExisting laws are toothlessExisting laws are proving toothless to tackle the gangaster menace. Due to political pressure, corruption and non-accountability, the police investigation is not expeditious. After filing of charge sheet, case lingers on in court for years altogether. This has emboldened criminals. If investigation is completed in a fixed time frame and judgments delivered within six months, the terror created by gangasters can be reduced.KC Rana, ChandigarhTricity cops must work closelyThe UT, Mohali and Panchkula police should work closely. Their CID and investigation departments should work in unison to check criminal activities. Police patrolling especially at vulnerable points like malls, hotels and restaurants should be increased particularly during nights. Cops must be deployed in civvies around the city. Landlords must inform the police about credentials of their tenants. The police should continue to work against the drug menace.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhDo not spare violators of lawLaw catches flies, but let hornets go free. The Chandigarh Administration should issue strict instructions to the police to maintain law and order in the city at any cost. Corruption has to end. Cops should perform their duty honestly. All must be treated equally in front of the law. No violator should be spared at any stage. Barriers should be laid at all city entry points where vehicles should be searched for weapons. Patrolling should be increased in the city.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliBetter coordination to combat crimeThe City Beautiful is now becoming a heaven for criminals. Eleven firing incidents in the last 18 months have already claimed six lives, which has exposed the deteriorating law and order situation in the city. Criminals are taking advantage of contiguous boundaries and jurisdiction barriers to make a quick and safe getaway. The rise in crime incidents can combated through more coordination within the police forces of the tricity. Besides, higher police officials of the tricity must meet once in a month to discuss how to improve the law and order situation and also create WhatsApp groups to share information.Gopal Mital, PanchkulaCooperation between residents, cops mustAs most police personnel are busy with Covid related duties, there is a spurt in criminal activities in and around Chandigarh. A strict check on the use of unlicenced weapons is the need of the hour. Night patrolling should be increased. The Administration should ensure that all CCTVs in the city work. Residents need to be vigilant in case of any suspicious activity in and around their area. Cooperation between the police and residents is must.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhYoungsters carry arms openlyShooting incidents are increasing day by day in Chandigarh and its periphery. The incidents were of similar nature and involved youths of same age groups. Youngsters carry firearms freely to nightclubs and on city roads without any check. Areas where shooting incidents are frequently reported should be kept under strict vigil.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), MohaliNo search at UT entry pointsWith the rise in shooting incidents in and around vulnerable spots, it appears that the UT police have yet to do its homework properly. The police alone have to blame itself for letting outsiders from other states enter Chandigarh without proper search at entry points. The Administration should ensure that maximum police personnel are deployed on ground duty rather sizeable numbers performing household errands of politicians or top officials.SC Luthra, ChandigarhPolicemen have to be more activeIncreasing incidents of shooting is a matter of concern. The UT police have to be more active at entry points. They must search all those coming from other states, who enter the UT. Higher officials should also visit entry points and nightclubs regularly. A strict vigil by the police force in the city is need of the hour.MR Bhateja, NayagaonEnsure criminals don’t enter politicsUsually these are spoilt brats from rich and powerful families, who commit crimes. As per the data available since last two years at least 24 children, who were involved in crime, belonged to families of former and serving policemen. Youngsters and student leaders have a dirty political nexus. There is a symbiotic relationship between crime and politics. Unless persons with criminal background are banned in politics, nothing concrete can be happen. Laws must be enacted to ensure that people with criminal cases do not enter politics.Dr PS Bhatti, MaloyaClose nightclubs, dhabas in UT by 11 pmBrawls and firing incidents have become a regular feature in Chandigarh and adjoining areas. Young men of affluent families are involved in such incidents. They suffer from superiority complex due to wealth and become arrogant under the influence of liquor. Nightclubs, liquor shops and dhabas should close by 11 pm. Parties of every kind should be over by 11pm. Cops must have information about operational gangs and ‘supari’ killers to keep check on their nefarious activities. Youngsters must eschew bitterness and promote love.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliProfessional policing a sine qua nonDaily crime incidents in news leave a little doubt that criminals have shed fear of law and residents have lost their confidence in the police force. The police need to rework operational strategies. Wishy-washy approach will not fetch desired results. The city should implement special provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Antisocial Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986. Gun/gang culture is unethical to civil society. Professional policing and incorruptible force is sine qua non for reducing crime in the UT.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaInstil fear of law in criminalsThe recent shooting incidents in the city have exposed total ineffectiveness of the police. Does every youth carry a gun? From where do they procure arms and ammunition? The Administration makes entry of residents from Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh into the UT easy. Punjabi video songs with lyrics and pictures of guns also promote crime culture. Such songs should be banned. The crime graph is not going down in the UT unless and until there is fear of law and the police presence is felt.Gurpreet S Malhotra, ChandigarhInter-gang feuds must be dealt with sternlyResidents fear to venture out in the night as incidents of shooting are increasing in the city. Cops must deal sternly with inter-gang feuds, reason behind such incidents, to instil confidence in the public. They must search for illegal arms at entry points of the city and clubs. Intelligence report on movement of persons with criminal records should be followed diligently. Residents should also cooperate with the police by reporting suspicious movements and illegal activities.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhEnforce laws strictly in city beautifulRising crime depicts violence and disorderliness in the City Beautiful. Chandigarh has always been an education hub for neighbouring states like Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. If the crime rate rises, the UT will not only lose its dignity, but also its income. The police should implement laws strictly. Rigorous punishments must be awarded to those, who commit crime.Tarunjot Kaur, Greater MohaliChange mindset of peopleRising crime rate in the City Beautiful is a brooding issue. The city can be considered beautiful only when its people are living in prosperity and roam sans any fear. This situation can be achieved if the police spread message and organises seminars to change mindset of the people from misanthropic to egalitarian.Satinder Kaur, KhararSecurity audit of public places a mustThere is no doubt that the Chandigarh Police has failed to maintain law and order in the city. Both the police and the Administration in the tricity should work together to tackle the situation and create a peaceful atmosphere. The DGPs of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh should meet to tackle interstate criminals. Security audit of public places in the UT is must. Moreover, politicians should not misuse the police as their private militia.Anita Tandon, KhararResidents too can help curb crimeTo stop the rising crime in the UT is not the solely duty of the police. Residents can also curb crime. If someone witnesses crime or suspicious movement around his/her place then he/she can inform the police without any fear. As Napoleon has rightly said “The world suffers a lot not because of the violence of bad people, but because of the silence of good people.”Jasmer Singh, Greater MohaliCheck youth who have political linksShooting incidents have increased due to interference of political parties in university and colleges elections. Political parties help students get weapon licence. Students meet gangsters in meetings of political parties. The government should check youngsters especially those, who have links with political parties and make sure that weapon licence is not issued to them. Exemplary punishment should be given to culprits involved in crime otherwise.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhCops, nightclubs can curb menaceUndoubtedly, rising incidents of firing in the city is a matter of concern. To curb this menace, the police must identify vulnerable points and beef up security. Police personnel should keep a 24x7 check on nightclubs. Managements of nightclubs in the city must be more vigilant. They should not permit entry of those involved in crime on club premises. Also, club owners should cooperate with the police to curb such incidents.Hardeep Singh Slaich, MohaliDisplay of weapon power commonGun culture and deteriorating law and order situation in the UT is worrisome. It is clear failure of the Chandigarh Police. Criminals and gangsters do not fear law. The brute display of weapon power is not uncommon. Rather keeping weapon has become fashion. Easy availability of illegal weapons is another reason for rise in crime in the UT. Regular checking at city entry points can help in finding criminals.Vidya Sagar Garg, ChandigarhImprove intelligence gathering in UTThe recent spate of shootings in Chandigarh has raised a question mark on the effectiveness of the law and enforcement agencies in the city. Gangsters roam freely and go on shooting spree either to take revenge or challenge the police force. The reasons for the breakdown in the law order could be many, but the primary is no fear of law or police in minds of criminals. The Administration should improve intelligence gathering mechanism in the city to prevent such incidents in future.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhLet cops teach lesson to spoiled bratsCriminals have lost fear of cops. They get free after bail or completing some formalities or sometimes with just warning. Deploy honest officials and give more powers to them to nab criminals and curb shooting incidents. Once culprits are caught there should not be any political or bureaucratic intervention to protect them. Let cops teach lesson to spoiled brats for breaking law.Charu Malhotra, MohaliIncrease patrolling near public placesTo maintain law and order in the City Beautiful, the police should increase patrolling near pubs, clubs, discos and restaurants. Besides, CCTV cameras should be installed near colleges, universities, bus and railway stations. The UT Administration should deploy more police personnel at vulnerable points to keep a check on miscreants.Nakhpreet Kaur, SangholFocus on preventive policingIn the recent past, there has been a spurt in shooting incidents in Chandigarh, which has eroded the trust of residents on UT policing. There is an urgent need to improve coordination between neighbouring states and the UT. All relevant information of criminals should be shared. The focus of law enforcers should be on preventive policing rather than being mute spectators.Dr Manjinder Kaur, ManaliKeep an eye on suspicious elementsThere has been a constant rise in cases of shooting in the city. There is need of better coordination between Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali police in order to maintain law and order in the tricity. Police patrolling should be intensified . CCTV cameras should be installed at important points. Residents should keep an eye on suspicious elements. Residents’ welfare associations should employ watchmen in their respective sectors.Dr Shruti K Chawla, ChandigarhChange colonial mindset of policeGangsters move around the city with no fear of the police. To inculcate the fear of law in minds of criminals, a policing philosophy based on protecting rights of all citizens is needed. The police must focus on upholding the law, rather than using force to impose the law. The Police Department remains understaffed, underfunded, unequipped and unaccountable. Better intelligence inputs, administrative action and trained police force are rarely used to pre-empt shootings. There is a need for reforming the police to overcome the colonial mindset and organisational pattern followed even to this day.SK Khosla, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/step-up-vigil-join-forces-with-punjab-haryana-cops-157835
19-10-2020||Solan||Chandigarh tourist loses way during trek in Sirmaur, found after 4 hrs||A Chandigarh resident, Nafiz Ahmed, who lost his way while trekking to the Churdhar peak in Sirmaur district, was located after over four hours by a search team.Sirmaur Superintendent of Police Ajay Krishan Sharma said, “We received information that a 25-year-old resident of Sector 38 in Chandigarh lost his way while trekking towards the Churdhar peak around 1.30 pm today. He was part of a group of 25 people, which was divided into smaller groups of four or five members to reach the peak around 10 am.”Ahmed was trekking with three of his companions when he lagged behind while taking a call on his mobile phone near Jam Nallah. Though his friends tried to call him on his phone, he could not be contacted. Later, he contacted his friends in Chandigarh when his phone received some signal and they informed the Nohradhar police.A search operation was initiated immediately and Nohradhar Tehsildar, two forest guards, policemen and six locals were taken along. He was finally located between Kanda Nallah and Jam Nallah around 5.40 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-tourist-loses-way-during-trek-in-sirmaur-found-after-4-hrs-157890
