20-07-2020||---||65-year-old woman dies of coronavirus in Mohali, district toll 12||Mohali, July 20The Mohali district reported one more Covid-19 fatality on Monday taking the toll due to the disease to 12.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the 65-year-old lady from Zirakpur infected with the virus was admitted to GMCH-32 on July 15. She had multiple diseases like hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, he added.Meanwhile, 20 fresh cases have surfaced taking the total count to 551 while 44 positive patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital.The persons infected with the virus include 30-year-old female of Malakpur village, 34-year-old male from Sector 111, two women aged 20 and 18, and 48-year-male, all of Sector 125; 47-year-old female and two 39-year-old males, all residents of Zirakpur; 24-year-old male of Dhakoli, 36-year-old female of Baltana, 65-year-old male of Sunny Enclave, Zirakpur, two females aged 9, 38 and two males aged 6 and 9 all of Dashmesh Nagar, Kharar, two females aged 31 and 26, both of Sector 69; 24-year-old male of Dera Bassi, 25-year-old male of Handesra village and 35-year-old male from Lalru.The 44 patients who were cured of the virus and discharged from the hospital include 33-year-old male and 50-year-old female of Jawaharpur village, three males aged 19, 23 and 29, and two females aged 50 and 26, all residents of Nayagaon; three females aged 52, 80, 52 and a male aged 32, all residents of Phase 9; 52-year-old male from Chatt village, 46-year-old male of Peer Muchalla, 65-year-old female and 20-year-old male of Jhanjeri, five females aged 30, 35, 8, 35, 17 and four males aged 55, 16, 16, 21, all of Zirakpur; three males aged 30, 34, 6 and two females aged 30 and 29, all of Kurali; females aged 69 and four males aged 50, 19, 52 and 45, all of Dera Bassi; three males aged 51, 4, 10 and three females aged 35, 70, 33 of Kharar, 54-year-old male and 41-year-old female of Gillco, Kharar; 41 year male of Balongi and 33-year-old male of Mohali.As of now there are 551 cases out of which 362 have been cured and discharged, 177 active cases with 12 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/65-year-old-woman-dies-of-coronavirus-in-mohali-district-toll-12-115539
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 22 new cases in Chandigarh; number of cases rise to 739||As many as 22 new COVID-19 cases were reported from Chandigarh on Monday taking the total to 739.Of the 739 cases, 209 are active cases in the UT.So far, 12 deaths have been reported in the city. As many as 30 patients were discharged after recovering from the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-22-new-cases-in-chandigarh-number-of-cases-rise-to-739-115510
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration asks Punjab, Haryana to consider imposing weekend curfew across Tricity||Chandigarh Administration has written to Punjab and Haryana asking them to consider a proposal to impose weekend curfews across the Tricity---a development that comes a day after the UT’s coronavirus cases crossed 700.A press release issued by the UT administration on Monday says Adviser Manoj Parida has written to chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana “to agree to UT’s proposal for curfew in the tri-city during weekend, since weekend curfew only in Chandigarh will not be effective, unless it is simultaneously imposed in Mohali and Panchkula”.The administration is considering imposing a curfew in Chandigarh from 7 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday.Parida’s letter to chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana reads: “Keeping in view the sudden increase in the number of covid positive cases, the UT Administration is planning to impose total curfew on weekends from 07:00 PM on Friday to 06:00 AM on Monday. Such curfew will be effective only if it is Imposed in the entire Tricity, which includes Panchkula and Mohall. Your kind consent/opinion is sought on this proposal”.Punjab Government meanwhile said it had so far not accepted the proposal. An official said it would share any updates in this regard with the public.Chandigarh's COVID-19 count currently stands at 739, with the UT reporting 22 new cases on Monday.  The UT's COVID-19 death toll stands at 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-asks-punjab-haryana-to-consider-imposing-weekend-curfew-across-tricity-115501
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Panchkula man duped of Rs7L, 1 booked||Lamborghini impoundedChandigarh: The police impounded a luxury car, Lamborghini, for traffic violations near Sector 10 here on Sunday. The driver of the car was charged with driving without documents and reckless driving among other offences. Netizens had complained about the car driver for driving recklessly during mornings and evenings in the area on a regular basis. DIG (Traffic) Shashank Anand shared the picture of the car and information about the challans against the driver on his Twitter account. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-man-duped-of-rs7l-1-booked-115374
20-07-2020||Open house||Lockdown no solution, only precautions can help||Not too late to impose curfew againEven now, it’s not too late to impose lockdown/curfew again to prevent the infection from spreading. No doubt economic activities must continue to sustain society and business community, but not at the cost of lives of the public. Lockdown exit must be a balanced act between economy revival and citizens’ health.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliStaggered easing only wayStaggered easing and its pace should be influenced by the success of containment over the next few days. A methodology has to be evolved to prevent people from spilling out in streets. The lockdown should be implemented on alternate days. All borders around the tricity should be sealed and violations handled strictly.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurLockdown has done more harmMany people are seen walking in parks and markets without masks and not observing social distance what to talk about use of hand sanitisers or maintaining cleanliness. Enforce guidelines without any further delay. However, the UT Administration should not resort to lockdown as it has done more harm than good to the public at large.KC Rana, ChandigarhEducate people, don’t take strict measuresIt is better to educate people of the tricity on Covid-19 guidelines rather enforcing strict measures, which are often counterproductive. We all have to face coronavirus. Awareness should be spread among the masses through media to wear masks, maintain social distance — ‘2 gaj ki duri’ — and to sanitise hands regularly.Col TBS Bedi (Retd), MohaliStop misuse of relaxationsPeople are misusing unlock relaxations and do not care to strictly follow norms of social distancing and wearing face masks while shopping in markets or purchasing vegetables/fruits from vendors. It is here that the police have to stringently enforce the Covid guidelines by penalising or physically apprehending violators.SC Luthra, ChandigarhNo more lockdowns in Chandigarh, Panchkula, MohaliThe Administrations in the tricity can increase Covid testing, tracing and isolation. People coming from cities like Delhi should be compulsorily tested and kept under isolation. However, lockdown of any kind is not an option. It’ll only slowdown the virus spread temporarily, but adversely impact business, which is already reeling under heavy losses.Sikander Singh, ChandigarhOnly precautions can keep one safeWhy not follow precautions to save ourselves and our near and dears from the dreaded disease. There should be complete lockdown on Sundays. Social distancing should be followed in all places. Thermal checking should continue.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhBitter dose can discipline residentsInspite of authorities’ best efforts, Covid-19 is spreading in the tricity. Residents have never bothered to take basic precautions, resulting in spike in the disease. The authorities in the tricity must impose strict restrictions to discipline people because life is more important than anything else. A bitter dose is needed.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar (Retd), MohaliA temporary phase, will pass soonFor sure, to contain the disease strict measures must be implemented again. Residents of the tricity must understand that its their moral duty to follow Covid-19 guidelines. We have to take care of our economy, but not at the cost of our lives. It is a temporary phase of our lives, which will pass soon.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhSend violators to prison for 14 daysAgreed that the authorities in the tricity should strictly impose restrictions to prevent the spread of conoravirus. But, people don’t follow rules and are careless. They take undue advantage of relaxations and roam in streets without wearing face masks. Anyone breaking rules should be imprisoned for 14 days. Only then people will learn.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhCurbs will go a long way in stemming virusThe authorities need to mull ramping up testing and Covid-19 infra. Revisiting the lockdown curbs, re-imposition of weekend curfew, slapping hefty fines, strict punishment, including jail terms for habitual offenders, would go a long way in stemming the menace from taking an alarming proportion. We as citizens of the country need to shoulder responsibility to fight battle against the killer virus.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhKeep a check on number of vendorsThe Administration should force public to follow guidelines issued by the government. Fines should be imposed on those not wearing face masks or maintaining social distance. There should be check on the number of vendors selling vegetable and fruits. Only vendors maintaining cleanliness should be permitted to sell vegetables and essentials.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliIncrease night curfew hoursWith the number of corona patients rising steeply in the tricity and the Administration failing to stem the spread of virus, it has become more or less likely to impose lockdown now. A start can be made with a night curfew for a longer duration.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhAdministration in tricity must adopt joint strategyThe Administration in the tricity should work out a joint strategy to combat the spread of pandemic. A step forward in this direction is curtailing of certain relaxations by the Punjab Government. It would be prudent if both Chandigarh and Panchkula implement the Mohali norms.Hardeep Singh Sulach, MohaliGovt cannot be mute spectator to lapsesFailure of self-regulation as is evident from the carelessness at public places warrants stringent measures as the government cannot be a mute spectator to lapses endangering health and lives of citizens. Curtailing of some civil and civic liberties too has to be accepted. Many states have reverted to stringent curbs. Surely, Administrations in the tricity must not lag behind in public interest.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaSay no to functions, gatheringsTricity residents must say no to functions and gatherings. Virus is going to stay for another few months then why not play safe. The authorities should be strict with violators, who jump norms. Keep such people in the lockup for one or two days. Do not compel the authorities to impose lockdown/curfew again. Follow ‘stay home stay safe’ norm.MR Bhateja, NayagaonBelief ‘Sanoo ki hona ae’ is falseIt appears that with few exceptions the southern sectors of Chandigarh and outskirts of Mohali are more prone to Covid-19. Recently, I was at Mohali hospital for my wife’s eye operation. In the AC room for attendants, four persons were not wearing masks. I came out and sat in the open after reporting to hospital officials. Our youngsters believe ‘Sanoo ki hona ae’ (Nothing would happen to us).Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliActive surveillance need of the hourThere is need of active surveillance and adopting tracing, testing, and treatment approach. People should strictly follow social distancing, wear masks and wash hands frequently. Above all the authorities should appeal to citizens for community participation to stem the spread of virus. They will not succeed without the support of people. Violators should face an FIR.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaDisease deadly, but violations continueEven after knowing consequences of the deadly disease people are not following guidelines issued by the government. Awareness campaigns must be organised and strict action taken against violators of the Covid norms. If required curfew can be reimposed to contain the disease. The business and economy will survive if people are alive. Otherwise, there is no use of economy.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliDraw up action planA clear-cut master plan should be drawn in detailed consultations with medico experts and nodal officers at different levels assigned the task of its implementation and monitoring. Comprehensive preparedness would entail ready availability of doctors, paramedical staff, police personnel, dedicated hospitals and clinics, all requisite medicines, and so forth.Dr SS Bhatti, ChandigarhAdmn, healthcare staff doing their bestIt is up to citizens whether they want relaxations and save themselves and the economy or not. They have to live with caution as the pandemic is here to stay. Increase contact tracing, testing and house to house screening. Weekend curfew with stricter curbs permitting essential services and industrial activity should be imposed in the tricity.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (Retd), ChandigarhRole of the general public is importantAs of now, everyone is in a quandary. Neither the government nor the public can afford long-term lockdown. Therefore, people must understand the gravity of the situation and sincerely obey the guidelines issued from time to time by the authorities to fight pandemic. We must realise that no movement can be transformed into revolution without the sincere involvement of the public.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliQUESTIONThe tricity has witnessed a spurt in suicide cases recently, particularly among senior citizens. Do you think the pandemic is to blame for it as they may have been affected more because of lack of freedom to move out and diminished social interaction? What do you think can be done at the community level to help them cope with the stress?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lockdown-no-solution-only-precautions-can-help-115370
20-07-2020||Our Correspondent||17 test +ve in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, July 19As many as 17 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Fatehgarh Sahib, of whom eight are from Bassi Pathana.With the district tally reaching 217, health officials fear community spread may have started.Those tested positive today include a 35-year-old resident of Giljian Mohalla, a 16-year-old from Dhobi Mohalla, a 39-year-old from Sarafa Bazaar, a 38-year-old man, a 37-year-old woman, a 14-year-old boy and an eight-year-old girl from Guru Nank Mohalla, Bassi Pathana, and a 41-year-old cop.Civil Surgeon NK Aggarwal said the tally of positive cases have reached 217 in Fatehgarh Sahib. He said there were 71 active cases in the district.He appealed to residents of the district to adhere to guideliness issued by the Health Department and take all precautions to protect themselves from the infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17-test-ve-in-fatehgarh-sahib-115357
20-07-2020||Mohali||Rayat Bahra University’s online alumni meet||The Rayat Bahra University School of Pharmaceutical Sciences (USPS) today organised an online alumni meet.More than 250 alumni from across the world registered for the meet. Gurvinder Singh Bahra, RBU Chancellor, said the idea behind organising the alumni meet was to have an update of the alumni and reach out to them. Pro-Vice Chancellor AC Vaid, vice-president Gurinder Singh Bahra and Gurfateh Singh, Head, USPS, were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rayat-bahra-universitys-online-alumni-meet-115356
20-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Covid fear no basis for granting bail: Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19The court of Additional Sessions Judge Rajesh Sharma has rejected one of the arguments of a petitioner for granting her bail in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Geeta filed an application that she had been in judicial custody since May 25. She claimed that she had not committed any offence as alleged and a false story had been planted against her.The counsel for the petitioner said investigation into the case had been completed and the trial would take long time and no purpose would be served by keeping her behind bars. It was submitted that the accused had five daughters to look after as her husband was suffering from liver damage. So, she should be granted bail.The court ordered that the alleged recovery of 260-gm heroin would certainly fall within the definition of commercial quantity. There were reasonable grounds for believing that the petitioner was involved in the present case and was prima facie guilty of such offence and that she was likely to commit such offence while on bail.The court said people involved in offences pertaining to drugs, psychotropic substance, etc, were eating away the basic fiber of the nation just for the sake of quick money.The counsel for the petitioner failed to point out that there was any reported Covid-19 case within the jail premises or that there was any imminent threat or apprehension within the jail premises as on date with regard to the spread of pandemic.Further, as has been clarified by the Supreme Court, the prisoners are not to be compulsorily released. The primary object of the directions issued by the Supreme Court is to protect the health of the prisoners and restrict transmission of Covid by decongestion of prisons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-fear-no-basis-for-granting-bail-court-115355
20-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||UGC list out, Panjab varsity in a fix over final-year exams||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19As the future of the Panjab University’s (PU) final-year students hangs fire, a press communiqué by the University Grants Commission (UGC) hints that the statutory body may not roll back its decision of conducting exams.The communiqué stated: “Recently, the universities were informed about the status of conducting exams. 560 universities have either conducted the examination or are planning to do it. As many as 194 have already conducted examination (online/off-line), 366 are planning to do so in August/September.”Recently, the PU Syndics have written to the UGC to review its decision. However, no official reply has been received till date. Also, the Punjab and Haryana High Court ordered interim stay on the final examinations this month.“The authorities are creating a ground plan. After the UGC’s confirmations, the PU is now in a dicey situation. There’s spike in the number of Covid-19 cases and at the same time, we cannot ignore the UGC. That is why, a request has been made to the central body for reviewing its decision. Going by the recent statement, the UGC looks like in no mood of dropping the decision,” said a PU official.Another reason of worry for the PU is the mode of conducting exams. The PU may find it difficult to conduct examinations through online mode — giving the infrastructure and circumstances. And the only option left is conducting exams in offline mode.“The major problem lies here. We have students from all over the nation. If the authorities call them, then it’s a high risk considering the fact that we don’t have access to many of our own hostels. The university has to arrange online mode of examinations,” said a source.“So far, we have not decided anything about conducting final-year exams. The Syndicate has written to the UGC. Any decision will be taken after considering various factors such as students’ interest,” Prof RK Singla, DUI, PU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ugc-list-out-panjab-varsity-in-a-fix-over-final-year-exams-115352
20-07-2020||Panchkula||Youth found dead in car in Raipur Rani block||The body of a 23-year-old youth was found in a semi-naked state in a car at Hangola village in Raipur Rani block. The police identified the victim as Arun, a resident of Sarakpur village.Inspector Rampal, SHO, Raipur Rani, said they found the body inside the vehicle, bearing a Haryana registration number. According to officials, the victim had left his house last evening, carrying an amount of Rs25,000. The police did not recover money from the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-found-dead-in-car-in-raipur-rani-block-115351
20-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 33 firing: 20-yr-old shooter a history-sheeter||Nitin Nahar (20), one of the shooters who was allegedly involved in the firing at the house of hotelier Rakesh Singla, brother of liquor baron Arvind Singla, in Sector 33 here, and was brought on production warrants by the Chandigarh police from Central Jail, Amritsar, has a criminal past with seven cases registered against him in Punjab.Nitin was arrested by the Punjab Police in June. He was brought on production warrants on July 16 and is on police remand till July 20. The police said Nitin had a criminal past and was involved in seven criminal cases, including two of murder.He came in contact with gangster Lawrance Bishnoi through gangster Bobby Malhotra. Nitin Nahar had reportedly opened fire with a 32 bore weapon. He disclosed that Balbir Cheema and Rahul Bhiwani, alias Bacchi Bhiwani, were also involved in this firing incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-33-firing-20-yr-old-shooter-a-history-sheeter-115350
20-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||Now, Chandigarh MC to offer booths at fish market through open auction||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19The local Municipal Corporation (MC) will try its luck at offering booths at AC Fish and Meat Market in Sector 41 through an open auction this time.Earlier, it had invited expression of interest from bidders for an open auction in March, but due to Covid-19, the process had to be cancelled. The open auction will be held on the premises of the fish market on August 26 and interested persons will have to deposit the earnest money of Rs50,000 through a demand draft with the MC Commissioner.“Those into the fish or meat trade are not much conversant with the online system. So, we have decided to do it through an open auction. We hope to get a good response,” said an official.There are 32 booths and a chill room available on a monthly rent at the market.According to the MC, for booth number 1 to 24, which have an area of 21.21 sq metre each, there will be a minimum of Rs12,000 reserved monthly licence fee per booth.For booth number 25 to 30, with 19.02 sq metre area, the minimum monthly fee will be Rs10,000, whereas there will Rs15,000 fee per month for booth number 32 and 33 having 39.51 sq metre area.The chill room, with 35.31 sq metre area, will have a minimum fee of Rs10,000.In February, the corporation had to withdraw the tenders as only nine persons showed interest in buying the units. Before that, the MC made several attempts, but failed to find any takers.The booths were constructed by the UT Administration at a cost of Rs5 crore in 2006. These were later handed over to the MC in 2009. The MC offered to sell these for Rs60 lakh each, but failed to do so. Then it offered to rent these out for Rs30,000-Rs35,000 per month. Now, it has lowered the monthly price to Rs10,000-Rs15,000 through an open auction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-chandigarh-mc-to-offer-booths-at-fish-market-through-open-auction-115336
20-07-2020||Ambala||Youth shot dead over old rivalry in Ambala||A 26-year-old youth was allegedly shot dead over a rivalry in Khanpur Brahmnana village here today.The deceased has been identified as Deepak. In his complaint, Deepak’s cousin Ramesh Kumar alleged, “Deepak was returning from his fields when I saw a youth approaching him and then I heard the sound of a gunshot. Within no time, the youth fled from the spot. Deepak was lying unconscious. I took him to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City, where he was declared brought dead.”He said Deepak had suffered a bullet injury on his chest. He had a dispute with Atul of Khanpur Brahmnana village. Darshan Lal, sarpanch of the village, said, “Deepak was the only son and he had done B-pharmacy. His father is a labourer and the family is in a state of deep shock.”A case has been registered against Atul, Vikas, Harneep, Manish, Krishan, and Rajesh and others under Sections 302 and 120b of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act.SP Abhishek Jorwal said, “There is an old dispute between two groups and there have been assault cases against both groups”. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-shot-dead-over-old-rivalry-in-ambala-115335
20-07-2020||---||Thieves target ATM in Mohali district, make off with Rs 9 lakh||Mohali, July 19Made barking stray dogs unconsciousSources said two thieves arrived in a Chevrolet Cruze car and as they reached outside the kiosk, stray dogs started barking. The thieves made the dogs unconscious before entering the kiosk. They smashed the CCTV camera installed outside the kiosk, cut open the shutter and the ATM and decamped with Rs9 lakh.Two unidentified thieves broke into an ATM kiosk of Punjab National Bank at Gharuan village in Mohali district and made off with Rs9 lakh in the wee hours of today.There was no security guard at the kiosk. The thieves used a gas cutter to break open the ATM. There is a government hospital, a few shops and a densely populated residential area near the ATM. However, the thieves managed to execute the theft and no one heard the sound of the gas cutter.Kharar DSP Pal Singh and Gharuan police station SHO Kailash Bahadur visited the spot. Sources said two thieves arrived in a Chevrolet Cruze car and as they reached outside the kiosk, stray dogs started barking. The thieves made the dogs unconscious before entering the kiosk. They smashed the CCTV camera installed outside the kiosk, cut open the shutter and the ATM and decamped with Rs9 lakh. A case has been registered under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house), 457 (house breaking by night in order to commit offence), 427 and 34 of the IPC at the Gharuan police station.Mohali SP (Rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said the police were investigating the case and the footage of CCTV cameras was being checked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-target-atm-in-mohali-district-make-off-with-rs-9-lakh-115334
20-07-2020||---||Flag march at Mani Majra in Covid fight||Chandigarh, July 19UT police personnel today carried out a flag march at Mani Majra to sensitise people to wearing face masks and following social distancing norms. Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO of the Mani Majra police station, said public announcements were made to inform people about various measures that needed to be taken in the wake of Covid-19. Local residents and shopkeepers were also informed about the legal action that will be taken against those found roaming without a mask or violating social distancing norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flag-march-at-mani-majra-in-covid-fight-115333
20-07-2020||Mohali||3 cops +ve, police post sealed in Kharar||Samples collectedThe Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the Gharuan police post, which had been sealed, would be sanitised on Monday. Health teams had also collected samples of 12 other cops, who had mild fever.The Gharuan police post, falling under the Kharar police station (Rural) in the district, was sealed today after three cops tested positive for Covid-19. Besides, 15 others were also found infected with the virus in the district today, taking the tally to 531.The policemen who were found infected are a 30-year-old woman sub-inspector, a 29-year-old sub-inspector and a 52-year-old head constable.A 46-year-old woman staff nurse working at the Civil Hospital, Mohali, was also found suffering from the virus.A 59-year-old man from Phase 3A, a 41-year-old man from Sector 80, a 38-year-old man and a 38-year-old woman, residents of Sunny Enclave, Kharar, a 40-year-old woman from Sante Majra, a 50-year-old woman from Sector 127, Mohali, and a two-and-a-half-year-old girl child and a 22-year-old woman from Kharar also contracted the infection.A 36-year-old man and a 36-year-old woman from Dera Bassi, a 31-year-old man from Phase IX and two women, aged 47 and 63, and a 40-year-old man from Zirakpur were others to test positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-cops-ve-police-post-sealed-in-kharar-115332
20-07-2020||Panchkula||Nine contract virus in Panchkula||Nine more persons, including a male assistant at the Department of Medical Education and Research in Sector 16, tested positive for Covid today, taking the district tally to 252. The 50-year-old lives in Chandigarh.Three men, aged 24, 42 and 55, from Ashiana Complex in Sector 19 also tested positive. A 50-year-old woman of the locality also tested positive. A 48-year-old man from the Satsang Bhawan in Sector 26 contracted the virus. The test result of a 40-year-old man from Basant Vihar in Kalka also came out positive. The others infected are a 55-year-old man from Sector 9 and a 57-year-old male doctor from Sector 7.A 36-year-old man from Ravindra Enclave, Baltana, a 35-year-old woman from Gulmohar City, Dera Bassi, and a 19-year-old person from Dera Bassi also tested positive on Sunday. However, they won’t be counted in Panchkula’s tally. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nine-contract-virus-in-panchkula-115331
20-07-2020||---||26 new cases take Chandigarh tally to 717||Chandigarh, July 19With 26 persons testing positive for Covid-19 today, the city crossed the 700 mark. The UT Covid tally today rose to 717 with 217 active cases.Eight of a family in Dhanas contracted the infection. Three boys, two of them aged 10 and the other 13, three women, aged 57, 34 and 32, and two men, aged 32 and 45, were among those found infected.A 78-year-old woman from Sector 48 also contracted the virus. A 48-year-old Daria man was found suffering from the contagion. He has three family members and all of them have been sampled.A 32-year-old man, who lives in Sector 32, was found positive. A 48-year-old woman from Sector 7 also contracted the infection.A 45-year-old man from Sector 45 was found infected. A 48-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran, two men, aged 52 and 56, from Sector 39 and a 33-year-old woman and a 36-year-old man from Sector 42 were also found suffering from the virus.Two women, aged 54 and 25, from Sector 46 tested positive for the contagion. A 56-year-old man also contracted the infection. He has three family members and all are asymptomatic.Two women, aged 30 and 58, from Sector 30 were found infected. A 67-year-old man in Sector 19 was also infected. He has three family members and all are asymptomatic.A 10-year-old boy was found infected in Sector 39. He has three family members and a maid. All of them are asymptomatic. A 50-year-old man from Sector 20 also tested positive.Meanwhile, three patients were discharged today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/26-new-cases-take-chandigarh-tally-to-717-115330
20-07-2020||---||Fortis staffer strangled to death in Mohali||Mohali, July 19He was thrashed tooThe assailants allegedly thrashed the victim and strangled him to death. Later, they fled from the spot, leaving Arun in a pool of blood. Some bystanders shifted the victim to Fortis Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.A male nurse of Fortis Hospital was strangled to death by some unidentified persons near a liquor shop in Sector 68 here late last night.The victim has been identified as Arun Bhardwaj (29), a resident of Phase IX and native of Garhdiwala in Hoshiarpur district. The victim, who had shifted here around two and a half years ago, is survived by his wife and a two-and-a-half-month-old baby. His father was also staying with him.DSP Deep Kanwal said Arun was returning home after his duty at 9.30 pm. He stopped in front of a liquor shop in Sector 68 near the Forest Complex. Some youths, who were already standing outside the liquor shop, had heated arguments with Arun over a petty issue.They allegedly thrashed the victim and strangled him to death. Later, they fled from the spot, leaving Arun in a pool of blood. Some bystanders shifted the victim to Fortis Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal and Inspector Rajnish Chaudhary, along with other cops, reached the spot. Police officials questioned the workers of the liquor shop who were present at the time of the incident. The police informed the victim’s family about the incident.The victim’s father said Arun had reached home after his duty. After a few hours, he received an emergency call from a doctor, following which he again rushed to the hospital.A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 302 (murder), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (armed with deadly weapon) and 159 (fighting in a public place) of the IPC.Kamal said: “We have figured out three suspects in connection with the murder. Five persons have been rounded up for interrogation and their role is being verified. We are hopeful of nabbing the suspects by tomorrow.” The body was handed over to his family members after conducting a post-mortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fortis-staffer-strangled-to-death-in-mohali-115329
20-07-2020||---||For pregnant Covid patient, Mohali dist hospital sets up special facility||Chandigarh, July 19Last week, Sunita, a Covid-positive pregnant woman, was in labour pains when she was turned away by two hospitals, including a private medical college. Losing all hope, the 28-year-old arrived at the District Hospital, Mohali, which rose to the occasion and created a special isolation wing for her delivery within hours.Thus, the hospital, known as a ‘VIP cradle’ and for ‘lacking enthusiasm for work’, became one of the few in the state to have successfully handled the delivery of a Covid patient. When a large number of tertiary care hospitals, including ‘premier institutes’, have refused treatment to patients, the Mohali hospital has offered OPD services to 1 lakh patients between March 15 and July 15.Manoj, a resident of Chandigarh’s Sector 43, who works as a washerman, was in the hospital on Saturday for the delivery of his wife. “We were not attended to by doctors at government hospitals in Chandigarh, so we came here,” he said.“Our services remain open 24x7 and even on holidays and Sundays. During the pandemic, around 1,500 deliveries were conducted at the hospital, including 522 C-section and 215 high-risk cases,” said Dr Areet Kaur, Senior Medical Officer and incharge of the hospital. The hospital has conducted 137 major surgeries, including 88 laparoscopic surgeries, 10 knee replacements, a hip replacement and 38 cataract surgeries during this period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/for-pregnant-covid-patient-mohali-dist-hospital-sets-up-special-facility-115145
