20-04-2020||---||15 entry points to Chandigarh to be sealed from Tuesday||Chandigarh, April 20In the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, 15 entry points to the city will be sealed from April 21 till further orders.The police said in view of the lockdown, all 38 outer border nakas were made operational on a round-the-clock basis where people and vehicles as per government instructions were being allowed to enter the city.Recently, cops stationed at these barriers were given infrared thermometers to screen all persons entering the city.The police claimed that their personnel at these outer barriers were also provided with sufficient number of masks, gloves and sanitisers to take precautions while discharging their duty.They said in view of the rising number of cases in the city and the need for restricting the entry of people, 15 outer barriers were identified and these would be closed for movement from April 21 till further orders.The police said no one would be allowed to even cross these barriers on foot.“The Mohali SSP and the Panchkula DCP have been informed to make necessary traffic diversions,” said a police official.No entryT-point behind Kaimbwala village near water pondSarangpur barrierJayanti Majro barrierNaka near IRB Complex on Sarangpur-Parachh village roadRoad from Mani Majra towards Mansa DeviRoad on the rear of the showrooms at the NAC, Mani MajraRoad from Mauli Jagran to Sector 17, PanchkulaRoad from Mauli Jagran to Sector 17/18, PanchkulaRoad separating Sector 52-C and DRoad separating Sector 52 and 53Badheri barrierRoad separating Sector 55 and 56Road from Maloya towards Togan villageRoad separating Sector 48-C and DRoad separating Sector 49-C and D||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-entry-points-to-chandigarh-to-be-sealed-from-tuesday-73715
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Nayagaon reports one more case; district tally now 62||One more coronavirus case was reported from Nayagaon on Monday, officials said.A 25-year-old man who tested positive lived in the same building as the previous case. This is Nayagaon’s sixth case.The development takes Mohali’s cases to 62 and Punjab’s to 246. Of Mohali’s 62, 52 are still active, eight have been cured, and two died.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nayagaon-reports-one-more-case-district-tally-now-62-73709
20-04-2020||New Delhi||Milkha Singh’s daughter fights COVID-19 pandemic from frontline in NY hospital||Legendary sprinter Milkha Singh’s daughter and ace golfer Jeev Milkha Singh’s elder sister has been running a “marathon” in New York—not on a track but at a hospital, battling the COVID-19 pandemic that has ravaged the world.Mona Milkha Singh is a doctor at the Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York, attending to emergency patients of coronavirus, which has so far claimed more than 40,000 lives in the US alone while causing over 1.5 lakh deaths worldwide.“She is basically an ER (Emergency Room) doctor in Metropolitan Hospital Center in New York city. So, when someone comes with the coronavirus symptoms, she has to treat them,” Jeev, a four-time European Tour champion, told PTI.“She checks the patients, stabilises them, performs intubation (insertion of artificial ventilation tube into a patient) before they are sent to special wards to quarantine the COVID-19 patients,” he added.The 54-year-old Mona passed out of Patiala Medical College before moving to the USA in the ‘90s. She has been working there for more than 20 years.“I am so proud of her. She says it is like running a marathon every day. She has been working five days a week, sometimes day shifts, sometimes night shifts, 12-hour shifts and it is tough but she has to do the job as best as she can.” The 48-year-old from Chandigarh said the job is a stressful one and sometimes he feels scared for her.“I feel worried. When you are treating people, anything can happen, so we talk to her every day. My mom and dad also keep checking on her.“We keep asking how she is feeling and if there are any symptoms. I tell her to stay positive and boost her immune system,” said Jeev, also a five-time Asian Tour winner.New York has reported nearly 250,000 confirmed cases and over 18,000 fatalities, forcing the government to extend its lockdown till May 15 to contain the fast-spreading disease.However, the lockdown is also giving rise to a lot of mental health issues among people, who also need equal attention.“With New York in partial lockdown, she gets a lot of patients who are suffering from depression as they are not used to staying at home,” Jeev elaborated.“There are people who come with bullet wounds, people who are having anxiety attacks, youngsters with drug overdose or old people getting heart attacks, basically any kind of emergency, she has to treat them all,” he said.The Chandigarh-based golfer also called for greater respect for the frontline workers, who have been attacked in India while performing their duties.“It is my humble request to every citizen of the world to respect the frontline workers because they are there to help us, whether it is the doctors, police, people who pick up garbage ... we must be respectful, kind and grateful to them and make sure they are taken care of,” he said.The dreaded virus has infected over 20 lakh people across the globe. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/milkha-singhs-daughter-fights-covid-19-pandemic-from-frontline-in-ny-hospital-73694
20-04-2020||Panchkula||Coronavirus: Man tests positive in Panchkula, district tally stands at 18||A 20-year-old man, who had attended a religious congregation in Sirmaur in Himachal Pradesh, tested positive for COVID-19 in Panchkula on Monday.With the latest case, the district's tally has risen to 18. Out of the total, seven patients were infected after they attended religious congregations in different states.The district has 16 active cases. The first two persons who were infected with COVID-19 were cured and discharged from the Civil Hospital here on April 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-man-tests-positive-in-panchkula-district-tally-stands-at-18-73676
20-04-2020||A Correspondent---||Dengue alert amid Covid-19 outbreak||Mohali, April 19 Residents have been told by the District Health Department to take precautionary measures to save themselves from dengue. Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said at this hour of Covid-19 pandemic, it is equally important to protect ourselves from the deadly dengue mosquito. He said they are alerting the district residents to the threat of the dengue fever so that remedial measures may be taken on time. He informed that the Health Department has asked the Municipal Corporation to carry out fogging at streets and other public places. Dr Manjit Singh said people should clean regularly their coolers, flowerpots, fridge back trays, water tanks and other containers which are general breeding sites of the deadly mosquito.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dengue-alert-amid-covid-19-outbreak-73558
20-04-2020||Mohali||Online education reviewed at RBU||Suggest exam dates: VC to HeadsChandigarh: In a recent communication to all department chairpersons, PU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar has solicited suggestions on the date of examination. The chairpersons have been asked to give their suggestions earliest by April 21, along with an update on the syllabus covered by them. TNSTwo held with 80-gram heroinChandigarh: The UT police arrested two persons while possessing 80 grams of heroin. The police said Karan, a native of Bathinda, and Aditya Sharma of Parwanoo were nabbed from Sector 35 here on April 18. The police said Karan was possessing 39 grams of heroin and Aditya had 41 grams of heroin. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against them at the Sector 36 police station. TNSWoman ends life over dowryPanchkula: A 20-year-old woman from Indira Colony in Sector 16 here committed suicide over alleged dowry harassment on Saturday. A case Section 304-B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 14 police station. The victim had tied knot with Raju on September 29 last year. The victim’s mother, the complainant, also accused her son-in-law of domestic violence. In her complaint to the police, she said: “The suspect is a drug addict and used to thrash my daughter often. Due to his violent behaviour, she opted to end her life”. A police official said they were investigating the matter. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-education-reviewed-at-rbu-73659
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||516 newspaper vendors screened||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/516-newspaper-vendors-screened-73658
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Selfless mission||A 66-year-old man has been cremating unclaimed bodies and performing their last rites during the lockdown.During the curfew, social worker Madan Lal Vashisht has performed the last rites of nine persons. Vashist hails from Bilaspur in HP and has been settled in Chandigarh since 1978. The police contact him if they find an unidentified body. He has creamted 2,349 bodies so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/selfless-mission-73657
20-04-2020||It is a matter of great concern and regret that Chandigarh has been declared a Covid hotspot. There are enough officers in the Administration||OPEN LETTER TO ADMINISTRATOR, ADVISER ON COVID-19||Some suggestions that can help the Administration deal better with the situation:Lt Gen Harbhajan Singh (PVSM)Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?ChandigarhTribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haveyoursay@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-letter-to-administrator-adviser-on-covid-19-73656
20-04-2020||Differentiate between genuine & those flouting norms||Enforcing norms sternly & being humane need of the hour||Use whip to retain gainThe police are doing a remarkable job by ensuring the compliance of restrictions and providing food and medical assistance to the needy. As responsible citizens it is our duty to follow curfew guidelines and extend full cooperation to cops. Some high-handedness on the part of police is expected to implement restrictions. Otherwise, all efforts will go waste.Veena Mahajan, ChandigarhIssuing challans will not helpMany morning/evening walkers are seen in parks. Young boys fearlessly ride bikes on roads. From which angle can we say that the UT Administration or the police have fared well in imposing the curfew? The police must come out with concrete steps to ban the movement of people unless required urgently. Issuing challans will neither help nor achieve any good results.Gurpreet S Malhotra, ChandigarhQUESTIONopenhouse@tribunemail.comCooperate with UT AdministrationLockdown has been imposed to break the Covid-19 chain. Everyone is in panic. No doubt, the curfew creates difficulties, but people should realise that restrictions will save their lives. The curfew must be imposed strictly. People must cooperate with the Administration.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaDetain violators in lockup for few daysDuring the lockdown/curfew, people move out of their homes without valid reason. The restrictions imposed by the Central and state governments are for the betterment of residents. Some are adamant in not paying heed to restrictions. The UT police should sternly deal with such people and detain them in lockup for a few days.MR Bhateja, NayagaonDiscipline must for success of missionFor the success of any mission, absolute discipline is necessary. How do you differentiate between genuine people and those flouting norms? Every service should be provided at the doorstep. Under the present circumstances, the police should use its discretion judiciously to separate the grain from chaff. Those violating the lockdown/curfew should be punished strictly.Dr Gurdev Singh, MohaliAdmn should take strict actionThe Centre as well states are working in tandem. However, the public cooperation is needed to implement guidelines issued by governments for safety. It will be in the interest of public safety, if the police work strictly and instil fear of law so that nobody is on the road without proper curfew pass.OP Garg, ChandigarhCreate awareness through campaignThe police seem to be acting cautiously at many hotspots. We accept that the police have to do something, but there should be limitations on its powers. People should be made aware of their obligations through campaign. As the police are helping people during this hour of crisis, so its responsibility of the public to follow rules.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhNo alternative to complianceThere would have been no need to extend the 21-day lockdown if black sheep and those, who did not fathom the gravity of the pandemic continued with their morning/evening walks, had acted with restraint. Strictness by the police has repercussions as often over-activism by some crosses limits and ‘lambs’ get sacrificed. Zero tolerance is the key to earn relaxations. We have no alternative to compliance.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaRein in people who violate curfewTruly, the UT Police is doing a commendable job by making people stay indoors. Some people roam in the city with impunity. So, the UT police will have to act stricter to rein in such persons and enforce the curfew.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhUT police have done a good jobThe UT traffic police has done a fantastic job by controlling law and order in streets of Chandigarh unlike their counterparts in Mohali and Panchkula. The public has failed to understand the dynamics of curfew during the Covid-19 pandemic. At a time when even the PGIMER is not undertaking surgeries of critical patients, indiscipline shown by Chandigarh vehicle owners is condemnable.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirkapurResidents should stop childish behaviourThe people should not act childish. If they understandthat the UT police are risking their own lives just for their sake, the movement on roads would reduce automatically. Only those with utmost urgency should step out of their homes.Naveen Gupta, ChandigarhCannot ignore severity of actionCitizens of those countries, who took lockdown/curfew lightly, suffered a lot. As of now, the only way to prevent the spread of Covid-19 is maintaining social distance. Therefore, keeping in view the severity of expected damage it is aimless to impose curfew unless enforced strictly.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliBe strict with curfew violatorsThe curfew in Chandigarh has been of a longer duration. People are fed up of being locked at their homes. But, we have to bear this pain and sufferings to save ourselves from the pandemic. The more we stay at home, more safe we are. So, the police should be strict with curfew violators. Put violators behind bars for three months at least.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhTake a lesson from the US, EuropeWe in India should take lesson from mistakes of the US and European countries. We must not take corona lightly. However, there is no dearth of irresponsible people in our localities, who do not want to understand pandemic. As such, they have to be taught rules. Hence, it is absolutely necessary that curfew/lockdown violators are handled with an iron hand.OP Longia, ChandigarhCurfew is in interest of residentsThe authorities concerned must come out strong against persons violating the curfew norms amid the Covid-19 outbreak. Such persons must understand that just because of little negligence, their families and so many others get infected with deadly virus. Most persons have no special reason for venturing out of their homes. The curfew is in the interest of residents.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliBook violators without any biasThe curfew has been imposed to keep people inside homes and prevent the spread of coronavirus. But, the people specially the elite and the literate, are more defaulters than the poor, who run from pillar to post for two-time meals. Spare nobody if he/she is caught roaming without curfew pass or duty. Book people without any bias so as to arrest their leisure roaming and show VIP status.Wg Cdr Jasbir Minhas (retd), MohaliStay indoors or efforts will go wasteThe authorities’ concerted efforts for controlling the spread of Covid-19 pandemic will go up in smoke if the people for whose safety lockdown/curfew has been imposed don’t stay indoors. The UT police must act strictly to rein in violators and enforce the city-wide curfew in the fight against the deadly pandemic. However, such strictness ought to be exercised equally for the common people and the élite of the City Beautiful.DR SS Bhatti, ChandigarhCome down heavily on violatorsThe only remedy to checkmate Covid-19 is social distancing, self discipline and abiding by dos & don’ts as per the medical protocol. It’s utterly disgraceful for the educated and elite, who violate the clampdown orders. Any breach/violation by the public would be detrimental for society. Therefore, the police/law enforcing agencies must come down heavily on violators and take severest action against them.SS Arora, MohaliWarm heart will make Lockdown successfulPassing instructions for strict lockdown and being harsh with violators is fine. Lockdown has to be humane. Think of those, who have been laid off and the ones whose pay has been slashed by 30 per cent. There are senior citizens, who are sick and need treatment. Think of daily wagers, who are without work. MPs/MLAs should ensure basic minimum income for those, who do not have local ration card. It is not an iron fist, but a warm heart will make extended lockdown a success.Col RD Singh ( retd), Ambala CanttRight is mightI don’t endorse the idea that the UT police should act stricter to tackle the abnormal situation during curfew. It virtually advocates the belief “Might is right”. In a civilised society, there is a rule of law. The police have to implement law and create peaceful atmosphere in society. Both the police and the people should not cross legal boundaries in curfew. No doubt, excessive coercive measures can result in opposition and religious resistance.Anita Tandon, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/enforcing-norms-sternly-being-humane-need-of-the-hour-73655
20-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||This health inspector goes door to door to trace cases||Mohali, April 19Rajinder Singh (48) goes door to door to find if anyone is symptomatic, or has any travel history, and execute other tasks related to the containment of the spread of Covid-19.Rajinder, a health inspector in Mohali, said, “I live in Mundi Kharar, which was sealed after three cases were reported from the area. I have been assigned Jawaharpur village, one of the Covid hotspots in Mohali district, from where 38 positive cases have been reported so far. My wife is also a health worker in Chandigarh. We are fighting the pandemic by putting our lives at risk.”He, along with his team, has been conducting a door-to-door survey at Jawaharpur village from the day the first positive case was reported from the village. After wearing proper safety gear, he and five other teams, each comprising two health workers, take samples from the houses of suspected patients. He asks family members if they have any symptoms of the virus. If he finds any suspect, he fills a form in which details, including travel history/contacts of the person, have to be added.Rajinder, who has been in the profession for the past 28 years, said, “Our team works round-the-clock to track suspected and affected patients. I know my task is very risky, but with the constant support of senior doctors, I feel motivated. When the first case was reported from the village, I, along with my team, surveyed around 500 houses. The sampling is going on since then.”At home, Rajinder makes sure he maintains social distancing. He said, “A bucket of warm water awaits me when I reach home. I enter my home only after removing my safety gear and shoes. No one enters my room when I’m at home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/this-health-inspector-goes-door-to-door-to-trace-cases-73583
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Docs, chemists to keep record of patients, drug buyers||The District Magistrate today ordered all medical stores, chemists shops, doctors and private clinics to keep a record of buyers/patients of medicines for fever, cold, throat infection and flu-like symptoms.They have been asked to maintain record of the names, mobile phone number and addresses of the patients or buyers and provide the details to the Director, Health Services (DHS), daily through email or WhatsApp.The DHS has been asked to formulate and execute a plan to identify those with Covid symptoms and take action to control the virus spread. The order will remain in force for 60 days. The decision was taken after it came to light that many chemists are giving medicines for flu-like symptoms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/docs-chemists-to-keep-record-of-patients-drug-buyers-73582
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Curfew violators made to download Aarogya Setu app||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curfew-violators-made-to-download-aarogya-setu-app-73581
20-04-2020||---||4 more Nayagaon residents infected||Mohali, April 19Four more Covid positive patients have been reported from Nayagaon, taking the tally in the district to 61.The new patients are family members of a PGI worker who had tested positive. The worker had been admitted to the PGI. Among the new patients are the worker’s mother and wife, aged 60 and 26, respectively, a 19-year-old youth and a month-old girl.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the wife and the baby of the Nayagaon patient had been shifted to the PGI and the other two to the isolation ward of Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.The authorities have sealed Nayagaon. Apart from this, a door-to-door survey is also being carried out in the village to identify those who came in contact with the Covid patients. The Nayagaon resident was a sanitation worker in the Covid ward of the PGI.Dayalan said as of now, a total of 562 persons had completed their quarantine period while 1,986 were currently under quarantine. Of the 919 samples taken so far, 838 had been found negative and the results of 20 were awaited.The Deputy Commissioner said, “The extensive contact tracing and the sampling procedure for coronavirus will continue with the same pace as before because it is very important to identify the source of the problem for a proper real-time assessment.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-more-nayagaon-residents-infected-73572
20-04-2020||---||NHAI gets nod to start work on Kharar flyover||Mohali, April 19The district administration today gave the nod to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to continue work on the Mohali-Kharar flyover and the elevated road.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the NHAI had applied for restarting work on the flyover as labour was sitting idle and the completion of the project was in public interest. The NHAI had assured the authorities that all precautions would be taken to ensure safety, he added.NHAI project director Krishan Sachdeva said the work would start soon and it would be done on a war footing.The Kharar flyover has been delayed further due to the lockdown. The deadline for the completion of the flyover is September this year, but as the work on the project ramained halted for over a month, the project was affected. However, as the district administration has given approval for starting the work, there is hope that the project would be completed as the construction company would not face any hurdles in the movement of its men and machinery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nhai-gets-nod-to-start-work-on-kharar-flyover-73568
20-04-2020||---||3 more +ve, part of Sec 30-B sealed||Chandigarh, April 19A part of Sector 30-B was today sealed after three family members of the Covid-19 positive woman, who resides in the area, were found to be carrying virus.The woman’s husband, a son and her granddaughter, who is in Maloya, have tested positive for Covid. “We have sealed the area. These are EWS houses. We will impose stricter restrictions from tomorrow. Ten policemen have been deputed there and the area has been barricaded,” said a police official.The sealing will continue till the situation becomes normal. A total of 160 persons were yesterday home-quarantined in this case. However, the source of transmission could not be traced yet.Meanwhile, members of the Fighters Welfare Club today sealed Sector 40. They are sanitising vehicles entering or exiting the sector and conducting thermal screening of those coming to or leaving the area.“We sanitised 751 vehicles entering Sector 40 today. A list of these persons has been prepared. We are keeping a check on those entering the sector. We also check their curfew passes,” said DP Singh, one of the members.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “Sector 40 was sealed by locals. They are doing thermal checking, sanitisation and screening without any government help. I appeal to all RWAs, councillors, political parties to organise sealing of their areas and regulating entry/exit of visitors, in consultation with the local police. Records be maintained to help contact tracing later.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-ve-part-of-sec-30-b-sealed-73566
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||6 of Dhanas man’s kin negative||Six household contacts of the PGI sanitation attendant from Dhanas, who was diagnosed with Covid, have tested negative and the report of his one family member is awaited. — TNSTwo dischargedTwo Covid patients were discharged from the PGI on Sunday. They are a 23-year-old youth, a resident of Sector 29 who got the virus from a Sector 30 youth who had returned from Dubai, and a 32-year-old man, who is an NRI from Canada and lives in Sector 33.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-of-dhanas-mans-kin-negative-73565
20-04-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Withdraw FIR against doc, assn writes to SSP||The state unit of the Indian Radiological and Imaging Association today wrote a letter to the Fatehgarh Sahib SSP, urging him to cancel the FIR registered against their executive member Dr Deepak Jot, owner of Deepak Scanner and Diagnosis, Sirhind, and two of his employees under Section 188 of the IPC. The copies of the letter have also been forwarded to the Punjab DGP and the Chief Minister. Dr Gurdeep Singh and Dr Mukesh Gupta, state president and secretary of the association, respectively, mentioned that doctors had decided to open their clinics in persuasion of the orders of the Chief Minister to provide health services at this critical hour of the Covid-19 threat. They stated that he opened the clinic as a child had developed head injury and a pregnant woman needed immediate scan. They further stated that there were hardly three persons in the clinic and they had also attached the video of the time when the police came to the clinic. Dr Amanpreet Singh, district president, IMA, said doctors could ensure social distancing within the premises and not outside it. He said in such circumstances, no private hospital or doctor would be able to work.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/withdraw-fir-against-doc-assn-writes-to-ssp-73561
20-04-2020||Panchkula||Act against those circulating fake message, orders Panchkula DC||Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has ordered strict action against those circulating a fake message suggesting that a private doctor in Sector 11 is Covid-19 positive. Dr Rishi Nagpal, who treated the Sector 15 Covid-infected woman, had tested negative. The 44-year-old Covid-19 patient later infected her husband, daughter and 6 other family members. These people reside in two houses in Sector 15. Accordingly, the residential sector was sealed by the administration and declared as a containment zone. “I have asked police officials to take action against those people involved in circulation of such fake news,” the Deputy Commissioner said. Three patients from Ambala who were reportedly treated by the doctor have also been tested positive. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said all OPD attendees at the Sector 11 hospital from April 6 to 14 had been asked to home quarantine themselves. Health officials, however, are yet to take a call on whether to take the doctor’s sample once again for Covid testing. On April 17, the doctor was booked by the police for allegedly failing to inform the health authorities about treating a suspected Covid-19 patient, on the directions of Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/act-against-those-circulating-fake-message-orders-panchkula-dc-73560
20-04-2020||---||Kirron takes to social media to show presence in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 19 Following criticism over her presence in Chandigarh, local MP Kirron Kher today posted a video on the social media stating that she is in the city and is in touch with officials. “To those who have been writing on the social media that I am not in Chandigarh. I am very much in the city. I did not want do this (post video), but now I have to...do not do politics during this time of global pandemic,” she said. The two-time MP further said one should not move out during the lockdown. “I have given Rs 10 crore from the MPLAD fund to the government. Besides, I have given Rs 1 crore to the GMCH-32 to fight against Covid-19. Other than this, various organisations, NGOs and volunteers are providing langar with the support of the Administration,” the BJP leader said. Yesterday, city Congress president Pardeep Chhabra took a dig at her presence. He said when all officials and concerned were on field, why the MP was missing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kirron-takes-to-social-media-to-show-presence-in-chandigarh-73559
20-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Campaign intensifies to trace Rohingya-Tablighi Jamaat links||Dera Bassi, April 19Within hours after the Union Home Ministry’s directions, the District Administration intensified its campaign across the Dera Bassi sub-division to track Rohingya having “direct or indirect” links with activists of Tablighi Jamaat.According to sources, the police will not only detect these Rohingya and check their medical status, but will also investigate their primary contact history to find out the connection with Tablighi Jamaat.As per the official data, about 131 Rohingya are staying in Dera Bassi for the past several years and 30 of them were staying at Handesera near Lalru. The sources said about 20 of them had already left the area during the first phase of the lockdown.Police officials stated that they had tracked down these Rohingya, most of them working at a meat plant in Dera Bassi. During investigation, it came to fore that these Rohingya had not come in contact, ‘direct or indirect’ links, with activists of Tablighi Jamaat.Satinder Singh, SHO, Dera Bassi, said the group (Rohingya) staying in the city had no connection with Tablighi Jamaat. No one had participated in any religious congregations across the state.The SHO stated that they had picked up three persons among the group and got their test conducted at the CHC, Dhakoli, but their reports came negative.“We have started a campaign to check the credentials of all Rohingya living in the city and also to screen these immigrants to single out the suspects of Covid-19. Special teams led by the SHO have already been constituted in this regard,” said Gurbakshish Singh, DSP, Dera Bassi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/campaign-intensifies-to-trace-rohingya-tablighi-jamaat-links-73557
20-04-2020||Panchkula||Complaint against fake FB page||The police have lodged a complaint against a fake Facebook page assuring doorstep delivery of liquor from a liquor shop in Sector 7 here. An official of the Cyber Cell said: “On April 17, he came across a fake Facebook page assuring doorstep delivery of liquor from a shop in Sector 7. A mobile number was also mentioned on the FB page. As liquor shops are closed due to the lockdown as per the government orders, I subsequently apprised my senior officials of the matter. A mobile number was also mentioned on the FB page.” An FIR was lodged against unidentified persons under Sections 66C and 66D of the IT Act at the Sector 5 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/complaint-against-fake-fb-page-73556
20-04-2020||---||Chandigarh cop suspended  for curfew violation||Chandigarh, April 19A UT constable has been suspended by the department following the registration of a case against him by the Himachal Police for curfew violation.Constable Mukesh Kumar was on his way to Shimla on a motorcycle to drop a woman. Mukesh, who was posted in the PCR wing, had left for Shimla after finishing his night duty.The SHO of the Kandaghat police station, Sub-Inspector Brij Lal, said Mukesh was wearing police uniform and was heading to Shimla to drop a woman. “On reaching a naka near Kandaghat, Mukesh dropped the woman and she started walking towards the naka, while Mukesh took a U-turn and tried to leave. We, however, stopped him and on questioning, it was found that he was coming from Chandigarh,” the SHO said.The SHO said on further enquiry regarding how Mukesh managed to reach Kandaghat, which is hardly 30 km before Shimla, it was found that Mukesh used to stop the motorcycle before every naka and the woman accompanying him used to cross the naka on foot after which Mukesh alone drove through the nakas and picked her again a few metres ahead of every naka. Since he was wearing police uniform, nobody questioned him.A case under Sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against him at the Kandaghat police station. The SHO said the constable and the woman had been quarantined for 14 days.UT police officials said Mukesh had been suspended and transferred to the Police Lines, Sector 26.“The incident has been found to be of grave misconduct and dereliction of duty. He has been suspended and a departmental inquiry has been initiated against him,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cop-suspended-for-curfew-violation-73555
20-04-2020||---||Ambala division loads record 1,146 wagons of food grain||Ambala, April 19 The Ambala division of Northern Railway has recorded all-time record single-day loading of 1,146 wagons of food grain on Friday. The previous best-ever loading of foodgrain was 952 wagons in a single day on April 9 this year. The division has recorded consecutively highest-ever earning in a day on April 16 and 17, which was Rs 11.16 crore and Rs 12.62 crore, respectively. As per the data shared, the Ambala division has loaded 340 rakes (one rake comprises of nearly 50 wagons) of food grains out of the total 425 rakes loaded from the division in the lockdown period so far, which has fetched freight earning of more than Rs 187 crore for the division in this period. DRM Ambala Division GM Singh said: “Five long-distance higher capacity Annapoorna Trains were dispatched on Friday, which is also a record. It has all been possible with the converted efforts of our section controllers, station masters, guards, loco pilots and staff of commercial supervisors who are engaged in smooth operation of freight services.” Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Hari Mohan said: “The Commercial Department of the division is striving hard to ensure uninterrupted supply of essentials across the country. While ensuring the same, we are taking all protective measures from Covid-19 as social distancing and sanitisation norms are being ensured, keeping in view the safety of employees and working people.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-division-loads-record-1-146-wagons-of-food-grain-73554
20-04-2020||Mona||From bonding with family to reading, ex-Navy chief makes most of quarantine time||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 19This is for the first time in the 30 years of their marriage that Admiral Sunil Lanba (retd) has got to spend ample time with his wife Reena. They are making the most of this time by doing household chores together, tending to their garden and catching up on reading and television.“Lockdown was a necessity and I feel proud that we have come together as a nation to follow rules and regulations set by the government. We have been able to flatten the curve together, which is remarkable,” he said.The day begins with watering plants, forenoon is spent on finishing household chores, evening calls for some time in the garden and the day is pleasantly spent in each other’s company. “I have been on ship for a significant amount of time. It’s only now that we have each other totally,” said Admiral Lanba, who served as the 23rd Chief of the Naval Staff of the Indian Navy.Work keeps him occupied even during the lockdown. Being the chairman of National Maritime Foundation, he has to address seminars, which is only possible through video-conferencing. In the leisure time, he catches up on his old books and watches television. “PG Wodehouse is out of the bookshelf again. We enjoy watching serials and old Hindi movies and spend a great time with each other,” said the lively decorated Naval officer.During the lockdown, Admiral Lanba makes sure that he stays connected to his friends and family. “Phone really comes handy here. I chat with my friends, cousins and relatives. My wife and I spend time chatting with our kids. We love to chat with our grandson, who will turn 4 this June.” Amongst the things that he misses are his morning walks and golf time with friends.He asserted that they needed to be careful even when the restrictions were lifted. “It’s going to be a new normal because till we have vaccine and a cure in hand, the world at large cannot be back to business as earlier. We need to take cautious steps when lockdown is lifted and follow preventive measures so that the disease doesn’t reoccur in our country.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-bonding-with-family-to-reading-ex-navy-chief-makes-most-of-quarantine-time-73553
20-04-2020||Panchkula||Haryana Speaker writes to Centre||Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta has written a letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, terming the PGI’s refusal to admit a 44-year-old Covid patient from Sector 15 here, as violation of ethics of medical profession.“Refusal of PGI authorities from its doorstep in admitting a very serious Covid-19 patient is considered as violation of ethics of medical profession,” Gupta expressed in the letter.“It’s a very serious matter. Today they refused to admit a Covid-19 patient, tomorrow they can deny to admit any patient in need of emergency medical services. It’s not only against ethos of medical profession, but humanity,” Gupta said in a telephonic conversation.He requested the Health Minister to take a note of this and enquire into the facts and reasons for the refusal of the PGI to admit the patient and the grounds/instructions of any competent authority under which refusal was made.A copy of the letter has also been sent to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij.Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Civil Hospital, told The Tribune, “The patient had developed respiratory issues, but we were told that only Covid-19 patients from the UT will be admitted to the PGI. However, when the matter was discussed with the UT Administrator, the latter said there was no such ban.”The patient was later shifted to a private hospital in Panchkula, she said.Commenting on the issue, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the PGI would continue to treat serious Covid and non-Covid cases from the neighboring states, if local doctors find it beyond their capacity or infrastructure. However, he stated that “only condition is that they must consult in advance the PGI Director so that they are ready to receive the patient without causing infection.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-speaker-writes-to-centre-73552
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Students seek exemption from fee||Even though the PU has lifted the May 9 deadline, which was recommended by a panel for wrapping up the syllabus, owing to the hiccups in online teaching, the students are still not pacified.   Nikhil Narmeta, president, NSUI, PU, and Rajat Nain, INSO leader, have written to the PM and the MHRD demanding scholarships for poor and exemption from exams and fee.  “Nearly 50 per cent students in the university are EWS or from middle-class background. These students don’t have any scholarships and it’ll become stressful for them to pay fee. Due to lockdown there’s no work, no pay and no job security,” wrote Narmeta to the ministry. He said: “We request you to please kindly exempt them from paying fee or if possible provide them with some concessions.” “The UGC must give its decision as soon as possible as it had already taken suggestions from various universities of India. Examinations should not be conducted in such period and students except final year should be promoted to next semester on the basis of average marks. Some alternative should be made for final-year students also.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-seek-exemption-from-fee-73551
20-04-2020||---||Patiala Health Dept starts rapid testing||Patiala, April 19After the district reported 15 positive cases on Saturday, the Health Department today started conducting rapid antibody tests for speedy detection of Covid-19 positive cases.In the first phase, the Health Department started conduct tests at three containment zones — Safabadi Gate, Books Market and Old grain market area in Rajpura. The decision to go for rapid testing came within 12 hours after the district witnessed a huge spike in the number of Covid-19 positive cases.The district has already reported 26 cases so far.Health experts informed that the Health Department had been conducting RT-PCR tests earlier wherein sample from a person’s throat is taken using a swab. However, in rapid testing blood sample is taken to detect the body’s response to the virus. Experts say the rapid antibody test kits are less expensive and the results are out in 20-30 minutes while RT-PCR test takes 10-12 hours.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra informed they had received 700 rapid testing kits to conduct mass testing.He said the samples of all 51 persons in the two containment zones – Books Market area and Safabadi gate – tested negative while the test results of the third containment zone were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-health-dept-starts-rapid-testing-73550
20-04-2020||Karam Prakash||Rajpura patients’ travel history cause of concern||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 19In a shocking revelation, the travel history of two Covid positive cases, both sons of the Rajpura woman who was tested positive on Saturday, has left hundreds of Rajpura residents at the risk getting infected.Health Department officials said both siblings had visited several cities during the curfew.They were found to have visited Dera Bassi, Lalru, recently, thereby, putting hundreds of people at the risk of catching infection.Tracing the contacts of the Rajpura woman, Health Department officials came to know that her two sons, who were in business of electronic spare parts, had visited several places even after the lockdown.The officials said their close contacts said they might had even visited to New Delhi during the lockdown. They have also exposed the entire hospital staff of a private hospital, where they took their mother before she was shifted to the isolation ward at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.Earlier, a book trader of Patiala had also risked the lives of hundreds of people by visiting multiple cities before he was traced by the Health Department.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said the patients had not revealed their complete travel history. He said: “We are tracing their contacts, but it’s a long chain. Their local movements are also being traced. We can only trace those contacts which are revealed by them. Therefore, they should cooperate.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rajpura-patients-travel-history-cause-of-concern-73549
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||Specially abled soldiers make cloth face masks||The inmates of Paraplegic Rehabilitation Centre (PRC), Mohali, and their family members are making cloth face masks to meet the requirements of various agencies in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.   A large quantity of masks has been provided to some hospitals and around 700 masks were distributed at the Chandimandir Military Station. These are also being sold through the Army Wives Welfare Association outlets. Another 900 masks are ready for distribution.   Paraplegic Rehabilitation Centre is an institution undertaking rehabilitation of paraplegic defence personnel, who become totally disabled in the line of duty. The centre provides them vocational training so that they can become economically self-reliant.   The centre has also distributed these masks among the police personnel and health workers on duty, poor and underprivileged persons and sanitation workers operating in the vicinity of the rehabilitation centre.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/specially-abled-soldiers-make-cloth-face-masks-73548
20-04-2020||Chandigarh||CRPF to the rescue of poor migrants||Pbi university VC to donate 1-month salaryPatiala: Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor Dr BS Ghuman has decided to donate his one-month salary to CM's Covid Relief Fund. Faculty members from the university said the decision of the VC has inspired others too. "A number of employees have given their consent to contribute a portion of their salary to the fund," they said. TNSProf donates masksChandigarh: Dr Parveen Goyal, assistant professor and fellow at Panjab University, is helping daily wagers by providing them with face masks. He is also distributing tea and biscuits and educating people on social distancing at the Labour Chowk early morning. TNSTBRL donates 200 coveralls to GMCHChandigarh: The Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL), Chandigarh, has donated 200 sets of personal protective coveralls to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and the office of Sub-Divisional Magistrate, Dera Bassi. These coveralls have been tested and approved by the South India Textile Research Association (SITRA), Coimbatore, which is accredited to the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories and a government authorised laboratory for testing medical textiles in India. The TBRL is also supplying face protection shields and aerosol containment enclosures to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crpf-to-the-rescue-of-poor-migrants-73547
20-04-2020||Scribe harassed by cops||Scribe harassed by cops, probe ordered||Chandigarh: A day after a journalist, who was on his way to the office, alleged that he was harassed by UT cops, the Police Department has marked an inquiry into the incident. The inquiry will be conducted by DIG Ombir Singh Bishnoi. A journalist of Punjabi Tribune was going to the Sector 29 office on foot from his house in Sector 27 when the police stopped him near the Sector 29/30 light point and took him to the Industrial Area police station. “In view of the incident, an inquiry has been initiated against the officials concerned. The DIG has been asked to ascertain the details and facts of the incident,” stated the police. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scribe-harassed-by-cops-probe-ordered-73546
20-04-2020||Mohali||No additional activities to be allowed in Mohali: Dayalan||Keeping in view the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Mohali district, the administration has decided not to allow operation of any additional activities from tomorrow. Girish Dayalan, District Magistrate, has ordered that the curfew imposed in the district shall remain in force and “operation of any additional activities (not already allowed under previous orders/exemptions) shall not take place without specific exemptions granted by this office”. Dayalan said stricter measures had been enforced keeping in view the emergent nature and potential magnitude of the pandemic and for ensuring the health and safety of human life. Any violation shall invite criminal proceedings under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the IPC, he said. He said as of now, the number of Covid positive cases in the district was 61, the highest in Punjab. He said the district shared its border with Chandigarh, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. He said a considerable number of people travelled to Mohali and back from Chandigarh and other states because of either their work or family. "In view of the situation, wherein the district has not yet reached a stage of 14 days without a positive case and has the highest number of Covid positive cases in Punjab, the threat of the pandemic spreading can yet not be ruled out," he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-additional-activities-to-be-allowed-in-mohali-dayalan-73544
