20-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC extends stay on final examinations by PU||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday made it clear that the stay on holding the “final examinations” by Panjab University would continue till the Supreme Court verdict on the issue.As the issue came up for resumed hearing through videoconferencing, the Bench of Justice Mahabir Singh Sindhu was told that similar controversy had already been argued before the Supreme Court and the judgment stood reserved.Adjourning the matter sine die, Justice Sindhu asserted: “Let the matter be re-listed as and when the pronouncement is made by the Supreme Court. Interim orders in respective cases will continue.”The Bench, on the previous date of hearing, was told that the issue regarding guidelines issued by the UGC to conduct examination was pending before the Supreme Court. The developments took place during the hearing of a petition filed against Panjab University and other respondents by Yatin Mehta and other petitioners.They were seeking the quashing of orders and notifications issued between May 26 and June 19, whereby final year students were directed to appear for their end-semester examinations.Their counsel had referred to the notification dated June 19 before submitting that the university was to conduct the final semester examinations in July.He had also referred to the judgment passed by the Delhi High Court in this regard.He had further referred to another notification dated March 18 passed by Symbiosis International (Deemed University), whereby they had taken a decision not to conduct the final examinations. The students were to be given grades on a pro-rata basis on their current semester’s internal continuous assessment.The Bench had earlier asserted that the university could consider and examine the issue of conducting final year examination, keeping in view the decisions taken by the Government of Maharashtra and the Central University of Tamil Nadu, whereby “they decided to pass the students on the basis of previous semesters' performance”.Referring to a related petition, Justice Ritu Bahri had then observed some of the students would have to travel from far off places like Ladakh to take the final semester examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-extends-stay-on-final-examinations-by-pu-128949
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 119 COVID-19 cases; UT toll 2,515||Chandigarh reports 119 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the Union Territory's total to 2,515.The city's death toll stands at 31.Over 1,000 infections remain active in the city.Earlier, a 74-year-old man from Sector 24 died at the PGI. He suffered refractory septic shock due to coronavirus and acute respiratory distress syndrome.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-119-covid-19-cases-ut-toll-2-515-128915
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||One Nation, One Ration Card launched in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Administration on Thursday launched the 'One Nation, One Ration Card' in the city.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given a clarion call for the launch of “One Nation, One Ration card” all over the country. This enables the beneficiaries to get ration, even when they move out to other state or U.Ts. This is particularly helpful for migrant labourers, who have to keep moving in search of work. Without portability of the ration card, these poor people were deprived of their entitlement for ration.Prime Minister Modi had directed that all UTs must introduce this scheme on priority and become a model for the rest of the country.During the official launch, Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator,handed over the ration cards to a few beneficiaries. Due to coronavirus, it was decided not to have any major event involving a large gathering. The cards will be delivered to other beneficiaries on the doorstep by government officials.This new One Nation, One Ration Card introduced by Chandigarh Administration will enable the beneficiaries to get ration money in Chandigarh and Puducherry, where DBT system is prevailing. If the cardholder migrates to another state, where no DBT is available, they can draw rice, wheat and other ration items from the local ration shops. The Food and Civil Supplies Department of Chandigarh and NIC joined hands to develop the software for new ration cards. The card contains family details and bank account number of beneficiaries. The cardholders can carry it across the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-nation-one-ration-card-launched-in-chandigarh-128865
20-08-2020|| Zirakpur||Auto driver found dead at Zirakpur; police suspect murder||An autorickshaw driver was found dead on Thursday morning at Aerocity road, Zirakpur.The victim's hands were tied with an electric wire. The driver's neck had marks of a sharp-edged object. The deceased is a resident of Zirakpur, who has been identified as Anil Kumar. The body of the deceased was found on the roadside with the vehicle nearby. Zirakpur police reached the spot, seized the body and started an investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-driver-found-dead-at-zirakpur-police-suspect-murder-128861
20-08-2020||New Delhi||Swachh Survekshan: Chandigarh up from rank 20 to 16; Panchkula ranked 56, Mohali 157||Chandigarh was ranked 16th in the central government's cleanliness survey announced on Thursday.The city was ranked the 20th cleanest city in the survey last year. In 2018, it stood third.Panchkula improved its ranking in the survey for the fourth year in a row. The city was ranked 56th – an improvement of 15 positions from the 71st spot in the previous year. While the city stood at 142 in the 2018 survey, it was placed at 211th position in 2017.Panchkula also bagged the third spot in Haryana in this year’s survey. While Karnal bagged the first place in the state, Rohtak stood second.Mohali slipped to 157th spot in Swachh Survekshan 2020 from 153 last year.While Mohali stood at 109th position in the cleanliness rankings in 2018, it was ranked 121 in 2017.Mohali is the 7th cleanest city in Punjab out of the total of 14 covered under the survey.Indore was adjudged India's cleanest city for the fourth straight year.The second and third positions in the category were grabbed by Surat and Navi Mumbai respectively.The Swachh Survekshan awards 2020 were announced by Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri at a ceremony. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/swachh-survekshan-chandigarh-up-from-rank-20-to-16-panchkula-ranked-56-mohali-157-128849
20-08-2020||Mohali||3 more deaths, 134 new cases in Mohali district||Three men died of Covid in Mohali today. Besides, 134 fresh cases were reported from the district, the highest in the tricity so far. Meanwhile, 178 patients recovered from the disease.Two men, aged 41 and 44, who breathed their last had co-morbidities. A 53-year-old man from Padiala also lost his life to the virus. He had multiple health problems.Meanwhile, 17 cases were reported from Kharar, 16 from Zirakpur, seven from Nayagaon, six from Kurali and four from Eco City in New Chandigarh. A 76-year-old man of Phase VII was the oldest patient while a six-year-old boy of Kharar was the youngest case reported today.Meanwhile, SAD treasurer and Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma tested positive for Covid today. “I was feeling uncomfortable for the last two-three days. I am in isolation and perfectly healthy,” he said.While the district had reported the first 1,000 Covid cases in 138 days, the next 1,138 cases surfaced in just 14 days. Close to half of the fatalities in the district have been reported in the last 10 days. So far, 2,138 cases have surfaced in the district. There are 922 active cases while 1,173 patients have been discharged from the hospital post-recovery. With three deaths today, 43 patients have succumbed to the virus in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-deaths-134-new-cases-in-mohali-district-128631
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||91 fresh cases in Chandigarh, 74-yr-old man succumbs||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/91-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh-74-yr-old-man-succumbs-128632
20-08-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula sees biggest single-day spike of 86||The district today recorded its highest single-day surge in the Covid count with 86 more testing positive. However, only 46 cases were added to the district count for unspecified reasons, taking the tally to 1,313.As many as 24 new cases were reported from Kalka, 13 each from Pinjore and Nanakpur, six from Sector 4, four from Manak Tabra, three each from Sector 6, 7 and 17, two each from Sector 15 and 21, a case each from Kundi village, Sector 2, 10, 12 and 16, Raipur Rani, Abheypur, Kot village, Indira Colony, Budanpur, Rajiv Colony, an unspecified location in Industrial Area and Amravati Enclave.Meanwhile, 51 patients were discharged from health facilities across the district in the last 24 hours after they defeated the deadly virus.According to the media bulletin released by the Panchkula authorities, 393 cases are still active in the district and 912 patients have been cured and discharged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-of-86-128633
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees wettest Aug in 8 years||The city has recorded the wettest August since 2012 even as nearly 10 days are still left for the month to complete.According to the Meteorological Department, from August 1 to 19, 308 mm of rainfall was recorded in the city, which is highest since 2012 when the city had recorded 321.1 mm of rainfall in the month of August.The city saw 284.4 mm of rainfall in the entire month of August last year, 304.6 mm in 2018, 264.8 mm in 2017, 127.4 mm in 2016, 106.8 mm in 2015, 30.9 mm in 2014 and 256.2 mm in 2013.In the past 24 hours, 19.8 mm of rainfall was recorded in the city. “It is expected to rain tomorrow as well. After that, there is a forecast of a clear sky. After August 27, the monsoon will become active again,” said a Met official. “August saw more rain as monsoon has got active late this time,” the official added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-wettest-aug-in-8-years-128634
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Police seize pistol from realtor’s flat in Zirakpur||The UT police have seized another .32 bore pistol and 10 cartridges from the flat of a property dealer in Zirakpur, who was nabbed with a gangster.Gangster Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, an accomplice of gangster Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, and property dealer Firoz Khan were nabbed in Sector 17 with a country-made pistol and five cartridges.Inspector Ram Rattan, SHO, Sector 17 police station, said during investigation, it was found that Firoz owned a flat in Zirakpur, from where a .32 bore pistol and cartridges had been recovered. The police said the call detail records of both suspects were being scrutinised to establish their contacts with gangsters active in Punjab.Gopi is also an accomplice of gangster Harvinder Singh, alias Rinda, who is wanted in a murder case and an attempt to murder case in Chandigarh, besides several cases in other states. “Rinda is absconding for the past several years; we suspect he was in touch with Gopi,” said police sources. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-seize-pistol-from-realtors-flat-in-zirakpur-128635
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Uprooted trees in Chandigarh get new life||In order to save uprooted trees, the horticulture wing of the local MC has replanted 57 trees in two years.Trees that get uprooted due to storm or rain are identified and replanted. Yesterday, a tree was found uprooted and was replanted near MCM DAV College, Sector 36.“We started the practice over two years ago. This year, we have replanted 11 trees so far. Whenever we get information about an uprooted tree, we send our team there and get the work done,” said Superintending Engineer Krishan Pal Singh.With the help of a JCB machine, the land is dug up and the tree is replanted. A number of replanted trees have already bloomed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/uprooted-trees-in-chandigarh-get-new-life-128636
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh private hospitals to reserve 25% beds for Covid patients||In view of the continuous rise in coronavirus cases in the city, private hospitals and nursing homes have been directed to reserve one-fourth of the beds for patients suffering from the virus.During the war room meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore ordered that at least 25 per cent of the beds available in private hospitals and nursing homes must be kept reserved for Covid patients.Fighting the virusDuring a meeting with the Administrator, MP Kirron Kher suggested that nursing homes in Chandigarh be allowed to join government hospitals in the fight against Covid-19. She said the city would be in better position with the availability of hospital beds/ventilators at nursing homes for treatment of the disease.Under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, the Health Department directed all private hospitals to keep at least 25 per cent of the beds/ICU beds in all specialities for Covid patients on a payment basis. However, the charges will be borne by the patients willing to avail of the facility at these private hospitals at the rates approved by the UT Administration.On reserving beds in private hospitals, Dr RS Bedi, member of the Indian Medical Association, said, “Private hospitals have already initiated providing beds for Covid patients after discussing it logistically and scientifically with the health authorities. Importantly, nursing homes are also taking a big chunk of non-Covid patients, who are equally entitled to treatment, thereby actively participating in sharing the overall load of patients.”Meanwhile, the Administrator directed KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, to form various area committees along with councillors, which can help the local administration in keeping a watch over different areas to ensure that residents follow hygienic practices such as wearing of masks and social distancing and ramp up information, education and communication (IEC) activities.The Administrator also ordered that the Director, Education, must ensure that during online teaching being given by various schools, necessary lessons should be given to young children regarding hygienic practices to be followed to prevent the Covid infection.Badnore directed the Health Department and the Municipal Corporation to ensure that the vendors in markets are tested through the rapid antigen method so that they do not become super spreaders. The Administrator directed the PGI to create a plasma bank and also to study whether Covid patients are suffering any side effects after treatment and recovery.Dialysis facility for Covid patients at two centresThe Health Department has directed Dharam Hospital, Sector 15-C, Chandigarh, and Rahi Care Dialysis, Sector 22-C, Chandigarh, to reserve two dialysis machines each for Covid patients.These hospitals can charge up to Rs800 from Covid patients over and above the normal charges in lieu of the extra cost to be incurred on observing the precautions for dialysis of Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-private-hospitals-to-reserve-25-beds-for-covid-patients-128639
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh launches digital health card, 4K register on Day 1||The UT Administration today launched the National Digital Health Mission in the city. Under the scheme, each resident will get a digital health card.A formal launch took place at the Punjab Raj Bhawan in which UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore got the first digital health card.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said on the first day itself, 4,000 persons registered online and got their digital health cards online.Parida said he proposed to cover the entire population of the UT within one month.During the war room meeting, the Administrator directed the PGI, the Director General of Police, the MC Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner to ensure that all employees working under them register and get their digital cards made within a week.Dr G Diwan, Director, Health Services, who is also the nodal officer under the National Digital Health Mission for Chandigarh, stated that a special drive would be launched in all sectors to ensure that every resident got his medical card.Apart from citizens, the digital data will contain the details of doctors, their qualifications and medical infrastructure available for the citizens in the city. In future, it will be linked to e-pharmacy and telemedicine too. The digital medical card will enable the doctors to look at the medical history of each person at the click of a button.Necessary care will be taken to ensure the privacy of the data and the medical information of the card holders.Parida said Chandigarh would be the first to cover the entire population with digital health cards. It would also help in better implementation of the AYUSH scheme, he added.The scheme was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Independence Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-launches-digital-health-card-4k-register-on-day-1-128653
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||After 5 months, Chandigarh to open gym at Lake Sports Complex this week||After close to five months, the UT Sports Department has approved the opening of gyms at sports complexes for members.Since the gym at the Sector 42 Sports Complex cannot open as the arena has been turned into an isolation centre, the gym at the Lake Sports Complex will be thrown open to public this week. The membership is expected to start in two days.The Lake Sports Complex is one of the highest revenue-earning centres of the UT Sports Department and allotment of membership remains in high demand as it gives both benefits of using the sports facilities and club/restaurant here.“We have already received requests for renewal of memberships and starting the new ones. The members will be allowed to use the gyms for 45 minutes. Earlier, they were allowed an hour. The timings will remain same. However, members have to wear a face shield, go through thermal screening and adopt other safety measures while using the gym. A handful of people will be allowed inside the gym at a particular time slot and if demand keeps increasing, the members can be allotted different slots on alternative days. The equipment will be sanitised every 40 minutes,” said Naib Singh, General Manager, Lake Sports Complex. The gym will be open to public for 6 am to 12 pm and from 3 pm to 9 pm. Also, to felicitate registered professional age-group players, the gym may open on special timings.“The higher authorities have given their approval for the opening of the gyms. After the lockdown restrictions were lifted, the gym under the Sports Department will be opened for general public,” said Ravinder Singh, District Sports Officer (DSO). He said the department was expecting a good response.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-5-months-chandigarh-to-open-gym-at-lake-sports-complex-this-week-128669
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University may allow fee in instalments||A committee constituted by the Panjab University (PU) Vice-Chancellor (VC) has suggested allowing students to pay the fee in three to four instalments, said a PU official on the condition of anonymity.The committee is being chaired by RK Singla, Dean University Instructions (DUI). He was unavailable for comments. The committee met for the third day today. Students in the physically handicapped category and the underprivileged category may be given the full benefit of fee waiver. The committee also discussed raising amalgamated funds of nearly Rs2.5 crore by converting the welfare fund into fellowship to be given to the students during the Covid-19 crisis. Reportedly, the finance department has helped the economically weaker section students through 12 fellowships.After a series of protests by students’ political parties, the last date to submit the semester fee was extended till August 31. However, the coordination committee constituted by the PU Senate recommended forming a committee to discuss the possibilities of helping students in need of financial support. Sources revealed that till date, only 12 per cent students have submitted the fee.The institution is already facing an estimated revenue loss of Rs80 to Rs90 crore (including one semester fee Rs70 to 75 crore). However, the estimated cost savings is Rs20 to 30 crore from various parameters such as non-conduct of semester exam, less electricity bill and others). The net loss approximately is Rs64 crore.Protest by studentsThe indefinite chain hunger strike by the NSUI entered its day five. The NSUI is demanding a complete fee waiver for the semester and mass promotion of the final year students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-may-allow-fee-in-instalments-128670
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Yoga classes go online, personal training gains popularity||As city sees a surge in Covid-19 cases, many yoga centres remain closed despite the MHA’s guidelines under Unlock 3.0 allowing gyms and other such place to open. A few yoga centres have limited their batches, others have moved to online classes. Personal training is gaining popularity.Principal of Brahmrishi Yoga Training College, Sector 19, Dr Savita Kansal, said, “Earlier, we had public classes in the morning and evening with separate batches for women. Now, we only have one morning class for eight persons with all SOPs in place because of the rising cases in the city.”Sapna Nanda, Principal, Government College of Yoga Education and Health, Sector 32, said, “From nine earlier, we are now taking only three batches. The online sessions, however, are a hit among the college’s Facebook subscribers. We started an online workshop on International Yoga Day and continued our sessions due to a good response.”Preeti, a yoga instructor at Kings Academy of Martial Arts in Sector 33, says, “The demand for personal trainers has increased post-lockdown. People are willing to be trained at their homes as it is safer. My clients are mostly teenagers and senior citizens. I give personal training as well as online training. I haven’t felt the financial pinch of the lockdown yet,” she adds.Jagtar Singh (70), a regular at Terrace Garden, said, “I used to do yoga outdoors, but now I have hired a yoga instructor as persons above 65 years of age have been advised to stay indoors. Also, how can you do pranayama while wearing a mask?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/yoga-classes-go-online-personal-training-gains-popularity-128671
20-08-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Man killed in road mishap in Mandi Gobindgarh||A cyclist was reportedly crushed to death by an overloaded truck at the main chowk of Mandi Gobindgarh town today.The cyclist died on the spot. He was identified as Amarjit Singh (75), a resident of nearby Kumbh village. He was the father of Assistant Traffic In-charge Gurmeet Singh.Sources said, the victim was going on a cycle to his village from Mandi Gobindgarh town. When he reached the chowk on GT Road, an overloaded truck coming from the Sirhind side hit his cycle and crushed him to death. The police reached the spot and confiscated the truck and arrested the driver. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-killed-in-road-mishap-in-mandi-gobindgarh-128672
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Remedial classes from next month in Chandigarh||The UT Education Department will start remedial online teaching for Classes VI, VII and IX from September 2 for students whose performance was unsatisfactory. The classes will carry on till February 2021.The remedial classes for Class VI will be conducted in language and mathematics, whereas for classes VII and XI, the subjects will be mathematics and science. The intent of remedial classes is that the low-performing students may achieve the desirable competency level. It has been decided that around 30 per cent strength of Classes VI, VII and IX will be considered for remedial teaching.The teachers concerned will analyse assignments, project and tests undertaken by the students during the previous months so as to ascertain the performance of students. On the basis of students’ performance in assignments or class tests, teachers will support the targeted group of students with additional time for focused assignments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remedial-classes-from-next-month-in-chandigarh-128673
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||High Court knocks down CAT order||Allowing writ petitions filed by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) and other petitioners, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has set aside an order of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) in a seniority dispute between two professors in the ophthalmology department, Dr Arun K Jain and Dr Surinder Singh Pandav.In the seniority list published on September 20, 2018, Dr Pandav was shown above Dr Jain, triggering a dispute. Dr Jain approached CAT, Chandigarh, challenging the seniority list.By the impugned order dated December 2, 2019, CAT accepted Dr Jain’s plea. It directed that the PGI should restore the seniority of Dr Jain over Dr Pandav in the list. In its order dated January 30 this year, the tribunal dismissed the review petition filed by both the PGI and Dr Pandav.The Bench of Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan ruled a bona fide mistake in assigning seniority in terms of applicable regulations could always be corrected by the authority concerned, particularly when the seniority lists issued till the date of such selection were only provisional/tentative.The Bench added: “Further, since no vested right in favour of Dr Jain stood created as a result of the provisional/tentative seniority lists, the issuance by the PGI of the revised seniority list on September 25, 2018, showing Dr Pandav as senior to Dr Jain cannot be said to have caused any prejudice to Dr Jain.”The Bench added that it was of the view that CAT was in error in allowing Dr Jain’s application and directing the PGI to restore his seniority as it stood on January 31, 2018. The Bench also set aside the impugned judgment allowing Dr Jain’s plea and the order passed by the tribunal dismissing the review applications of the PGI and Dr Pandav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-knocks-down-cat-order-128674
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Housing scheme: Chandigarh to fix rates of flats again||The UT Administration will calculate the rates of flats of the UT Employees Housing Scheme for different categories again.This was decided at a meeting held on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court on a petition filed by the UT Government Employees’ Housing Welfare Society, wherein it was alleged that the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) was charging five times the initial price for land after the launch of the scheme.Relief for buyersThe meeting, which was held through video-conferencing (VC), was chaired by Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla. Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator, Ajoy Kumar Sinha, Finance Secretary and Chairman, CHB, Yashpal Garg, CEO, CHB, and the representatives of employees, Dr Dharmender Shastri, Balwinder Singh and Dr Brahamprakash Yadav, were present in the meeting.An official spokesperson said after deliberations to resolve the issue regarding rates of flats of the UT Employees Housing Scheme, it was decided that the calculation of rates be made for different categories again by applying various factors such as floor area ratio (FAR), collector rate, plot area, etc, in consultation with the representatives of the employees.Dr Shashtri said the Administration gave three options — charging only for the plotted land, and not for the total land, construction of an 11-storey tower project in Sector 56 and the Solanki proposal, which was proposed by former Administrator Kaptan Singh Solanki, fixing the price of a flat with 10 per cent interest on the old rate. “We need to know the exact price in each of the options before taking any decision,” he said.It was also decided to hold another meeting (through VC) with the Union Home Secretary for further directions in the matter.Parida stated that the project would not be abandoned and employees would certainly get houses at concessional rates.The CHB had floated the special housing scheme for employees in 2008. The draw of lots was held on November 4, 2010, and over 3,900 employees were successful.Under the scheme, 336 three-bedroom flats, 888 two-bedroom, 564 one-bedroom and 320 one-room flats were to be built on a land measuring 61.5 acres. Around 3,000 flats have to be constructed in Sectors 52, 53 and 56. Later, the scheme was shelved. It was revived after the employees took up the matter with MP Kirron Kher. But the Ministry of Home allowed the Administration to transfer the land to the CHB with the current collector rates. This had enhanced the cost of the flats manifold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/housing-scheme-chandigarh-to-fix-rates-of-flats-again-128675
20-08-2020||---||Broken road irks commuters||Chandigarh, August 19Residents of Mani Majra are inconvenienced due to the dilapidated condition of a stretch of old Ropar road connecting new underpass.Around 40-50 ft stretch of this road has not been recarpeted for a long time. “We had taken up the issue with the local authorities. The MC had said it was the Administration’s road and the latter had said it was the former’s road. Thus, the work could not be done,” said Kulbhushan Kakar, a resident.“It is damaging our vehicles. It has also led to road accidents,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/broken-road-irks-commuters-128676
20-08-2020||---||Court denies bail to man who supplied firearms to shooters||Chandigarh, August 19Additional Sessions Judge Rajeev Goyal has rejected the bail application of Kulwinder Singh Kala arrested by the Chandigarh Police on the charges of helping shooters in firing at the house of liquor baron Arvind Singla’s brother Rakesh Singla in Sector 33 on May 31.After hearing counsel for the parties, the Judge, in the order, said it was seen that the police were alleging that the accused, along with others, had a hand in the shooting incident as he not only supplied firearms to the shooters at the behest of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, but also provided a safe harbour to them at a house situated in Bhago Majra village in Mohali.He said the police were claiming so after having investigated the matter and arresting Deepak, alias Deepu, and interrogating the applicant-accused and others. Thus, accused prima facie appears to be a part of conspiracy hatched by the criminals aimed at eliminating the complainant so as to spread a wave of fear and panic among the businessmen of the tricity.The order said true accused was not named in the FIR, but this fact, by itself, could not be a ground to say that he was innocent. It was too well laid down that the FIR was not an encyclopaedia, which had to contain the names of one and all, who participated in the crime and roles played by each one of them. An FIR was registered only to commence investigation whenever there was an allegation of commission of a cognisable offence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-denies-bail-to-man-who-supplied-firearms-to-shooters-128679
20-08-2020||Panchkula||Ajay Sharma is Panchkula BJP chief||The Haryana BJP today appointed Ajay Sharma as new president of the local unit of the party.Ajay Sharma, 50, has been associated with the party since 1990. He preceded Deepak Sharma as president, who held the post for four years and eight months.He has been elected for a term of three years.He said he had been associated with the RSS even before he joined the BJP and used to attend RSS Shakha in Chandigarh. He has held several key positions in the party such as vice-president and general secretary of the district unit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ajay-sharma-is-panchkula-bjp-chief-128680
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Zomato, Chandigarh eatery fined||A food aggregator and a local eatery have been penalised for hurting the religious sentiments of two city residents, who were delivered a non-vegetarian dish against a vegetarian item they had ordered.In a complaint to the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, Vanshdeep Singh and Arjun Sood, both residents of Sector 8, stated that they had ordered a barbeque sandwich and Alfredo pasta, both vegetarian, through the online application of Zomato, a food aggregator. The order was to be delivered by Hash Guys, a restaurant in Sector 10. The food items were particularly chosen to be vegetarian on account of a holy week of Navratras, which was being observed by them.They were shocked to find one of the ordered items to be non-vegetarian, a portion of which was consumed by them.Vanshdeep Singh said he had strictly followed vegetarian diet since birth as his father was an Amritdhari whereas Arjun Sood was observing the holy week of Navratras, during which he did not consume non-vegetarian diet. They said the outlets hurt their religious as well as moral sentiments.After hearing the arguments, the commission found the opposite parties deficient in service as a non-vegetarian dish was delivered against a vegetarian dish ordered by the complainants. On the account of this lapse, the religious sentiments of the complainants shall definitely be hurt, the panel observed.The commission directed the opposite parties to pay Rs2,500 as compensation for harassment to the complainants and Rs1,100 as litigation cost. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zomato-chandigarh-eatery-fined-128681
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||5 sub-inspectors transferred||Five sub-inspectors (SI), including two police post in-charge, were transferred by the Chandigarh Police here today.Kuldip Singh, who was in-charge at the Palsora police post, has been posted as in-charge of the Sector 61 police post.Satnam Singh, who was posted in RTC, has been posted as in-charge of the Palsora police post.Rajesh Kumar, who was in-charge of the Sector 43 police post, has been transferred to the district and Sarita Roy, who was posted at the Sector 31 police station, has transferred as in-charge of the Sector 43 police post.Mini, who was posted at the Police Lines, has been transferred to the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-sub-inspectors-transferred-128682
20-08-2020||---||Two shooters brought on production warrant||Chandigarh, August 19Two shooters, who had allegedly opened indiscriminate fire at a liquor store in Sector 9 leaving four of its workers injured, have been brought on production warrant by the Chandigarh Police.The shooters, identified as Amarpreet, alias Rinku, alias Topi, and Devender Chawla, are on police remand till August 22. Both were earlier arrested by the Haryana Police.Devender, a resident of Hansi, Hisar, was involved in at least 13 cases in Punjab and Haryana.Topi and Devender had allegedly opened indiscriminate fire at the workers of the liquor store on May 2. They had arrived in a white Honda Amaze, which was parked on the main road.The shooters have reportedly revealed that the firing was carried out on the directions of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who is lodged at a jail in Rajasthan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-shooters-brought-on-production-warrant-128684
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Mayor honours enforcement staff||Mayor Raj Bala Malik today distributed appreciation letters to the inspectors and sub-inspectors of the enforcement wing for rendering services to people residing in various sectors in the city during the lockdown.Inspectors Sunil Dutt, DP Singh and 10 other sub-inspectors Rattan Singh, Lalit, Bhupinder Kaur, Bishan Lal, Jagmohan, Ved Prakash, Nirmal, Mangal, Rajesh, Ashok Rahi, along with, junior assistant Surinder Singh were honoured. The enforcement staff has been on its toes to provide essential services to the common people during the lockdown. They started the work in March and continued till May. Some of them were posted in mandis to oversee the arrangements to provide vegetables and fruits to residents through vendors. Some were deputed in different sectors to help vendors provide the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayor-honours-enforcement-staff-128685
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||AAP criticises Chandigarh MC for providing ‘fudged’ data||The city unit of the AAP today wrote to the MC Commissioner criticising the corporation for “providing fudged data to get ranking”.“It has come to my attention that the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) has stood second in waste segregation in the Swachh Bharat Sarvekshan. I wish I could congratulate you for this, but it is actually embarrassing that fudged data was provided for the Swachh Bharat Mission, which is far from the ground reality,” wrote Prem Garg, AAP convenor.“The height of the garbage dump and thousands of tonnes of unprocessed waste lying in the processing plant is a testimony to this stark reality. The failure to run the processing plant by the MC after taking over from Jaypee company is an egg on the face of MC officials, who were making big claims that they will do wonders after taking over the plant,” the AAP critcised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-criticises-chandigarh-mc-for-providing-fudged-data-128687
20-08-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Two deaths, 47 new cases in Fatehgarh Sahib||Two Covid deaths were reported from the district today, taking the toll to 15.Forty-seven persons were also found to be infected, taking the Covid infection number in the district to 769.The Civil Surgeon, Surinder Singh, said the Bassi Pathana police station, Katehra Mohalla, verka milk plant, which was under construction at Bassi Pathana, ward number 6, Amloh town, Shashtri Nagar, Mandi Gobindgarh, and Jattan Ucha of the Khamano sub-division have been declared micro-containment zones and all activities in these places had been banned.He said till date, 22,120 samples had been collected, of which 20,574 tested negative and 769 positive. Of these, 498 had cured and discharged from hospital. There were 256 active cases in the district and the report of 777 persons was awaited, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-47-new-cases-in-fatehgarh-sahib-128689
20-08-2020||Mohali||30 crushers sealed in Mohali this year||As many as 19 FIRs have been registered and more than 30 crushers have been sealed in the Majri and Mubarakpur area regarding illegal mining by the Mohali administration this year.Scores of tippers, trolleys and excavators have been seized, besides an environmental compensation to the tune of Rs67 crore has been imposed on defaulters and recovery notices have been issued.The Deputy Commissioner, Girish Dayalan, said, “All inspection teams have been activated and the administration will go full throttle to curb the menace. We have installed CCTV cameras at vulnerable spots and are in the process of geo-fencing these,” he said.People can come forward and report such activity to the Additional Deputy Commissioner, the General ADC (G) who is the nodal officer and would continuously monitor the mining activity in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-crushers-sealed-in-mohali-this-year-128690
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Girl’s statement recorded in carjacking incident in Chandigarh||A day after a man was robbed of a Toyota Fortuner at gunpoint from Sector 35 market, the UT police recorded the statement of a girl, who was sitting in the car at the time of the incident. Meanwhile, a case has also been registered at the Sector 36 police station.The girl, who is known to the complainant, was sitting alone in the SUV when the suspect arrived and sat in the car.The suspect asked the girl to get down from the SUV after which he fled away from the spot.The police scrutinised the footage of CCTV cameras installed in market in which SUV is also visible. Complainant Harminder Singh of Bar Majra, Mohali, had gone to buy food when the incident was reported. He had left the keys in the vehicle only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girls-statement-recorded-in-carjacking-incident-in-chandigarh-128691
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Musicians face lockdown blues||The call for night curfew and restrictions on public gatherings, especially at bars and clubs, as an inevitable safety measure against the ongoing pandemic, is slowly, financially stifling the local and independent musicians in the city.Once an open stage for musicians/aspiring singers, city’s night clubs drew heavy footfall on ‘live music’ evenings, which kept the city’s musical talent bustling with both money and fame. However, not many of them have been able to land any gigs since March.One of the popular city-based musicians, Dhruv Angrish, says, “Before the lockdown, I would do around 14-15 gigs across India, performing at private gatherings, clubs and music events. I have only done one gig since March — a private party in Amritsar in June.”Dhruv, one of the four city artistes managed by Gaah Arts and Entertainment, said he made only 10 per cent of his earnings online. “As a band, we charge around Rs35,000 to perform at a club. Online concerts don’t pay much at all. It’s just 10 per cent of my actual earnings,” he said. “I am focusing on making original music these days,” he said.Sahil Bajaj, co-owner at Gaah Arts and Entertainment, asked, “People are not ready for live gigs, how can you imagine them to pay for online ticketed music shows?”He added, “Online music has been a free medium of consuming music, so payment for online shows is a fairly new concept. The only source of income for musicians is live shows.” Ranbeer Sidhu, who owns a recording studio in Mohali, has shut his studio since March. “The musicians have taken a big hit, with city’s music scene falling to what it was five or seven years ago. The frequency of gigs has fallen from five or six gigs a week to just one or two gigs a month.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/musicians-face-lockdown-blues-128693
20-08-2020||Chandigarh||Hit by car, cyclist dies||Mobile snatched in Sector 52Chandigarh: A pedestrian snatched a mobile phone from a Sector 52 resident. According to the police, Mukesh Kumar, a resident of Tin Colony, reported that an unknown person ran away after snatching his mobile phone in Sector 56. A case has been registered. TNSAmbala resident booked for rapeChandigarh: An Ambala resident has been booked for allegedly raping a woman on the pretext of marriage. A zero FIR was registered at the women police station in Ambala, which was transferred to the Mani Majra police station in Chandigarh. The police said the 40-year-old victim, a resident of Panchkula, stated that after a dispute with her husband, she returned to her parents’ house in Mani Majra and started working at a shop, where she met Amandeep, an Ambala resident. She alleged that from 2012 to 2017, Amandeep developed physical relations with her on the pretext of marriage. However, when she divorced her husband, the suspect refused to marry her. The police have initiated an investigation into the matter. TNSPublic welfare bus flagged offMohali: Punjab Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu flagged off a public welfare bus at the Public Welfare Office at Phase I, Industrial Area, here. Sidhu said many senior citizens, women and persons with special needs were unable to reach the Lok Bhalai Kendra due to Covid-19, so a public welfare bus service was started to provide facilities to the needy people of the constituency. The bus is equipped with computer, printer, camera, etc. This bus will cover around two wards in SAS Nagar every day. Workers on the bus will provide the facility to people by filling up online forms on the spot. TNSPHDCCI’s Punjab head honouredChandigarh: Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore honoured Karan Gilhotra, Chairman, Punjab Region, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI), for his services during the Covid 19 pandemic. Karan said through the PHDCCI, they collected Rs528 crore and donated to the PM Cares Fund. They also helped in providing ventilators, water bottles, ration and PPE kits for the frontline warriors. Karan used technology to establish effective communication between industries and the Centre. TNSMan nabbed with vials, smackChandigarh: A drug peddler was nabbed by the Chandigarh Police while possessing banned vials and smack on Wednesday. Sub-inspector Shiv Charan, in-charge, Sector 24 police post, said accused, identified as Shiv, alias Sheru, a resident of Sector 25, was nabbed from near South campus of the PU while possessing 24 banned vials and 5.60-gram smack. A case against him has been registered at Sector 11 police station. He used to get vials from Ambala and sell these to drug addicts in colony areas for Rs400. The police said the accused had a total of five cases, including three cases of NDPS Act and two cases of theft, registered against him in the past. TNSCross-FIR in clash caseChandigarh: A cross FIR has been registered by the Chandigarh Police against a few residents. The residents, who are neighbours to each other in Sector 33, entered into a fight with each other on August 16. Among those booked in the case are a UT police constable and his wife. TNSNodal officer for Covid mgmtChandigarh: Sarpreet Singh Gill, a 2009-batch IAS officer of the AGMUT cadre, has joined the Chandigarh Administration. The Ministry of Home Affairs had transferred him to Chandigarh from Delhi. UT Adviser Manoj Parida has assigned him the charge of the Special Secretary (Health). Parida said he would also act as the nodal officer for Covid management. TNSMan held with vials, cough syrupChandigarh: A resident of Sector 40 has been arrested by the Chandigarh Police while possessing banned vials and bottles of cough syrups. The police said the suspect, Vivek Sabarwal (48), was nabbed with 12 vials and 25 cough syrup bottles. He was arrested from near the football ground in Sector 17. The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act against the accused at the Sector 17 police station. TNSParents protest over fee issueMohali: A group of parents staged a protest outside St Xavier’s High School, Sector 71, for allegedly demanding the tuition fee and striking off their children’s names from the online studies group. The protesters also alleged that the school had been pressurising parents to deposit the fee by August 20 otherwise their registrations for Class IX, X and XI would be not be forwarded. One of the student’s parent alleged that when he expressed his inability to pay the fee, the school authorities called him to the school office. ‘’On the same day, they struck off my child’s name from the online studies group,” said the parent. TNSEnvironment Dept launches portalChandigarh: The Environment Information System (ENVIS) of the Department of Environment, UT, has launched an updated website — chandigarhenvis.gov.in. The website is designed as per the guidelines issued by the Centre. It is also linked with various services such as Parivesh (Environment Clearance), OCMMS, Sameer, Solar Chandigarh. TNSASHA workers continue protestPanchkula: The Panchkula Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers on Wednesday continued their protest at Major Sandeep Sankhla Memorial Park in Sector 2 here. They had been on strike since August 7 in support of their demands that include that the government should treat them like its employees, they should be given a minimum income of Rs24000 per month and risk allowance of Rs4000. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-car-cyclist-dies-128695
