20-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Fire breaks out in Mohali industrial unit||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 20A major tragedy was averted due to the timely removal of LPG cylinders after a massive the fire broke out in a plastic factory ‘Accutex Sales and Services’ at plot number 165 industrial area in Phase 9, Mohali, on Saturday evening.No casualty is reported as all the workers had left the factory after finishing their work at 5 pm. After receiving information the fire tenders immediately reached the site and doused the fire within 30 minutes.Fire Officer Karam Chand Sood said no worker was present on the factory premises after the fire broke out around 6 pm. He said the exact cause of fire is yet to be ascertained but preliminary investigation reveal that it was due to the short circuiting. He said as there were inflammable items in the factory premises the fire spread very fast but as the fire tenders reached very soon they were able to douse the flames.Sood said they were also able to take the help of the Bestech Mall and Swaraj Engines factory for filling the water in the fire tenders which helped them to douse the fire in 30 minutes. He said as of now it was not clear how was loss has occurred in the industrial unit and added that they were able to save the officer who was trapped in fire. He said furniture and other items were completely damaged.Sood added that they were able to avert major tragedy as the LPG cylinders could have exploded that could have caused damage to an adjoining unit.It is pertinent to mention here that a major fire had also broke out in an industrial unit in the Phase 7 Industrial Area in the city on March 15, 2019, gutting the chemical factory. Multiple explosions were heard during the fire at the thinner factory as highly inflammable chemicals that had been stored in barrels, exploded followed by ball of fire rising into the air.One of the workers who came back to the factory premises after receiving information about the fire said all the workers had left the premises at 5 pm and around 6 pm black smoke started emitting from the factory.Accutex Sales and Services is into manufacturing and exporting industrial components, including chrome Plated Bars, Broaching Tools, Burnishing Tools, Ceramic Coated Pulleys, Dies and Moulds, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-in-mohali-industrial-unit-101907
20-06-2020||---||NCC cadet from Chandigarh becomes Air Force officer||Chandigarh, June 20Flying Officer Pranay Prashant, who was a cadet with No. 1 Chandigarh NCC Air Squadron has been commissioned into the Flying Branch of the Indian Air Force.He passed out from the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, near Hyderabad on Saturday and was awarded his brevets by Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhaduria during the Combined Graduation Parade.Pranay’s parents — Babulal Yadav and Rakesh Yadav, both teachers in government schools, have expressed pride and happiness in their son donning the Air Force blues. The family hails Mahendragarh in Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ncc-cadet-from-chandigarh-becomes-air-force-officer-101895
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports eight new coronavirus cases, tally stands at 390||Chandigarh reported eight positive coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the Union Territory's tally to 390. Out of the eight cases, seven from Sector 24 tested COVID-19 positive. In another case, a three-year-old girl from Sector 38 tested positive for the deadly disease. The girl's family had already tested positive.     The city reports 67 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-eight-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-stands-at-390-101859
20-06-2020||---||10 more Covid cases surface in Mohali; total count 218||Mohali, June 20With the surfacing of 10 more positive coronavirus cases, the total count in the Mohali district has gone up to 218.The persons affected with the virus include 57-year-old man, seven and 35-year-old females, all from Kurali; 53-year-old man from Lalru, 18 and 25-year-old women and 20-year-old man from Baltana, 67 and 54-year-old women from Kharar and 52-year-old man from Sector 91.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the male patient from Kurali is a Delhi returnee, while two women have travel history to Uttar Pradesh, while Lalru and Kharar patients are contacts of already positive patients.The cases from Baltana are the contacts of positive cases in Bapu Dham colony, Chandigarh. He added that the patient from Sector 91 is an ILI case. He said nine patients have been admitted to the Covid Care Centre in Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur while 67-year-old woman who is a cardiac patient has been admitted to PGIMER, Chandigarh.Dr Manjit Singh said a patient, Manpreet Singh, a resident of Nuelka village, has recovered and was discharged from the Gian Sargar Hospital today.Dr Singh added that the health teams have been sent to take the samples of family members and contacts of the new patients. As of now there are 218 cases, 139 have cured and 76 active cases with three deaths, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-more-covid-cases-surface-in-mohali-total-count-218-101815
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation takes over waste plant from Jaypee||After a legal fight of nearly five years, the local Municipal Corporation today finally took over the Jaypee Group-run waste processing plant in Sector 25.It has decided to run the only waste processing plant in the city on its own, but may face several challenges. At present, it does not have experts in this field and has little idea about the current condition of the processing machines there.MC to decide on workers todayAfter the MC took over the plant, workers, who used to live inside the premises, said they had nowhere to go. The MC asked them to take shelter at the community centre in Maloya. On Saturday, the MC will take a call on them. They are likely to be hired by the civic body.To top it all, nearly 10,000 tonnes of unprocessed waste is already lying inside the plant. Processing it along with about 470 tonnes of waste, which the city generates daily, will be a herculean task for the corporation.Social distancing goes for a tossDue to the presence of a large number of cops, MC staff and company workers, social distancing went for a toss during the takeover process. After the plant was taken over, Mayor Raja Bala Malik and MC Commissioner KK Yadav also reached there.MC Commissioner KK Yadav told Chandigarh Tribune, “They (Jaypee) did not cooperate with us today. We are preparing the inventory on our own. As decided in the House earlier, we will call a team of technical experts and run the plant on our own. We will have our staff, and, if needed, some staff members already working there will also be deputed.”Besides, there is a “mountain of garbage” adjacent to the dumping ground at Dadu Majra. The MC has already hired a company to bio-mine the waste lying in the dumping ground under the Smart City project.The bone of contention between the two parties was non-processing of waste. According to the MC, while the city produces 470 tonnes of waste daily, the plant processes only 120 tonnes. The remaining garbage is thrown in the open dumping ground, leading to foul smell and health problems among local residents.Today, the top brass of the MC, accompanied by a large police force, entered the plant at 5 pm. MC officials asked company representatives to show a stay order from court, if any. When they failed do so, the process of taking over the plant began. The corporation got the plant locked. Officials covered the name of the company with paint and pasted a notice there stating that the land was in its possession now.The plant was set up in 2008 at a cost of over Rs32 crore to process 500 tonnes of garbage per day without any capital subsidy from the MC. For a long time, local residents were agitated due to foul smell and non-processing of waste at the plant.The dispute over the tipping fee and waste processing between the MC and the company even reached the National Green Tribunal and later, the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Supreme Court too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-takes-over-waste-plant-from-jaypee-101534
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Visitors to give online info to enter Chandigarh||To prevent the further spread of Covid-19 due to the arrival of outsiders, visitors coming to the city will have to undergo strict checking at border points.Now, all persons coming to Chandigarh by road must carry a “self-generated document”, which can be downloaded from UT Administration website www.chandigarh.gov.in. This will help the UT keep a track of their travel and residence.What all they need to doVisitors coming by road have to provide travel information on UT website www.chandigarh.gov.inHave to declare that they are not coming from a containment zoneHave to undertake self-quarantine for 14 days (self-monitor health for 14 days)All passengers coming by train or flight will be screened on arrival and have to undertake self-quarantine for 14 daysThe police have been directed to ensure that only authorised persons, who have registered themselves on the website for entry to Chandigarh, are allowed to enter the city. All such visitors have to download the Aarogya Setu app.On the website, the visitor is required to go to the “inbound visitor registration” column and fill the required information. The visitors have to declare that they are not coming from any containment zone and will undertake self-quarantine for a period of 14 days. During the self-quarantine period, they will have to self-monitor their health and avoid going out in public places.All passengers coming by train or flight will be screened on arrival and have to undergo self-quarantine for 14 days.To restrict the movement of visitors, the UT Administration is also working on a proposal to go for self-home quarantine instead of only self-quarantine.As the UT Administration has already opened the border for inter-state movement of people, no pass is required to enter the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/visitors-to-give-online-info-to-enter-chandigarh-101535
20-06-2020||---||Key shooter nailed in Amritsar||Chandigarh, June 19The Punjab Police today arrested Nitin Nahar, one of the shooters allegedly involved in the firing at the house of hotelier Rakesh Singla, brother of liquor baron Arvind Singla, in Sector 33 here.He is the second of the five shooters to have been nabbed so far.Earlier, Karan Sharma, a student of hotel management, was nabbed by the Chandigarh Police.Nitin, a resident of Indira Colony, Jhabal Road, Amritsar, was apprehended from near Colour Resorts, Attari Road, Amritsar, along with his accomplice Bikramjit Singh, who had reportedly provided him a safe hideout.The arrests came during an operation by a joint team of the Amritsar (Rural) police and the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU), said a police spokesperson.Initial investigations revealed that Nitin was an accomplice of Bobby Malhotra, a gangster lodged at Ferozepur jail, and he was also reportedly associated with the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.According to the police, Nitin revealed that he was directed to carry out such shooting incidents in Punjab, Chandigarh and Rajasthan.During his interrogation, Nitin revealed that Bobby had directed him to carry out the attack in Chandigarh and a black Audi car was sent by Bishnoi to pick him up from Ludhiana and drop him on the outskirts of Chandigarh. He was subsequently picked up in a silver Ford Ikon car by the other suspects involved in the firing incident. They all then went together to Sector 33 and fired at the house of the businessman. Nitin was the key shooter and had used a .32 bore pistol in the firing, the police said.After the shooting incident, Nitin was dropped at Kharar by the co-accused. From there, he was dropped at a safe hideout in Amritsar in a white Bolero on Bobby’s directions.Five persons had opened indiscriminate fire at hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33 on May 31. At least 17 bullets were fired. The shooters had come looking for Rakesh’s brother Arvind Singla.The police said a .32 caliber pistol with 40 cartridges and a .315 caliber pistol with 10 cartridges, used in the crime, were recovered from Nitin. He was already wanted in three other firing incidents at Amritsar, including at his rival group members Vipin Kumar and Love Kumar in January and February, respectively.The police have registered an FIR under Sections 392, 395, 386, 384, 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act and Sections 121, 121A and 120B of the IPC at the Gharinda police station in Amritsar (Rural) district against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/key-shooter-nailed-in-amritsar-101568
20-06-2020||---||Two children among 15 test positive in Panchkula||Panchkula, June 19Fifteen fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the district today.As many as nine patients belong to Panchkula, while the rest hailed from other districts and were not added to the district tally. Four patients from Panchkula are contacts of a Covid patient from Sector 6. They are his mother, father, both aged above 70 years, wife (44) and son (15).Other patients from the district are son and wife of an already positive patient in Sector 9, a woman from Sector 21, a girl from Sector 16 and a man from Marranwala.Those who have not been added to the Panchkula tally are two children from Tipra village in Kalka, who had recently travelled to Mumbai, three persons from Mumbai and a man from Zirakpur.With this, the number of cases in the district has reached 81 with 48 active cases.Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “While some have been shifted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital, others will be home-quarantined as per the new protocol. We have begun efforts to trace contacts of the infected persons.”New containment areasAs per the District Magistrate’s orders, certain areas in Sector 16, 21 and 26 have been declared containment zones after cases cropped up there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-children-among-15-test-positive-in-panchkula-101569
20-06-2020||Mohali||Four new cases surface in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-new-cases-surface-in-mohali-101570
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Seven more found infected in Chandigarh||Chandigarh reported seven new Covid cases today, taking the total number of cases in the city to 381.Five members of a family from Ambala (Haryana), who were staying in a rented accommodation in Sector 38, have tested positive for the virus. Among them, two are working in Ambala and are contacts of an already positive relative there.Two more contacts of the same family have been shifted to the isolation ward of the PGI. Their samples are will be collected. A 61-year-old man, former employee at the GMSH-16, had developed symptoms of pneumonia a few days ago and was taking treatment from a private hospital. He has now been admitted to the GMSH-16 and has a history of diabetic and hypertension. The patient has seven family contacts, all of whom have been sampled.A 65-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran has been found infected. She has five family contacts, who have been shifted to the GMCH-32.9 recover, dischargedNine more patients were discharged from hospital today. With this, the number of patients getting cured rose to 315 and recovery rate to 82 per cent.Infection spreads furtherAt present, there are 60 active cases in 20 sectors/villages of the city. After Unlock 1.0, a new wave of Covid cases has emerged wherein cases are being reported from new places such as Khuda Jassu, Khuda Ali Sher, Daria, Sector 41, etc. Earlier, the infection spread was limited to only Bapu Dham Colony.With cases being reported in the new areas, the question arises that whether the UT is testing all contacts of infectious persons to track the infection or not. Daria village, with a population of over 15,000, had reported five cases recently. However, the number of tests conducted in the area is only 46.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/seven-more-found-infected-in-chandigarh-101572
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||After Delhi, Haryana, Chandigarh to reduce Covid test cost||The UT Health Secretary, Arun Kumar Gupta, in an exclusive conversation with Chandigarh Tribune, today hinted at reduction in the rate of Covid-19 test at private centres in the city. The official announcement in this regard “will probably be made on Monday”.First, the National Capital and now the Haryana Government has followed the recommendations of a Central Government committee report on reducing the price of Covid-19 test samples to Rs2,400 at all government and private centres.In the city, the Administration is providing free testing and treatment at the government-run hospitals, except at SRL Diagnostic, Sector 11. This centre has been authorised to collect samples and test them at subsidised rates of Rs4,500 per patient.Talking about reducing the upper limit on Covid-19 test rates, Gupta shared, “The SC has already directed the Central Government to fix an upper ceiling for Covid-19 testing in all states. In a day or two, we may receive a communication from the Centre in this regard. If not, then on Monday we will take a decision on setting an upper limit.”As per the IMCR’s March 17 circular, testing for Covid-19 was made available through private laboratories and upper limit of single test charges was capped at Rs4,500.Now that Rt-PCR testing kits are manufactured in India and readily available, the IMCR, in a letter dated May 25, had communicated to states to negotiate and fix a mutually agreeable price for Rt-PCR tests for Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-delhi-haryana-chandigarh-to-reduce-covid-test-cost-101573
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||One-fifth of Covid patients at PGI availed of ICU treatment||One-fifth of the Covid-19 patients admitted to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) have received intensive care treatment.Of the 168 patients admitted to the Covid-designated block of the institute, 38 have availed of ICU treatment so far. Among those receiving intensive care treatment include Covid patients suffering from pneumonia, post-surgical complications, renal failure, tuberculosis, liver failure, stroke and heart disease.Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics) and head, Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, shared, “So far, 38 patients have received intensive care support. Most of these patients were diabetic with poor control. The focus of our team is to prevent a patient from going on a ventilator. To achieve this, the team routinely reviews all recent advances and chooses the best suited modality.”“Various forms of oxygen therapies along with ‘awake proning’, which involves putting patients in different postures along with using drugs are being used to control the effect of Covid on patients’ organ system and providing organ support like dialysis whenever required,” Prof Puri added.‘Awake proning’ is an effective first-line intervention to treat moderate-severe acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) patients as it improves gas exchanges and lowers mortality.Ventilator support best avoided||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-fifth-of-covid-patients-at-pgi-availed-of-icu-treatment-101574
20-06-2020||Mohali||Congress leader’s son arrested for firing at friend in Mohali||The Sohana police have arrested Davinder Singh, alias Damni, son of a Congress leader, for allegedly firing at his 22-year-old friend in an inebriated condition on June 16.The suspect was produced in a local court today, which sent him to one-day police remand. Earlier, he was tested for Covid. His report will come tomorrow.Sub-Inspector Barma Singh said, “We arrested Damni late on Thursday from Manauli village when he was planning to flee. We had sought his remand from the court to investigate the actual cause of firing.”On June 16, Damni fired two bullets on victim Jagdeep’s back and chest with his father’s licensed 12-bore gun, leaving the victim seriously injured.A case of attempt to murder was registered at the Sohana police station. The weapon used in the crime has been recovered bythe police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leaders-son-arrested-for-firing-at-friend-in-mohali-101589
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||1,046 board last Shramik special train to UP, Bihar from Chandigarh||The last Shramik special train, carrying 1,046 passengers, chugged off from the city railway station today.Since the train’s occupancy fell short of 554 seats, the UT Administration decided against running another train, which was scheduled for Monday.The Administration had planned two Shramik trains for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, scheduled for Friday and Monday from Chandigarh to Patna (Bihar) with stoppage at Saharanpur, Moradabad, Bareilly, Hardoi, Lucknow, Raibareilly, Amethi, Pratapgarh, Varanasi, Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhayaya Junction (Mugal Sarai), Buxar and Ara stations.An official stated the Administration had made several efforts for optimum utilisation of train capacity. “In the past two days, more than 11,000 registered persons were contacted through telephone calls and SMS for the Friday’s train to Uttar Pradesh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-046-board-last-shramik-special-train-to-up-bihar-from-chandigarh-101610
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||NGO lends helping hand||Joshi Foundation, an NGO, today handed over 14,000 bottles of fruit drink to Sudhanshu Gautam, SDM (East), for distribution in affected pockets of Bapu Dham Colony.Foundation chairman Vineet Joshi, president Saurabh Joshi and Heart Foundation chairman Dr HK Bali were present on the occasion.Vineet said after the imposition of the lockdown due to Covid-19, the Foundation had been helping people by distributing food packets among them under its Jan Jan Bhojan campaign. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ngo-lends-helping-hand-101611
20-06-2020||Mohali||PNB branch continues to run without security guard||Even after two days the Mohali police failed to find any headway in the daylight robbery at all-woman branch of Punjab National Bank, Phase 3A here.Interestingly, the branch is still operating without a security guard. It was learnt that bank officials had written several times to the higher authorities for providing a security guard to the bank, but to no avail.Inspector Rajiv Kumar, Station House Officer, Mataur police station, said, “Our teams are investigating the case. No clue has been found till now.” The SHO confirmed that the branch authorities told the police that they had sent several mails to their higher officials for deploying a security guard at the bank. Two masked men had looted cash worth Rs4.8 lakh on gunpoint from the PNB branch, Phase 3A, Mohali, in just 2.5 minutes on Wednesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pnb-branch-continues-to-run-without-security-guard-101612
20-06-2020||Mohali||Waive fixed electricity charges, demands AAP||Members of the Aam Aadmi Party and the trade and industries wing today held a protest, demanding rebate in electricity tariff to medium and small-scale industries as these have been ordered to work only at 50 per cent of capacity.They also submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner saying that it was not at all reasonable for the power board to charge full fixed charges from industries and business community during the Covid times.They said industries were getting electricity at Rs15-20 per unit due to low production. Similarly, many businesses, including shopping malls, shops, marriage palaces, restaurants, hotels, gyms and schools, were completely closed, so it was not justifiable to charge fixed electricity rate from anyone.Besides, in its tariff order for the 2020-21 year, the Punjab Regulatory Commission did not provide any relief to its consumers despite the sharp fall in coal and crude oil prices. Approving an increase of 11 to 44 paise per unit in fixing the cost of construction has placed an undue burden on the people of Punjab.They further warned the government that if electricity bills, property tax and sewerage bills were not waived, they would be forced to launch a statewide protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waive-fixed-electricity-charges-demands-aap-101613
20-06-2020||Mohali||2 held for murder of farmhouse manager in Mohali||Two days after a manager of a farmhouse was allegedly axed to death by three of his workers at Kahlon Farms near Nada village here, the Mohali police have arrested two prime suspects.Police teams, under the supervision of SHO Ashok Kumar and DSP City-1 Gursher Singh, cracked the case and nabbed Ajit Pasi (20) and Mukesh (20).SHO Ashok Kumar said: “We have arrested the suspects from Mauli Jagran village on Thursday evening. The third suspect, who is a minor, has not been arrested. During preliminary investigations, it was established that he did not play any role in the murder of Balkar Singh. The suspects were produced before a court, which remanded them in four-day police custody.”A case of murder was registered against Ajit Pasi, Mukesh and a minor at the Nayagaon police station on June 15.Balkar was working as a manager at Kahlon Farms here. He was unhappy with the drinking habits of Ajit Pasi, Mukesh and Manish. They used to have heated arguments over the issue for the past few days. The suspects attacked Balkar with an axe while he was asleep in his room at the farmhouse on Sunday night. He succumbed to his injuries at the PGI on June 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-for-murder-of-farmhouse-manager-in-mohali-101614
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Thieves strike at three houses in Bapu Dham||Thieves struck at three houses in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, here, falling under the containment zone. Residents of the houses are under institutional quarantine at Raipur Kalan.Sources said people, who had returned after completing the 14-day institutional quarantine, saw the locks of the houses broken.They told the house owners, who are still under quarantine, about the incident. The police were informed, who visited the spot and initiated investigations.The police asked an occupant of each house to return from the quarantine centre and check the valuables stolen from their houses.Police officials said it was suspected that the incident took place on Thursday night as the locks of the houses were intact till Wednesday night.One of the house owners claimed that around Rs 73,000, three tola gold and other valuables were stolen from his house.A house owner, who is under quarantine, said he sent his wife to check the losses.“Despite the fact that the entire area is sealed and cops are stationed there round the clock, someone managed to commit the crime, which exposes police failure,” he said.Police officials said they had received three complaints of house theft.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-strike-at-three-houses-in-bapu-dham-101615
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||SUV involved in Sector 9, 33 firing incidents recovered||The UT police claimed to have recovered an SUV, Toyota Fortuner, which was involved in transporting shooters involved in both firing incidents reported from the city.The SUV was recovered from the farmhouse of Manjinder Singh Virk in Kurukshetra district.The police claim that Manjinder and his two accomplices, identified as Mandeep, alias Jeona, of Ambala and Ranjit Singh, alias Janty, of Kurukshetra, had accompanied two shooters, Amanpreet, alias Rinku, and Devender Chawla, to execute the shooting at a liquor vend in Sector 9.On the day of the incident i.e June 2, these suspects came in the SUV and shooters came in a Honda Amaze car, which was recovered by the police earlier.Police officials stated that Mandeep, Manjinder and Ranjit used this SUV to ferry shooters from one place to another to execute these firing incidents.A night before the firing at Sector 9, all suspects and shooters had stayed at a flat in Kharar.The police claimed that the same SUV was also used by the assailants involved in the Sector 33 firing incident.“After leaving the Ford Ikon car, which was used in the crime, the assailants had escaped in this SUV,” said a police official.Vainkat’s cell phones to be sent to CFSLTwo mobile phones of Vainkat Garg, an aide of Lawrence Bishnoi, will be sent to the CFSL for examination to gather information about the communication held between Vainkat and Bishnoi regarding the crimes executed in the city.Vainkat of Ambala, who had provided shelter, weapon and a car to the assailants involved in the Sector 9 firing, was arrested earlier.The police said Lawrence Bishnoi had directed Deepak, alias Deepu Banur, Kala Rana, Vainkat and others to get these firings executed to threaten liquor contractors. Vainkat was in touch with Bishnoi, who is lodged in a jail in Rajasthan, through WhatsApp.“We have not opened the two cell phones of Vainkat as these will be sent to the CFSL to retrieve all information, which can further help in establishing the role of all persons involved in the crime,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suv-involved-in-sector-9-33-firing-incidents-recovered-101616
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration extends date for installation of solar plant||The UT Administration has extended the date for mandatory installation of solar photovoltaic (SPV) power plant till March 31, 2021.A spokesperson for the UT said the extension was given for existing residential and non-residential buildings. It is last extension, he added. No further extension would be granted beyond March 31, 2021 and strict action could be taken against persons failing to comply with the UT building bye-laws, he said.Earlier, the Administration had approved a scheme for the installation of SPV power plants on residential sector rooftops under RESCO mode, in which residents of Chandigarh, who had connected load of 5kWp or more, were eligible irrespective of their plot size.With the approval of this scheme, the SPV power plant will be installed with zero investment of beneficiaries. The project will be transferred to beneficiaries without any charges after a period of around 15 years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-extends-date-for-installation-of-solar-plant-101617
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||UP resident booked for pushing minor sister-in-law from balcony||The police have booked a man for pushing his 16-year-old sister-in-law from the balcony of a house in Dhanas.According to the police, the victim’s mother, a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas, reported that her son-in-law, Jagannath, a native of Uttar Pradesh (UP), pushed her daughter from the balcony of the house on June 11.The minor girl, who suffered injuries, was admitted to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.Later, Jagannath left for UP following which the victim’s mother lodged a police complaint. The police said the victim suffered injuries. However, her condition was stated to be stable.The police said the suspect would be arrested soon.Sources, however, claimed that the police contacted the suspect, who stated that the girl had fallen accidentally from the balcony.A case under Section 325 of the IPC has been registered against the suspect at the Sarangpur police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/up-resident-booked-for-pushing-minor-sister-in-law-from-balcony-101618
20-06-2020||Chandigarh||Cash, jewellery stolen from Dhanas house||A theft incident was reported at a house in EWS Colony, Dhanas. The complainant had gone to his native village before the lockdown.According to the police, the complainant, Yad Ram, reported that an unknown person entered his house between March 19 and June 15.The complainant had gone to his native place in Uttar Pradesh. The incident came to light when his neighbour informed him that the locks of his house were broken. When he returned home, he found the locks broken and the house ransacked.As per the complaint, a gold chain, a mangalsutra, a ring, earrings, some silver items, three silver coins and Rs 23,000 were stolen from the house.The police have registered a case at the Sarangpur police station and initiated investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cash-jewellery-stolen-from-dhanas-house-101620
20-06-2020||Mohali||Man ends life, wife booked||Woman’s gold chain snatchedZirakpur: Two miscreants snatched a gold chain from a woman, Shashi Bala, near Surendra Enclave on the High Ground road around 7:30 am on Thursday. The woman, an employee of Nari Niketan, Sector 26, Chandigarh, was returning home after the night duty. The incident took place when she was about to enter her house. Two miscreants, with their faces covered, followed her home and one of them pounced on her near the gate. The snatchers fled the spot after snatching her gold chain. The incident has been recorded in a CCTV camera. The police are investigating the matter. TNSTwo caught stealing bikeZirakpur: Two miscreants were caught red-handed while stealing a motorbike near AKS Colony near the Patiala road. Gopal Sharma, a resident of Street No. 4, said he saw two miscreants pushing his bike. In the meantime, he raised an alarm and bystanders caught hold of the miscreants. The suspects have been identified as Ompal, a resident of Lottery market, and Pankaj of Babhat. A case has been registered against the duo. TNS928 UT cops get promotionChandigarh: The UT Police Department on Friday promoted a total of 928 police personnel, including 390 ASIs, 66 Head Constables and 472 Senior Constables, who have been granted personal ranks. Their promotions were approved by UT DGP Sanjay Baniwal. Police officials said personal rank promotions and regular promotions were an important step in keeping up the organisational efficiency. The police said the department would also send large batches for promotional training so that future promotions could also be done without any delay. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-ends-life-wife-booked-101622
