20-11-2020||Chandigarh||150 fresh COVID-19 cases, 1 death reported in a day in Chandigarh||The tally of coronavirus cases in Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, rose to 16,472 on Friday with 150 more people contracting the infection in a day, according to a medical bulletin.The death of a 40-year-old COVID-19 patient pushed the death toll in the Union Territory to 255, it stated.The Union Territory currently has 1,121 active cases. A total of 133 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 15,096, according to the bulletin.So far, 1,30,070 samples have been taken for testing and of them, 1,12,844 tested negative while reports of 105 samples were awaited, it stated. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/150-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-death-reported-in-a-day-in-chandigarh-173252
20-11-2020||Mumbai||Anupam Kher meets Neetu Kapoor in Chandigarh without Rishi Kapoor; read his emotional message||Actor Anupam Kher says he was overwhelmed with emotions on meeting actress Neetu Kapoor without her husband, late actor Rishi Kapoor.Anupam met Neetu Kapoor in Chandigarh, where she is shooting for her film "Jug Jug Jeeyo". After the meeting, he took to Instagram to open up about the emotional meeting, and look back at their meetings in New York, where Rishi Kapoor received treatment."Dearest @neetu54!! Meeting you last night in Chandigarh without #RishiJi triggered off so many memories of us together in New York. Our shared tears made the bond of those moments stronger. These pics are a reminder of how #ChintuJi had a larger than life persona," he wrote along with a string of pictures of himself with the couple."I am so happy that you are working. You have made him the happiest person by doing so. We, your friends are always there for you. Remember "There are some relationships which are like a pause button on a tape recorder. They always start from where you left them!" Love and prayers #Memories #Pics #ChintuJi," he added.A post shared by Anupam Kher (@anupampkher)Rishi Kapoor breathed his last on April 30. He had been battling leukemia for the past two years. He was 67.Neetu is currently shooting for "Jug Jugg Jeeyo", which also stars Anil Kapoor, Kiara Advani, Varun Dhawan and YouTube sensation Prajakta Koli, who makes her Bollywood debut with the role."Jug Jugg Jeeyo" is being directed by Raj Mehta, who shot to fame directing "Good Newwz" last year.IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anupam-kher-meets%C2%A0neetu-kapoor-in-chandigarh-without-rishi-kapoor-read-his-emotional-message-173190
20-11-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Water quality monitoring stations on choes soon||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19To keep tabs over the discharge of effluents into the Ghaggar, the UT Engineering Department will soon set up real-time water quality monitoring stations on the Sukhna Choe and N-Choe.CB Ojha, Superintending Engineer, UT, said the site for the installation of the water monitoring station on the Sukhna Choe had been finalised for checking the pollution level in the water. He said they had decided to install the monitoring station near the sewage treatment plant in Raipur Kalan and had written to the Forest Department for approval.Recently, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered the setting up of monitoring stations on the N-Choe and Sukhna Choe, which flow into the Ghaggar near Zirakpur.Ojha said the department would soon set up a water monitoring station on the N-Choe near the Garden of Silence in Sector 42. He said tenders for the project had already been floated and the final bidder would be responsible for the maintenance of the equipment to be installed on the site.During a recent meeting with the NGT, the department had stated that a proper space and infrastructure was unavailable at the Sukhna Choe. However, the department had assured the green tribunal to explore the possibilities for the installation of the monitoring station.In a report submitted to the NGT, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) had highlighted six locations where sewage was being discharged into the two rivulets. The NGT had then directed the Municipal Corporation (MC) to conduct a resurvey of the locations where sewage was being discharged into the Sukhna Choe and N-choe. In compliance with the directions of the NGT, the MC has plugged all six points were sewage was being discharged into both seasonal rivulets.The NGT had also directed the Engineering Department to complete the phytoremediation work around Sukhna Choe and N-Choe in a month to prevent the flow of polluted water into the Ghaggar.In August last year, the NGT had directed the department to undertake in-situ bio-remediation in the two drains carrying untreated sewage into the Gaggar. However, the department has so far planted nearly 3,500-4,000 saplings along the N-Choe and Sukhna Choe and on slopes. Under phytoremediation, different varieties of plants that remove, stabilise and destroy contaminants in the soil and groundwater are planted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-quality-monitoring-stations-on-choes-soon-172940
20-11-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Earphones cost youth his life||In another case of problematic use of mobile phones, a train engine crushed a youth to death as he was using earphones while crossing a railway track and could not hear the sound of the rail engine at Sirhind town today.Joga Singh, brother of the deceased, said his brother, Kulwinder Singh, was a resident of Rai Pur Gujran village and had come for shopping to Sirhind. He was crossing a railway line near Brahman Majra and a speeding engine blowed the horn several times, but due to the earphones, he could not hear the sound and was crushed on the spot. Karamjit Singh, ASI GRP, said after postmortem, the body was handed over to the family.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/earphones-cost-youth-his-life-172941
20-11-2020|| 
||Development works launched in Mohali||Mohali, November 19 Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone for development works in various sectors of the city.  Development works such as the installation of paver blocks, repair of manholes and desilting of sewer lines will be carried out for Rs1.08 crore —  Rs11.97 lakh for the construction of RCC Chajja on the shops of Palika Market, Phase 11; Rs 31.14 lakh for the installation of paver blocks in Mundi Complex, Sector 70; Rs6.13 lakh for repairing of manholes and desilting of sewer line in Mundi Complex, Sector 70; Rs14 lakh for laying of paver blocks and other miscellaneous works in Sector 71; Rs13.13 lakh for the development of parks in Sector 71; and Rs32.10 lakh for the installation of paver blocks in Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Sohana. Sidhu said development works worth Rs4.40 crore were already going on for the internal development of the residential societies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/development-works-launched-in-mohali-172943
20-11-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Goa resort lands in deep waters over unfair trade practice||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19A resort in Goa and its agents are facing the music for the last-minute cancellation of a booking by a city resident.The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has not only directed them to refund the booking amount of Rs12,942 to the complainant but also imposed a penalty on them. They have been asked to pay a compensation of Rs10,000 to the complainant for causing mental agony and harassment, along with the litigation cost of Rs7,000.Jyoti Rani, a resident of Sector 35, had filed a complaint before the commission after her holiday plans were spoiled due to the last-meeting cancellation of her booking by Ginger Tree Beach Resort in June, 2019. On reaching the resort, the complainant was told that her booking, which was done through Trip Clues India Private Limited, Delhi, was cancelled due to the ongoing renovation for the resort and was rather shifted to Xavier Guest Home without her consent. She said she had to spend Rs9,900 on local travelling for finding out a suitable accommodation for 17 people, including two minors and two senior citizens.After hearings the arguments, the commission found the resort and booking agents guilty of unfair trade practice and directed them to refund an amount of Rs12,942 to the complainant with interest @ 9 per cent p.a.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/goa-resort-lands-in-deep-waters-over-unfair-trade-practice-172944
20-11-2020||---||Weapons seized from Kaimbwala forest area||Chandigarh, November 19The UT police claimed to have seized two revolvers and a pistol with three cartridges from the forest area of Kaimbwala, on the disclosure by Sagar Neutran, the prime suspect in the shooting incident reported outside Eskobar in Sector 9.DSP Central Krishan Kumar said two country-made revolvers and a country-made .32-bore pistol, along with a magazine and three cartridges, were recovered on Sagar’s instance.The police said during the interrogation, Sagar disclosed that Bagga Khan and Dalbir Singh, alias Bira, who are currently in the judicial custody, had hired him to kill a person named Shashi Sharma from Jalandhar and these weapons were given to him by them. He conducted a recce of the house of Shashi, but could not kill him due to the presence of police personnel around his house. Thereafter, Sagar concealed these weapons in the forest area.Shashi Sharma was also attacked in 2018 by other assailants.‘Supplied by others’The police said during the interrogation, Sagar disclosed that Bagga Khan and Dalbir Singh, alias Bira, who are currently in the judicial custody, had hired him to kill a person named Shashi Sharma from Jalandhar and these weapons were given to him by them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weapons-seized-from-kaimbwala-forest-area-172945
20-11-2020||
||PGI to start animal testing of drugs||Chandigarh, November 19 Adding another feather to its cap, the PGI will be the first institute in the country to test new drugs and allied equipment on animals. The Department of Radiodiagnosis and Imaging, PGI , has got the first-ever digital subtraction angiography (DSA) facility in the country dedicated for basic research in animals. “This facility will aim at testing new drugs and hardware that can potentially be used for the treatment of human disorders,” said Prof MS Sandhu, Head, Department of Radiodiagnosis, PGI. The machine is being installed and it would be made functional next month, he said. The DSA machine is a digital X-ray emitting machine that helps in the precise evaluation of vessels inside the human or animal body once iodine-based contrast is injected into the specific vessel through thin tubes called catheters that are placed inside that vessel and it gives an exquisite display of the vascular system of that particular organ and the blood flow pattern. “Before coming into market for human use, all drugs and allied equipment have to undergo strict checks in animal models followed by human trials in various phases,” said Dr Sandhu. He said: “Currently, due to the lack of appropriate testing facilities for newer devices aimed at interventional treatment of disorders in India, almost all of these certifications are done in the United States, Europe and East-Asian countries. This often involves delay in treatment reaching the Indian shores and is significantly expensive due to high import duties.” “With the setting up of this laboratory, there is a chance that these limitations may be taken care of to some extent for some new drugs and equipment. The facility will also be in sync with the national policy of 'Make in India' and it will be in the interest of patient care too,” stated Prof Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-to-start-animal-testing-of-drugs-172946
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panel to look into missing furniture||Panjab University has set up a panel to look into the matter of missing chairs, which reportedly carry the heritage tag, from the Sociology Department.  A total of 48 chairs had gone missing and the panel has been asked to verify if they were heritage items. The panel is headed by Navdeep Goyal and it will assess the heritage furniture with experts from the architecture office. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-to-look-into-missing-furniture-172947
20-11-2020||---||Driving on Chajju Majra roads a risky affair||Mohali, November 19Roads in Chajju Majra of Kharar are in a pitiable condition. A locality which is right in the centre of a mushrooming real estate hub continues to be marred by damaged and narrow roads.The approach road to the area is narrow and dotted with potholes, giving a bumpy ride to commuters. In some spots, the road is so damaged that the gravel has become loose, making it very risky for two-wheelers and the pedestrian.Four-wheeler drivers in a rush not only endanger their own lives but also pose risk and inconvenience to other commuters on the damaged stretches of road.“There are two problems — firstly, the roads are narrow and secondly, they have not been repaired for years,” said Kulwant Singh, a resident of Chajju Majra.Waterlogging is another problem that the residents here have to face frequently. “In the rainy season, roads get submerged in the muddy water as there is no outlet left for rainwater,” said Kamal Garg, a resident. Lack of streetlights on roads dotted with potholes makes life doubly difficult for them.“The glare of the lights of vehicles coming from the opposite side often makes commuters lose sight of the track,” said Abhishek Narang, a college student and resident of Sante Majra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/driving-on-chajju-majra-roads-a-risky-affair-172948
20-11-2020||Panchkula||Husband booked for illegal termination of pregnancy||The senior medical officer (SMO) of the Subdivisional Hospital, Kalka, has alleged an illegal termination of pregnancy by a couple.According to the FIR, the SMO alleged in the complaint that Manju Bala and her husband Ravi Kumar of Rathpur Colony in Pinjore had visited the hospital around 10 am on Tuesday. The officer stated that they reported the use of an MTP kit at their home.Manju stated that she was six-seven week pregnant when her husband bought the MTP kit through his friend, identified as Virender, a resident of Kurukshetra. When the medical officer enquired about it from Ravi Kumar, he confirmed that he had bought the kit from his friend for Rs450. Virender had purchased it from someone in Mohali, Punjab. The police have booked Ravi Kumar and his friend, along with several unknown persons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/husband-booked-for-illegal-termination-of-pregnancy-172949
20-11-2020||---||Six booked for attacking Mohali youth||Mohali, November 19Six persons have been booked for allegedly attacking a youth in Phase 3B2 here.The victim, Gurishan Singh (22), a resident of Sector 42, Chandigarh, is a son of ASI Karamjit Singh of the Chandigarh Police.The incident took place on Tuesday evening near a park in Phase 3B2 when the suspect, Guri Bhullar, along with his five accomplices, assaulted the victim with a blunt weapon on his head.According to the police, an old rivalry between Gurishan and Guri over friendship with a girl led to the attack.The suspects fled the spot, leaving the victim in a pool of blood. He was shifted to a private hospital where he got 18 stitches on his head and was discharged later.A case under Sections 307, 324, 148 and 149 of the IPC has been registered at the Mataur police station.“The suspects will be nabbed soon,” said the investigating officer, Charanjit Singh. The victim’s father, Karamjit Singh, said, “It was not clear what led to the fight between my son and the suspects.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-booked-for-attacking-mohali-youth-172950
20-11-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Schools’ association files case against five parents||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19In an unprecedented move, an educational society, which manages private schools in Mohali, Panchkula and Chandigarh, has filed a legal case against five parents for not paying fee despite their wards attending regular online classes.The Independent Schools Association (ISA), Chandigarh, said that the UT Administration should clarify its stand on the issue of charging fee to avoid making such cases an example for future.Reports suggested that the five parents, who allegedly failed to pay fee, were served legal notice. As they failed to submit reply, society filed a case in the district courts. The hearing is scheduled on December 9.“The UT Administration should come up with clarity on the issue of schools charging fees. It’s been eight to nine months that the UT Administration is just passing the buck. They want us to open schools, but are not ready to listen to our problems,” said HS Mamik, president, ISA.“To stop such precedent (legal cases), the Administration should make clear if schools can charge full fee and if not the reason behind it. When the MHA has opened almost everything, we have been asked to follow old notifications,” he added.“The case was filed by a Sector 32-based school. The school authorities alleged that parents did not even bother to pay the tuition fee as ordered by the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The hearing of this case is scheduled for the next month,” said a source privy to the matter.Last month, the ISA had claimed that the UT Administration had issued no directives as to whether parents should start paying full fee or not. Around 80,000 to 90,000 students are enrolled in local private schools. The Administration had asked parents to pay only tuition fee since the imposition of lockdown. After the MHA allowed phased opening of almost everything, local schools wanted that the UT Administration should come up with a concrete plan to give clarity on this issue.The ISA maintained that schools, their staff, functionaries and other attached to institutions had to bear huge losses due to non-payment of fee during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/schools-association-files-case-against-five-parents-172951
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Three-day literature fest kicks off today||The three-day eighth edition of Chandigarh Literary Society’s annual lit fest, “Literati 2020”, goes live on Facebook and YouTube tomorrow at 5:30pm. Literati had always been a regular feature at the Sukhna Lake Club with Shivalik hills in the backdrop, which would shift to people’s homes now with virtual live streaming. A session “To be likeable and to be happy” focused on the younger generation, which would be moderated by author and motivational speaker Vivek Atray and Jyotsna Mohan Bhargava, who provides a glimpse into the disturbing picture of modern day school life in urban India. Joining her in the session would be television producer, author and creative director Naomi Datta.  Indian diplomat, prolific writer and author Navtej Sarna and Indian-born Irish author Canvery Madhavan would be joining in the session “Tracing footsteps”, moderated by a columnist Col Avnish Sharma. Bengaluru-based novelist and regular columnist Amandeep Sandhu, along with writer, podcaster and commentator Sarabpreet Singh, will explore the “Pain and pride: Punjab’s journey through the years” with Dr Rasikpriya Sandhu as the moderator.  Niharika Bhuwania will be in conversation with another travel writer and prolific book reviewer Anuradha Goyal, who will share her experience in the session on “Incredible India!: Sacred tales of Indian temples”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-day-literature-fest-kicks-off-today-172952
20-11-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court rejects plea for directing PU to hold LLM entrance exam||Chandigarh, November 19The Punjab and Haryana High Court (HC) has rejected a candidate’s prayer for directions to Panjab University (PU) to take steps for conducting entrance test for LLM. The Bench, at the same time, granted the candidate the liberty to approach the respondent-university for the return of the examination fee.The Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli asserted that the validity of the respondent-university’s decision to scrap the entrance examination and to allow admissions on the basis of marks obtained in the eligibility examination had been upheld by the High Court in the case of “Chiraag Malli versus Panjab University, Chandigarh, and others” and also in another connected matter.“In the circumstances, the prayer of the petitioner for directing the respondent-university to hold the entrance examination deserves to be and is hereby rejected in terms of the decision of this court rendered in Chiraag Malli’s case,” the Bench added.Disposing of the petition, the Bench took note of submission by the university counsel that the authorities would immediately process the petitioner’s application and take necessary steps pursuant to it in accordance with law in case he approached the PU for the fee refund.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-rejects-plea-for-directing-pu-to-hold-llm-entrance-exam-172953
20-11-2020||---||Panjab University sportspersons to get cash awards||Chandigarh, November 19The Panjab University Sports Committee (PUSC) has approved distribution of last year’s cash awards to beneficiary sportspersons and also decided to organise inter-college championships for this session only after the Association of Indian Universities (AIU) releases its annual calendar.Committee members also held discussion on extending contracts of coaches, who are above 60 years, and reimbursement of bills of officials and players, who represented the university in the Indian University Championships, held in Napoli (Italy), in 2019. However, the minutes of the meeting are yet to be signed by its members.“Various issues were discussed. It was decided to transfer cash awards of last year’s inter-college, inter-university and others winners directly into their bank accounts. This session’s championships will be held only after AIU releases its annual calendar,” said Rakesh Malik, Deputy Director.“Those officials and players waiting to get reimbursements for representing Indian universities squad will get their dues as per approval of the AIU, Senate and Syndicate. Extension of contracts of those coaches, who are above 60 years, considering their achievements in bringing the MAKA Trophy twice was also discussed at the meeting,” Malik added.The Directorate of Sports, Panjab University, organises its annual prize distribution function in the last week of March every year. However, due to the countrywide lockdown, the authorities did not organise the event this year.Though officials maintain that players will get their dues, exact date for dispensing the reward amount will be confirmed only after minutes of the meeting are signed by committee members.Last year, the department had distributed approximately Rs2 crore as cash prizes. This year, besides international, national and state achievers, those who performed in the first Khelo India University (Odisha) Games, will also be honoured.Reimbursement for participating in gamesMeritorious sportspersons, who participated in the 30th Summer Universiade (University) Games in Napoli (Italy), will get their entitled reimbursements. Along with sportspersons, officials, who accompanied teams, will also get reimbursement. However, earlier the PU authorities had declined reimbursement to officials citing financial crunch.The games were held in 2019 from July 3 to 14. However, till date, many sportspersons have not received a penny of their entitled dues.The expenses include money spent on air tickets (to and fro), kits, blazers, cancellation of tickets and others. The total amount is approximately Rs2 lakh per player, which is to be reimbursed after production of bills.As many as 16 players from the PU and its affiliated colleges were selected to participate in the championship. Earlier, the players had claimed that they approached officials for repayment many times, but to no avail. They asserted that players of other universities had not only received their due amount, but also got minimum stipend for representing university at the international level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-sportspersons-to-get-cash-awards-172955
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Lecture dwells on what makes a good professional||To commemorate 100 years since its inception in 1921, Punjab Engineering College (PEC) hosted the second address of centenary lecture series.  A lecture on “What makes a good professional” was delivered by Dr Ashish Gupta along with PEC alumnus Hardik Batra, who pursued his bachelor’s in electronics and communication engineering from the college. Gupta is a Kauffman Fellow, holds a PhD in computer science from Stanford University and bachelors degree from Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, where he was awarded the President’s Gold medal and the Distinguished Alumnus Award.    He was the founder of Junglee, an e-commerce business, that was one of the most successful start-ups in the 1990s. Later, he started a Venture Capital firm, Helion, that has invested in a significant number of top Indian start-ups, including MakeMyTrip, Flipkart (Walmart) and Kaboodle (Hearst). He gave an insight into India’s rising aspirations and standards of living along with  investment and opportunities flowing in the country in every field. “Focus, commitment and actions towards your job will speak for you in the future. Success is what other people think whereas it is the satisfaction that accounts for the long journey and helps achieve happiness and fulfilment,” said Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lecture-dwells-on-what-makes-a-good-professional-172956
20-11-2020||---||78% drop in traffic congestion calls||Chandigarh, November 19Around 78 per cent less traffic congestion-related calls were received by the UT police during the festival season.According to the police, this year only 32 calls of traffic congestion were received between November 4 to 14 while during last Divali, as many as 146 calls were received by cops between October 17 and 27.The SSP (Traffic), Manoj Kumar, said deployment of traffic cops in the market areas was increased. Specific traffic plan for each market was prepared, which helped in controlling the rush during the festive season, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/78-drop-in-traffic-congestion-calls-172957
20-11-2020||
||Senate, Syndicate need reforms, says former VC||Chandigarh, November 19 A webinar was organised by the Chandigarh Dialogue today under the New Education Policy-2020 on governance reform at Panjab University (PU).  More than 70 teachers from various departments of the PU participated in the webinar.  Former Vice-Chancellors Arun Kumar Grover and Prof  KN Pathak were the key speakers on the occasion.    Grover gave  information about the functioning of the PU from its inception to the present day and its administrative structure.  He said  reforms in the Senate and Syndicate were a must at this time. Senate and Syndicate were formed for the interest of the university, he added. For the last few years this system had become undemocratic and factionalism was dominating university, he said.  He further alleged that the PU’s administrative officers were forced to become silent spectators in Senate and Syndicate.  “This current system of Senate and Syndicate is becoming a hindrance in improving the academic and administrative quality of the university.  This is the right time for comprehensive reforms through the new National Education Policy,” he added.  Meanwhile, Pathak said the system of Senate and Syndicate was made for educational and administrative reforms in the university, but its relevance has declined over the time. “In view of the present circumstances, it needs reforms and people engaged in the field of education.  In different faculties, only the scholar of the subject concerned should be made its dean,” he added.    Besides, Dr Vinay Sofat, president, College Teachers’ Association, said the existing system of Senate and Syndicate had become a den of corruption.   Dr Suman Mor, Dr  Priyatosh and Vikrant Khandelwal also expressed their views on the shortcomings in the current system of the Senate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senate-syndicate-need-reforms-says-former-vc-172959
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||PEC’s Mahima selected for Army||Twenty-one-year-old Mahima has been selected to join the Army through Short Service Commission Women Technical Officers entry 26 (SSCW-TECH 26) in civil engineering. She bagged the first all-India rank in her first attempt.  She did her civil engineering from Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Deemed University, Chandigarh, with 86% marks and was actively engaged in co-curricular activities. She prepared for selection on her own.  Her mother is working in the Department of Architecture and father in the Electricity Department. Her brother is in the IT field. He supported her dream to join the Indian Army. “Mahaveer Prajapat from Mechanical 2020 batch at PEC helped me in preparation, along with hostel roommates and other friends, from the college. A special thanks to Vasundhara madam, who always inspired me to be bold and encouraged to be the best,” said Mahima. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pecs-mahima-selected-for-army-172960
20-11-2020||
||Improve campus environment to make them R&D hubs, says ACS||Chandigarh, November 19 “Improve campus environment to develop R&D hubs and encourage innovation for the growth of the pharma industry,” said Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Health and Family Welfare, Government of Haryana.   He was speaking at an online webinar on “Technology, trends in the pharma industry”, organised by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI).   “India has been advocating globalisation, but the pandemic has underlined the need for self-sufficiency in various supplies. Although India has expanded its industrial base, it lags in innovation, which is essential for competing with multinationals,” Arora added.  There was lack of interaction between industry and academia and R&D was not being given due importance, said Arora. There was a need to improve the campus environment so that they become R&D hubs and lead to innovation, Arora added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/improve-campus-environment-to-make-them-rd-hubs-says-acs-172961
20-11-2020||Mohali||Labourer dies in mishap, warehouse owner booked||A 24-year-old labourer died in a mishap at a medicine warehouse in the Industrial Area, Phase 8-B, last evening.The victim, Abhishek of Jagatpura village, was employed as a labourer in Ramsons Warehouse for the past three months.According to the police, the incident occurred around 6 pm when the victim took a lift without a fencing for the top floor of the building.An iron rod protruding from pillars of the building struck the victim’s neck, near his ear, while he was looking out. Abhishek sustained severe injuries. He was rushed to a private hospital in Sohana where doctors declared him brought dead.A case of culpable homicide has been registered against the warehouse owner, Vibhag Sethi, at the Phase 1 police station.ASI Avtar Singh, the incharge of the Industrial Area Phase 8 police post, said, “It has been learnt that the lift was constructed illegally and had no sidewalls for protection. The warehouse owner will be arrested soon.”The police said the post-mortem of the victim was conducted today and the body was handed over to his family members.The victim is survived by his parents and two siblings. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/labourer-dies-in-mishap-warehouse-owner-booked-172962
20-11-2020||Amit Sharma
||Mandatory course for traffic violators to get licence back||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 19  Traffic violators whose driving licence (DL) is suspended for violations in the city will have to go through a mandatory one-day course on rules and road behaviour and clear a test to get their DL back.   The course kicked off today at at Children Traffic Park, Sector 23. Nine violators attended the course.  SSP (Traffic) Manoj Kumar said the violators whose DLs were suspended would be asked by the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) to go through the course to get the DL back after the completion of the three-month suspension period. “The violators will be taught the traffic rules and road behaviour at the traffic park followed by a test which the violators will have to clear,” the SSP said.   He said the violators would get a certificate after the completion of the course, based on which they would get the DL back from the RLA.   “We will take a feedback from people based on which the modalities will be improvised,” he said.   The police said a system would be created to book a slot for the course as per the convenience. The course would be conducted on weekdays.   Around 600 violators whose DL has been suspended have been identified and they will have to attend the course and clear the test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mandatory-course-for-traffic-violators-to-get-licence-back-172964
20-11-2020||---||Plumber was murdered over Rs10, three arrested||Chandigarh, November 19Three suspects have been arrested for the murder of a plumber, whose body was found near Labour Chowk in Sector 44. They had an argument over Rs10 following which the suspects murdered him.Meanwhile, one of the suspects was injured after he tried to escape after jumping from the first floor of the Sector 34 police station.Jaspal (45), a resident of Jagatpura in Mohali, was found murdered on November 17. Daily wage earners had spotted the body smeared with blood in bushes. A blood-stained stone was found near the body.During investigation, it came to light that the victim had taken liquor with three persons, who were later identified as Dinesh, a resident of Dhanas, Anil Kumar of Sector 52 and Parminder, who stays at Labour Chowk.The police arrested all suspects yesterday and their questioning revealed that the victim and the suspects took liquor together after which he was attacked with stones, that lead to his death. “After taking liquor, the victim asked the suspects to get a quarter and gave them Rs50. When the suspects returned, he asked for Rs10 balance. However, the suspects claimed that the quarter cost them Rs50. This led to an argument following which the victim was murdered,” said a police official.The police said Dinesh tried to escape from the police custody and jumped from the first floor of the police station a few hours after his arrest. He was injured. “He suffered a fracture on both legs,” said a police official.Dinesh has been admitted to the PGI. Meanwhile, the two suspects were produced in the court today and sent to two-day police remand.Suspect tries to flee, fractures legsOne of the suspects tried to escape after jumping from the first floor of the police station building and suffered a fracture on both legs.Blood-stained body was found in bushesJaspal (45), a resident of Jagatpura in Mohali, was found murdered on November 17. Daily wage earners had spotted the body smeared with blood in bushes. A blood-stained stone was found near the body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plumber-was-murdered-over-rs10-three-arrested-172965
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court reserves verdict||A day after the proceedings of counselling for NRI seats in the MBBS course at the GMCH-32 were directed to be kept in a sealed cover, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today reserved its verdict.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh was hearing a petition filed by Aanchal Setia against the UT Administration and other respondents. The Bench added that the counsel for the petitioner prayed that the candidate might be allowed to participate in the NRI category.“We notice from the application form that the petitioner originally applied in the general category. At this stage, we are not inclined to accept this prayer. However, it is directed that the proceedings of the counselling for the NRI seats be kept in sealed cover,” the Bench added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-reserves-verdict-172966
20-11-2020||Chandigarh||Curbs imposed in 14 micro-containment zones||To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the UT Administration today declared 14 micro-containment zones in the city.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the issue of outbreak of Covid-19 was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as micro-containment zones in the city.The affected areas declared as micro-containment zones are: Parts of Sector 8, 10, 19, 23, 26, 28, 30, 32-A, 34-B, 46-A, 50-C (Pepsu Society), 51-B (New Light Colony), Modern Housing Complex, Mani Majra, and Ram Darbar, Phase 2. — TNSCity reports 155 cases, 1 deathChandigarh: The city on Thursday recorded 155 new cases of Covid, taking the count to 16,322. One death due to the disease was also reported. A 75-year-old man from Sector 46 with unknown comorbid conditions was brought dead at the GMCH, Sector 32. A total of 130 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS3 deaths, 135 new cases in MohaliMohali: Three Covid-19 deaths and 135 new cases were reported from the district on Thursday. As many as 75 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 110 were reported from Mohali (urban), eight from Gharuan, seven from Dera Bassi, six from Kharar, three from Dhakoli and one from Boothgarh. The case count in the district has reached 14,032, of which 12,615 patients have been cured. The number of active cases in the district is 1,154. tns87 fresh cases, one death in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Thursday reported 87 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 8,136. It also witnessed one death due to the disease. A 67-year-old woman from Sector 7, who was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension, succumbed to the disease. While 7,601 patients have defeated the virus so far, 414 cases are still active. The recovery rate for the district is now 93.42 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-imposed-in-14-micro-containment-zones-172967
20-11-2020||
||HSVP official fined Rs 25K for delay in providing RTI inforomation||Panchkula, November 19 The State Information Commission, Haryana, has imposed a penalty of Rs25,000 on the Deputy Superintendent of the office of the Estate Officer, HSVP, Panchkula, and deemed SPIO for a delay in providing information sought under the RTI Act. The fine will be recovered from the salary of Pale Ram, the official, in four instalments. In his appeal, a Sector 19 resident, Dev Raj Sharma, stated that on November 6, 2018, he had sought information regarding permission granted by the HSVP to install a mobile tower on SCO 76 in Sector 19. Sharma stated that some HSVP officials, allegedly involved in corrupt practices, ignored the due process to grant permission for the installation of the tower despite its proximity to a residential area. He added that as per rules, the permission to install mobile towers could only be given if the area was located at least 50 metres away from a residential area. At first, Sharma and other residents had filed a complaint with the HSVP and later filed an RTI application because no action was taken on the complaint. The information sought by the applicant was furnished on June 18 this year. Chief Information Commissioner Yash Pal Singh, in his order, observed that the information was delayed at the level of the Deputy Superintendent-cum-deemed SPIO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hsvp-official-fined-rs-25k-for-delay-in-providing-rti-inforomation-172968
20-11-2020||Panchkula||Report blames hydrogen cyanide for cattle deaths||The green fodder served to cattle at Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham had rich concentration of hydrogen cyanide, which led to the mass deaths at the cow shelter, stated a report submitted by a three-member committee looking into the incident to the Deputy Commissioner.Over 70 head of cattle had died last month after eating fodder at the cow shelter run by the Panchkula Gaushala Trust. Deputy Commmissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja has issued a notice to the trust, seeking a reply on the matter. The Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board has also been asked to explain the terms and conditions on which they had allowed the trust to run the gaushala.On October 29, a day after the incident, a preliminary post-mortem report had hinted at food poisoning behind the mass deaths. The shelter houses around 1,500 head of cattle. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/report-blames-hydrogen-cyanide-for-cattle-deaths-172969
20-11-2020||---||Over 1,600 visit Rock Garden||Chandigarh, November 19The first day of reopening witnessed a footfall of over 1,600 at Rock Garden. It was reopened for the public today after over eight months. To prevent spread of the coronavirus, Rock Garden was closed for visitors on March 18.An official of the Engineering Department said nearly 150 children were among the 1,600 visitors today.He said posters had been pasted at different locations at Rock Garden with the Covid-19 guidelines to be followed by the visitors.It will remain open from 9 am to 6 pm and visitors have to wear a mask and maintain social distancing.Entry was allowed only after checking the temperature of the visitors and as a safety measure, group selfie was not allowed inside.Apart from local residents, visitors also came from Punjab, Harayan and Himachal Pradesh in large numbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-1-600-visit-rock-garden-172974
20-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Firm to shift legacy waste for whopping Rs 48 lakh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 19About 16,000 metric tonne (MT) of legacy waste, which has been lying inside the garbage processing plant for a long time, will now be transported to the dumping ground as the Municipal Corporation is on its way to allot the work to Kher Constructions Chandigarh for a whopping about Rs48 lakh.The firm had quoted the lowest rates for the job in the tendering process. The final approval regarding this will be given during a meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) to be held on Friday. The plant and the dumping ground, Dadu Majra, are separated by a road.Earlier, a total of 25,000 MT of legacy waste was lying at the plant. The MC’s Medical Officer of Health (MOH) office staff transported 6,746 MT waste from January 2 to October 28 this year.MC officials observed that the civic body staff could lift very less quantity of garbage in nearly 10 months and the MOH’s existing machinery was insufficient to shift the entire waste. Following this, a tender to outsource the work was floated.The civic body has now decided that 1,000 MT waste will be transported by the MOH every month. While the remaining 16,000 MT waste will be lifted by the outsourced agency. The work will be completed in two months from the date of allotment.Though the waste at the processing plant will be bio-mined by the firm, which is already engaged in clearing the huge mound of garbage, area residents worry that it would increase the foul smell. “We fear it will be another blow to us. Even after the work started at the ground, there is no respite from odour and leachate on road,” said Dayal Krishan, a Dadu Majra resident.Meanwhile, questions are also being raised over the move. “It is another wasteful expenditure by the broke MC. The waste should not be shifted out. It should be processed at the plant only,” said RK Garg, president, Second Innings Association, a senior citizens’ body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firm-to-shift-legacy-waste-for-whopping-rs-48-lakh-172975
20-11-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula shop owner robbed||A “pan-beedi” shop owner was allegedly assaulted and robbed of his wallet and mobile phone by four unidentified men last night around 10 pm when he was on his way back home to Sector 25 after shutting his shop near a liquor vend in Sector 28 here.The victim, Mukesh Kumar, told the police that the suspects came on a motorcycle and blocked his cycle path near the Jaisinghpura turn on the Ramgarh-Panchkula service road. The suspects got off the bike and grabbed Kumar in an attempt to take out the wallet from his pocket.Upon resistance, one of the suspects attacked the victim with a knife.According to the FIR, they then snatched his mobile phone and wallet containing Rs7,000, Aadhaar card, PAN card, voter ID card and a Canara Bank ATM card, and fled away from the scene towards Sector 26.According to the complainant, the suspects appeared to be in the 20-25 age group.The victim, who fell on the ground after suffering injuries on his right hip and fingers of the right hand, was taken to the Civil Hospital in a PCR vehicle for treatment.The police have registered an FIR against the unidentified persons under Sections 34, 341 and 379-B of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-shop-owner-robbed-172978
20-11-2020||Panchkula||Gold stolen from house||GST Bhawan inauguratedPanchkula: The Chairman of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs(CBIC), M Ajit Kumar, along with all board members, virtually inaugurated GST Bhawan, a new building for housing the offices of the Central GST Department, at Sector 25, Panchkula. The three-storey building houses five offices — offices of Chief Commissioner, Panchkula zone; Commissioner, GST; Commissioner, Audit, Panchkula; Commissioner, Appeals; and the CGST Division, Panchkula. TNSGMCH workers end strikeChandigarh: The strike by outsourced sanitation workers of the GMCH-32 ended on Thursday. They were asking the authorities to grant the Diwali bonus to them. Hospital spokesperson Anil Kumar Moudgil said the strike ended “unconditionally” after reaching an understanding that their demand would be discussed by the higher authorities at the secretariat level. Officials said all safai karamcharis resumed work around 1.30 pm and within 3-4 hours, the whole hospital was cleaned and all biomedical waste was collected. The hospital administration claimed that even before the resumption of their duties, the contractor had hired a few safaikarmcharis to clean the hospital premises. TNS‘Safaimitra Suraksha’Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation joined the Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge to be held among 243 cities throughout the country from November to May, 2021. The competition launched by the Centre through a webinar from New Delhi was joined by KK Yadav, MC Commissioner. The Challenge, launched on the occasion of World Toilet Day, is aimed at preventing 'hazardous cleaning' of sewers and septic tanks and promote their mechanised cleaning. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gold-stolen-from-house-172981
