20-10-2020||Chandigarh||One Covid death, 57 new cases reported in Chandigarh||A 70-year-old man died while 57 fresh coronavirus cases surfaced in Chandigarh on Tuesday, pushing the union territory’s infection tally to 13,743, according to a bulletin.So far, 209 people have died from the infection in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana.The 70-year-old man died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research here on Monday. He had suffered a severe head injury caused by a gunshot, the bulletin said.His sample was taken on admission to the hospital and he was found coronavirus positive, it said.There are 810 active cases in the city as of now.A total of 107 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 12,724, as per the bulletin.A total of 96,707 samples have been taken for testing so far, of which 82,377 tested negative while reports of 131 samples are awaited, it said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-covid-death-57-new-cases-reported-in-chandigarh-158625
20-10-2020||---||Three more Covid-19 fatalities in Mohali, toll up to 227||Mohali, October 20Three more Covid-19 fatalities were reported in the Mohali district during the last 24 hours taking the toll to 227, even as 27 new cases surfaced on Tuesday.Out of the 27 new cases, 23 were reported from Mohali urban, three from Dera Bassi and one from Gharuan. The number of people affected by the virus so far in the district has subsequently risen to 11,801, said the authorities concerned.Meanwhile, 105 more people have been cured of the infection in the last 24 hours taking the number of patients cured and discharged from hospitals so far to 10,955, they said.As of now, there are 619 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-more-covid-19-fatalities-in-mohali-toll-up-to-227-158595
20-10-2020||---||Congress leaders lay siege to MC office||Chandigarh, October 20Congress party members laid siege to the Municipal Corporation office on Tuesday, alleging that all development works in the city have come to a halt.Hours before the General House meeting, heavy police was deployed outside the office gate to prevent any untoward incident. Former MP Pawan Kumar Bansal, former councillor HS Lucky and state Congress women cell president Deepa Dubey led the protest.Congress party members raised the issue of increased water tariffs, Swachhta ranking, segregation of garbage and employees’ protest regarding their salaries.Inside the MC office, five Congress councillors — Devinder Singh Babla, Satish Kainth, Gurbax Rawat, Sheela Phool Singh, Ravinder Gujral — sat in protest outside the Mayor Raj Bala Malik’s office, demanding a physical holding of House meeting to take up the stalled developmental projects of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leaders-lay-siege-to-mc-office-158536
20-10-2020||Mumbai||Veteran actor Deepti Naval undergoes angioplasty at Mohali hospital, says she’s fine now||Veteran actor Deepti Naval, who underwent an angioplasty at a hospital in Mohali on Monday, said she was discharged from the medical facility on Tuesday and is “perfectly fine now”.There were reports that the actor suffered a heart attack in Manali but responding to a text message, Naval said, “It was a heart symptom.”            “That’s true (about the angioplasty) and I’m perfectly fine now,” Naval told PTI.Coronary angioplasty is a procedure used to open clogged heart arteries.The 68-year-old actor is in Rohtang since last month.Naval spearheaded her career in parallel cinema with films like, her debut with Shyam Benegal, the 1978 film “Junoon” and went on to feature in “Chashme Buddoor”, “Ankahee”, “Mirch Masala”, “Firaaq”, “Memories of March”, “Listen Amaya”, among others.She most recently starred in Amazon Prime Video’s “Made in Heaven”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veteran-actor-deepti-naval-undergoes-angioplasty-at-mohali-hospital-says-shes-fine-now-158533
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Traders want fire tender, ambulance stationed at Plaza in Sector 17, Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, has demanded a fire tender and an ambulance to be stationed at the Plaza in view of the ongoing festival season.Association president Kamaljit Singh Panchhi said members discussed about the safety of visitors and their shops due to expected rush at the Sector 17 market during the Navratri, Dasehra, Karwa Chauth and Diwali festivals.Panchhi urged the UT Administrator that a fire tender and an ambulance be permanently stationed near the police chowki at the Plaza to tackle any fire incident during these days.Panchhi said the lockdown had proved as a jolt to the business community. “All shopkeepers and traders are already suffering from huge losses as businesses were closed due to the Covid-induced lockdown. They have to start their business again by working hard and they are not in a position to face any further losses as everyone is struggling to meet expenses,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-want-fire-tender-ambulance-stationed-at-plaza-in-sector-17-chandigarh-158239
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Dhanas police complex to have 216 more flats||The UT Administration will soon start the construction of 216 more flats for police personnel at the Chandigarh Armed Police Complex, Dhanas.The Engineering Department, UT, has invited e-tenders for the construction of 216 Type-II category flats for Rs51.12 crore. However, the construction of similar 216 flats had already been started at the complex.After the allotment of tenders, it would take around 18 months to complete the project, said an official of the Engineering Department.The project has been envisaged with an aim to address the shortage of housing facilities for police personnel.“The flats will be part of the housing project coming up at Dhanas for police personnel. The project comprises 1,152 flats, which are under different stages of construction,” said the official.In the first phase of the project, 192 houses were approved in 2017.The new flats will have a carpet area of 580 sq ft. These would be housed in six-storey buildings with stilt parking, said the official. He said the project would have all facilities such as community centres. It would be the biggest police housing scheme after the Sector 26 police complex. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dhanas-police-complex-to-have-216-more-flats-158235
20-10-2020||---||Navratri: 10K devotees turn up at Mansa Devi temple on Day 3||Panchkula, October 19Over 10,000 devotees paid obeisance at Mansa Devi temple on the third day of Ashwin Navratra festival here today.DonationsThe temple today witnessed footfall less than 11,000, the per day limit fixed by the temple administration in view of the pandemic.The temple received a donation of Rs9.04 lakh on the third day of the festival. As many as 71 silver items were also offered at the temple today.Similarly, a donation of Rs2.15 lakh was received at Kali Mata temple in Kalka. As many as six gold and four silver items were offered at the temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/navratri-10k-devotees-turn-up-at-mansa-devi-temple-on-day-3-158208
20-10-2020||---||Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran reschedules demolition drive in Panchkula||Panchkula, October 19Citing ‘unavailably of sufficient police force’, the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has decided to reschedule its three-week-long demolition drive that was to begin from Madrasi Colony today.Anil Kumar Doon, HSVP Estate Officer, said they were waiting for police protection to start the demolition drive. However, the Police Department had told us that “enough force” was deployed in and around Mansa Devi temple for the Navratri fest that will end on October 25. Hence, we have decided to re-schedule the demolition drive.”Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had recently taken a stern view on thriving encroachments on the HVSP land. He had instructed district officials to conduct special drives to remove/raze all encroachments.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja had issued orders for “special anti-encroachment drive from the HSVP land in various sectors of Panchkula”.As per the dates fixed by the administration, the drive was scheduled to begin from Madrasi Colony today and end on November 13 in Sector 12 and Sector 12-A.Interestingly, the local Police Department had celebrated ‘Police Presence Day’ on October 17 by scrutinising vehicles at checkpoints and conducting a special checking drive across the city to avoid any untoward incident.According to the Police Department, as many as 271 police officials have been deployed at Mansa Devi temple to maintain law and order. Nakas have been laid at 15 entry points to screen everyone entering the temple. A bomb squad and an anti-sabotage team have also been deployed at the temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-shahri-vikas-pradhikaran-reschedules-demolition-drive-in-panchkula-158212
20-10-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Not fulfilling promises costs travel firm dear||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19Not fulfilling promises cost a travel firm dear as the UT District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed M/s Journeys Resorts Private Limited to refund an amount of Rs 44,000 to consumers along with interest @ 9 per cent per annum from the date of receipt of the amount i.e. February 19, 2018 till its actual payment.The commission has also directed the firm to pay a compensation of Rs 10,000 to the complainants for causing mental agony and harassment and Rs 7,000 as litigation cost.The commission said the opposite party (travel firm) should comply with the order within a period of 30 days from the date of receipt of a copy of this order, failing which it would also be liable to pay an additional cost of Rs11,000.In the petition, Naveen Kumar and his wife Rekha Sharma, residents of Panchkula, alleged that they took membership of M/s Journeys Resorts Private Limited and entered into an agreement on assurances given by the representative of the firm that they would get lots of benefit. The complainants said they paid Rs 44,000 to the travel firm for the membership on February 19, 2018. They received a welcome kit along with brochures indicating the properties and sights owned by the opposite party.They alleged that the properties and sights mentioned in the brochure were different from those conveyed at a meeting and as such the package/facilities was not suitable for them. Not finding the offer beneficial, they sent letters to the firm for withdrawal from the contract and requested for the refund of the money by invoking Clause 8.1 of the agreement, but to no avail. The complainants later sent a legal notice to the opposite party on July 17, 2018, but all in vain.The complainants filed a complaint alleging that the aforesaid acts of omission and commission on part of the opposite party amount to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. They also sought relief from the firm.After hearings the arguments, the commission said the complainants proved the case by way of corroborative evidence. The complainants well within their rights applied for the cancellation of the contract within the reasonable period. Thus, non-refund of amount on part of the travel agency amounts to indulgence into unfair trade practice and a deficient act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-fulfilling-promises-costs-travel-firm-dear-158213
20-10-2020||---||Arranged shooters to eliminate Sonu Shah, Bishnoi gang member tells Chandigarh police||Chandigarh, October 19The UT police have claimed that gangster Raj Kumar, alias Raju Basodi, a member of Lawrence Bishnoi gang, confessed that he had arranged shooters to eliminate Rajveer Singh, alias Sonu Shah, on the directions of Bishnoi.The Chandigarh Police brought Basodi on production warrant from the Panipat jail last week to interrogate his role in the Sonu Shah murder case.“Basodi admitted that he had assigned the job to shooters,” said a police official.Basodi’s three-day remand ended today after which he was sent back to the jail.Meanwhile, another suspect Abhishek, who was also brought on production warrant from the Rohtak jail, had done the recce of the area before the shooters shot Sonu Shah. Abhishek’s remand also ended today after which he was sent to the jail.Sonu Shah was shot dead by four assailants inside his office at Burail village in Sector 45 in September last year. The assailants had pumped 10 bullets into Shah’s body. His two colleagues, who were present at the office, had also suffered bullet injuries. A day later, a post was updated on the Lawrence Bishnoi’s Facebook profile claiming the responsibility for the murder.10 bullets were pumped into Shah’s bodySonu Shah was shot dead by four assailants inside his office at Burail village in Sector 45 in September last year. The assailants had pumped 10 bullets into Shah’s body. His two colleagues, who were present at the office, had also suffered bullet injuries. A day later, a post was updated on the Lawrence Bishnoi’s Facebook profile claiming the responsibility for the murder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/arranged-shooters-to-eliminate-sonu-shah-bishnoi-gang-member-tells-chandigarh-police-158214
20-10-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation House meet today||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19On one hand, the UT police are making arrangements for extra parking space at city government schools for the festive season, while on the other two paid parking contractors are seeking compensation for licence fee from the Municipal Corporation pleading that they will suffer losses due to the pandemic from September to December.Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, Ward No. 1 Councillor There is no reason to waive the licence fee from September to December. The revenue of the Municipal Corporation is already down. I do not think the MC can afford waiver amounting to crores now. The Municipal Corporation has already waived their licence fee from March 16 to May 31. The contractors – Pashchatya Entertainment Private Limited (Zone II with 57 paid parking lots) and Ram Sundar Prasad Singh (Zone 1 with 32 paid parking lots) - have further availed a discount of 55 per cent and 65 per cent, respectively, for the period from May 1 to August 31.Now, the two licensees have requested the cash-strapped Municipal Corporation to extend the waiver of licence fee from September 1 to December 31 at the rate of 55 per cent to 65 per cent (Zone II) and 45 per cent to 55 per cent (Zone I), respectively.The agenda No. 9 for the MC House meeting scheduled to be held tomorrow lists the “compensation in licence fee to both licensees of the paid parking areas due to Covid-19.”The MC auctioned the two zones for over Rs10 crore per year. MC Additional Commissioner-II Satish Kumar Jain said, “I will have to see in detail what the matter is.”Opposition leader Devinder Singh Babla said: “On one hand officials talk of increasing the revenue, while on the other they are doling out undue waivers.”Ward No. 1 councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said: “There is no reason to waive the licence fee from September to December. The revenue of the Municipal Corporation is already down. I do not think the MC can afford waiver amounting to crores now.”Road users harassedVisitors to Sector 8-C here allege that the paid parking contractor has blocked the service lane behind Sindhi Sweets and is charging parking fee to enter the road. A majority of the road users end up paying parking fee as they are not aware that it is illegal to charge fee for entering a service lane or a slip road. Parking fee is only for a space that is well-guarded and complies with all rules and regulations of the Municipal Corporation.A worker was seen issuing parking slips to vehicle owners using the road in Sector 8-C. When asked whether he can charge the fee for entering a service lane, he said: “I am doing what the contractor has told us to do. We are only issuing slips to those who are willing to pay.”Residents in Sector 7-C have also been complaining that slip roads from the Madhya Marg side and the service lane in the next block have been blocked by the paid parking contractor.MC Additional Commissioner-II Satish Kumar Jain said, “I am not aware of it. All parking lots where a contractor can charge fee are specified. If there is any violation, it will be removed.”Citizens’ interest missing from agenda: AAPAhead of the House meeting, AAP members alleged that citizens’ interest is missing from the agenda. Party members alleged that the reserve price for permission to display advertisement for five years was kept at Rs1,000 per annum, which is low and arbitrary. “This tender must be recalled with a fair reserve price on a par with the market rates,” said Prem Garg, AAP convener. He also demanded an inquiry into the purpose and procedure to buy steel bars in such a huge quantity, which have been rusting since 2012.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-house-meet-today-158215
20-10-2020||---||FOSWAC protests hike in water tariff, holds march in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 19The Federation of Sector Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC) held a protest march against the Municipal Corporation for its ‘unjustified and illogical hike’ in water tariff.Around 700 members of various associations, trade unions and social organisations participated in the protest march from the Sector 17 Plaza to the MC office. A seven-member delegation, headed by Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman of FOSWAC, handed over a memorandum to the MC Chief Engineer, representing the Commissioner.Congress councillors, AAP convener and Pendu Sangarsh Samiti also joined the protest toshow their solidarity with FOSWAC on the issue of unjustified increase in water tariff.Addressing the gathering, Baljinder Singh Bittu said: “Leakage in water pipelines and illegal non-meter supply to colonies need to be plugged. Supply of tertiary water is inadequate and erratic. It will be unfair to increase water tariff by almost three times.”‘Delay hike in water tariff’The City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO) urged MC officials to delay hike in water tariff. CFORWO convener Vinod Vashisht said: “More than two-third of the city residents consume 30-60 kl of water and charges for this slab have been doubled from Rs6 per kl to Rs12 per kl. Water bills for a majority of the city residents are going to double or triple. We reiterate that the MC should review these tariffs and postpone the applicability of tariff revision to February 1 next year keeping in view the pandemic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foswac-protests-hike-in-water-tariff-holds-march-in-chandigarh-158211
20-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh may get football academy for girls||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19In what may prove to be of great advantage to the UT Sports Department, the Ministry of Sports has chosen the Sector 42 Sports Complex for developing a centre of excellence.Sources said besides a centre of excellence in hockey, the UT may get approval for boxing and rowing. In addition, the department may soon get a residential accredited academy of football for both boys and girls. So far, the city does not have a football academy for girls.Earlier this year, the department had expressed interest in setting up a centre of excellence in hockey, boxing and rowing. A proposal for this was submitted to the Ministry of Sports, followed by another for getting an accredited Khelo India academy.On October 15, the Ministry of Sports approved the formation of centre of excellence at Sector 42, while the allotment of disciplines is yet to be announced.However, sources today claimed that the ministry has approved the disciplines and the department would get an official notification in a day or so.“Yes, the Sector 42 sports complex has been chosen as a centre of excellence under Khelo India programme. We already had a hockey centre and now, we are looking for an of at least two disciplines. The proposal was sent for boxing and rowing. However, we are yet to receive any official confirmation particularly about selected disciplines,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports (UT). He further added, “If rumours are to be believed, we will also receive a nod for football academy. We are yet waiting for an official confirmation.”PK Mattu, Deputy Director, SAI Regional Centre, also said that the details were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-get-football-academy-for-girls-158207
20-10-2020||---||Zirakpur areas go powerless for 10 hours||Zirakpur, October 19Residents in some parts of the town today had a tough time as there was no power supply for about 10 hours.Sharing his ordeal, a resident of Garden Villa, Singhpura, said: “There was no power supply since 8:15 am. The supply was restored after 6 pm. No local power officials were responding. We had a tough time managing our daily routine.”Mandeep of Nagla said: “Our inverter batteries were completely drained. Most of us work from home. Owing to the power shutdown, it was another bad day.”Residents demanded such long power shutdowns should be avoided. And if there were some scheduled cuts, they should be informed in advance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-areas-go-powerless-for-10-hours-158203
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Golf coaching camp||Mohali Golf Range (MGR) has started a coaching camp for sub-junior golfers, a first in the region after easing of lockdown restrictions.Eight golfers are attending the camp under the supervision of former international golfer and Arjuna Awardee Harmeet Singh Kahlon and Coach Preetinder Kaur.“This is the first camp of the season and after every second week, we will start a new camp. The range balls are washed regularly with soap and astroturf mats have been arranged so that there is a minimum of 6 feet distance between players and bunkers.,” said Kahlon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/golf-coaching-camp-158204
20-10-2020||---||Mumbai woman rescued from Kalka railway station||Panchkula, October 19The Haryana State Commission for Women, along with police officials, today rescued a 35-year-old Mumbai woman from outside Kalka railway station. She had been living there in a pathetic condition for a week.The victim was taken to the PHC, Kalka, for initial care and subsequently shifted to Sukoon Centre of Civil Hospital in Sector 6.After getting information about the victim, the acting president of the Commission, Preeti Bhardwaj Dalal, reached the spot along with GRP officials to rescue the woman.“We found the woman in a pathetic condition. She was crying over and over. Her mental state was not well,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mumbai-woman-rescued-from-kalka-railway-station-158198
20-10-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali schools open to thin attendance||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 19Schools here witnessed thin attendance with only six or 10 students attending classes today. The schools opened after about six months of lockdown in the state.Manpreet Mangat, Headmistress, Government High School, LandranParents turn up in large numbersThough the number of students attending classes was low, their parents seemed more enthusiastic in knowing the arrangements made by the school. The parents wanted that they should be given guarantee for the protection of their wards from the virus which was not possible. However, a large number of parents turned up to have a look at the arrangements made by the school authorities. The schools have made elaborate arrangements for ensuring social distancing in the classes besides making available sanitiser.Manpreet Mangat, Headmistress, Government High School, Landran, said though the number of students attending classes was low, their parents seemed more enthusiastic in knowing the arrangements made by the school. She said the parents wanted that they should be given guarantee for the protection of their wards from the virus which was not possible. She said they hoped that the number of students attending classes would definitely increase in a few days.There was only one student in Class IX of the school. Class teacher Natasha said only one child had come with his parents’ consent while the other students, who had come on their own, were sent back. She said according to the guidelines of the Education Department, parents’ consent was a must for attending classes. She said they had sent voice messages and written messages on the WhatsApp numbers of the students that they must come with written consent of their parents and wearing masks is mandatory.Meanwhile, the lone student attending Class IX, Khushpreet Singh, said he felt disappointed after the other students were sent back home as they did not have parents’ consent. Still, he was happy that schools had opened after six months and this would help students in getting their doubts cleared which was not possible in online classes.The District Education Officer, Himat Singh, said all 46 secondary schools and 63 high schools were opened in Mohali district. He said powers had been given to the headmasters/headmistresses and principals of the schools to take decision with regard to ensuring sanitisation and social distancing in schools. The teachers have been authorised to call students in batches so that they could get their doubts cleared and attend the practical classes. He said though online classes would continue, they expected physical presence of students could go up to 75 per cent as the parents who visited the schools were satisfied with the arrangements made by the school authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-schools-open-to-thin-attendance-158199
20-10-2020||---||3 booked for framing two in hotel ‘rape’ case in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, October 19The local police have booked three persons for allegedly blackmailing and falsely implicating two Mumbai natives in a “rape” case.According to the police, accused Lakhwinder Singh and Amrit Singh have been arrested while Pritpal Singh has absconded. They have been booked for their role in getting an FIR registered against the two Mumbai natives in a “rape” case.The police have found Sunil, who was named in the rape case, to be innocent. His report has been submitted to the local court. The role of the second accused, Dinesh Kumar, is being probed.The police are working on the case with two angles of human-trafficking and blackmailing by a gang.Sunil and Dinesh were accused of raping a married woman, wife of one of the three suspects, in a Zirakpur hotel on the promise of getting her a role in a TV serial. After registering an FIR, the police had arrested Sunil while Dinesh had absconded.Sunil’s wife met the Mohali SSP and told him that her husband had been falsely implicated. She gave details about the people who had extorted money by blackmailing them.She produced before the SSP the bank statement with details of Rs 2.50-lakh transactions with the blackmailers. Moreover, there was no proof regarding the rape in the said hotel.The SP (rural), Ravjot Kaur, who is investigating the matter, said they had sent Zirakpur SHO Gurwant Singh to the Police Lines in this case. “We have submitted details regarding no involvement of Sunil in this case to the court,” the SP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-booked-for-framing-two-in-hotel-rape-case-in-zirakpur-158200
20-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Panjab University Senate poll postponement may trigger politics||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19After the postponement of the Senate elections twice, politics at Panjab University (PU) is likely to reach its peak with syndics and authorities planning to tackle their respective differences in their own way.While the syndics are planning to conduct a series of protests and bring the authorities to a discussion platform for questioning interference of the UT Administration in the election process, the authorities are working on assessing the outcome of this protest to take further course of action.Never happened before, the Senate elections were postponed twice, in August and recently on Friday (October 16). The development is important as the term of current House of syndics ends on October 30 and the question remains what will happen thereafter?Perhaps for the first time, the PU took some important decisions, including conducting examinations, scrapping entrance tests and starting of online classes, without calling a House meeting. Though various committees formed to take decision in these cases were headed by some fellows.“The syndics are exploring all possible ways, as per the PU constitution and legally, to find a solution. However, if there had been a way, they must have taken it against the authorities in August. However, given the current situation, it seems that the authorities had an upper hand. In August, we witnessed some syndics got furious when asked to wait for getting some desired document. This is not usual to happen. According to the PU constitution, syndics are the decision makers and they never forget to flaunt it at any moment. However, this time, they are shocked by the authorities’ take for them. Another reason is formation of Board of Governors instead of having a Senate. Experts say there has a provision of forming a 20-member board to monitor proceedings directly under the state administration,” said a PU professor, who closely monitors the prevailing tussle.Senate elections on basis of PUTA pollAfter the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections, many believed that the next would be Senate poll, followed by student union elections. Conducting Senate elections was one of the main agenda of PUTA and discussions were also held at their very first meeting. “The PUTA elections were like laying foundation for conducting the Senate elections. The question was if the PUTA elections can be held wisely, why not the Senate poll? However, with the involvement of the UT Administration, the authorities are playing safe. And by simultaneously taking decision on behalf of House, the authorities are giving an indication. In the past, the syndics were adamant on calling a meeting, and when the authorities asked them to meet online, they refused,” said another professor.Senators’ take on UT’s involvement in poll||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-senate-poll-postponement-may-trigger-politics-158201
20-10-2020||---||French delegation visits Panjab University||Chandigarh, October 19A French delegation visited Panjab University today. It comprised Emmanuel Lebrun-Damiens, Counsellor for Education, Science and Culture at Embassy of France in India (COCAC), also Country Director, French Institute in India; Isabelle, Cultural Attache, Embassy of France; Ophelie Belin, Director, Alliance Francaise Le Corbusier, Chandigarh, and Margo Girarn, from the National Coordination of CF, India.The panel was here with the objective of holding joint future collaborative programmes.They met Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, along with PU faculty. The VC informed the delegation that the university had 78 departments offering 150 courses in various fields. Referring to his meeting with the Ambassador of France early during the day, he added that India and France were both very enthusiastic about joint degree programmes, collaborative researches and setting up of joint labs. He said the need of the hour was that the faculty and students got an opportunity under exchange programmes.The Country Director said France would like to collaborate on artificial intelligence, medicine environment engineering and science. He shared that by engaging with the world, the universities in France wanted to have major hubs of excellence in India and especially with the PU, said a spokesperson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/french-delegation-visits-panjab-university-158216
20-10-2020||---||Old Mohali-Kharar road dotted with potholes||Mohali, October 19The old Mohali-Kharar road connecting the new Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Inter-State Bus Terminal to the district is dotted with potholes, inconveniencing commuters.The road, which once remained abuzz with huge traffic, has now almost been abandoned by commuters as they prefer taking another road.Sources said the authorities had recarpeted the road a few years ago, but it again got damaged as heavy vehicles often pass through the area.Similar is the plight of roads in Phase I — these are also poorly maintained and need immediate repairs.Surinder Singh, a resident of Phase VI, said earlier, there was a motor market in place of the ISBT. “Some of the mechanics did not move from the place and most of the truck owners visit the site to get their vehicles repaired,” he said.Another resident Kulwant Singh said due to the damaged road, they had to travel a few extra kilometres to reach Kharar. He said one side of the road was closed after the construction of the ISBT. He said: “Heavy rain and heavy vehiclular traffic have damaged the road.”Narain Singh Sidhu, a former councillor from Ward No. 6, said the matter had been brought to his notice. He said he would take up the issue with the MC Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/old-mohali-kharar-road-dotted-with-potholes-158217
20-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court to examine if death by heart attack after assault is ‘natural’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 19In a significant order, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the constitution of a board of senior doctors to examine whether myocardial infarction or heart attack would amount to natural death in cases where assault was alleged.About the caseThe victim was allegedly beaten up and death occurred at subsequent stageHC wants a board of doctors to examine if heart attack amounted to natural death in such casesThe court has called for adoption of more scientific medical investigationCalling for adoption of the more scientific medical investigations, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted the cause of death of elderly persons, inflicted injuries following fist and kick blows on their abdomen, chest or back, was reported as myocardial infarction in a number of cases.Such type of injuries, being internal, were not visible and went unreported in medico-legal report (MLR) or post-mortem report, if death occurred at a subsequent stage. As such, it was difficult for the courts to form an opinion despite eyewitnesses levelling specific allegation of injuries inflicted following fist or kick blows.Justice Sangwan said the FIR in some cases was registered at the instance of an injured, who gave the “history of assault” before he died. But injury was not noticed while preparing the MLR and conducting the post-mortem examination. It was simply observed external injury was not visible.Justice Sangwan asked Punjab Director-General, Health Services, to constitute the board of senior doctors, experts on the subject matter, to also suggest whether ultrasound scan or any other scientific investigation could be conducted to find out internal injury while conducting MLR/post-mortem examination.The directions came in a case where a cancellation report was prepared and submitted by the police in the trial court after the post-mortem report described the cause of death as myocardial infarction ante-mortem in nature and sufficient to cause death. The victim in the case was allegedly beaten, resulting in injuries on his head and back.Justice Sangwan also asked the board to give opinion on chemical examiner’s report describing the cause of death as myocardial infarction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-examine-if-death-by-heart-attack-after-assault-is-natural-158359
20-10-2020||Zirakpur||Cops nail man who axed wife in Zirakpur||The police have arrested a man, who allegedly murdered his wife at his Dhakoli house a few days ago.According to the police, the suspect, Ashok Saini, was arrested from Sector 17, Chandigarh, last night. He allegedly killed his wife, Sudesh (45), by attacking her with an axe when she was asleep. He attacked her on the neck. During the attack, her thumb got chopped off.On the motive behind the murder, SP (Rural) Ravjot Grewal said, “The two used to suspect each other’s character. This would often lead to fights between them. Following one such fight, he attacked her when she was asleep. It was a fatal attack.”After the incident, he dragged her body to the bathroom. He left the house later. When his-22-year-old son called him to know where his mother was the next morning, he informed him that he had killed her. Saini, who was into the business of aluminium doors, has been remanded in two-day police custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cops-nail-man-who-axed-wife-in-zirakpur-158236
20-10-2020||Panchkula||Second round of sero survey begins in Panchkula||The second round of serological survey to determine the extent of spread of coronavirus began in Panchkula today.Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said 720 samples would be collected from 16 clusters in three days and the result of the survey would be made public next week.A serological survey is an antibody test conducted for a sample of the population to assess how many people have been affected by a disease. In an earlier survey conducted nearly two months ago, at least 6.5 per cent people living in Panchkula were estimated to have had contracted Covid and recovered from it. According to the first sero survey, the positivity rate in the rural areas was 8.5 per cent, while it was 3.7 per cent in the urban areas of the district. As many as 836 persons were part of the survey. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/second-round-of-sero-survey-begins-in-panchkula-158237
20-10-2020||---||Covid-19: 1 death, 18 new cases in Panchkula||Panchkula, October 19The district today reported 18 new coronavirus cases and a fatality. While the infection count rose to 6,855, the toll reached 107. An 83-year-old man from Sector 14, who was suffering from hypertension and diabetes, succumbed to the disease.Among the fresh cases, three were reported from Sector 4, two each from Kalka, Sector 12-A and Sector 6, and one each from Amravati Enclave, Bhorian, Chandimandir, the MDC, Sector 5, Pinjore, Saketri, Sector 14, Sector 15 and Sector 2. As many as 6,456 patients have defeated the virus so far. The district recovery rate stands at 94.17 per cent. Only 292 cases are active in the district. Panchkula has conducted 81,210 Covid tests so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-1-death-18-new-cases-in-panchkula-158238
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man shot at in Sector 25, Chandigarh||A man was shot at by unknown persons at Sector 25 late tonight.The victim, identified as Sandeep, was at his cloth shop when the incident happened. Four gunshots were fired, oneof which hit the victim on the shoulder while another brushed past his head. Sources said the victim was involved in liquor trade.Vehicles vandalisedshooting incident.The police were informed about the incident. They rushed to the spot and initiated an investigation.The sources said three persons were seen escaping the crime spot in CCTV footage. Panic gripped the area after the shooting incident. The victim was taken to the PGI. He was being treated till the filing of the report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-shot-at-in-sector-25-chandigarh-158218
20-10-2020||---||More OPDs in GMSH-16, Chandigarh open path to normalcy||Chandigarh, October 19Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, today resumed its out-patient departments (OPDs) with 150 registrations in the skin, orthopaedics and surgery wings.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director (Health Services), UT‘4 major surgeries’As many as 1,084 patients visited the OPDs, including those that were functioning previously. In the new OPDs, 50 patients each were examined in surgery, orthopaedics and skin. Four major and eight minor surgeries were performed. The hospital authorities have gone a step ahead and started voluntary Covid testing for OPD patients.Dr Amandeep Kang, UT Director (Health Services), said: “All necessary measures were taken to maintain adequate social distancing and all patients were advised to wear a mask.As many as 1,084 patients visited the OPDs, including those that were functioning previously.In the new OPDs, 50 patients each were examined in surgery, orthopaedics and skin. As many as four major and eight minor surgeries were performed.”The authorities ensured separate entry and exit to OPDs and patients were given triple-layered masks and a hand sanitiser before entering an OPD. A batch of 10 patients each was allowed at a time in OPDs and others were made to sit in the holding area. The patients will now be given appointment for follow-up visits.Dr VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent, GMSH, said: “We are going to observe the situation for two days and extend the registration numbers as well. The response was good and we were able to ensure social distancing on the first day.” Dr Kang said the hospital had started voluntary Covid testing for patients who would visit OPDs so that the rate of infected patients coming to hospitals could be determined. “We will facilitate Covid testing for patients coming to the hospital for OPDs so that we can track asymptomatic cases as well and stop the spread of the virus.”Besides, at least three mobile testing teams will visit 32 dispensaries in the city and thus, a testing team will be available once in 10 days in each area. Two more testing teams will be deputed in the containment zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-opds-in-gmsh-16-chandigarh-open-path-to-normalcy-158222
20-10-2020||---||Kin allege foul play in youth’s death||Chandigarh, October 19A day after a 24-year-old youth was found dead under mysterious circumstances at Ram Darbar, the victim’s family has alleged foul play in the incident. The autopsy was conducted today at the GMCH, Sector 32, and the body handed over to the family.Ajay, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase I, worked as a hairdresser at a salon in Sector 8.What had happenedAjay had returned home from work on Saturday evening. He parked his car outside the house and left without informing anyone. He didn’t return home that night. The next day, his body was found at a park near the Ram Darbar bus stand. There were no injury marks on the body. Ajay’s elder brother Arun said he suspected foul play in the incident. “My brother had left with someone in a Toyota Fortuner and later he was found dead. We suspect that he was murdered,” he said.The police said the cause of the death would be established only after the autopsy report was received.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kin-allege-foul-play-in-youths-death-158226
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 40 fresh cases, no death in Chandigarh||Forty fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the city today, taking the total number to 13,686. No new death was reported and the toll stands at 208.Earlier, no death in a day was reported on September 28. Meanwhile, 63 more patients were discharged today. With this, the number of recovered cases is 12,617. The number of active cases stands at 861. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-40-fresh-cases-no-death-in-chandigarh-158227
20-10-2020||---||Jeweller among 2 held for Sector 23, Chandigarh robbery||Chandigarh, October 19Two days after a goldsmith was robbed of 150 gm of gold at knifepoint by two unidentified persons in Sector 23, the UT police arrested two persons, including a jeweller, in this connection. The remaining two suspects have been identified by the police, one of whom passed away a few hours after the incident.Samrat Thandar, a resident of Sector 23, was robbed at his house on October 17.Two suspects had entered his house during the daytime and robbed gold and a purse containing documents. The third suspect was waiting for them on a bike near the house.Police sources said Bikas, who has a jewellery shop in Sector 23, had hatched a conspiracy to rob the goldsmith. He had reportedly suffered losses due to the goldsmith and wanted to take revenge.“Kamlesh, whose motorcycle was used in the crime, Chottu and Rahul — went to the victim’s house. Kamlesh waited outside and the two others went inside and robbed the victim,” said a police official.The police said Bikas and Kamlesh had been arrested and some robbed gold had been recovered. “We went to Rahul’s house in Nayagaon and found that he passed away due to an illness,” said the police official. Chottu is yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jeweller-among-2-held-for-sector-23-chandigarh-robbery-158228
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||Shatabdi cancelled for today too||Imran Raza is Panchkula ADCPanchkula: Mohd Imran Raza, a 2015-batch IAS officer, is Panchkula’s new Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC), as per the administrative reshuffle orders issued by the Haryana Government on Monday. Earlier, Manita Malik, a 2004-batch HCS officer, was holding the post. Ram Kumar Singh, who was serving as the Deputy Commissioner, Mahendragarh, has been posted as the new Commissioner of Municipal Corporation. Mahavir Singh, who was given the charge of the Panchkula civic body chief in June this year, has now been transferred as the Secretary, RTA. TNSFestival of 'Pashu Jagat'Chandigarh: Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector-36, Chandigarh, celebrated the festival of 'Pashu Jagat' dedicated to its philosophy of cherishing and treasuring each life, both animate and inanimate, in nature. Dr Agnese Dhillon, Principal of the college, was the chief patron of the event. TNSOnline workshop organisedChandigarh: In its endeavour to promote entrepreneurial aptitude of students in the flourishing field of floriculture, the department of botany, Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women organised an online workshop on floriculture for entrepreneurship development that was sponsored by the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan. The aim of the workshop was to generate awareness among students about the bright prospects this promising industry possesses and to motivate them to be employment generators. TNSMinor boy kidnappedMohali: A 16-year-old boy was allegedly kidnapped by some unidentified persons from Nayagaon here. The victim has been identified as Piyush Soni, a resident of Shivalik Vihar in Nayagaon. The victim’s father, Rajender Prasad, who is a vegetable vendor, in his complaint to the police, said Piyush went outside the house taking some clothes in his school bag on October 9, but did not return home. Investigating Officer ASI Jasveer Singh said: “We have registered a case under Section 365 of the IPC at the Nayagaon police station. We are investigating the matter.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shatabdi-cancelled-for-today-too-158229
20-10-2020||Chandigarh||70-year-old man shoots himself, admitted to PGI, Chandigarh||A 70-year-old man reportedly tried to commit suicide by shooting himself on the head with his licensed .32 bore revolver at his house in Mani Majra. The victim is undergoing treatment at the PGI.He has been identified as SS Phulka, a resident of Modern Housing Complex. He was staying with his wife. In the morning, his wife heard a gunshot around 5.30 am and rushed to his room where he found her husband in a pool of blood. The victim had shot himself on the right side of his temple.He was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Panchkula, from where he was referred to the PGI. The police got information about the incident from the hospital in Panchkula.A police official said the victim was depressed for the past nearly five years and was taking treatment from the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter at the Mani Majra police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-year-old-man-shoots-himself-admitted-to-pgi-chandigarh-158231
20-10-2020||Mohali||Covid-19:  Mohali sees two deaths, 21 cases||Two more fatalities were witnessed in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 224, while 21 fresh Covid cases surfaced till this evening. Of the 21 new cases, 11 were from Mohali (urban), eight from Gharuan and two from Kurali. As many as 67 more patients have been cured of the virus. The district has 700 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-mohali-sees-two-deaths-21-cases-158234
