21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 14 new coronavirus cases; UT count rises to 751||Chandigarh reported 14 new cases of coronavirus on Tuesday---a development that took the union territory’s COVID-19 count up to 751.Three of the 14 new patients were staffers at hospitals---two working at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and one from Government Medical College and Hospital. Six were contacts of previously diagnosed cases---two women, ages 45 and 66, were from Daaria , and four people, including a toddler of one-and-a-half, from Sector 41.Besides these, a 31-year-old man from Behlana, a nine-year-old child from Sector 29 and a 72-year-old man from Sector 9 tested positive.Health authorities said they were tracking down to isolate and test their contacts.The UT has 221 active cases and has recorded 12 COVID-19 deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-14-new-coronavirus-cases-ut-count-rises-to-751-115957
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ambala’s strategic location behind using it for induction of Rafale: former Air Vice Chief Barbora||Former Vice-Chief of Air Staff Air Marshal PK Barbora (retd) said the Ambala air station was chosen for in the induction of Rafale jets because of its strategic location.Air Marshal PK Barbora (retd), who once served at the airbase and witnessed the induction of first Jaguar aircrafts in 1979, said: “Ambala was the first air force base post-Independence the country had. The location is very strategic. It is equidistant from the east and west”.“In case of raid at Ambala, it has to go through many layers of air defence before reaching the air base. It will give us adequate warning to be able to take all precautionary measures. We can activate all ground and air based defence systems to take care of any threat.”“We also got first of Jaguar aircrafts at Ambala which is a Deep Penetration Strike Aircraft (DPSA). It implies we have a long range which we can cover, do the job and come back at our base or land at a secondary base. So, it suited the Jaguar aircrafts and two squadrons were formed at Ambala.”“Over a period of more than 50 years, the infrastructure at Ambala is developed enough to induct any new aircraft without pumping a lot of money. The air defence systems around Ambala are also developed,” he said.“Rafale gives us longer range than Jaguars. Ambala gives us adequate depth when the range required is more, both towards the north and west. We have adequate area for air to air refueling which is not possible at forward bases,” he said.At present, Ambala has two squadrons of Jaguar and one of MIG-21 Bison.  “The second base for Rafale is planned at Hashimara (West Bengal). Pakistan is not the real enemy as far air power is concerned, but our eastern neighbour China is. When we didn’t have Rafale, we had moved three squadrons of Sukhoi in the east. With Rafale, we will have adequate number of airborne fighters and fighter bombers to look after the China threat,” he said.He added that nearby bases of Hashimara had also been beefed up.Barbora had also served as Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Eastern Air Command and then Western Air Command.The Indian Air Force is inducting Rafale aircrafts into the ‘Golden Arrows’ squadron on July 29. History of ‘Golden Arrows’After MIG-21 aircrafts were phased out, Golden Arrows was ‘number plated’ on December 31, 2011. It was resurrected on September 10, 2019, when Air Chief Marshal BS Dhanoa was Chief of Air Staff.Dhanoa himself had served in the ‘Golden Arrows’.  It was formed on October 1, 1951, at Ambala under the command of Flight Lieutenant DL Springett. Then it was equipped with Harvard-II B aircraft.  According to information provided by the Indian Air Force, the squadron converted fully to De Havilland Vampire by November, 1955 and by 1957, it was flying Hawker Hunter aircrafts.The squadron converted to the MIG-21 M in 1975.As far as operations were concerned, the squadron participated in Goa Liberation Campaign in December, 1961 and in 1965 operations as a reserve force.Under the command of Wing Commander N Chatrath, it took part in the Indo-Pak war of 1971 and flew close air support, counter air and fighter recce missions, getting numerous gallantry awards.In November, 1988, the squadron was presented ‘Colours’ by then President of India, R Venkataraman.Under Dhanoa, when he was Wing Commander, Golden Arrows participated actively in Operation ‘Safed Sagar’ in 1999.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambalas-strategic-location-behind-using-it-for-induction-of-rafale-former-air-vice-chief-barbora-115947
21-07-2020||Mohali||4 dump body after car hits milkman in Mohali||The police today booked four persons for allegedly hitting a 60-year-old milkman with their car and then dumping his body at a secluded place in Sector 88 in the city.The victim has been identified as Sukhdev Singh, a resident of Kambala village here. Sukhdev used to deliver milk to residents in Phase 11.The suspects have been identified as Ramandeep Singh, Ravi, Rana and Gaggu, all residents of Lehragaga in Sangrur. Ravi was arrested today, but the others are yet to be nabbed. They have been booked on charges of kidnapping, hurting and causing death due to negligence. The victim’s kin have demanded that a case of murder should be registered against them.The accident took place on Saturday around 6 pm near Bestech Mall in Phase 11 when Sukhdev was returning home on his cycle after delivering milk. In the meantime, a Hyundai i20 car, coming from the rear side, hit his cycle. The impact of the collision was so strong that the victim bounced into the air and fell on the bonnet of the car. When the car stopped after around 20 metres, the victim fell on the ground and sustained severe head injuries.Bystanders reached there after which the four suspects assured them that they would get the victim admitted to the GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh. The suspects took Sukhdev in their car and left the spot. When the victim’s family members were informed, they rushed to the hospital and did not find Sukhdev there. The victim’s kin kept looking for him in all hospitals and clinics in Mohali and Chandigarh on Saturday and Sunday. Today, they came to know that Sukhdev’s body was found near the fields in Sector 88 this morning.“We came to know from bystanders that he was alive after the accident. We kept on looking for him in all hospitals since Saturday, but his body was found this morning. He died as they dumped him on the way. The police must add the murder charge against them,” said Gurpreet Singh, an acquaintance of the victim.DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal said, “The police will add charges after the investigation is completed. We have rounded up five persons in this connection. We are questioning them and getting details about the incident.”At present, a case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 365, 427, 337, 279 and 34 of the IPC at the Phase 8 police station.The victim is survived by his wife and two sons. The post-mortem was conducted today at the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, and the body handed over to the victim’s family by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-dump-body-after-car-hits-milkman-in-mohali-115722
21-07-2020||Mohali||Spat over Rs 40 to beggar led to Fortis staffer’s murder in Mohali||A day after a Fortis Hospital staff nurse was strangled to death in front of a liquor shop in Sector 68 here, the police arrested two suspects in this connection today. They have been identified as Kamaldeep Grewal (29) and Rinku (19).The duo was staying in a paying guest (PG) accommodation at Kumbra village here. Kamaldeep hailed from Jaito in Punjab and was working as a photographer, while Rinku was a migrant, said the police. The duo was produced before a court, which remanded them in three-day police custody.Cops yet to nab suspects in gardener’s murderThe police are yet to arrest the suspects involved in the murder of a gardener, Raja Ram (30). The victim was allegedly attacked with the handle of a hand pump near the YPS chowk here on June 30.According to the police, three more suspects involved in the murder case are yet to be arrested. DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal said: “Other suspects will be arrested soon. We have already rounded up some persons on suspicion and we are confirming their role in the matter.”The incident took place late on Saturday night when the victim, Arun, was returning home after his duty at Fortis Hospital. He had stopped in front of a liquor shop in Sector 68 near the Forest Complex.The suspects allegedly thrashed the victim and strangled him to death. Later, they fled from the spot, leaving Arun in a pool of blood. Bystanders shifted the victim to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.According to the police, Arun and the suspects were standing in front of the liquor vend. Meanwhile, a beggar came there seeking alms. One of the suspects gave him Rs40. Arun objected to it, saying there was no need to give him money as he would waste it in buying liquor. This led to heated arguments between both parties. Later, the suspects, who were already under the influence of liquor, thrashed Arun and strangled him to death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spat-over-rs-40-to-beggar-led-to-fortis-staffers-murder-in-mohali-115724
21-07-2020||Mohali||65-yr-old woman Mohali’s 12th fatality||The district today reported one more Covid-19 fatality, taking the death toll due to the virus in Mohali to 12.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the victim, a 65-year-old woman from Zirakpur, was admitted to the GMCH, Sector 32, on July 15. She was suffering from multiple diseases such as hypertension, diabetes and heart disease, he said.Meanwhile, 20 fresh Covid cases have surfaced in district, taking the count to 551, while 44 patients have been cured and were discharged from the hospital.Those infected with the virus are a 30-year-old woman from Malakpur village, a 34-year-old man from Sector 111, two women, aged 20 and 18, and a 48-year-old man from Sector 125, a 47-year-old woman and two men, both aged 39, from Zirakpur, a 24-year-old youth from Dhakoli, a 36-year-old woman from Baltana, a 65-year-old man from Sunny Enclave, Zirakpur, two females, aged nine and 38, and two boys, aged six and nine, from Dashmesh Nagar, Kharar, two women, aged 31 and 26, from Sector 69, a 24-year-old youth from Dera Bassi, a 25-year-old youth from Handesra village and a 35-year-old man from Lalru.The district has so far witnessed 551 cases. While 362 patients have been cured and discharged, there are now 177 active cases. The district has seen 12 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/65-yr-old-woman-mohalis-12th-fatality-115725
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||20 found infected in Chandigarh||Twenty more persons tested positive for Covid-19 here today, taking the tally to 737.A 29-year-old man from Dadu Majra, a 70-year-old man from Sector 45, a 55-year-old man from Sector 29, a 40-year-old man from Sector 61, a 48-year-old man from Sector 49 and a 65-year-old man from Sector 40 contracted the infection. A 45-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony and a 29-year-old woman from Sector 22 were also found infected. Their source of infection is not known yet.30 patients dischargedAs many as 30 patients were discharged after defeating the virus on Monday.A boy, aged 17, and two men, aged 25 and 53, from a Dhanas family were found suffering from the virus. They contracted the infection from their family member.A four-year-old boy, a man and a woman, both aged 35, from a Daria family were also found infected. They are the contacts of a previously diagnosed family member. A boy, aged 12, and a 29-year-old man from a Daria family were also diagnosed with Covid-19. Nominated councillor contracts virusMC's nominated councillor Ajay Dutta has tested positive for Covid-19. According to officials, Dutta, a resident of Sector 40-A, was feeling feverish for the past three days. He got himself tested at a private lab, where his report came out positive. The official is yet to be added to the UT tally.They also contracted the infection from their family members. A 25-year-old woman from Sector 7 was found suffering from the contagion. She is the contact of an already positive case in her family. A 36-year-old man and a 67-year-old woman from Mani Majra were also infected with the virus. They had recently visited Meerut in Uttar Pradesh.A 23-year-old woman from Sector 63 also tested positive for Covid-19. She contracted the contagion from a positive case of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-found-infected-in-chandigarh-115728
21-07-2020||Panchkula||7 paramilitary personnel among 29 +ve in Panchkula||As many as 29 persons, including seven paramilitary personnel from the ITBP and the CRPF, tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the district tally to 281.Two outsiders test +veA 25-year-old woman from Chandigarh and a 10-year-old boy from Kurukshetra also tested positive for Covid-19.The paramilitary personnel who contracted the infection are two women, aged 35 and 65, and five men, aged 39, 31, 30, 31 and 30. A 37-year-old woman, a 15-year-old boy, a 13-year-old girl, a 32-year-old woman, a 12-year-old girl, an 18-year-old boy and a 61-year-old man from Barwala were also found infected. Two men, aged 30 and 18, from Ashiana Complex in Sector 19 contracted the virus. A 32-year-old man from Sector 9, a 39-year-old man from Naggal, a 38-year-old man from Jaspur, a 40-year-old woman from Toda, a 40-year-old woman from Nayagaon, a 45-year-old woman from Mouli and a 12-year-old boy from Tagra were also found suffering from the contagion. A 20-year-old woman from Tipra, a 50-year-old man from Sector 16, a 27-year-old man from Sector 10, a 42-year-old woman from Sector 20, a 50-year-old woman from Sector 8 and a 15-year-old boy from Sector 20 also tested positive. A majority of those found infected are the contacts of previously diagnosed cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-paramilitary-personnel-among-29-ve-in-panchkula-115730
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab says no to Chandigarh’s weekend curfew move||The Punjab Government has not accepted the UT Administration’s proposal for imposing weekend curfew in the tricity.Keeping in view the sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration was planning to impose a total curfew on weekends from 7 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said he had written to the Chief Secretaries of Punjab and Haryana to agree to the UT’s proposal for a curfew in the tricity on weekends.“Weekend curfew only in Chandigarh will not be effective, unless it is simultaneously imposed in Mohali and Panchkula,” he said. Confirming the development, Parida said the Punjab Government had turned down its proposal, whereas a response from the Haryana Government was still awaited. During a review meeting, there was a view after discussion with doctors that since there was a lack of adequate compliance about social distancing and wearing a face mask, there was no option but to go for a total curfew on weekends in the tricity. It has become unavoidable to break the chain and check the sudden surge in Covid cases in the tricity. However, the final decision would be taken by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday.Badnore directed the Director General of Police to conduct more flag marches in various colonies and sectors to create awareness among people regarding precautions to be taken against Covid-19. He also directed to tighten security in various hospitals so that health workers feel fearless.The Administrator directed that special care should be taken to locate and examine the vulnerable population, particularly senior citizens, who are likely to have co-morbidities. Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, stated that they had completed second round of door-to-door screening in Mani Majra. They would now start third round of door-to-door screening in Sector 45. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-says-no-to-chandigarhs-weekend-curfew-move-115732
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||High Court asks Chandigarh DGP to file affidavit||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today asked the UT Director General of Police to file his affidavit after a complainant and witness in a case against SHO Jaswinder Kaur and other police officials alleged false implication in a drugs case.In his petition against the UT and other respondents placed before the Bench of Justice Sudhir Mittal, Prem Singh Bist and another petitioner contended that an FIR was registered on June 19 at the Sector 39 police station under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, the Arms Act and the IPC “only for the purpose of intimidating them”.Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, their counsel submitted that the petitioners were complainant and witness in the case pending before the UT CBI court. The accused included Sub-Inspector Mann Singh and Mani Majra police station SHO Jaswinder Kaur.It was further alleged that senior officials of the Chandigarh Police were also aiding the accused and were involved in illegally pressuring the petitioners. As such, the investigation in the FIR was required to be transferred to the CBI.Issuing a notice of motion for August 10, Justice Mittal asserted: “Respective responses be filed on or before the next date of hearing with a copy in advance to counsel for the petitioners. In respect of the UT, the response should be accompanied by an affidavit of the Director General of Police”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-asks-chandigarh-dgp-to-file-affidavit-115736
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Shooter’s remand extended by 5 days in Chandigarh||The police remand of shooter Nitin Nahar (20) was today extended by five days by a local court. The police said Nitin had fired from two weapons. While one pistol was recovered by the Punjab Police earlier, the other pistol was yet to be recovered.Police officials said Nitin had two weapons and he shot with both hands at businessman and hotelier Rakesh Singla’s house in Sector 33.“We have to recover the second weapon used in the crime by Nitin. The other shooters involved in the crime are yet to be arrested due to which we further sought his remand,” said a police official.Nitin was arrested by the Punjab Police in June. He was brought on production warrants by the Chandigarh Police on July 16. Nitin is the second shooter to have been arrested in the firing case.Earlier, Karan Sharma, a student of hotel management, was nabbed by the Chandigarh Police.The assailants had opened indiscriminate fire at Rakesh Singla’s house on May 31. At least 17 bullets were fired at the house. The assailants had come looking for Rakesh’s brother Arvind Singla, an established liquor contractor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shooters-remand-extended-by-5-days-in-chandigarh-115741
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Newlywed nurse ends life in Chandigarh||A 26-year-old newlywed woman reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself at a house in Sector 32 today. No suicide note was found from the spot.The victim has been identified as Manisha, who was a staff nurse at a private hospital in the Industrial Area.The police said the victim had got married around four months ago. The couple had shifted to the rented accommodation a month ago. The victim’s husband works with a private company in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh.“We searched the room. However, no suicide note was found,” said a police official.The body has been shifted to the mortuary at the GMCH, Sector 32. The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter. The police said the statement of the victim’s husband would be recorded. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/newlywed-nurse-ends-life-in-chandigarh-115744
21-07-2020||Panchkula||Property tax paid, Panchkula residents still getting notices||Residents of the district have alleged gross discrepancies in the property tax database of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation. Several residents, who have already paid property tax for the 2020-21 fiscal, are still receiving demand notices.They said the “goof-up” by the MC was compelling them to visit its office in Sector 14 during the Covid-19 pandemic.Naresh Narang, who owns a shop in Sector 19, was taken aback when he received a demand notice from the MC asking him to pay Rs5,104 despite the fact he had already cleared his dues of Rs3,646 for 2020-21 on May 19.He then approached MC officials, who told him that he had already cleared his dues.“If not the MC, then who’s issuing us property bills. I smell something fishy in it,” he said. Narang is not alone. Mohan Lal Goel has a similar predicament. He paid the entire outstanding amount of Rs5,103 on July 2 after a demand notice was sent to him. Days later, Goel received a demand notice for the same amount shown as outstanding amount. Seven representatives of residents welfare associations (RWAs) have raised their concern on the issue, but to no avail.SK Nayar, president, Citizens Welfare Association, said, “The annual house tax calculated by a private company roped in by the MC doesn’t have the record of dues cleared by residents in the past. I had cleared my dues of Rs351 of a residential property on June 20. Despite that, I received a demand notice on July 17 asking to pay Rs355,” he said. MC Commissioner Mahavir Singh and Executive Officer Jarnail Singh were not available for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-tax-paid-panchkula-residents-still-getting-notices-115746
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||15 years on, Chandigarh MC yet to earn revenue from ‘dhobi ghats’||The cash-starved Municipal Corporation (MC), which failed to get any revenue from its ‘dhobi ghat’, barring one, for about 15 years, has finally moved ahead to conduct their open auction or e-tendering.A reserve price will be fixed and the MC will be able to earn monthly rent from these ‘ghats’. A committee constituted to generate revenue from ‘dhobi ghats’ today approved it in a meeting. The proposal will now be tabled in the MC General House meeting for approval.The ‘dhobi ghats’ were transferred to the civic body from the UT Administration 2005 or 2006, but since then the corporation failed to earn rent from ‘ghats’, which are presently run by private societies. Till the time, ‘ghats’ were with the Administration, societies paid monthly fee.At present, the MC gets monthly rent of Rs13,000 only from the Sector 15 ‘dhobi ghat’. Shockingly, all these years officials as well as councillors kept sleeping over the matter.Members of the committee today also resolved that rates should be fixed for washing different types of clothes, so that public is not harassed.“Members have suggested that ‘dhobi ghats’ in sectors should be provided modern facilities and latest technologies. Along with this, we are looking at offering them through open auction or e-tendering subject to MC House approval,” said committee chairman and BJP councillor Shakti Parkash Devshali.Ajay Kanojia, president, Dhobi Mahasabha (regd), said, “Due to the ongoing Covid pandemic, there is no work as hotels, hostels and PGs are closed. Auction should be delayed. We do not mind paying rent and are not against modernisation, but existing societies be allowed to continue their work at ‘dhobi ghats’.”He blamed the corporation for not accepting rent. “Sector 32 society offered Rs20,000 draft to the MC, but they refuse to take it,” he added. As per Kanojia, there are eight ‘dhobi ghats’. One each in Sectors 19, 20, 27, 22, 32, 7 and two in Sector 15. However, the MC counts the Sector 15 ‘ghats’ as one.Leader of the Opposition in the MC, Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla, said, “It is negligence on part of the MC. At some places, the civic boday has renovated ghats, but failed to get rent. They talk tall, but fail in implementation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-years-on-chandigarh-mc-yet-to-earn-revenue-from-dhobi-ghats-115752
21-07-2020||Chadigarh||Good response to admissions at Panjab varsity||As many as 4,973 students have registered online for various undergraduate and 6,047 for postgraduate courses for the academic session 2020-21 of Panjab University (PU) till date. The last date for submission of applications is August 8.Prof RK Singla, Dean, university instructions, said, “This year, because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, physical help desks have not been set up on the campus. For the convenience of students, mobile numbers along with email IDs of various departments have been uploaded on the university website.”Meanwhile, the number of students, who filled their forms, but did not deposit fee, include 367 for undergraduate and 387 for postgraduate courses. Students, who completed their form and deposited fee, include 921 for undergraduate and 1,011 for postgraduate courses. In all, 1,288 students submitted their forms for undergraduate and 1,396 for postgraduate courses, respectively. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/good-response-to-admissions-at-panjab-varsity-115754
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Wonder kid! Six-year-old Ojaswini wants to lead women’s professional golf circuit||At an age when most of the children don’t even know about professional sports, six-year-old golfer Ojaswini Saraswat wants to win a major championship and lead the women’s professional circuit. The budding golfer has so far won 15 of the 17 tournaments she had participated the recent one being the US Kids Big 5 South African Open Invitational Tournament.Playing in her first international tournament, Ojaswini shot a total of 83 (39-44) in Johannesburg to lead the U-7 category. “I won both south and north region of the US Kids Fall Season 2019 India tour. It helped me achieve the priority level 11 in the US kids tour, which is the highest in a local tour. I became eligible to represent India in several world level tournaments, including the Big 5 South Africa Open 2020,” said Ojaswini, who trains at the Mohali Golf Range. “Now I can compete in the European Championships 2020, Australian Major 2020, World Championships 2020 and other events,” said the youngster.Ojaswini started practising golf when she was just one-year-old and at the age of three, she learnt the basic skills. A year later, she won both putting and long drive competitions at the range.“It was just for fun. Thereafter, I started coaching under former international players Harmeet Kahlon and Preetinder Kaur. Since then, things have changed for good,” recalled young Ojaswini.“My only aim now is to become a successful professional,” sheadded. The budding golfer also won the 97th Albatross Junior Golf Tournament and finished second on the merit list in the Albatross Category E.“I admire Rory McIlroy. He is a calm on the greens. The biggest attraction is that he always remains positive,” Ojaswini pointed. “In the Indian circuit, Ajeetesh Sandhu and Aadil Bedi are also playing exceptionally well,” she added.She did not forget to thank her caddy, Vijay Kumar, who has played an important role in her short career.Kahlon hailed Ojaswini as a future star. “She starts her day with practise at the range. Considering her interest in the sport, she is going to be a star in the world of women’s golf,” said Kahlon Ojaswini will now represent India in the World Championship 2020, wherein children from 55 countries will be competing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wonder-kid-six-year-old-ojaswini-wants-to-lead-womens-professional-golf-circuit-115755
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||42,616 vehicles added to Chandigarh roads last year||A total of 42,616 vehicles were added to the city roads in 2019 — a majority (57 per cent) being two-wheelers.Meanwhile, lesser number of people purchased vehicles last year as registration witnessed a dip in comparison with 2018.Less no of vehicle registrationsWhile 46,849 vehicles were registered in the city in 2018, the number fell to 42,616 in 2019 — a dip of 4,233 registrations.Increasing numberIn the past eight years, 3,72,416 vehicles were registered in Chandigarh. While 8,36,168 vehicles were registered up to 2011, the number jumped to 12,08,594 in 2019.The statistics compiled by the Chandigarh traffic police reveal that out of 42,616 vehicles registered, 24,438 were two-wheelers and 16,979 were four-wheelers. The remaining were goods vehicle, buses and three-wheelers.Interestingly, while the presence of auto-rickshaws has rapidly increased on city roads, only 17 auto-rickshaws were registered here last year.Meanwhile, maximum vehicle registrations — 7,396 — were witnessed in October followed by February when 5,485 vehicles were registered.The year 2019, however, witnessed lesser vehicle registration than 2018. As per the records, there was a dip of 4,233 registrations than 2018 when 46,849 vehicles were registered.However, the number of vehicles in the city is continuously rising as from 8,36,168 vehicles registered up to 2011, the number reached 12,08,584 in 2019.According to the traffic police, this growth has lead to bottlenecks and congestion on roads and increasing road accidents.“It becomes difficult to manage huge traffic,” mentions a report on road crashes in the city.A police official said with increasing congestion on roads, people should use public transport and bicycles for shorter distances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/42-616-vehicles-added-to-chandigarh-roads-last-year-115758
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Thieves strike at Dhanas jewellery shop||Gold and silver jewellery worth several lakhs and Rs20,000 were stolen from a jewellery shop at EWS Colony, Dhanas, on the intervening night of July 19 and 20.However, the police managed to arrest a suspect within a few hours and recovered three-tola gold and 1.5-kg silver from his possession.Rampal Maurya (60), who is a resident of Dhanas, runs the shop — Pushpa Jewellers — from his house.Another suspect yet to be nabbedA team, led by Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO of the Sarangpur police station, nabbed one of the suspects, identified as Bharat (22), a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas. He stays near the complainant’s house. Another suspect is yet to be nabbed.Rampal stated that he went to his son’s house in Sector 52 after closing the shop on Sunday. He received a call from a neighbour at 6.30 am today informing him that the rear wall of his shop was broken.Rampal immediately rushed to the shop and found it ransacked and jewellery stolen. He informed the police about the incident, who reached the spot and initiated investigations. A forensic team also visited the shop to collect evidence.Rampal said the suspects made a hole in the rear wall to enter the shop. They later broke the glass of a door and opened the bolt. The miscreants opened the safe and stole gold and silver jewellery worth several lakhs and Rs20,000.A police team, led by Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO of the Sarangpur police station, nabbed one of the suspects, identified as Bharat (22), a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas. He stays near the complainant’s house. Another suspect is yet to be nabbed.The police have registered a case at the Sarangpur police station and initiated investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-strike-at-dhanas-jewellery-shop-115763
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to start construction of 216 flats at Dhanas police complex soon||The UT Administration will soon start the construction of 216 flats for police personnel at the Chandigarh Armed Police Complex, Dhanas.The Engineering Department, UT, has invited e-tenders for the construction of Type-II category flats for Rs48.37 crore.After the allotment of tenders, it would take around 18 months to complete the project, said an official of the Engineering Department.The project has been envisaged with an aim to address the shortage of housing facilities for police personnel.“The flats will be a part of the housing project coming up at Dhanas for the police personnel. The project comprises 1,152 flats, which are under different stages of construction,” said the official.In the first phase of the project, 192 houses were approved in 2017.The new flats will have a carpet area of 580 sq ft. These would be housed in six-storey buildings with stilt parking, said the official. He said the project would have all facilities such as community centres. It would be the biggest police housing scheme after the Sector 26 police complex, said the official.Meanwhile, the Engineering Department also floated tenders for the construction of nine passenger lifts for the project at a cost of Rs1.89 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-start-construction-of-216-flats-at-dhanas-police-complex-soon-115764
21-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali police still clueless in ATM theft case||A day around Rs 9 lakh were stolen from an ATM of Punjab National Bank in Gharuan, the police are still groping in the dark without any identification of the suspects.Gharaun SHO said: "We are investigating the case. Through CCTV footage, it was learnt that the miscreants arrived in a Honda Amaze or Chevrolet Cruze car, as the video was not clear. The route maps have been prepared and we are coordinating with all nearby police stations." — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-police-still-clueless-in-atm-theft-case-115765
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cops hold flag march in Burail, Ram Darbar||A flag march was conducted today by the Chandigarh Police in Burail, Sector 45, and Ram Darbar.Cops sensitised public to wear face masks and maintain social distancing.During the flag march, public announcements were made about various measures needed to be taken to keep a check on the spread of Covid-19.Residents and shopkeepers of the locality were informed about legal action that could taken by the police against those found roaming without any reason or permission during the curfew hours and against those found violating the social distancing norms.During the flag march, the police also distributed face masks among residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-hold-flag-march-in-burail-ram-darbar-115766
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Experts: Walking in opposite direction heightens risk of catching virus in parks||Residents walking or running in opposite direction in city parks are more susceptible to catching Covid.As per the experts, if people are moving in the same direction, it will prevent them from crossing each other on the same sidewalk and will help maintain social distancing.Dr Ravindra Khaiwal, Additional Professor, Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, said: "Contrary to roads, tracks in parks are about 4-ft wide, which is insufficient for maintaining social distance while crossing each other. The way out is to walk in the same direction. Public participation is must in defeating Covid-19."During a visit to various parks and Sukhna Lake, it was observed that morning and evening walkers barely care about taking precautions.A regular morning walker in a Sector 30 park, Rajesh Mohan, said: "People in parks are walking in the zig-zag and opposite directions. When they cross each other, it becomes dangerous as it can lead to infection transmission."Vinod Rana, a resident, lamented: "These days, people can be seen in groups planting saplings in parks without wearing masks let alone following other guidelines.""It is surprising that the local authorities are not initiating any campaign regarding this. Directions should be clearly stated for those visiting parks,” said Kuldeep Kumar, a Sector 18 resident.Some RWAs are going to put up direction boards in parks asking people to walk in the same direction. However, at present, there are no active government or private efforts being made in this regard.Baljinder Singh Bittu, Chairman, Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said: "This week, we are going to mark direction signs on tracks in some of the parks in Sector 21. Following this, we will request other RWAs to do it. It is very important that we walk in the same direction."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experts-walking-in-opposite-direction-heightens-risk-of-catching-virus-in-parks-115768
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||Accused in HSSC paper leak case granted bail||A local court has granted bail to an accused, Ankit, in the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSCC) paper leak case.On December 5, 2019, the police had foiled a plot to leak a question paper with the arrest of a manager of a local computer lab, Nitish Kumar. Around 11 job aspirants were also nabbed from the computer lab in Industrial Area. According to the police, Nitish Kumar had allegedly planned to sell the “leaked” question paper to each aspirant for Rs 10-15 lakh. The police had also apprehended a person, who was sitting in the examination centre, in the place of Ankit, an aspirant.“The presentation of challan and conclusion of the trial will take time. So, no purpose will be served by keeping the petitioner behind the bars for an indefinite period,” stated the court. The police claimed that Nitish Kumar was a manager at Mapple Technology Lab and he had allegedly executed the plan with his accomplices. An FIR was registered at the instance of complainant Vaishali Kamboj, a data entry operator with the Department of HSSC, Panchkula, Haryana. Besides Nitish, four other alleged members of the gang were also booked.Kamboj, who was deputed as a representative from the HSSC, at the examination Centre in Industrial Area, Phase 1, Chandigarh, caught the imposter, Param Moj, and informed Supervisor Nirmal Singh. He was handed over to the police.Dikshit Arora, advocate for the petitioner, argued that the petitioner has been falsely implicated in this case.The court stated the investigation of the case had been completed and the challan prepared is under scrutiny.“The presentation of challan and conclusion of the trial will take time so no purpose will be served by keeping the petitioner behind the bars for an indefinite period. In view of the above, the bail application of Ankit is allowed. The petitioner is ordered to be released on bail on his furnishing bail bond for Rs30,000 with one surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the Duty Magistrate,” stated the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-in-hssc-paper-leak-case-granted-bail-115769
21-07-2020||---||Chandigarh selected for National Digital Health Mission||Chandigarh, July 20The UT has been selected for the implementation of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM).The NDHM will provide a comprehensive health eco-system that will enable creation of a strong public digital infrastructure and digitally empower individuals, doctors and health facilities.A total of four systems will be developed in the first phase which will be implemented in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep and Puducherry.One of the first systems to be built will be ‘Swasthya Account’, which is a digital health identifier for all individuals to create their identity in the national healthcare system for ease of access to their personal health information.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-selected-for-national-digital-health-mission-115770
21-07-2020||Chandigarh||13 tractors for upkeep of parks||Taxi driver hangs himself to deathZirakpur: A taxi driver allegedly committed suicide due to lack of gainful employment here. The victim has been identified as Vikram Kumar (28), a native of Bengaluru. He came here to work as a driver with an app-based taxi service before the lockdown. He was mentally distressed due to financial constraints. He left the job three days ago and joined a company in Dera Bassi. He was living in a rented accommodation in Zirakpur. A suicide note was recovered. TNSWebinar on “100 years of SAD”Chandigarh: Panjab University Institute of Social Sciences Education and Research (PU-ISSER) organised a webinar on “100 years of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)”on Monday in which Prof Amarjit Singh Narang, former Registrar and former Professor, political science, IGNOU, New Delhi, and Prof Ashutosh Kumar, chairperson, Political Science Department, PU, Chandigarh, presented their views. Prof Swarnjit Kaur, coordinator, PU-ISSER, initiated proceedings by highlighting the role of the PU authorities in facilitating the webinar. TNSReading room for girls’ hostelChandigarh: Prof Raj Kumar, Vice Chancellor, PU, inaugurated a new reading room at Bebe Nanki Girls Hostel No. 7 in the presence of Prof RK Singla, Dean (University instructions), Prof Karamjeet Singh (Research), Prof VR Sinha (Dean, Research), Prof SK Tomar, (DSW), Prof Sukhbir Kaur (DSW-W) and executive engineer II Satish Padam on Monday. TNSDevelopment programmeChandigarh: A 10-day online “International multi-dimensional student development programme” began at Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women under the aegis of its Postgraduate Department of Economics. The objective of the programme is to enhance the capability of students by providing them a deep understanding of various concepts pertaining to research and to amplify their abilities to access various online learning platforms. Over 110 students have registered for the programme. The resource persons of the programme are college alumni. Prof Harsh Gandhar, USOL, PU, and Nimisha Kumar, head, acquisition advisory, Finman Capital, were the guests of honour for the inaugural session. TNSUrdu classes at GGDSD CollegeChandigarh: The office of the Language Department, Punjab, is organising free Urdu classes like previous years at GGDSD, College, Sector 32. The course duration will be six months, beginning July end. Classes will be held from 5.15 pm to 6.15 pm at the college. Candidates can contact Assistant Director, Hindi-Punjabi Cell, Civil Secretariat 2, Sector 9, for admission in the course. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-tractors-for-upkeep-of-parks-115771
