21-06-2020||---||Chandigarh records two fresh COVID-19 cases, tally climbs to 406||Chandigarh, June 21The Union Territory of Chandigarh recorded two new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total tally of the cases to 406.The fresh cases include a 45-year-old woman, resident of Sector-22. She is an employee with the Haryana government and is working in Chandigarh. She has four household contacts and three family contacts. All are asymptomatic.The second person tested positive is a 25-year-old woman of Mauli Jagran. She has five family contacts and one community contact. All are asymptomatic.With the two new cases, the active cases in the city have risen to 84.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-two-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-climbs-to-406-102276
21-06-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 11 positive COVID-19 cases, district's tally at 95||Panchkula reported 11 positive coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the district's tally to 95.Out of the 11 infections, a female employee of Haryana MLA Hostel in Chandigarh tested COVID-19 positive.With two patients from Baltana and one case from Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh—only eight infections would be added to Panchkula's COVID-19 tally."A couple in their 60s from Baltana will be added in Punjab's tally. Whereas a 22-year-old female from Hardoi would be added in Uttar Pradesh's count," said Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur.Meanwhile, a 42-year-old male from Sector 26, a couple in their 30s from Shakti Nagar in Kalka, a 17-year-old girl from Bitna Colony, and a 27-year-old female, an 11-year-old girl, and a 22-year-old female from Raipur Rani have tested COVID-19 positive.“Three from Raipur Rani are contacts of an already infected person, while officials are trying to identify the source of the infection of other patients,” added Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-11-positive-covid-19-cases-districts-tally-at-95-102253
21-06-2020||Zirakpur||Electronics shop gutted in Zirakpur||Monsoon to hit city this weekChandigarh: The city is expected to receive pre-monsoon showers during the next two-three days. “On June 24 or 25, monsoon is expected to arrive in the city,” said Surender Paul, Director, Chandigarh Meteorological Department. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature, which was hovering around 40°C, dropped to 36.8°C on Saturday. TNSMan held with 22 injectionsChandigarh: The police today arrested a person under the NDPS Act and recovered 22 injections of Bupernorphine and Pheniramine Maleate drugs from his possession. The suspect has been identified as Dildar Khan, a resident of Mohali. A case under Section 22 of the NDPS Act and 188, IPC, has been registered against the suspect at the Police Station, Sector 39, Chandigarh. Investigation of the case is in progress. TNSYouth booked under Arms ActChandigarh: The police have arrested a youth identified as Samdarsh Kumar (30), a resident of Ram Darbar, and recovered 26 injections of bupernorphine and pheniramine maleate drugs and one country made pistol with six live cartridges from his possession. The suspect was nabbed near T-point at Sector 39-A and B dividing road. A case under Sections 22, NDPS Act and Sections 25, 54 and 59, Arms Act, and Section 188, IPC, has been registered against the suspect at the Sector 30 police station. Investigation of the case is in progress. TNSnight dominance drive: 48 arrestedAmbala: The police arrested 48 persons, challaned 60 and impounded three vehicles for various offences during the night dominance drive conducted in the district on Friday night. According to the police, the drive was conducted from 10 pm to 4 am with the help of 90 per cent of the total district police personnel. At 47 nakas set up across the district, 1,900 vehicles were checked while 108 public places were also raided. Besides, five gamblers were also held with Rs4,360. As many as 47 bottles of illicit liquor were also recovered. TNSTwo held for molestationAmbala: The police have arrested two persons, Naresh Kumar, alias Karinda, and Gurpreet Singh, alias Laddi, for molesting and threatening a woman with dire consequences, officials said here on Saturday. According to the police, the woman had reported that the suspects had molested and threatened her with dire consequences after trespassing into her home on March 16. The suspects were produced before a court, which released them on bail. TNSSnatcher lands in police netAmbala: The police have arrested Jatin Kumar, alias Janu, of Ambala City in a case of snatching and claimed to have recovered a mobile phone from his possession. According to the police, a woman had reported that the suspect had snatched her mobile phone from near the TB hospital in Ambala City and fled the spot. The suspect was sent to 14-day judicial remand by a court, the police said. TNSTwo held for fraudAmbala: The police have arrested two persons, Aman of Jagraon in Punjab and a woman, in a case of immigration fraud, officials said here on Saturday. According to the police, Amit Kumar of Barara near here had reported that the suspects had taken huge amount from him on the pretext of sending him abroad. The suspects neither kept their promise nor returned his money. The duo was produced before a court, which remanded them in two-day police custody, the police said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/electronics-shop-gutted-in-zirakpur-102117
21-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Man’s body found hanging from tree||Zirakpur, June 20The body of a 40-year-old man was found hanging from a tree here today. The deceased had been identified as Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Khanna.Local residents spotted the body in the morning and informed the police. No suicide note was recovered from the spot.On the statement of the victim’s family members, the police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mans-body-found-hanging-from-tree-102065
21-06-2020||Naina Mishra||Stigma dogs workers from Bapu Dham||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20Even as the UT Administration has eased the Covid-related restrictions from 18 pockets of Bapu Dham Colony, residents of the colony are still confined to their homes, without salaries and jobs.Every time a colony resident goes for work holding a negative Covid report in hand, the employer asks him or her to join back after some days.Naresh Kumar, a former councillor of the area, said, “There have been hundreds of incidents where colony residents have been sent back by their employers. The residents are even showing their ago after the restrictions in his area were lifted. “Yesterday, I went to the shop and was given just Rs4,000 as a part of my salary. They are not willing to take me back on job. Every time I ask them, they tell me to come after 8-10 days,” said Abdul.Similar is the case of Aash Mohammad (20), who works at a cloth shop in Paalika Bazaar, Sector 19. He, along with his elder brother, runs the household as his father was physically challenged. Mohammad said he had not gone to work since March 22. He said, “My employer keeps telling me to come after seven days or 14 days even as I show him a negative Covid report.”“I am out of work for three months now,” said Taimur Ali Khan, who used to work at a cloth house in Sector 17. He said he was finding it hard to make ends meet.Dalip Sharma, councillor of Ward 19, Sector 26, said, “Bapu Dham residents are being denied work due to Covid stigma. This is mental harassment. We need to stop it.”The UT Administration claims to have resolved issues related to the job for 800-odd residents of the colony by calling their employers and asking them to pay the employees. However, the issue of stigma does not cease to exist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stigma-dogs-workers-from-bapu-dham-102066
21-06-2020||---||Panchkula police fail to upload FIRs within 24 hrs||Panchkula, June 20 Despite a Supreme Court order that mandates uploading of FIRs online within 24 hours of their registration, many police stations in Panchkula have failed to implement the 2016 direction. For instance, the last FIR at the Chandimandir police station was registered on June 18. But it was yet to be published online at the time of writing this report at around 4:30 pm today.  Of the same police station, the FIR No. 188 is the last one available on the Haryana Police official website even though the latest is 189. Similarly, Kalka police station saw the last FIR on June 18. It is still not available online. As a result, the accused are deprived of their right to information. Panchkula Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa said, “I will look into the matter and get FIRs uploaded online within stipulated time.” In 2016, the apex court of the country had ordered all states and union territories to upload First Information Reports (FIRs) on police or government websites within 24 hours of their registration at police stations. The police are exempted from publication of FIRs in certain cases, including cases of insurgency, child abuse, sexual offences and terrorism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-police-fail-to-upload-firs-within-24-hrs-102035
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Villagers welcome UT’s decision on property tax||Residents of Mauli Jagran village have welcomed the UT Administration’s decision not to levy property tax on commercial establishments. Congress leader Harbhajan Singh, youth leader Sunil Yadav, Ashish Ghajanvi and other residents of the village thanked UT Administrator for the decision. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/villagers-welcome-uts-decision-on-property-tax-102036
21-06-2020||---||Celebrate Yoga Day indoors today||Chandigarh, June 20 Directorate of AYUSH, Health Department, UT, will be celebrating International Day of Yoga in collaboration with the Government College of Yoga Education and Health through online mode with residents of the city tomorrow. The theme for this year is “Yoga at home and yoga with family”. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, International Yoga Day will be celebrated at home. No mass gathering would be encouraged this year. The ministry is encouraging people to practice yoga at their homes with participation of families. A series of various online activities have been organised in the wake of Sixth International Day of Yoga in UT, including protocol camp, from June 13 to 20, a poster-making competition on June 20, ‘asana’ competition on June 16, yoga quiz on June 17, and webinar on June 19. The practice of common yoga protocol will be followed online from 7 am onwards tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/celebrate-yoga-day-indoors-today-102037
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Computer teachers file plaint against firm for demanding Rs12K||Computer instructors have submitted a written complaint to the District Education Officer, UT, against a private contractor for allegedly demanding money from them. The complaint reads, “Recently, we came to know that the contract for providing IT faculties was given to non-IT based company with no experience in computer education and highly unprofessional on GeM portal whereas SPIC (The society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh) has been set up under the aegis of the Department of Information Technology Chandigarh.” “New contractor is adopting illegal methods to extract money by openly demanding Rs 12,000 from us. He is threatening to fire us if we do not pay the amount and engage new appointees on his own,” alleged teachers in their complaint. However, this is not the first time when government school staff are harried lot due to contractor deployed through GeM portal by the UT Education Department.  In December last year, school data entry operators in city government schools submitted a written complaint alleging that the contractor threatened to fire them and had asked them to sign a voucher worth Rs 11,000 on account of 50 per cent share from their first salary. Meanwhile, Director, School Education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, said, “I will personally inquire into the matter and take suitable action.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/computer-teachers-file-plaint-against-firm-for-demanding-rs12k-102039
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||NCC cadet from city  commissioned into IAF||Flying Officer Pranay Prashant, who was a cadet with No.1 Chandigarh NCC Air Squadron, has been commissioned into the flying branch of the Indian Air Force. He passed out from the Air Force Academy, Dundigal, near Hyderabad, today. He was awarded his brevets by Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhaduria, during the Combined Graduation Parade. Pranay hails from Mahendragarh in Haryana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ncc-cadet-from-city-commissioned-into-iaf-102040
21-06-2020||Patiala||Youth Cong pays tribute to Galwan Valley martyrs||A candle march led by members of the Youth Congress, Mansimrat Singh Riar, Pawan Sandhu and Teji Sharma was organised to pay tribute to 20 soldiers, who were martyred in the violent face-off at Galwan Valley in Ladakh district. They expressed gratitude to the brave hearts for their sacrifice and offered condolences to their families. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-cong-pays-tribute-to-galwan-valley-martyrs-102041
21-06-2020||Zirakpur||Narrow escape for four labourers at Dhakoli||Four labourers had a close shave near Shalimar Enclave in Dhakoli when they were clearing the debris below an under-construction bridge.  The excessive flow of sewage in the drain swept away the labourers and caused damage to the shuttering. It was due to the intervention of locals that the labourers were rescued from the drain.  “‘Due to rain, the flow in the drain was excessive and the labourers were trying to reinforce the shuttering of the under-construction bridge. They were lucky that passersby gathered and rescued them,”’ said Shyam Behera, a passerby.  The Municipal Council had allotted the work to a contractor through a tender and the construction work was in progress.  MC officials and the contractor are tight-lipped over the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/narrow-escape-for-four-labourers-at-dhakoli-102032
21-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda---||Samaritans go online to help people in tough times||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, June 20 Making best use of the Covid-19 pandemic, experts of various fields are helping people from different walks of life by providing them free online classes. While some promote free-study material, others help people learn a way to earn. Entrepreneur Kiran Gill, a housewife and a mother of two, takes free-of-cost online baking classes. She also distributes free cow milk along with home-baked sweets among underprivileged children of the periphery areas.  Owner of a farming unit, Kiran has been spending the lockdown period by helping many learn a way of earning. Her followers not only include middle-class housewives, but also young enthusiasts male bakers. On any given day, the group reaches out to housewives of the periphery area to teach them some skills and help their children.  “All this started in 2019, when my son asked me to bake a cake. We are into sale and promotion of organic products. I bake every day and my work starts at around 10 am along classes. My days are not complete without baking or helping others to learn the art. If I have learnt the art by following videos, why can’t others. In these tough times of Covid-19 pandemic everyone is doing their bit, so does our group,” says Kiran. Another in the chain is physics Prof SC Gupta, a lecturer in Chandigarh. In his share of doing a bit, Gupta is taking free online classes for students of NEET, Class 11th and 12th. Not only this, he has launched a dedicated helpline number in order to solve students’ problem anytime they needed.  Notably, coaching institutes/schools/universities are closed during the lockdown period and Gupta has created this platform to help students. Gupta teaches in a 40 minutes lecture on daily basis.  “Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic students are facing a lot of problems as all institutes are locked. The institute, which are running online classes are getting huge fees. So, in order to help students, I have started approaching kids through various online means. I started these classes through Facebook, YouTube channel and Google Meet,” says Gupta.  “I also requested parents to donate in the PM Care Fund according to their capacity. A large number of students are benefitting in the physics subject from these online classes,” adds Gupta. Similarly, Jyoti Tewari, vedic maths head at Sharda Sarvhitkari School, is conducting free webinars as schools are shut across the world. “I have prepared over 100 videos of mathematics and vedic maths for students and uploaded these on social media so that any student can get free access to this content from comforts of his/her home,” says Jyoti Tewari. “Vedic maths  was discovered by Indian Mathematician Bharathi Krishna Tirtha. It is a set of techniques to solve arithmetics in an easy and faster way. It consists of 16 sutras and 13 sub sutras, which can be used for solving arithmetic, algebra, geometry, calculus and conics. It increases confidence of a child in calculations. It also increases speed and accuracy in other activities too,” adds Jyoti Tewari.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/samaritans-go-online-to-help-people-in-tough-times-102033
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh bans sale, use of Chinese kite string||The UT Administration has banned the procurement, sale and use of ‘Chinese maanjha/pakka dori’ for kite flying in the city.In an order, District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar stated, “A large number of people flying kites use synthetic/nylon-glass coated thread popularly known as ‘pakka thread/dor’ or ‘Chinese maanjha/dori’. These ‘maanjhas or doris’ made of synthetic material are non-biodegradable and cause serious injuries to human beings, birds and are equally disadvantageous to the wildlife and environment.”  “To prevent serious injuries or death of human beings and birds along with harm to wildlife and environment, procuring, stocking, sale and use of synthetic/nylon-glass coated ‘pakka doris’ or ‘Chinese maanjhas’ or such other harmful substance for kite flying are banned in Chandigarh for 60 days,” he added. “The ban will come into force from midnight today and will be effective upto August 19, 2020,” he said. A few days ago, a 50-year-old resident of Mani Majra was injured when a glass-coated ‘maanjha’ got entangled around his neck while he was riding a scooter at the Housing Board light point. He started bleeding and fell unconscious. He was immediately rushed to a hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bans-sale-use-of-chinese-kite-string-102034
21-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh count mounts with 24 new cases||With 24 persons testing positive for Covid-19 today, the city crossed the 400 mark. The UT tally now stands at 404 with 82 active cases.The city saw the highest spike in the number of Covid cases in the month of June so far and second highest till now. On May 24, the city had reported 29 cases.Story HighlightsRecovery rate: 78.2%: For every 100 confirmed cases, 78 have defeated the virusMortality rate 1.48%: For every 100 confirmed cases, 1 has unfortunately passed away due to the diseaseOf the total cases reported today, 14 persons have tested positive from Mauli Jagran. They are the contacts of a 65-year-old woman, who visited her daughter’s home at Mauli Jagran for treatment.The woman had complained of fever and abdominal discomfort. She had visited the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula, on June 12 and returned home the same day. After four days, she again went to the the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where she tested positive for Covid yesterday. She had 19 family contacts and two community contacts.Among the new cases from Mauli Jagran, the woman’s family contacts include four men, aged 18, 9, 9 and 40, and eight women, aged 32, 32, 9, 12, 5, 30, 7 and 40. Her community contacts include two men, aged 24 and 35.A 20-year-old expectant mother from Bapu Dham Colony also tested positive for Covid-19. She was admitted to a hospital for delivery. Instead, she tested positive for the disease instead. Her two family contacts have been sampled for testing.A 59-year-old man from Sector 39, who is a workplace contact of a positive case of Sector 25, also tested positive for coronavirus. His two family contacts have been sampled for testing.Seven family contacts of an already positive patient from Sector 24 have also contracted the virus. They include four children, aged six months, 6 years, 10 years and 12 years, and three adults, aged 38, 34 and 57.A three-year-old girl from Sector 38 also tested positive for Covid. She is the family contact of an already diagnosed case from the same sector. Meanwhile, the positivity rate of the city stands at 6.1 per cent. June has witnessed 109 Covid positive cases so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-count-mounts-with-24-new-cases-102025
21-06-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Chandigarh ready with contingency plan for 3K: Parida||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20Though the predictions on Covid-19 peak period in India are hinting at scary figures, the UT Administration is banking on its contingency plan for 3,600 patients.While officials remained tight-lipped on the statistical analysis of estimated cases in the city during the peak period, they seemed certain of managing the pandemic by roping in bhawans and community centres.“The infection rate in the UT is less and the recovery rate is the best in the country. This puts us in a better position,” said UT Advisor Manoj Parida. He added, “Now that the city borders are not restricting the entry of foreigners and people from other states are coming to Chandigarh too, we don’t know what will happen. If things get scary, we will seal the borders.”Parida said the city was prepared for about 3,000 people and the healthcare facilities in the city were up to the mark as well. “We have already treated people with plasma therapy, which other hospitals are now considering. Only about five per cent people need ventilators, which is quite less. I think the city will be able to take the load,” he said.“There is no scarcity of space here and we have already roped in three hotels and bhawans. We will have community centres too,” he said.UT Health Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said, “The MC has issued SOPs on social distancing, which have been sent to all public places like shops. We have a contingency plan to take care of 3,600 patients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-ready-with-contingency-plan-for-3k-parida-102026
21-06-2020||---||Six contract virus in Panchkula district||Panchkula, June 20The district reportedly saw six new Covid-19 cases today.The infected persons include a 40-year-old man and a 28-year-old woman from Kalka. A 43-year-old man from Raipur Rani and a 42-year-old woman from Jaloli village have also been found positive for the virus. Meanwhile, a 47-year-old constable from Yamunanagar, who is deployed in the district, and a 30-year-old man from Ambala, who is working in the Health Department here, also contracted the virus. They were present in their native cities when their reports came out. Hence, they would be admitted in hospitals at their native places, said an official, who did not wish to be named.Used PPE kits dumped in open, probe orderedThe dumping of used PPE kits in the open, allegedly by health workers, on the Civil Hospital campus created panic among people visiting the infirmary. Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur reached the spot on learning about the matter and got the medical waste removed. She has ordered an inquiry into the matter.Confusion over tally||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-contract-virus-in-panchkula-district-102027
21-06-2020||Mohali||Congress leader’s son in 2-day police remand||A local court today sent a Congress leader’s son, who was arrested yesterday for allegedly firing at his 22-year-old friend, to two-day police remand. Davinder Singh, alias Damni, son of a Congress leader, told the police that Jagdeep was allegedly flirting with his fiancée, which infuriated him.Sub-Inspector Barma Singh said, “During interrogation, the suspect revealed that the victim, Jagdeep, had sent some objectionable messages on his fiancée’s phone and he was flirting with her. He was holding a grudge against Jagdeep since then.”On June 16, Damni fired two bullets at Jagdeep’s back and chest with his father’s licensed 12-bore gun, leaving the victim seriously injured.A case of attempt to murder was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leaders-son-in-2-day-police-remand-102028
21-06-2020||---||10 more down with Covid in Mohali district||Mohali, June 20As many as 10 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district today, taking the tally to 218.The affected persons include a 57-year-old man, a 7-year-old girl and a 35-year-old woman, all from Kurali, a 53-year-old man from Lalru, two women aged 18 and 25 and a 20-year-old man from Baltana, two women aged 67 and 54 from Kharar and a 52-year-old man from Sector 91.One patient dischargedThe Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said Manpreet Singh, a resident of Nuelka village, was discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital on Saturday after defeating the virus.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the 57-year-old patient from Kurali was a Delhi returnee while the girl and the woman had a travel history to Uttar Pradesh. The patients from Lalru and Kharar were the contacts of already positive patients. The cases from Baltana were the contacts of Bapu Dham Colony patients. He said the patient from Sector 91 was an influenza-like illness (ILI) case. Nine patients had been admitted to the Covid Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. The 67-year-old woman, who is a cardiac patient, had been admitted to the PGI.Dr Manjit said health teams had been sent to collect the samples of the family members and contacts of the patients. The number of active cases in the district rose to 76 while a total of 139 patients had been cured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-more-down-with-covid-in-mohali-district-102029
21-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Jaypee waste processing plant issue back in court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 20A day after the Municipal Corporation took over the Jaypee garbage processing plant here, the plant representatives handed over an order extending the stay on taking over the possession of the unit to civic body officials.Though the extension in the stay was granted yesterday, the written order came today. Mayor Raj Bala Malik today cut a ribbon to start waste processing at the Sector 25 plant.“The hearing was held through video-conferencing yesterday. At 4.42 pm, the one-month extension in the stay was granted to us in front of the MC counsel. They did not listen to us yesterday and forcibly took over the possession. It is illegal. We had to keep our staff members at Kisan Bhawan,” said NK Vohra, incharge of the Jaypee plant.He said they had given a copy of the court order to the corporation this morning and moved a contempt plea in the court. MC Commissioner KK Yadav said, “Till yesterday there was nothing of this sort. We got the order this morning. We have now called a meeting on Monday to decide the further course of action.” Sources said the civic body was planning to move the Punjab and Haryana High Court against the order.Earlier in the day, the MC started operating the plant on its own. It has hired some of the technical staff members of the firm. The district court had earlier given a three-month stay to the company disallowing the civic body from taking over the plant. After the period expired, the corporation served a notice on the company to vacate the premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jaypee-waste-processing-plant-issue-back-in-court-102030
21-06-2020||---||Fire breaks out at factory in Mohali, no casualty||Mohali, June 20A massive fire broke out at a plastic factory in the Industrial Area, Phase IX, this evening. The incident could have turned into a major tragedy but for the timely removal of LPG cylinders lying at the unit.No casualty was reported in the incident as all workers had left the factory, Accutex Sales and Services, situated at plot number 165, after finishing their work at 5 pm and the fire broke out at around 6 pm.On receiving information, fire tenders were rushed to the site. The firemen managed to douse the flames in 30 minutes. Karam Chand Sood, Fire Officer, said they were able to save a factory official trapped in the fire. He said the exact cause of fire was yet to be ascertained. Preliminary investigation revealed that it occurred due to a short circuit, he added.The fire officer said the fire spread very fast as there was inflammable material in the factory.He said fire tenders reached the site soon and they were able to douse the flames, adding that they refilled the fire tenders with water from Bestech Mall and Swaraj Engines factory. It helped them douse the flames in 30 minutes, he said.Sood said furniture and other items were completely damaged in the blaze.The industrial unit is engaged in manufacturing and exporting industrial components, including chrome-plated bars, broaching tools, burnishing tools, ceramic-coated pulleys, dies and moulds, etc.Notably, a major fire had broken out at a chemical unit in the Industrial Area, Phase VII, on March 15 last year, gutting the factory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-breaks-out-at-factory-in-mohali-no-casualty-102031
