21-08-2020||Chandigarh||All shops and establishments to be closed in Chandigarh on weekends||Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore on Friday ordered closure of all shops and establishments (except essential services), in Chandigarh, on Saturdays and Sundays, until further orders.However, the curfew timings in Chandigarh continue to be from 10 pm to 5 am. There will be no ban on movement of people or goods on weekends.UT Adviser Manoj Parida tweeted that, “Honourable Governor Punjab and Administrator,UT, has ordered closure of all shops and establishments (except essential services),in Chandigarh ,on Saturdays and Sundays ,until further orders.”All liquor shops will remain closed on weekend. Honourable Governor Punjab and Administrator,UT, has ordered closure of all shops and establishments (except essential services),in Chandigarh ,on Saturdays and Sundays ,until further orders.  Curfew timings in Chandigarh continues to be from 10pm to 5am.  No ban on movement of people or goods on weekend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-shops-and-establishments-to-be-closed-in-chandigarh-on-weekends-129390
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 116 COVID-19 new cases; highest single-day spike||Chandigarh reported 116 new coronavirus cases---a new single-day high--- the union territory’s bulletin showed on Friday. The UT also reported two COVID-19 deaths. Both patients were in their 60s, and both died on August 19. Their test reports came back positive on Friday.  The first was a 67-year-old man from Sector 45 who was diabetic. He died at Sector 32’s Government Medical College and Hospital. The second person was a 66-year-old woman from Burail who was also diabetic and had also gallbladder carcinoma---a cancer.Meanwhile, 38 people were released from hospitals and home isolations after making recovery.The developments take Chandigarh’s tally to 2631 with 33 deaths. About 44 per cent of the UT’s cases are still active.Chandigarh figuresTotal: 2631Active: 1170Recovered: 1426Deaths: 33||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-116-covid-19-new-cases-highest-single-day-spike-129372
21-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tattoo artist keeps monkey as pet, forces it to drink 'alcohol'; held||A Chandigarh-based tattoo artist Kamaljit Singh and his manager have been arrested for keeping a monkey as a pet and exhibiting its photos on his Instagram account.The artist, who owns Kamzinkzone tattoo studio in Sector 35 in Chandigarh, has also been accused of force-feeding the monkey an 'alcoholic' drink, a charge that he has denied."A Herculean task comes to an end," tweeted Deputy Conservator of Forests Abdul Qayum.A Herculean tasks comes to an end. A suitable Action taken against #Wildlife Offenders under WPA 1972.A good #message will reach to all TikTokers @TikTok_IN & everyone who thinks Wildlife are pet or can be hunted. Thank you @ddifs99 @PetaIndia @IfsJaganhttps://t.co/eefLa8Vgsh  "A suitable action taken against wildlife offenders under WPA (Wildlife Protection Act) 1972. A good message will reach to all TikTokers and everyone who thinks wildlife are pet or can be hunted," he added.The tattoo artist and his manager Deepak have been booked under Sections 9, 39 and 50 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.Pictures of a monkey sitting on Kamaljit Singh's shoulder had gone viral on social media.As he came to know that he was caught on the wrong side of the law, he deleted the pictures from his Instagram account.The rhesus macaque, like other wild animals, can't be kept and trained for entertainment purposes in India.Acting on a complaint by the People for The Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), the local Forest and Wildlife Department lodged a complaint against the artist with the police.The artist told the police that he had rescued the monkey in an injured condition from Kasauli hills in Himachal Pradesh. He said when he came to know that keeping a monkey in captivity was a crime, he released it in the wild.He said no alcoholic beverage, as shown in a photo, was served to the animal. It was a mix of apple and pomegranate juice. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-tattoo-artist-keeps-monkey-as-pet-forces-it-to-drink-alcohol-held-129296
21-08-2020||---||Former UT cops record statements in Balwant Singh Multani case||Chandigarh, August 20In the disapperance case of Balwant Singh Multani, the two former UT cops who have turned approvers recorded their statement before the Judicial Magistrate-cum-Duty Magistrate at a Mohali court today.Two days ago, the former UT cops, Inspector Jagir Singh and Assistant Sub Inspector Kuldeep Singh, had moved court to turn approvers and were pardoned in the case, involving former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini.Before getting their statements recorded, the Judicial Magistrate asked the two cops whether there was any pressure on them to turn approvers. They said it was their own decision.Now, the SIT is all set to add Section 302 of the IPC to the FIR registered against the former DGP and others at Mataur police station in the alleged disappearance of former CITCO employee Multani. The case is expected to be taken up tomorrow.As per the court orders, the SIT will have to give prior notice to Saini after adding Section 302 to the FIR. Saini is out on bail in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-ut-cops-record-statements-in-balwant-singh-multani-case-129006
21-08-2020||Chandigarh lad Ayushmann Khurrana is back to the place where he belongs and has had the happiest of times. The shining star of Bollywood is balancing personal and professional life through the pandemic. As he gets set to don a completely new avatar||‘I will always be a  Chandigarh boy: Ayushmann Khurrana||You grew up in Chandigarh. Now that you are back to the city as a star and see your pictures in papers, how do you feel?I truly enjoy coming to Chandigarh. I don’t think it even occurs to me that I am a star now. This city is home and when I meet the people here, I get so much love. I love how they care about me. I will always be a Chandigarh boy. This time around, my visit here has been more relaxed. I have been working non-stop though — reading scripts, holding meetings over video calls and planning my next steps, but it’s just great to be with my full family and soaking in this precious quality time with them. I have also been cycling around the city, revisiting places, going through bylanes and refreshing all the lovely memories.A house where all the Khuranas will be staying must be a dream for you all, share your feelings...All of us have actually been talking about buying a house for a while. It was the need of the hour for us and also an emotional decision. Now that Apar is married and Tahira and I have children, there was a need for more space. We all decided that the children should also get the feel of living together as a family, which they missed in Mumbai. So we have jointly invested in a bigger house. We are really happy to find something that we all loved.Does that mean Chandigarh will see more of you now?I try and come to Chandigarh as many times as possible. It is a very special place. I am happy to come back as much as I can. But the last two-three years have been really busy with back-to-back shoots, releases and travels. However, I am not complaining. Life has been kind so far and I’m grateful.How has the lockdown been for you personally? Any new lesson learnt?My family has that calming, rooting quality that helps you navigate everything, every crisis in life. My family is a rock and my wife is truly a rockstar. I think we all have been there for each other in our own ways, helping each other to adjust to the new normal. I have loved spending time with my wife and kids, and it’s really precious for me because my hectic work schedule really doesn’t allow me to be with them as much as I want to. This pandemic is telling us that sustainability should be the centre-point of all conversations going forward.How has the experience of shooting in Chandigarh during the pandemic been?I have shot multiple things while being in my hometown and it has been super-smooth. It’s really refreshing to be on the sets. It took some time to get used to and control the paranoia of the virus, but I think I’m fully focused on work now, of course, with all safety measures.Can you tell us something about Abhishek Kapoor’s next project where you will be playing a cross-functional athlete?Abhishek has a very distinct voice in cinema today and I’m glad that we finally got the opportunity to collaborate on a project that’s exceedingly close to my heart. It is a beautiful, progressive love story that will also touch your hearts. I’m supremely excited about the physical transformation that I will have to undergo. It will present me in an all-new avatar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/i-will-always-be-a-chandigarh-boy-ayushmann-khurrana-129231
21-08-2020||Sandeep Rana||A tad better, Chandigarh ranks 16th||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20The City Beautiful improved its ranking by four notches in the Swachh Survekshan-2020 to 16 from 20 last year, but it has a long way to go.For this well-planned city, which was ranked the second cleanest in this first survey held in 2016, its ranking has seen a fall over the years. Touted to be the world’s largest annual survey conducted by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, which covered 4,242 cities countrywide, it saw Indore topping the chart for the fourth consecutive year.Chandigarh was able to improve its ranking marginally as it saw a major jump in its citizen feedback category. The city has been declared the best performer among all states/UTs in the citizen feedback category. Also, it got full marks in cleanliness of residential and commercial areas. However, there is a lot to do in wet and dry waste segregation and also in garbage processing to rise up the ladder.“Chandigarh has again disappointed with only marginal improvement in the rankings. A major part of 2019 witnessed the repeat of 2018 with infighting among various factions of the municipal house leading to policy paralysis and loss of focus on key solid waste management initiatives,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener of the City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations.Leader of the Opposition in the MC House Devinder Singh Babla wrote to the Mayor, “You lied by manipulating the data of waste segregation and processing. Crores have been spent on companies for cleanliness in the city. Even after doing so much, you came at number 16. We will expose this lie in the upcoming corporation meeting.”Mayor Raj Bala Malik said, “It’s due to the MC’s work that we improved our ranking by four notches. We are still the best in cleanliness of city areas. We will work to do better.”MC Commissioner KK Yadav said, “We have improved our ranking a bit this year. Significantly, we have been awarded the best performing city among all states/UTs in citizen feedback.” On the issue of questionable data related to waste processing and segregation, he said the figures had been misinterpreted.Placed 8th among cities with over 10L populationIn the sub-category of cities having a population of more than 10 lakh, the City Beautiful has, however, secured the eighth position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-tad-better-chandigarh-ranks-16th-128959
21-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali slips four spots, placed 157th||Mohali slipped to the 157th spot in the Swachh Survekshan-2020.It was ranked 153rd last year. In 2018, it was placed at the 109th position, a year before it was ranked 121st.Mohali is the seventh cleanest city in Punjab. A total of 14 cities of the state were covered under the survey.Mohali MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “Mohali has seen just a little drop in the Swachh Survekshan rankings. We will try to improve the position next time. Our aim is to see the city in the list of the top 100 clean cities in next year’s survey.” The MC chief added, “Although Mohali has slipped four positions, it has seen improvement in waste segregation and cleanliness criteria.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-slips-four-spots-placed-157th-128960
21-08-2020||Amit Bathla||At 56th slot, Panchkula sees jump of 15 steps||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, August 20Panchkula has improved its ranking in Swachh Survekshan-2020, a cleanliness survey conducted by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, for the fourth year in a row.The latest survey ranked the city 56th – an improvement of 15 positions from the previous year’s 71st spot. While the city stood at 142 in the 2018 survey, it was placed 211th in the exercise conducted in 2017. The city scored 3,783.01 marks out of 6,000.As many as 24,941 citizens participated in the survey.While MC Commissioner Mahavir Singh could not be contacted for his comments, former chiefs Rajesh Jogpal and Sumedha Kataria said they were expecting the city’s rank to be under 50. “Still, an improvement of 15 positions is a great achievement,” they addedIn the tricity, Panchkula stood second to Chandigarh. It bagged third spot in Haryana. While Karnal bagged the first place in the state, Rohtak stood second.In May this year, Panchkula’s waste management system had received zero star in the garbage-free rating released by the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-56th-slot-panchkula-sees-jump-of-15-steps-128961
21-08-2020||---||Three of Sukha Kahlon gang held with arms in Panchkula||Panchkula, August 20A team of the Panchkula police crime branch, Sector 26, arrested three gangsters of the Sukha Kahlon group near Parade Ground in Sector 5 last evening on a tip-off along with illegal weapons.They have been identified as Gurpreet (38), Harvinder (37) of Gulmohar City in Dera Bassi and Sukhraj Singh (20) of CMC Road, Ludhiana.The police seized six pistols of .32 bore along with 10 cartridges from them. The police said they were roaming in the city with the motive of carjacking.According to the CIA in-charge, Inspector Aman, the police spotted a speeding Hyundai i10 car, bearing a Punjab registration number, approaching the check-post on the rear side of the HAFED building in Sector 5 around 5.30 pm yesterday. On suspicion, cops signalled the car to stop for inspection. On seeing the police, the men tried to take a U-turn but their car engine stopped with a jerk.Upon enquiry, the men revealed their identity and confessed they had intentions to commit a major crime in the city.On checking their vehicle, the police seized six pistols. The suspects could not show the licence for the firearms. The trio was later arrested and the vehicle impounded.Inspector Aman said, “Preliminary investigation suggests they belong to the Sukhan Kahlon gang and obtained the illegal weapons from near Indore in Madhya Pradesh,” he said.A case in this regard has been registered at the Sector 5 police station.The suspects were produced in a local court today, which remanded them in six-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-of-sukha-kahlon-gang-held-with-arms-in-panchkula-128962
21-08-2020||---||9 of family among 119 +ve in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, August 20The city saw the highest single-day surge of 119 Covid cases today.Before this, the highest number of cases in a single day was reported on Monday when 114 persons had tested positive for the virus. Among the new cases, 89 tested positive through the RT-PCR test and the remaining were diagnosed using the rapid antigen test.Among the new cases, nine were of a family in Sector 17. The city tally now stands at 2,515. The count of active cases has reached 1,092. The city has seen total 31 Covid deaths.As many as 39 patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus.UT DSP found infectedUT DSP Dilsher Singh Chandel on Thursday tested positive for coronavirus. He was admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Chandel, who is posted as DSP (East), was not feeling well for the past few days, following which he got himself tested for coronavirus. Sources said the staff attached with the DSP had been asked to get quarantined. The DSP’s office was also sanitised.DC office closed todayThe Deputy Commissioner’s office will remain closed on Friday as two employees have tested positive for coronavirus in the past 48 hours. Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said the office would remain closed for sanitisation and employees would work from home.Restrictions end in Mani Majra, DhanasThe UT Administration on Thursday removed perimeter controls from part of Pipliwala Town, Mani Majra, and EWS Colony, Dhanas. Adviser Manoj Parida said regular screening and monitoring of the areas by medical teams would, however, continue. Frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted and the residents would be advised to maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. On August 3, the UT Administration had declared six houses in Pipliwala Town and a residential block of EWS Colony, Dhanas, as micro-containment zones. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9-of-family-among-119-ve-in-chandigarh-128963
21-08-2020||---||2 deaths, 132 fresh cases in Mohali||Mohali, August 20The district witnessed two more Covid deaths today, taking the death count to 45.An 82-year-old man from Phase 7 died of the virus at Indus Hospital. He was suffering from diabetes. A 50-year-old man from Kharar, suffering from hypertension, also succumbed to the virus at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Caseload now 2,270The district also reported 132 fresh cases of the deadly virus today, taking its caseload to 2,270. The new cases include 38 from Mohali city, 31 from Zirakpur, 24 from Kharar, 10 from Gharuan block, eight each from Dera Bassi and Banur, seven from Kurali and six from Lalru.33 patients curedAs many as 33 patients were cured and discharged in the past 24 hours.Curfew from 7 pm to 5 am Mohali: The district administration extended the weekend lockdown till August 31 and imposed the daily night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am, as announced by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday. A total ban on all gatherings, except weddings and funerals, till August 31 has also been announced. According to the fresh preventive measures against Covid-19, all government and private offices can operate only up to 50 per cent capacity till the end of this month, buses and other public transport will operate with 50 per cent capacity, not more than three persons, including the driver, are allowed in private four-wheelers and only 50 per cent of the shops selling non-essential items can be opened on daily basis. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-deaths-132-fresh-cases-in-mohali-128964
21-08-2020||---||38-year-old man ends life after spat with wife||Chandigarh, August 20A 38-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Sector 40 today. He had a quarrel with his wife after which he took the extreme step.According to the police, the victim has been identified as Jagat Bahadur. He worked as a driver with a private company.The police said he was in an inebriated condition when he had a fight with his wife, after which his wife and daughter came outside in the balcony. The victim then closed the door and committed suicide.The police were informed following which a PCR reached the spot. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/38-year-old-man-ends-life-after-spat-with-wife-128965
21-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Concession of regular bail can’t be extended to accused: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20A 14-year-old, who met a man through Snapchat and WhatsApp, did not hear the alarm bells ringing till it was too late. The Class IX student allegedly found herself connected to trouble when she went to meet the man she was chatting with in Chandigarh’s busy Sector 22. At that time, there was no way for her to realise that it was the beginning of an ordeal and she would allegedly be raped in the car he was driving.Taking up the “rape on wheels” case, Justice Suvir Sehgal of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has turned down the bail plea moved by the accused. “Considering the gravity of the offence and the fact that the victim is less than 16 years of age, this court is of the view that the concession of regular bail cannot be extended to the petitioner. This petition is, accordingly, dismissed,” Justice Sehgal ruled.Considering the gravity of the offence and the fact that the victim is less than 16 years of age, this court is of the view that the concession of regular bail cannot be extended to the petitioner. This petition is, accordingly, dismissed. —Justice Suvir Sehgal The petitioner had approached the High Court for regular bail in the case registered on November 8, 2019, for rape and other offences under Section 376(3) of the IPC and provisions of the POCSO Act, at the Section 17 police station. “Unnatural” offence under Section 377 of the IPC was added later.The prosecution claimed that the FIR was registered on the statement of the prosecutrix-victim, who alleged that she came in contact with the petitioner through Snapchat and they started chatting on WhatsApp.On November 6, 2019, they met near a cinema hall in Sector 22. The next day he came in a black car and took the victim along with him after calling her again to the Sector. The petitioner took her to a deserted street in the Sector and “performed unnatural acts using force with her”. In the meantime, the victim’s mother called up on the petitioner’s phone. He panicked and dropped the victim near the cinema hall, the prosecution added.Justice Sehgal was also told that the victim narrated the incident to her mother after reaching home. During the investigation, the petitioner was arrested on November 8, 2019, and was behind bars since then.Justice Sehgal asserted that the victim had given explicit details of the “horrendous incident” in her complaint and categorically named the petitioner as the sexual predator.The CFSL, among other things, reported that the DNA profile recovered from the “exhibits” was consistent with the DNA profile of the victim and the petitioner. “In view of the CFSL report, the probability of the petitioner’s involvement in the appalling crime cannot be ruled out... It is clarified that any observation shall not be construed as an expression on the merits of the case,” Justice Sehgal concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/concession-of-regular-bail-cant-be-extended-to-accused-hc-128966
21-08-2020||Panchkula||9th death in Panchkula, 98 more infected in Panchkula||A 75-year-old woman from Sector 16 died of coronavirus today, taking the district toll to nine.The woman was admitted to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 with respiratory distress and was subsequently put on ventilator last evening after her health deteriorated. She was also suffering from hypertension. She had tested positive for the virus on Tuesday.Meanwhile, in the highest single-day spike in Panchkula, 98 persons, including five ITBP personnel, tested positive for the virus, taking the tally to 1,427.The fresh cases include nine from Sector 20, seven from Pinjore, six each from Sector 15 and Sector 21, five from Raipur Rani, four each from the Industrial Area, Phase 1, Sector 10, an unspecified location in the MDC, Indira Colony, Old Panchkula, Kalka, Sector 9, Sector 12-A and Sector 4, three each from Moginand Police Lines, Sector 19, Sector 16 and Sector 11, two each from Sector 17, Sector 27, Sector 5, Sector 25, Sector 26 and Sector 14, and one each from Morni and Barwala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/9th-death-in-panchkula-98-more-infected-in-panchkula-128967
21-08-2020||Zirakpur||Auto driver found murdered||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-driver-found-murdered-128968
21-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court: No lewd queries to rape victims||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 20The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear to judicial officers in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh that lewd, filthy and indecent questions cannot be put to rape victims and the trial court should not allowed the same.The High Court was hearing appeals filed by accused in an alleged sex scandal. The observations came in reference to certain questions asked by an advocate during cross-examination. Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted that such queries, in opinion of the High Court, could not have been asked to a rape victim to prove the innocence of the accused.Justice Sangwan asserted that it had been held a number of times by the Supreme Court that the court should be vigilant that the defence counsel should not adopt the strategy of continuous questioning of the prosecutrix on rape detail, while conducting cross-examination and the court should not sit as a silent spectator, while the victim of the crime was being cross-examined.Justice Sangwan also asked the High Court Registrar-General to circulate among all presiding officers and designated courts dealing with cases of crime against women in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh the observations regarding lewd, filthy and indecent questions to the prosecutrix, which could not be allowed by the trial court in violation of the directions given by the Supreme Court. Justice Sangwan also referred to the apex court judgment in the case of “Punjab vs Gurmit Singh”.Justice Sangwan also quoted the judgment as saying that there had lately been a lot of criticism regarding the treatment of victims of sexual assault during cross-examination. The provisions of the Evidence Act regarding relevancy of facts notwithstanding, some defense counsel adopted the strategy of continual questioning of the prosecutrix on details.“A victim of rape, it must be remembered, has already undergone a traumatic experience and if she is made to repeat again and again, in unfamiliar surroundings, what she had been subjected to, she may be too ashamed and even nervous or confused to speak and her silence or a confused stray sentence may be wrongly interpreted as discrepancies and contradictions in her evidence,” read the SC judgment quoted by Justice Sangwan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-no-lewd-queries-to-rape-victims-129069
