21-10-2020||Mohali||Two die of COVID-19 in Mohali; 79 new cases||Two persons died of COVID-19 while 79 new cases were reported from the Mohali district on Wednesday. As many as 98 patients have been deemed recovered in the last 24 hours.Most of the cases reported today were from Dera Bassi (6), Dhakoli (21), Gharuan (2), Kharar (4), Kurali (1), Lalru (1), Mohali urban (44).As of now, 11,880 persons have been found Covid positive, of which 598 are active cases.As many as 11,053 persons have been cured. The district has reported 229 Covid deaths till now. On Tuesday, three fatalities and 27 new cases were reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-die-of-covid-19-in-mohali-79-new-cases-159098
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||'Next stop: My hometown': Ayushmann Khurrana is 'excited' for his next 'Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui'||The much-hyped Ayushmann Khurrana-Vaani Kapoor starrer has a name.On Wednesday, it was confirmed that the film directed by Abhishek Kapoor is titled Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui.Taking to Instagram, Ayushmann expressed joy at starting shooting for the film in his hometown, Chandigarh."Next stop: My hometown Chandigarh for the first time.Excited to be a part of Abhishek Kapoor's delightful progressive love story #ChandigarhKareAashiqui," he wrote.Next stop: My hometown Chandigarh for the first time❤️Excited to be a part of Abhishek Kapoor's delightful progressive love story #ChandigarhKareAashiqui.Produced by Bhushan Kumar and Pragya Kapoor co-starring Vaani Kapoor. pic.twitter.com/0OOG7tcEWG  Along with it, he posted a picture of himself posing along with Abhishek and Vaani.Vaani, too, shared the same image on her Instagram account."It's time to fall in love! Thrilled to be a part of Abhishek Kapoor's delightful progressive love story #ChandigarhKareAashiqui," she captioned the post. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/next-stop-my-hometown-ayushmann-khurrana-is-excited-for-his-next-chandigarh-kare-aashiqui-159093
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||First head of new Eastern Command among two top appointments in ITBP||Two top level appointments have been in the made in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), which guards the border with China. While its newly-created Eastern Command headquartered at Gauhati has got its first chief in the rank of Additional Director General (ADG), another officer of the same level has been posted at the force headquarters in Delhi.Amrit Mohan Prasad, a 1989-batch Indian Police Service officer of the Odisha cadre who came to ITBP on deputation from the CBI in August and was at Delhi, has been appointed as the force’s ADG in the east. He would be responsible for ITBP deployment in the border areas of Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh as well as other ITBP establishments in the eastern theatre, which has also witnessed deployment of additional Chinese forces recently across the border.Inspector General Daljit Singh Chawdhary, a 1990-batch officer of the Uttar Pradesh cadre has been promoted and posted as ADG at the ITBP headquarters. All ADGs report to the Director General.The ITBP’s Western Command based at Chandigarh, which is responsible for border areas of Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, was operationalised in June amidst the Ladakh stand-off and an officer of the rank of Inspector General at Delhi was given additional charge to head this command.The two new commands were created following a cadre review of the force that was approved by the Cabinet last year. Several additional posts across the force’s hierarchy were sanctioned.Each command controls different frontier headquarters within their geographical area of jurisdiction. Earlier the frontier headquarters were reporting directly to force headquarters in Delhi. the new commands are meant to streamline the command and control mechanism of the force.The 90,000 strong ITBP, with 56 service battalions and several other technical and specialized units, is responsible for the peacetime management of the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, with some of its posts being located at heights of 20,000 feet. During the ongoing stand-off with China, the forces bolstered its presence along the LAC and its personnel were also in direct confrontation with enemy forces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-head-of-new-eastern-command-among-two-top-appointments-in-itbp-159081
21-10-2020||Rajkummar Rao and Kriti Sanon will next be seen in Dinesh Vijan’s untitled film. The movie is now all set to go on the floors on October 30 with the key cast in Chandigarh. Along with Rajkummar and Kriti||Raj Kummar and Kriti head to Chandigarh||A source says, “We are all extremely excited about the upcoming project. The crew will leave on October 23 and we will begin with the shoot on October 30 in Chandigarh”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/raj-kummar-and-kriti-head-to-chandigarh-158942
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chinks in Chandigarh BJP come to the fore||Barring one, all BJP councillors gave the MC House meeting a miss today, compelling Mayor Raj Bala Malik to adjourn it as the quorum could not be completed.The internal rift among BJP councillors and their displeasure at the Mayor’s reluctance to hold a physical meeting is said to be the main cause of the flop show today. More surprising was the absence of nine nominated councillors from the virtual meet.9 members needed for quorumNine members are required to complete the quorum in the 27-member House, but only seven members logged in to mark their presence for the House meeting. The Mayor chaired the House meeting while Additional Commissioner Anil Garg was appointed the secretary. The Mayor can call the meeting anytime this month or hold this meeting next month.‘Mayor was apprised of decision’On August 13, city BJP president Arun Sood had sent Davesh Moudgil, Rajesh Kalia, Asha Jaswal, Ravi Kant Sharma and Jagtar Singh to meet the Mayor and apprise her of councillors’ wish to hold a physical House meeting. On October 18, a meeting was called again in which Sood and others decided that the October 20 meeting be cancelled. The Mayor was apprised of the decision. - Ramveer Bhatti, State BJP General Secy‘A BJP conspiracy’It was a BJP conspiracy to adjourn the meeting. Why were the nominated councillors not present. Had they been present, the quorum would have been completed and the meeting could have been held. - Devinder Singh Babla, Congress CouncillorFor the past two months, both BJP and Congress councillors had been urging the Mayor to hold a physical meeting. While BJP councillors have been ruing the “stalling of developmental projects” in their wards, Congress councillors have alleged that the Mayor is shirking away from facing tough questions regarding the functioning of the civic body.BJP councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu was the only one to mark his presence for the online meeting. The Mayor had to adjourn the meeting as only seven members were present and the minimum quorum of nine members was not completed in the 27-member House.Before the start of the meeting, all five Congress councillors protested outside the Mayor’s office, demanding that a physical House meeting be held, but showed there presence at the meeting.Bansal shows upOn a day when the BJP’s “internal rift and revolt” against their own Mayor came to the fore, the local Congress unit scored a point by organising protests, both inside and outside the civic body. Former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal upped the ante by criticising the enhanced water tariff and questioning the ruling party why the Delhi Finance Commission grant-in-aid for the UT was being delayed.Inside the MC office, five Congress councillors — Devinder Singh Babla, Satish Kumar, Gurbax Rawat, Sheela Phool Singh and Rupinder Gujral — sat in protest outside the Mayor’s office, demanding that a physical House meeting be held. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chinks-in-chandigarh-bjp-come-to-the-fore-158831
21-10-2020||---||57 more test +ve in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20The city today recorded one death due to Covid and 57 fresh cases. A 70-year-old man from Mani Majra, who committed suicide on Monday, tested positive for Covid posthumously.The city has so far witnessed 13,743 cases.A total of 107 patients were cured today, taking the number of recoveries to 12,724.The city has 810 active cases. The toll stands at 209.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/57-more-test-ve-in-chandigarh-158832
21-10-2020||Panchkula||15 new cases in Panchkula||The district today recorded 15 fresh cases of Covid.While three cases surfaced in Sector 2, five were reported from Sector 7, two each from Sector 15, Kalka and Pinjore and one from Sector 4. As of now, 6,870 cases have been reported from the district and 6,466 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital. There are 297 active cases with 107 deaths in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-new-cases-in-panchkula-158833
21-10-2020||Mohali||Three more die in Mohali||Three more fatalities due to Covid-19 were reported in Mohali district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 227.Also, 27 fresh cases of infection were recorded, raising the tally to 11,801. Of the new cases, 23 were from Mohali (urban), three from Dera Bassi and one from Gharuan. Meanwhile, 105 more patients have been cured of the virus. There are 619 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-more-die-in-mohali-158834
21-10-2020||Amit Sharma||Cop in dock for keeping eyes off suspect with criminal past||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20The Sector 24 police post in-charge, Sub-Inspector Shiv Charan, is in the dock as the UT SSP today sought a report on why the police failed to keep a check on the activities of one the suspects, Vijay Kumar, who allegedly shot at a man in Sector 25. Vijay has a criminal past and is facing several criminal cases.SSP seeks reportSSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said he had sought a report from SP (City) Vineet Kumar regarding the incident and the allegations levelled by the victim. “Suspect Vijay Kumar is facing around a dozen cases and it is the duty of the police to keep a check on the activities of such persons. Vijay is out on bail, so his activities should have been monitored,” the SSP said.SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said he had sought a report from SP (City) Vineet Kumar regarding the incident and the allegations levelled by the victim. “Suspect Vijay Kumar is facing around a dozen cases and it is the duty of the police to keep a check on the activities of such persons. Vijay is out on bail, so his activities should have been monitored,” the SSP said. He said he would take appropriate action as per the findings of the report.Vijay Kumar had also shot at a friend Praveen Kumar during a party at his house in 2019. In October last year, Vijay had shot at Praveen following an altercation during the party in Sector 25. A case was registered against Vijay following the incident.The police claimed that Vijay was pressuring victim Sandeep not to support Praveen in the case against him. Sandeep was sitting at his cloth shop in Sector 25 when he was shot at by two suspects, identified as Vijay and Monu. Four bullets were fired, one of which one hit the victim on the shoulder while another brushed past his head. Sandeep had alleged that the Sector 24 police post in-charge was pressuring him for entering into a compromise with Vijay, which he had refused, following which Vijay and his accomplice attacked him. The police official, however, refuted the allegations.Sandeep’s acquaintances alleged that Sandeep had provided information to the police about Vijay, who was out on bail, stating that he had an illegal weapon, but the police did not act.The police said both Vijay and Monu, who are at large, had been booked in a case of attempt to murder and under the Arms Act at the Sector 11 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-in-dock-for-keeping-eyes-off-suspect-with-criminal-past-158835
21-10-2020||Zirakpur||Miscreants uproot ATM on VIP Road, one held||A medical shop owner has been arrested for trying to rob an ATM after taking it away from VIP Road here along with his three accomplices in the wee hours of Tuesday. The suspect has been identified as Anmol Arora of Jarnail Enclave, Zirakpur, who runs a medical shop in Peer Muchalla.Suspects learnt trick from YouTube, says SP“The suspects had learnt to steal the ATM from YouTube. Those on the run will be arrested soon. Bank officials claimed that there were about Rs14 lakh in the ATM,” said Ravjot Grewal, SP(Rural)The police have recovered a Bolero jeep with a fake registration number, an airgun, a lighter that looks like a pistol and other tools used to break the ATM. The broken ATM has been seized.The incident took place around 4.30 am when four persons uprooted a Kotak Mahindra Bank ATM situated on VIP Road. They dragged it to a secluded place a few metres from the Patiala road.Someone spotted them and called up Head Constable Deep Chand, who was on duty near the Patiala road. Chand, along with another cop, rode to the place from where the ATM was uprooted. They then followed a trail appeared on the road due to the dragging of the ATM. They reached the place where the four suspects were trying to break the machine.On seeing the two cops, the miscreants ran away. The head constable chased them and nabbed one of them.Addressing a press conference here, SP (Rural) Ravjot Grewal said during interrogation, the suspect revealed the name of his accomplices as Abhishek Katiyal of Dhakoli, Deepak Sharma of Dera Bassi and Gurpreet Singh of Sector 3, Panchkula. A case has been registered against the suspects at the Zirakpur police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/miscreants-uproot-atm-on-vip-road-one-held-158836
21-10-2020||Naina Mishra||Cases dip, so does demand for plasma||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20With the city witnessing a downward trend in Covid-19 cases, the requirement for plasma for treating patients has also gone down.With only 6 per cent of the Covid cases active in the city, there is a substantial decline in the number of requests for plasma by private medical institutes from the PGI bank.Doctors say plasma is not much in demand now due to less severe cases being reported. Prof Ratti Ram, Head of the Department of Transfusion Medicine, PGI, said: “We have adequate inventory of plasma for all private medical institutions of the tricity. When cases were at their peak last month, we received a number of requests for plasma from private hospitals. However, now the requests have gone down as less number of severe cases is being reported.”According to the ICMR criteria, a patient who has P/F ratio between 200 and 300, respiratory rate less than 24 per minute and oxygen saturation less than 94 per cent can be administered plasma therapy. As per the protocol, critically ill patients cannot be treated with the plasma therapy. In the second week of September, the ICMR had suggested that plasma may not help in reducing Covid mortality. However, the PGI continued to reserve plasma units for patient care as, according to PGI doctors, the therapy can still be used as supportive treatment in patients fitting the criteria.A safe betProfessor Ram said: “The therapy, however, has proven to be beneficial for patients falling in the category of protocol designed by the ICMR. Of all drugs that are promising in the early phase of patient care, plasma therapy is more reliable as it contains antibodies to fight the virus.”Dr AK Mandal, Director, Pulmonology, Sleep and Critical Care, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, said: “Of approximately 550 patients, we administered plasma to at least 25-30 patients. For effective treatment, the plasma extracted from donors should have good amount of antibodies. If we were to choose between Remdesivir and plasma, we will bank upon the latter.”Another StudyThe PGI has initiated another study in which it will see the duration for which the antibodies stay in a recovered patient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cases-dip-so-does-demand-for-plasma-158846
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||France to help check sale of Chandigarh heritage||A visiting French delegation has agreed to help the UT in checking the sale of smuggled heritage furniture in France. In a letter to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Items Protection Cell, Chandigarh, stated that he had a detailed meeting on the issue of movable heritage items such as furniture, manhole covers and light fixtures with the French delegation comprising Emmanuel Lebrun-Damiens, Director of French Institute and Counsellor for Cooperation and Cultural Affairs, and Isabelle Vierget-Rias, Cultural Attaché, French Embassy.The French delegation offered help in preserving the heritage and stopping the sale of smuggled furniture in France, he said. It was proposed to have a joint body of India and France for the purpose of preserving and saving the heritage of the city and bringing it back to Chandigarh, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/france-to-help-check-sale-of-chandigarh-heritage-158851
21-10-2020||---||Two held with illegal firearm||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20The Operation Cell of the UT police has arrested two persons for possessing a country-made weapon and a live cartridge.A team led by Inspector Ranjit Singh, in-charge, Operation Cell, arrested the suspects - Gopal (27), a resident of Sector 49, and Shivam (22), a resident of Faidan.Gopal was nabbed while possessing a country-made pistol at a naka in Sector 41 on October 19.Gopal’s interrogation revealed that he procured the pistol from Shivam.The police then arrested Shivam from near Faidan village and recovered a live cartridge and one used cartridge from him.The suspects were produced before a court, which sent to one-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-with-illegal-firearm-158855
21-10-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Little respite for PG owners||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20Caught between the Covid scare and UT’s ‘stringent’ registration guidelines, those running paying guest (PG) accommodations in the city continue to walk a tightrope. They say they have little to look forward to in Unlock 5.0.I had to shut both rental properties after the fire incident in Sector 32. I had applied for the registration in April, but haven’t been able to get it so far as there are many formalities and it wasn’t possible during Covid. We have been out of the business for more than seven months now. - Honey, owner of PG accommodations in Sector 22In February, following the fire tragedy at a PG accommodation in Sector 32, most of the unregistered accommodations had shut business. Others succumbed to the blows of the pandemic-triggered lockdown.Honey, who owns two PG accommodations in Sector 22, said he had to shut both rental properties after the fire incident. “I had applied for the registration in April, but haven’t been able to get it so far as there are many formalities and it wasn’t possible during Covid. We have been out of business for more than seven months now.”To the president of Chandigarh PG Association Major RS Gujral (retd), opening of PGs during the pandemic comes is a risky proposition. “We cannot expect children to follow all precautions against the disease. Opening the PG accommodations before they find a cure to the disease would only lead to its further spread,” he said. “Also, the Administration wants us to install a fire alarm system, which is neither practical nor viable. The new registration guidelines are a bit of problem, like yearly renewal of PG licence,” he added.Requesting anonymity, a hostel in-charge at one of the coaching centres in the city, said: “Though Unlock 5.0 announces the reopening of coaching centres, we are yet to receive SOPs and guidelines from the Education Department. Earlier, some 4,000 students at our coaching centre were staying in PGs, but I don’t think we will have that number again till they find a cure to Covid. Most parents are weary of sending their children to outstation coaching centres and preferred online classes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/little-respite-for-pg-owners-158856
21-10-2020||---||Students unhappy over BA LLB tentative merit list||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 20Panjab University’s decision to include weightage of the “legal studies” subject while allotting seats to BA LLB (Hons) five-year course at the University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS) has drawn flak from students.A tentative admission list for the course was released today, which took many students by surprise. The admission under BA LLB is underway on the basis of merit, after entrance test for the same was scarped this year. “The decision of introducing particular subject weightage was on the website on October 19, few hours before releasing the tentative merit list. The decision was reportedly taken on August 20 and was not shared on a public platform. It has deprived the meritorious candidates of right to raise objections in time,” said father of one of the applicant. He said: “Legal studies as a subject is not usually available in a majority of the schools.”“There are many loopholes in the BA LLB merit list. Also, wrong calculation of marks has been made while giving weightage under the NSS quota. A letter has been submitted to the PU VC for his intervention in fixing the anomalies,” said Dr Jagdish C Mehta, Fellow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-unhappy-over-ba-llb-tentative-merit-list-158857
21-10-2020||---||RERA asks Dist Collector to recover dues from two firms||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 20Failing to comply with the order passed by the Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) would prove costly for two real estate companies, including Omaxe Private Limited.RERA has issued a warrant to the Mohali District Collector to recover dues from movable and immovable assets of the builders.RERA has further asked the District Collector to submit a report on or before October 22.Narender Yadav, counsel for complainant Abhay Kumar Goyal, a resident of Uttarakhand, said his client had paid Rs35,79,347 for a commercial office space in India Trade Tower at Mullanpur in Mohali district, which was marketed and developed by Omaxe Private Limited and Bhanu Infra Build Private Limited.He said the builders had agreed to hand over the possession of the office space on January 6, 2013. However, it was offered to him on January 10, 2019, after a delay of six years. On December 26, 2018, his client Goyal filed a complaint with RERA for the refund of the entire amount with interest.On June 26, 2020, the authority passed an order directing the builders to refund the entire amount, along with the highest MCLR interest rate calculated at 7.55 per cent plus 2 per cent interest totalling 9.55 per cent, within 60 days from the date of passing of the order.Advocate Yadav said the authority also directed the builders to pay a compensation of Rs1.25 lakh for causing mental agony and litigation charges to the complainant. The builders failed to comply with the order within the stipulated period of two months. Feeling aggrieved, the complainant filed an execution claiming the total compensation, including interest, calculated as per the directions of RERA.RERA today passed an order directing the District Collector to recover the amount from the movable and immovable assets of the builders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rera-asks-dist-collector-to-recover-dues-from-two-firms-158858
21-10-2020||Zirakpur||False implication in ‘rape’ case: Cops probe possibility of more such instances||In the wake of a recent “rape” case in which a Mumbai native was found to be falsely implicated, the Mohali police are now probing if organised gangs are involved in falsely implicating innocent people in such rape cases in the district.The cops are also probing the involvement of policemen in the reported case. Zirakpur police station SHO Gurwant Singh was earlier sent to the Police Lines so that investigation is not hampered.Mohali (Rural) Superintendent of Police Ravjot Grewal, who is probing the matter, said: “We are probing the involvement of policemen in this case. Prima facie, lapses were found on the part of the police. But so far, no one has been indicted in this connection and the inquiry report is yet to be submitted.”Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said: “We cannot comment on the case yet as the inquiry is yet to be completed.”Yesterday, three persons were booked for allegedly blackmailing and implicating two Mumbai natives in a “rape” case. The police are probing the human trafficking angle also as money deposited in the bank account of one of the accused has changed many hands.“We are investigating if the gang is involved in any other such case. We are also probing what kind of help, if any, they received from the police officials who were involved in registering the FIR,” said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/false-implication-in-rape-case-cops-probe-possibility-of-more-such-instances-158859
21-10-2020||Patiala||Patiala schools record 30% attendance post-reopening||Around 30 per cent students from Classes IX to XII reportedly attended classes on the first two days of reopening of government schools in the district.District Education Officer (DEO) Harinder Kaur said that around 30 per cent students attended schools in the first two days. She hoped the attendance would improve in the coming days.She said: “The attendance will definitely improve in the coming days. I think a majority of the students will start coming to schools in a week. We are taking all precautions for the safety of students.”Meanwhile, schoolteachers said some students were still unaware of the consent form, which was to be signed by parents. A teacher said: “A few students were sent back home as they did not bring the consent form along.”Vikram Dev, Vice-President, Democratic Teachers’ Front (DTF), said the government should relax the condition regarding the consent form, whereby parents would be held responsible for any eventuality. “By introducing the consent form from the parents, the government is creating fear among parents and students.”The teacher organisation said they want the government to start school for remaining classes also. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-schools-record-30-attendance-post-reopening-158860
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Remove consent clause: Advocates||As the physical hearings in the District Courts are yet to start completely, lawyers have raised a demand to remove the consent clause for such hearings.Advocate NK Nanda, former president, District Bar Association (DBA), said due to the clause, not many advocates would visit the court for hearings. He said the clause would not be of much help as one party might always want to delay the hearings by withholding consent.As per the orders, the physical hearings will be allowed only in the cases wherein advocates of both parties give their consent.Advocate Vinod Verma said the consent clause could be removed in a majority of the cases. He said they would raise the issue with the authorities concerned. Verma said the work of supply of uncertified copies and inspection of judicial records had been resumed, which was helping the advocates. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remove-consent-clause-advocates-158861
21-10-2020||---||Extension of Airport road to be completed by 2021||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 20Construction of an 8.8-km eight-lane road worth Rs121 crore will be completed by 2021. This was stated by Sarvjit Singh, Principal Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Punjab, while laying the foundation stone of the project. He laid the stone on behalf of Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Housing and Urban Development Minster, as the latter could not make it to the venue due to the ongoing Assembly session.The extension of Airport road will start from the road dividing Sector 120/125 (NH-5), Sunny Enclave, and will connect the PR-4 road at New Chandigarh. The construction of the 8.8-km road stretch includes provision for a road culvert, a high-level bridge, stormwater drainage and installation of street lights.The construction of this portion of the PR-7 road will provide direct connectivity to New Chandigarh town from the Chandigarh international airport. It will ease traffic congestion in Chandigarh as travellers bound to New Chandigarh will take a direct route from the airport and need not to enter the UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/extension-of-airport-road-to-be-completed-by-2021-158862
21-10-2020||---||Bandicoot robot to clean manholes in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 20In order to improve the working of sanitation workers, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has introduced the work of cleaning manholes in the city with the help of a bandicoot robot, thus replacing the manual cleaning.The mechanism will bring a positive change in the working of sanitisation workers. It will ensure contactless removal of waste and debris from manholes.Sarvjit Singh, Principal Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Punjab, inaugurated the mechanism at PUDA Bhawan Sector 62 here today.Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, Chief Administrator, GMADA, and Devinder Singh, Chief Engineer, GMADA, were among those present on the occasion.Sarvjit said the bandicoot robot could do every work that a sanitation worker performs inside the manhole. It is the world’s first manhole-cleaning robot developed under the “Make in India” and ‘Swachh Bharat’ initiative by a start-up Indian company, Genrobotics. The robot could clean manholes more efficiently and effectively than manual cleaning.The bandicoot robot can enter into the unseen depths of manholes and pull out solid waste material with its specially designed human comparable robotic arm and unclog the sewer system.The robot would be a big relief for sanitation workers in the Covid times as it ensures zero physical contact with the sewage and helps workers stay away from the virus.Pradeep Kumar Agrawal, Chief Administrator, GMADA, said during Covid-19, waste deposition had increased by around 70 per cent with plastic, masks, gloves, medicine bottles and injection syringes used during quarantine being disposed of in sewage manholes. He said blockages and other sewage-related works had increased. So, GMADA had decided to use bandicoot robot to clean manholes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bandicoot-robot-to-clean-manholes-in-mohali-158863
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||AAP condemns attack on leader||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-condemns-attack-on-leader-158864
21-10-2020||Chandigarh||Woman dies in mishap||Zero FIR in rape case registeredChandigarh: The UT police have registered a zero FIR on the complaint of a woman who alleged that her boyfriend, with whom she was living in a live-in relationship, raped her on the pretext of marriage. Sources said the victim and the suspect worked at a gym in Chandigarh. They were staying together in Nayagaon. The victim, in her complaint to the police, alleged that the suspect promised to marry her, but later backtracked. The police registered a zero FIR at the Sector 17 police station and transferred the case to the Nayagaon police station.TNSShopping festat Elante MallChandigarh: As the festivities ring in after months of lockdown, Elante Mall has announced Navratra special “Nau Din, Shop and Win” until October 25 where over 150 top brands have rolled out special offers for customers. There are special offers across electronics, fashion, jewellery and food at Elante Mall. Anil Malhotra, Executive Director- Corporate Affairs, Nexus Malls, said: “We have our campaign for the Navratras, where customers who shop above a certain amount will win assured and instant gratification from Elante.” TNS2-month-old baby stolenZirakpur: A two-month-old baby was stolen from a jhuggi in the Peer Muchalla area here. The incident took place on Sunday night. However, the child’s mother came to know about it in the morning when she woke up. The family searched for the child in the neighbourhood, but to no avail. The family informed the police about the incident. A case has been registered against an unknown person. TNSWorkshop held at Sec 10 collegeChandigarh: A workshop on resume writing was conducted by the Department of Management, DAV College, Sector 10. Training expert Tamosi M. Sarkar guided the students about the essentials of an impressive resume. She also highlighted the steps in writing a resume. Dos and don’ts of resume writing were also discussed. TNSRegistration dates extendedChandigarh: Panjab University has extended the last date of registration for postgraduate classes up to October 21. TNSPU results announcedChandigarh: The PU announced the results of BCom (Hons) semester VI, BALLB (Hons) semester X, BComLLB (Hons) semester X, BABEd semester VIII, BSc-BEd, MSc (HS) (Microbilogy) semester IV, Bachelor of Fine Arts semester IV and Bachelor of Agriculture semester VIII. TNSvarsity Fellows meet UT AdviserChandigarh: After falling to get a response from the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor, a delegation of Fellows met UT Adviser Manoj Parida and submitted a memorandum for allowing the PU to conduct Senate elections. The Fellows said Parida assured them of taking up issue with the UT Administrator. TNSPatiala to have cycling pointsPatiala: The Municipal Corporation on Tuesday said it had decided to establish cycling points for residents. Residents will be able to rent cycles after paying pre-decided charges. The MC will spend Rs44.28 lakh on the redevelopment of the Rose Garden on the Rajpura road as well. Officials said the MC would buy 40 cycles as part of the initiative. They also announced shifting of 120 dairies to the new site in Ablowal village. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-dies-in-mishap-158865
