21-12-2020||---||3 more succumb in Mohali||Mohali, December 20Three persons died of Covid-19 while 35 more tested positive in the district today. As many as 157 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours.Among the new cases, 29 were from Mohali (urban), four from Dhakoli and one each from Banur and Dera Bassi. The district Covid tally stands at 17,498 while 15,367 patients have been cured. The total active cases in the district are 1,803. The three deaths fresh fatalities today raised the toll to 328.Deputy Commissioner tests postiveMohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan tested positive for Covid on Sunday. Dayalan tweeted, “Tested positive for Covid-19 today. I request anyone who has come in contact with me over the last 3-4 days to isolate self, monitor health and get tested after 4-5 days.”37 contract virus in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Sunday reported 37 new cases of Covid, raising the tally to 9,714. With no new death, the toll remained 138. While 9,288 patients have defeated the virus so far, 288 cases are active. The district recovery rate is 95.61 per cent. TNScity records 29 new cases, two fatalitiesChandigarh: The city on Sunday reported 29 fresh cases of Covid and two deaths, taking the tally to 19,073 and toll to 308. A total of 84 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. The tally of cured patients in the city is 18,328. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-succumb-in-mohali-187239
21-12-2020||---||Three city golfers in top 15 of  Tata Steel Championship||Chandigarh, December 20Gaganjeet Bhullar, with a hard-fought 4-under-68, won the Tata Steel Tour Championship in Jamshedpur today. Bhullar, who totalled an outstanding 24-under-264 for the week, collected his 10th trophy on the PGTI and first in nine years on the tour.The final round of the Rs 1.5-crore event witnessed an absorbing contest as Kapurthala’s Bhullar (32), Bengaluru’s Chikkarangappa and Khalin Joshi, Kolkata’s SSP Chawrasia and Noida’s Amardeep Malik were all in the lead or joint lead at different stages.Chikkarangappa ended the week as the runner-up after his fourth round of 68 moved his total to 22-under-266. Chikka’s second place finish lifted him from 11th to second position in the PGTI Order of Merit. Joshi (69) finished third at 21-under-267, Kolkata’s Rahil Gangjee, who fired the day’s best score of 67, took tied-4th at 20-under-268 along with Chawrasia (72). Malik (73), the joint third round leader along with Bhullar and Chawrasia, closed the week in sixth place at 19-under-269.Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu claimed eighth spot, Aadil Bedi finished at 10th and Karandeep Kochhar 14th.Bhullar (69-63-64-68), a winner of 10 international titles with victories on both the European Tour and Asian Tour, brought all his experience into play by coming through despite dropping five shots (three bogeys and a double-bogey) in the final round.Bhullar was two behind Chikka and Joshi after 15 holes but the match turned on its head when he chipped-in for eagle on the 16th and sank a 20-footer for birdie on the 17th. As Chikka and Joshi stumbled on the 18th with a bogey and double-bogey respectively, Bhullar went on to seal the title with a two-shot margin after a par on the final hole.Gaganjeet took home the winning cheque worth Rs. 24,24,750 and is now likely to make major gains in the world ranking from his current 807th position having earned five Official World Golf Ranking (OWGR) points for his win on Sunday. Chandigarh’s Sandhu (69) claimed eighth spot, Bedi with a score of 15 under finished 10th and Kochhar (72), who continues to lead the PGTI Order of Merit, finished 14th at 12-under-276.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-city-golfers-in-top-15-of-tata-steel-championship-187240
21-12-2020||---||Club manager, owner booked for serving hookah||Chandigarh, December 20 In yet another case, the owner and the manager of a club in Sector 26 here were booked by the police for serving hookah to customers.   According to the police, a police party, led by ASI Karan Singh, inspected the club, The Burning Tables, on Saturday night and found that a hookah was being served to customers there.  The police said a case against the owner, Harish Arora, and the manager, Pankaj Kumar, was registered under Section 188 and 34 of the IPC at the Sector 26 police station.   Pankaj was arrested and later released on bail.   This is the third case registered against clubs for serving hookah in the past four days. On Saturday, a case was registered against Reef Club in Sector 7 for the same offence. On December 17, the owner and six staff members of Terminal 7 in Sector 7 were also booked. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/club-manager-owner-booked-for-serving-hookah-187241
21-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||Scratched Sec 33 road gives commuters jitters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 20Commuters have been at the receiving end of the Municipal Corporation’s apathy which has stopped recarpeting work on the scratched roads midway.While residents continue to suffer a bumpy ride on these slippery and dusty roads, the MC has stopped this season’s recarpeting work.During a random check, it was witnessed that the road stretch from the Sector 32-33 rotary to the Sector 33-34 intersection, which was scratched by an MC contractor about a month ago, has not been recarpeted yet.Another stretch in Sector 9, too, has been lying scratched for the past several days. While the MC officials have shut their eyes to inconvenience caused to commuters, these scratched roads continue to damage residents’ vehicles.‘We are tired of MC’s excuses’Several road accidents have taken place on this slippery road. They cite the shortage of manpower and non-conducive weather as reasons for stopping repairs. We are tired of hearing these excuses. —Jagdish Sarpal, sec 33 RWA ChiefWhat Chief Engineer saysThough the work has been stopped, we will recarpet the scratched roads as the weather is sunny these days. — Shailender Singh, MC Chief EngineerJagdish Sarpal, president of the Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 33, said: “About a month ago, the road in our sector was scratched. But despite residents’ pleas, it has not been repaired yet. Several road accidents have taken place on this slippery road, but the MC is least bothered. They cite the shortage of manpower, lack of funds and non-conducive weather as reasons for stopping repairs, but we are tired of hearing these excuses.”“Besides, they have dumped all debris of this road stretch in the Sector 33-D market. It has been lying there for over a month. It looks very dirty in a city which is already faring bad in the Swachhata rankings,” he added.The civic body stopped the recarpeting work in the mid of December owing to non-conducive weather. The work is now expected to restart in the mid of February.Road work is looked after by the MC building and road wing which has been facing a flak for works carried out in the past few years.Meanwhile, MC Chief Engineer Shailender Singh said: “Though the work has been stopped, we will recarpet the scratched roads as the weather is sunny these days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scratched-sec-33-road-gives-commuters-jitters-187242
21-12-2020||---||Tragedy befalls family of bride-to-be on wedding eve||Chandigarh, December 20A tragedy struck the family of 26-year-old Roopa who was to marry tomorrow. On the day of her mehndi ceremony, her jhuggi in Colony No. 4 was completely destroyed in a fire.All cash and ornaments meant for the marriage got burnt. The depressed girl had to be shifted to the GMCH-32. Eight other jhuggis were also gutted in the fire that broke out in the afternoon. “She is very stressed, but now doctors have advised her to return home. The girl and her mother are in a deep shock. They are yet to come to terms with their loss,” Rahul, the girl’s brother-in-law, told Chandigarh Tribune.on Sunday.“It was after much effort that we could find a match for her. But when it happened, the tragedy struck us a day before she was to tie the nuptial knot. The wedding is scheduled for Monday evening at the Community Centre, Sector 29. We will all sit tonight to decide what is to be done next,” he added.Anxious moments for kinIt was after much effort that we could find a match for her. But when it happened, the tragedy struck us a day before she was to tie the nuptial knot. The wedding is scheduled for Monday evening at the Community Centre, Sector 29. We will all sit tonight to decide what is to be done next. — Rahul, The girl’s brother-in-lawHe said the fire broke out in an adjacent shop where cotton was stocked. Soon, it engulfed all jhuggis one after another. Almost all goods kept in the nine jhuggis were destroyed in the fire. However, residents managed to remove gas cylinders in time. No one was hurt in the incident.Fire officials said they got information about the blaze at 3.30 pm following which four fire engines were rushed to the spot. The firefighters were able to control the blaze in 20 minutes. However, the whole rescue operation took an hour. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained.Fire broke out in afternoonAccording to fire officials, they got information about the blaze at 3:30 pm following which four fire engines were rushed to the spot. The firefighters were able to control the blaze in 20 minutes. However, the whole rescue operation took an hour||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tragedy-befalls-family-of-bride-to-be-on-wedding-eve-187243
21-12-2020||---||Stray canine count up at Sukhna Lake||Chandigarh, December 20An increasing number of stray dogs at Sukhna Lake has put a question mark over the sterilisation campaign of the local Municipal Corporation.Morning and evening walkers at the lake spot packs of dogs roaming around. “I am a regular morning walker at the lake and have noticed that the number of dogs continues to increase. Though they do not trouble us, I wonder if sterilisation of dogs is being done at the lake,” said Narender Singh, a resident of Sector 7.“If sterilisation is being done regularly, then how come the number of dogs is increasing? There must be a regular campaign for sterilisation, especially at the most-frequented public places,” added Raman, a city resident.Col Kulwinder Singh (retd), president, Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 10, said, “The MC is doing nothing about the stray dog menace in the city. Their number is increasing.”12-15 dogs operated in city every day, says MC officialTwelve to 15 dogs are operated every day. As per the law, we have to leave the neutered dogs at the same place from where they were picked for the operation. — Dr Amrit Warring, MOH, MCThen why their number is on the rise, asks ResidentIf sterilisation is being done regularly, then how come the number of dogs is increasing? There must be a regular campaign, especially at the most frequented public places. — Raman, A city residentArea councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said, “It is indeed a huge menace at the lake area, but the MC is constrained by law in relocating stray dogs. I request people to adopt stray dogs and keep them at home, and not feed strays in public places.”MC Medical Officer of Health Dr Amrit Warring said, “We are conducting regular sterilisation of dogs across the city. Twelve to 15 dogs are operated every day. As per the law, we have to leave the neutered dogs at the same place from where they were picked for the operation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stray-canine-count-up-at-sukhna-lake-187244
21-12-2020||
||Mohali academy girl becomes Flying Officer||Mohali, December 20  A 21-year-old girl from Punjab passed out as a Flying Officer from the Indian Air Force Academy, Hyderabad. Tabassum Khan, a resident of Bathinda, also topped the transport flying branch (men and women) at the academy in the order of merit. Educated from Mai Bhago Armed Forces Preparatory Institute in Sector 66, Mohali, Tabassum today visited her institute directly after arriving at the international airport here. Her parents, Abub Shah and Shamshad, reached the airport from Bathinda to receive their daughter.  Major General IP Singh (retd), the director of the institute, along with other staff members, welcomed Tabassum and her parents and celebrated her achievement by cutting a cake. Tabassum later met hostel students and shared her happiness with them. Talking to The Tribune, Tabassum said after completing her three-year course from Mohali, she was selected in the Hyderabad academy in 2019 as Lady Cadet. After completing her training of 18 months there, she became a Flying Officer.  “I am all set to serve the nation and look forward to my upcoming training sessions and opportunities,” said Tabassum.  Tabassum’s father, Abub Shah, said: “This is a proud moment for our family. Girls in our country are hardworking than boys.”  Major General IP Singh (retd) said: “We are proud of Tabassum. She is an inspiration for other lady cadets. I am sure we will have many more similar results. I wish Tabassum many more successes in her flying career as an officer of the Indian Air Force.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-academy-girl-becomes-flying-officer-187247
21-12-2020||---||Overflowing sewer troubles traders||Panchkula, December 20Parties have no right to seek votes from us, say traders in the Industrial Area.“The sewerage system in the Industrial Area, Phase 2, is in a dreadful condition. A particular stretch of road has literally turned into a pool of dirty water due to the overflowing sewage water. Can’t we even expect civic amenities after paying taxes? If this is the condition right before the Municipal Corporation elections, when parties just want to woo voters, imagine the plight otherwise,” said Sandeep Dewan, owner of Caretaker Maruti Service Zonein the Industrial Area Phase 2. The problem is grave in Harmilap Nagar.Another dealer Rohit said they had occupied a showroom a month ago but the problem of drainage was giving them a tough time already. “The stink emanating from the overflowing sewage water trouble not only traders but passers-by too.” he said.MC Commissioner RK Singh couldn’t be contacted for comments. Independent candidate addresses gatheringPanchkula: Benu Rao, an Independent candidate from Ward No. 3, addressed a gathering in Sector 7 here on Sunday as part of her election campaign for the Panchkula MC elections. Benu Rao began her address by showing her election symbol, ‘Shankh’, and a raising a slogan, “hamara ek hi nara hai, vikas ka shankh bajana hai”. In her address, she stressed upon the need for addressing the issues that have befallen Ward No. 3 and Sector 7 in particular. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/overflowing-sewer-troubles-traders-187248
21-12-2020||---||Prime suspect lands in Mohali police net||Mohali, December 20The police have arrested the prime suspect in the murder case of a 35-year-old man. The victim was stabbed to death following a scuffle at the Phase 6 market here on November 29. The suspect has been identified as Sumit Kumar (23), alias Noni, a resident of Behlolpur village.Shivdeep Singh Brar, Station House Officer of the Phase 1 police station, said: “This is the second arrest in the case. The police had earlier arrested Devkaran, who was present with Noni at the time of the incident. Noni will be produced before a court on Monday.”According to the police, the victim, Kuljinder Singh Dhillon, a resident of Balongi, was into the liquor business in Sector 56, Chandigarh. The suspects came on three bikes with the intention of looting the victim. One of them stabbed the victim with a knife in his stomach during the scuffle. The suspects used to purchase liquor from the victim, said the police.The victim was shifted to the Civil Hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. On the statement of the victim’s wife, Nisha, a case of murder was registered at the Phase 1 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prime-suspect-lands-in-mohali-police-net-187249
21-12-2020||Panchkula||Will make Panchkula a model city: Ahluwalia||“Your vote and my experience, let us do this together to make Panchkula a model city,” said Congress mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia while addressing public meetings here today for the forthcoming Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections. “Past few months were difficult for all of us due to the pandemic. Now, we need to stand united for our city’s development by supporting Congress candidates in the MC poll,” she said. She said her primary agenda for Panchkula was to raise livability of both urban and rural areas under the new corporation. Ahluwalia held public meetings at Sector 9, Madrasi Colony near Kundi village, Sector 21, Sector 20, Sector 10 park, Sector 12-A market, Railly village, Balmiki Dharamshala (Rajiv Colony), Sector 25 and Ashiana, Abheypur. Former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan, who accompanied Upinder during the public meetings, said while going to vote, keep in mind that thousands of farmers were on road for almost a month now. “The government pays no attention to basic problems of the common man. It’s high time that you send a strong signal to the government by electing Congress candidates in the Panchkula MC and a leader like Upinder as the Mayor,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-make-panchkula-a-model-city-ahluwalia-187250
21-12-2020||
||Party committed to development: Goyal||Panchkula, December 20 BJP’s mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal said today that his party was committed to development and would make Panchkula a smart city if voted to power. He was addressing a gathering at a housing society in Sector 20 here. Countering Congress’ claims, Goyal said the widening of the Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway was taken up by the BJP. He then visited the Industrial Area to seek votes, where he promised industrialists to look into their matters on a priority basis. Later in the day, he welcomed the state BJP in-charge Vinod Tawde, who had come to the city to participate in a meeting regarding the elections campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/party-committed-to-development-goyal-187251
21-12-2020||Amit Bathla||Anti-BJP posters dot Saketri village||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 20The anger of farmers against the three recently-enacted farm laws may hurt the BJP’s prospects in villages, which make for a considerable share of the electorate, as is apparent from the fact that residents in Saketri village (ward number 1) have come up with anti-BJP posters.Households directly or indirectly associated with the farming sector have put ‘boycott BJP’ posters outside their houses, not allowing the BJP cadre to come inside their houses for seeking votes for the Panchkula MC elections.A poster written in ‘Gurmukhi’ says: “Asi kisaan aa, atankwadi nahi (we are farmers, not terrorists).”“We won’t allow the leaders of the BJP to enter our houses to seek votes until the Modi government repeals the farm laws. How dare they call us terrorists?” said Kulwant Singh, a resident.Isn’t the BJP ashamed of seeking votes from farmers despite harassing them? The village has its own Independent candidate in the fray. The man contesting from the village is a farmer himself. He can relate to our concerns. Hence, we will vote for him. —Harjinder Singh, A villagerVillager Harjinder Singh, who shares similar views, said: “Isn’t the BJP ashamed of seeking votes from farmers despite harassing them?” He said the village had own Independent candidate in the fray. “The man contesting from the village is a farmer himself. He can relate to our concerns. Hence, we will vote for him,” Singh said.At least 4 candidates — Kuljit Kaur (Congress), Narinder Pal Singh Lubana (BJP), Anil Kumar (Independent), Sukhdev Singh (Independent) and Sukhvinder Kaur (Independent) — are in the fray from ward number 1. 4 candidates in fray from Ward Number 1Four candidates — Kuljit Kaur (Cong), Narinder Pal Singh Lubana (BJP), Anil Kumar (Independent), Sukhdev Singh (Independent) and Sukhvinder Kaur (Independent) — are in fray from Ward No. 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anti-bjp-posters-dot-saketri-village-187252
21-12-2020||---||Radhakanta, Nikhil shine in Minerva Academy win||Mohali, December 20Radhakanta Singh and Nikhil Mali scored three goals each to help Minerva Academy FC defeat East Punjab FC 9-0 in the Punjab Super League Qualifiers at their home ground in Mohali. Radhakanta (44th, 78th, 89th) and Mali (77th, 83rd, 86th) confirmed an easy win for the side.The host side netted the first goal just before the lemon break when Radhakanta posted the ball over goal line. Thereafter, skipper Anwar Ali scored the second by converting a spot kick in the 69th minute. The lead was extended to 3-0 by Lalrinchhana in the 75th minute, while Mali came to the goal scorer’s list in the 77th minute. In the very minute, Radhakanta scored his second goal to make it 5-0. Mali then scored two back-to-back goals - 83rd minute and 86th minute - to make it a convenient 7-0. Towards the end of the match, Radhakanta scored another goal in the 89th minute, while Ali posted his second in the extra time to seal an easy 9-0 win.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/radhakanta-nikhil-shine-in-minerva-academy-win-187253
21-12-2020||Chandigarh||Vistadome train picks up pace||Though the vistadome train chugged off with only 10 passengers on the first day of its revival on the Kalka-Shimla railway track, the number has now picked up.Earlier, it was called Himdarshan Express. The service, which was discontinued in March this year due to the Covid-induced lockdown, resumed this Wednesday.On Saturday, a total of 48 passengers occupied the train that offers first-class AC vistadome coaches with glass rooftop to have a panoramic view of the hilly region with seating accommodation of 97 seats.With a view to promoting tourism and providing a peep into the picturesque journey along the rail route of world heritage Kalka-Shimla section, the Ambala division of the Northern Railway runs the special train 04517 (Kalka-Shimla) and 04518 (Shimla-Kalka) on Wednesday.The train runs on a regular basis on the concept of individual seat charter services through passenger reservation system and other online modes.Hari Mohan, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Ambala division, said: “Bookings are increasing day by day. The number will increase in view of the peak tourist season and New Year being round the corner”. While 24 passengers boarded the heritage train to Shimla from Kalka on Thursday, the number of passengers increased to 29 on Friday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vistadome-train-picks-up-pace-187254
21-12-2020||OPEN HOUSE||Step up vigil, patrolling & strengthen beat system||Socio-economic issue created by lockdownRobbing traders in broad daylight at their workplaces is a socio-economic problem created due to lockdown, which has rendered thousands jobless. Such people have no money to make their both ends meet. Now, penniless hungry persons are taking to robbery. The police must step up vigil in the city to prevent such robberies in future.Capt Amar Jeet Kumar (retd), MohaliCops should be more watchfulThe deteriorating law and order situation in City Beautiful has brought to the fore negligence of the police authorities. To ensure safety of traders, the police must be more watchful. Robbers must be given exemplary punishment to curb the crime in the city. Also, awareness must be spread about how to prevent such incidents. Prompt action of the authorities concerned to nab criminals can prove beneficial.Shobhna Kalra, PanchkulaConnect CCTVs with police stationsThe Chandigarh Police is not much active like before. The police must provide security at jewellery markets and areas prone to crime in the city. Patrolling must be increased in the city. CCTVs in market places must be connected with nearest police chowki or police station. This can help cops take immediate action if any crime/robbery is reported from markets in the UT.Vijay Malia, Chandigarhdisturbing trendBroad daylight robberies at shops in the city are indeed disturbing trend. It is unfortunate that the police have not been able to solve such cases. But the statement of the DSP (East) that the footage from CCTV cameras has helped them identify culprits in Sector 27 case and they will be apprehended soon should be given due weightage before blaming cops for the delay in solving case.SC Luthra, ChandigarhDeploy armed guards at shopsArmed guard should be deployed at every shop in city markets. As shops are in the close vicinity, guards can back each other and foil any robbery attempt. Also, guards can be taught self-defense tactics to deal with criminals. This would provide employment and ensure safety of businessmen in the city.Mehar Khaneja, ChandigarhCriminals have no fear of lawWith the recent spurt in crime incidents in the tricity it appears that criminals have no fear of law or cops. They execute their plans as per will and flee from the crime spot without any resistance from the police. Efficient patrolling by the police along with frequent checking of vehicles particularly during late night hours can prevent crime incidents in the tricity. Police needs to take inputs from its intelligence wing to nab culprits.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliLawbreakers don’t fear cops anymoreThe robbery attempt in Sector 23, in which a trader was shot at, shows that criminals have no fear of the police. They are able to commit crime even during broad daylight. Even minor robberies should not be taken lightly and accused should be punished. The police should do their duty honesty.Harleen Batth, Chandigarhimprove police investigationThieves do not fear existing laws. Slow investigation and inadequate punishment by courts has emboldened criminals. There is a dire need to improve police investigation and change work culture in courts. All cases of thefts should be decided within six months. Maximum and harsh punishment should be awarded to criminals. Outdated laws need to be amended to meet the present day requirement of society.KC Rana, ChandigarhStrict Surveillance can prevent crimeRobberies and thefts are some of the weaknesses of the democratic structure of our country. Traders can make use latest technology for their own benefit. Surveillance is the best mode to curb crime incidents in the city. Traders can install day/night CCTVs at their shops. They should be more alert and try to observe and distinguish customers from criminals.Charvi Tyagi, ChandigarhInstall more CCTVs in cityThe police can control daylight crime by installing more CCTVs and deploying more cops in ‘mufti’ (plain clothes) in the city. The targeted group especially jewellers should install double doors with two iron chains at their shops like most banks have done. The Covid-19 pandemic has rendered many jobless in the city. Labourers, mechanics, domestic servants, painters, masons and others have no work. This has spiked crime rate in the UT. Traders can be advised to keep their own guards. The police should also beef up its intelligence wing.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhCreate fear psychosis among criminalsThe crime graph in the UT is going north. Policemen need professional training to handle law and order situation. They need to be equipped with modern and user-friendly equipment. The Police Department has to create a fear psychosis among criminals. Less cops should be deployed with VIPs. They should be assigned duties in police stations. The beat system has to strengthened in the UT. A proper mechanism of the police and civic agencies should be in place to curb crime in the city.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurAll should remain vigilantIt is shocking to learn that criminals have no fear of law and order in Chandigarh as they are robbing traders in the broad daylight. The police need to be vigilant as well as strict in taking action against such elements so as to make residents feel safe in Chandigarh. Patrolling should be increased in all areas. CCTVs should be monitored minutely to ensure quick and stern action against criminals. Traders can have their own private security as practically it is not possible for policemen to be present at each and every spot. All should remain vigilant against notorious elements and report them to the nearest police station well in time.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhFast-track crime investigationsDuring Covid-19 pandemic mask is compulsory for everyone, but robbers use it to hide their identity. Repeated incidents of traders being targeted by criminals in the City Beautiful is upsetting. CCTV cameras can help police identify robbers. The police should fast-track investigations to nab criminals. Patrolling has to be increased in the UT. Private security guards can also be deployed at vulnerable spots to thwart robberies in the UT.Adish Sood, ChandigarhRound-the-clock patrolling can helpTo provide safe environment for business activity members of market associations must voluntarily construct police booths, install CCTV cameras at vulnerable points, engage private security guards, put up barricades and light up dark stretches. The police must increase vigil around markets in the UT. PCR vehicles must patrol vulnerable spots round- the-clock in the UT. Cops should hold regular meetings with traders to sort out security issues.Anita Tandon, KhararReward bravehearts for nabbing criminalsJohn Galsworthy termed fear as the black godmother of most evils, but ‘primus in orbe deos fecit timor’ (it was fear that first made gods in the world). The police cannot be everywhere 24x7. Law should rule civil society. Erosion in fear of law and uncertainty of fast conviction, besides compromising enforcement machinery is responsible for the daring crime in broad daylight. Carrying firearms in public places should be checked more rigorously. Morale of criminals gets a boost when they escape without resistance. Jewellers and other traders especially those dealing in scrap and second-hand items should be warned against connivance with criminals in sharing booty. Traders should stay alert for their own safety. The Administration must reward bravehearts, who nab fleeing criminals.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaCops, security guards must collaborateIncreasing incidents of robberies in Chandigarh is a matter of grave concern. The UT police should enhance patrolling in market places. Suspicious people roaming in and around markets should be checked. At the same time, trader associations must employ security guards to keep a watch in market places. Cops and private security personnel can collaborate to maintain vigilance in the UT. Criminals will fear double checking by the police and security guards.MR Bhateja, NayagaonBeef up security in marketsBroad daylight robberies have to be curbed in the tricity. The Administration should install CCTVs and beef up security in markets to prevent such incidents. Shopkeepers should be provided licence to keep arms and ammunition for their safety. An automatic door lock system with access to open from inside only should be installed in shops. Every trader must have CCTVs installed to keep a vigil on unusual activities in and around his/her shop.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliMake sure CCTVs are in working conditionCCTV cameras should be installed at every nook and corner of the city. The Administration should ensure that CCTVs are in working condition. Large screens displaying view of markets should be installed at all public places in the city. Let the public monitor places themselves. The police should be deputed at crowded markets to make sure that nothing goes wrong.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhCorruption is the root causeCrime has been increasing in the UT due to negligence of the Police Department. Corruption is the root cause behind increasing crime in the city. Cops do not perform their duties honestly. They should not play a game hide and seek game behind trees just like traffic cops do. Vehicles must be checked thoroughly at entry points of the city. Politicians should not support criminals.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliInstall theft alarms at shopsTo ensure safety of traders, the police needs to install beat boxes and CCTV cameras and keep round-the-clock surveillance by patrolling the market areas. Arms licences should be issued only after stringent verification. Persons carrying unlicensed arms must be dealt with strictly. The police should sensitise traders to hire staff only after proper verification. Traders must install burglar alarms that can be sounded by pressing with foot and can send signal for help to the nearest police beat box during robbery. Traders and residents should remain alert and help the police by reporting any suspicious activity in their notice.Simran Sidhu, ChandigarhIllegal weapons are easily availableA daylight gun point robbery attempt in Sector 23 is an eye opener for the police as well residents. It shows failure of the police. It seems all is not well with the law enforcing agencies. Easy availability of illegal weapons is another reason behind rise in crime in the UT. Criminals do not fear law. They know that if caught they will not be convicted due to poor police investigation. Chandigarh being a capital of Punjab and Haryana calls for more coordination between cops of the two states and the UT and joint action to nab criminals. The police should seek feedback from RWAs and NGOs regarding law and order situation in their respective areas and help when needed. Beat patrolling system should be strengthened. Residents should cooperate with the police.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaHold meetings of traders, copsDaylight robbery is a challenge to the law and order enforcement agencies in the city. The UT Administration and the police should install burglar alarms and CCTVs in all shops. Traders can hire security guards to keep a watch in markets. The police should hold meetings with markets associations at regular intervals to solve security related problems.Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhTraders should hire security guardsTargeting traders at their workplace shows that robbers are fully aware about the weak security arrangements of their targets. To ensure security traders must install CCTV cameras inside and outside of their business premises. They can also hire security guards for their work places, which will instill fear among robbers. The police should ensure regular patrolling of markets.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliInstill fear of law in culpritsTargeting traders in broad daylight in the UT is a matter of concern. The police cannot man each and every business establishment. In the present cases culprits have shown that they not care two hoots about the police and law. The police can instill fear of law in criminals by increasing patrolling in the City Beautiful. Traders should also deploy watchmen in their markets.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhAuthorities to blame for spurt in crimeThere is no denying the fact that the crime graph has gone up in Chandigarh. The recent two jaw-breaking incidents involving robbers targeting traders at their workplaces in broad daylight proves the point. Recurring incidents of crime in the UT brings the city police under scanner. There is a general feeling that laid-back attitude of the police has emboldened criminals to have their way without the scantest fear of the law. To check the growing menace of crime, the police need to intensify patrolling in the city, especially vulnerable pockets, bustling business hubs et al. NGOs, sector committees and civil society can play a pivotal role in checking crime in the city by keeping a track on the people with shady antecedents and starting a general awareness campaign among residents to follow suit.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhIncidents expose cops’ inefficiencyThe recent robbery incidents have exposed the city police and its efficacy in controlling crime in the city. Due to Covid-19 associated lockdowns many persons especially youths have been rendered jobless. They have started indulging in antisocial activities such as robberies and assaults on the trading community and others for easy money. All law enforcement agencies concerned should extend a helping hand to vulnerable targets, who are contributing to nation building during these tough times. City Beautiful needs to become city cafe too.Vayu Vrishni, ChandigarhPeople should keep vigilThe Covid-19 lockdown created unemployment at an alarming proportion. The crime rate also shot up in the UT. Jobless youths found an easy way to make fast buck by indulging in robberies, chain snatching, thefts et al. There is a need to smash the police, criminal and politician nexus. Intelligence gathering about old criminals and keeping tabs on their activities and hideouts has to be increased. CCTVs must be installed at prominent places in the UT. The police should gain confidence of the people by holding meetings with RWAs and NGOs. Criminal justice delivery system needs to be spruced up. People themselves at large need to be cautious. Cops must be equipped with latest technology to nab criminals.SK Khosla, ChandigarhTricity cops must discuss law & orderRobbers are taking advantage of contiguous boundaries of the UT with Mohali and Panchkula to make a quick and safe getaway. The rise in incidence of crime can only be combated through more coordination among the police forces of the tricity. Besides higher police officials of the tricity must meet once in a month to discuss the law and order situation. WhatsApp groups can be created to share information about criminals. The police beat system in markets needs to be strengthened to curb robberies.Indu Gopal Mittal, Panchkual QUESTIONTo keep the original character of the City Beautiful designed by Le Corbusier intact and save around 700 trees from being axed, should the UT Administration explore other options instead of going for a flyover at the Tribune Chowk.Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/step-up-vigil-patrolling-strengthen-beat-system-187260
21-12-2020||---||TT meet from Dec 26||Chandigarh, December 20The Chandigarh Table Tennis Association will conduct Gurukul Global 33rd Chandigarh State Table Tennis Championship for Sardar Gurmeet Singh Grewal Memorial Trophy from December 26 to 30 at the Sector 50 Sports Complex.The championship will be conducted in U-12 (for born on or after January 1, 2009), U-15 (for born on or after January 1, 2006), U-18 (for born on or after January 1, 2003), U-21 (for born on or after January 1, 2000) and senior (men and women). Registered players of the Chandigarh Table Tennis Association can submit their entries with the organisers before December 24. As per SOPs of the TTFI/SAI, only singles events will be played.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tt-meet-from-dec-26-187263
21-12-2020|| Chandigarh||Thieves strike at Sec 3 house||Community centre inauguratedChandigarh: Mayor Raj Bala Malik inaugurated a community centre at Indra Colony in Mani Majra on Sunday. She said the ground floor of the Rs1.67-crore centre has a bridal room, office, hall, kitchen, pantry, caretaker room, men and women toilets. The first floor has a gym, library and three rooms. The Mayor also inaugurated 100-feet road in Mani Majra. She also inaugurated a road with paver blocks at Darshani Bagh, Mani Majra and a Rs30-lakh water supply pipeline.. TNSOffice-bearers electedChandigarh: Hockey Chandigarh elected new office-bearers during its annual general body meeting. The House elected Karan Gilhotra as the president, Anil Vohra as the secretary general and Satinder Kumar Sharma as the treasure unanimously. Other office-bearers are Dr Pushvinderjit Singh (senior vice-president), Rajpal Singh and SK Goswmi (vice-presidents), Rajinder Kumar Kanwar Gandhi and Simardeep Kaur (joint secretaries), and Dr Gurcharan Singh Gill, Kusum Dhillon and Paramjit Kaur Sekhon (executive members). Olympian Deepak Thakur and former international hockey player Inderjit Singh Chadha have been nominated as elite sportspersons in the executive board of Hockey Chandigarh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-strike-at-sec-3-house-187265
