22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: MC Commissioner’s personal secretary manhandled during protest by BJP leaders||High drama was witnessed at the Municipal Corporation office on Tuesday when a group of state BJP leaders and Grain Market Association office bearers clashed with the staff members of MC Commissioner’s office over a meeting with the civic body chief.One of the members of the delegation, ‘Mr (Gorav) Goyal’, allegedly manhandled and abused the Commissioner’s personal secretary Jatin Saini when he asked them to wait for some time as the Commissioner was already in a meeting.In his complaint to the Sector 17 police station, SHO, Saini has written, “I was on duty and he obstructed me in my duty as well as manhandled me and used abusive language. He also threatened me of dire consequences and to remove me from service. It is requested to take appropriate legal action against Mr Goyal.”Significantly, the complaint also mentions “other BJP members namely Rambir Bhatti (state general secretary of Chandigarh unit) and others were also present there”.Trouble erupted around 1 pm today when eight to 10 state BJP leaders and the Grain Market Association office-bearers were stopped from meeting MC Commissioner KK Yadav.Sources said Saini asked the BJP leaders to wait even as a former Congress mayor went in to meet the civic body chief. This enraged the BJP workers who had come to meet the MC Commissioner about the demands of the Grain Market Association to put the enhanced parking charges on hold.The MC Commissioner’s personal secretary told the BJP men that former mayor had a prior appointment with Yadav, hence he had gone inside to meet the civic body chief.The BJP delegation came out of the office and resorted to sloganeering and sat on a protest. State BJP president Arun Sood, Asha Jaswal and deputy mayor Jagtar Singh Dhillon intervened to disperse them.In a countermove, five-six employees and union members too gathered outside the MC office in protest against the manhandling of an employee. All this while, a heavy police presence kept an eye on the developments.However, during the melee and subsequent protests, Covid protocols were flouted at every step in the MC office, Sector 17, as well as the Grain Market Association meeting at the Satsang Bhavan in Sector 26.“Various unions have submitted a memorandum to me and called for a pen-down strike tomorrow,” said MC Commissioner KK Yadav.State BJP president Arun Sood said, “Somebody is provoking the employees to indulge in politics otherwise why would they raise slogans against the BJP and the prime minister.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-commissioners-personal-secretary-manhandled-during-protest-by-bjp-leaders-145061
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||At 383, Chandigarh sees more single-day recoveries than new COVID-19 cases||Chandigarh reported four deaths and 266 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the district death total to 127. The UT saw more recovery cases than fresh coronavirus infections. In the last 24 hours, the city recorded 383 recovery cases. The coronavirus tally stands at 10,546.   COVID-19 deaths: A 26-year-old man from Sector 35, who was suffering from metabolic encephalopathy (mental disorder), paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (a rare blood disorder) and acute kidney injury, was admitted at PGIMER. The second fatality was a 48-year-old man from Sector 52, who was suffering from pneumonitis (lung inflammation), succumbed to the deadly disease. Another 61-year-old positive COVID-19 patient from Dhanas died due to acute respiratory distress syndrome. He suffered from diabetes. The fourth fatality in the city was a 50-year-old from Sector 37. COVID-19 cases:Mani Majra has reported the maximum number of cases with 19 infections, followed by Sector 40 (15), Sector 45 (14), and Sector 19 (12).  The UT records 2,622 active cases. So far, 7,794 have recovered from the deadly disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-383-chandigarh-sees-more-single-day-recoveries-than-new-covid-19-cases-145049
22-09-2020||Panchkula||Four COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours; Panchkula reports 72 cases||Panchkula reported four deaths and 72 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, the district's death total to 71. The coronavirus tally stands at 5,182. COVID-19 deaths: A 65-year-old woman from Sector 12, an 87-year-old man from Sector 16, a 78-year-old man from Barwala and a 78-year-old man from Sector 19 succumbed to the disease.COVID-19 cases: Among the new patients, 10 were from Sector 21, six from Pinjore, five each from Raipur Rani and Sector 8, four each from Sector 19 and Sector 20, three each from Sector 11, Sector 12 and Sector 2, two each from Bir Ghaggar, the MDC, Sector 4, the MDC, Sector 5, Morni, Sector 14, Sector 15, Sector 4 and Sector 9, and one each from Barwala, Kanouli, Manaktabra, the MDC, Sector 6, Police Lines, Sector 1, Sector 10, Sector 12-A, Sector 16, Sector 18, Sector 25, Sector 26 and Sector 28.While 1,219 cases are still active, 3,892 people have been discharged or cured.So far, Panchkula has conducted 60,126 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-covid-19-deaths-in-24-hours-panchkula-reports-72-cases-145027
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali sees more single-day recoveries than new COVID cases||Mohali reports four deaths and 188 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the district's death total to 167. The number of recovered cases has crossed the number of positive cases reported in Mohali. The coronavirus tally stands at 8,701. In the last 24 hours, 267 recovered from the deadly disease. COVID-19 deaths: A 56-year-old man, who had diabetes and hypertension, from Desumajra, and a 57-year-old man, who had heart disease, from Manauli died at Sohana, and a 68-year-old man, who had diabetes and hypertension, and a 73-year-old man died at GMCH, Patiala.Divulging details, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, said, that four men died due to the coronavirus during the last 24 hours. He said, that the dead include 56-year-old male from Desumajra, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, 57-year-old male from Manauli and was suffering from a heart ailment. He said, that both of them had died in Sohana hospital. He said other two people include 73-year-old male from Mubarikpur, and a 68-year-old male of Dera Bassi, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. He said both had died in GMCH Patiala.COVID-19 cases: The city records 2,559 active cases. So far, 5,975 patients have recovered in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-more-single-day-recoveries-than-new-covid-cases-145012
22-09-2020||---||UT awards schools for environmental  activities||Chandigarh, September 21To mark International Day of Peace, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), Department of Environment, and Yuvsatta, an NGO, presented ‘Green School Awards’ to five schools of the city for making efforts to create awareness regarding nature and environment through their eco clubs.Debdendra Dalai, Director, Department of Environment, and Vice-Chairman, CPCC, presented the awards to Seema Sharma, Principal, Government Model Senior Secondary School, Dhanas; Rajbala, Principal, Government Girls Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 18-C; Pooja Prakash, Principal, KB DAV Senior Secondary School-7-B; Monica Chawla, Principal, St Joseph’s Senior Secondary, School-44-D; and Ritu Bali, Principal, AKSIPS Smart School, Sector 41-B, Chandigarh.They were given a trophy, merit certificate and cheque for Rs5,000 to further promote the eco club activities.Dalai said with lockdown opening up slowly across the country, level of air pollution was again rising. He said on an average, 12 lakh people lose their lives annually across India due to air pollution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-awards-schools-for-environmental-activities-144623
22-09-2020||---||Rescue training for ITBP women||Chandigarh, September 21 The Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force (ITBP) is conducting the first-ever medical first responder (MFR) and collapsed structure search and rescue (CSSR) course for women personnel. The programme is being conducted at the National Institute for Training in Search, Rescue and Disaster Response at Ramgarh near here. As many as 22 participants from various ITBP units are attending the four-week course. The programme will train the participants in carrying out rescue operations and evacuate people trapped in buildings or structures that collapse during natural calamities such as earthquakes or floods. They will also be prepared to render first aid and basic medicare to affected people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rescue-training-for-itbp-women-144624
22-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Those found Covid +ve will not vote: Returning officer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21The Covid-19 positive individuals would not be allowed to vote in the upcoming Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections, said the Returning Officer.As many as 627 individuals are registered to cast their votes. Of them, 22 are reported to be positive for Covid-19 so far.A majority of the cases are from the Panjab University (PU) campus.This year, the election process has been stretched to two days — September 25 and 26. Usually, the process would be completed in eight to nine hours.“There are around 22 cases till date and they will not be allowed to cast their vote through any means. In the previous years, we witnessed a turnout of nearly 90 per cent. However, it may be around 80 per cent this year. As many as 11 persons will be on duty on the day of the counting,” said Returning Officer Prof Vijay Nagpal.On the change in process, he said: “The poll has been extended to two days. Last year, it was over in a few hours. The voting will be held department wise for two days and the counting will take a next few days. No party member will be allowed to gather or celebrate after announcement of results. On the day of voting, all guidelines will be followed, including limited number of people in booth, providing sanitisers, thermal/ oximeter screening and others,” he added.A track record of individuals coming to cast their vote will be maintained by clicking pictures instead of taking their signatures on a piece of paper. “The booth in-charge will click pictures on his mobile. This will help the voters to avoid touching any sheet or pen to mark attendance and will also help us track the time of voting,” said Nagpal.After the first day of voting, the ballot boxes will be kept in a closed room which will be locked by the Retuning Officer and keys would remain with him till the next morning, said Nagpal.Of allegations and agenda The Khalid-Sidhu group, lead by Mohammed Khalid and MC Sidhu, said the rival group had announced to bring complete transparency in the system in their last two terms, but failed to deliver it. “This issue has been withdrawn from the agenda this year. They did nothing regarding the dental promotion policy, counting of past service, traffic congestion, Wi-Fi facility in residential areas, problem pertaining to the admission of PU employees’ wards in Ankur School and transparency in guest house booking during their three-year term,” said Khalid.‘Zero tolerance to misbehaviour’Meanwhile, the Mritunjay-Naura group refuted the allegations and released their agenda. “We have delivered what we promised. We have a major responsibility towards safeguarding the values of democracy and respect for the teachers on campus. There should be zero tolerance to misbehaviour. Grant of the Central university status is our ultimate goal. Full pension after completion of 25 years of regular service and leave encashment for 300 days are our focus too,” read the agenda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/those-found-covid-ve-will-not-vote-returning-officer-144626
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Interview for NHM post put off||The UT has postponed the interview for the post of Administrative Director, National Health Mission (NHM), on a contractual basis. An order issued by the Administration stated that the interview, which was to be held on September 23, would now be held on October 6 in the office of the Principal Secretary, Health, UT Secretariat. Earlier, the NHM workers had requested the UT Administrator to cancel the interview. “The UT has created a new unnecessary post of Administrative Director, NHM, at an approximate cost of Rs18 lakh per year,” union president Babita Rawat had stated, requesting the authorities to utilise the funds for NHM workers. Dr Rakesh Gupta, former Director of Health Services, Punjab, has offered to serve on an honorary basis on the post of Administrative Director, NHM.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/interview-for-nhm-post-put-off-144627
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Guards to be posted elsewhere, issue resolved||Around 200 contractual workers (Group D) of the UT Sports Department, including security guards, sanitation workers and gardeners, protested against the “high-handedness” of the authorities for discontinuing the services of two security guards posted at the cricket stadium in Sector 16.The workers raised slogans outside the office of UT Sports Director Tejdeep Singh Saini and demanded that the two guards be reinstated.Ranjit Yadav and RK Tewari, posted as security guards at the stadium, alleged that their contractor had discontinued their services under the pressure of officials after both of them filed complaints against some officials.“We objected to a few officials partying inside the premises during the lockdown and filed a complaint with the manager. Since then, these officials have been targeting us. On September 16, we were told that our services are no longer needed,” the duo said.The manager and the Sports Department officials refuted the allegations. The protesters rued that both of them have been serving for more than 10 years and are being targeted unfairly.Chandigarh Subordinate Services Federation INTUC state head Naseeb Jakhar and contractual employees’ union leader Ranjit Mishra held talks with the department officials. Later, they said the matter had been resolved.“The security guards have taken back their statement in which he had alleged that the officials were consuming liquor. The Sports Department officials have assured that the security guards will now be posted somewhere else,” read a press release issued by the employees’ body. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/guards-to-be-posted-elsewhere-issue-resolved-144628
22-09-2020||Ambala||Private teachers seek free corona test||Private school operators have criticised the state for charging fee from private schoolteachers for Covid-19 test. They demanded that the government should not charge money from teachers.Sorabh Kapoor, president, Integrated Private School Welfare Society, said: “We have been told that Covid test of schoolteachers of Classes IX to XII is to be conducted and Rs1,600 will be charged from each teacher for it, which is unacceptable. There are nearly 5,000 such teachers in Ambala. We will raise the matter with the state government.” The society has also submitted a memorandum to Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-teachers-seek-free-corona-test-144629
22-09-2020||---||Lok Adalat issues notice to civic body, GMADA||Mohali, September 21The Lok Adalat here today issued notices to the Municipal Corporation (MC) and the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) on the issue of extending water tariff parity to residents. Both government bodies have been directed to file their reply by September 30.Concerned over the higher water tariff charged by GMADA, residents of Sector 66-82 had knocked at the door of Lok Adalat for seeking parity in water tariff.Apart from pleading Lok Adalat to issue directions to GMADA for handing over water tariff to the Mohali MC, residents also sought refund from 2017 onwards for the excess water tariff paid by them to the development authority.A few months ago, the MC had attempted to take over sectors under GMADA’s jurisdiction to bring water tariff parity, but the agenda point was yet to be approved by the Local Bodies Department, Punjab.Residents of sectors under the MC pay Rs1.8 per kilolitre (kl)whereas residents of Sector 66 to 82 pay Rs5.25 per kilolitre of water charged for the first 20 kilolitres. It is 5.5 times more than the tariff paid by residents in sectors under the MC. Above 20 kilolitre, domestic users in GMADA sectors pay Rs10.25 per kilolitre.Former councillors Satvir Singh Dhanoa and Shinderpal Singh (Bobby Kamboj) said they had been struggling to get parity in water tariff from the past two years, but the MC and GMADA failed to give any relief to residents till date.The government bodies had been making excuses for which residents were suffering by paying excess water charges, they added.Residents also claimed the value of their plots had also fallen. There were no takers for plots in such sectors owing to high water charges, residents added.Darshan Singh, a resident of Sector 81, said, “Residents in sectors under GMADA, who are totally dependent on rental income, are suffering. People are not showing any interest in taking houses on rent due to the high water tariff.”Disparity in chargesResidents of sectors under the Municipal Corporation pay Rs1.8 per kilolitre whereas those residing in Sector 66 to 82 pay Rs5.25 per kilolitre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lok-adalat-issues-notice-to-civic-body-gmada-144630
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||High Court notice on plea challenging appointment of PCA chairperson||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has put the State of Punjab on notice on a petition filed by a Mohali resident challenging the criterion adopted for appointing chairperson of the State Police Complaints Authority.The notice by the Division Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash came on a petition by Nikhil Saraf against the State of Punjab and other respondents. Appearing before the Bench in person, Saraf challenged the vires of Clause (i) of sub section 2 of Section 54 of the Punjab Police Act, 2007. Referring to the provision, Saraf contended that a retired civil services officer had been made eligible to be appointed as chairperson of the State Police Complaints Authority. This, he contended, was in total violation of the directions passed by the Supreme Court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-notice-on-plea-challenging-appointment-of-pca-chairperson-144631
22-09-2020||---||MACT awards Rs 18-lakh compensation to accident victim’s family||Chandigarh, September 21 The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh, has directed regional manager of National Insurance Company Limited, Chandigarh, to pay Rs 18 lakh compensation to a widow, her five minor children and parents of a person, who died in a road accident in 2019. The award was announced after a compromise between deceased Rameshwar Sah’s wife Rambha Devi (42) and the insurance company. She had filed the claim petition under Sections 166 and 140, Motor Vehicle Act, 1988, seeking compensation from the driver and owner of the vehicle involved in the accident and an insurance company. Rameshwar Sah, a resident of Bihar, died after he was hit by a truck on December 26, 2019. The claimants’ counsel and insurance company’s counsel had moved a joint application for disposal of claim petition on the basis of their amicable settlement. The MACT court order stated, “As they reached a compromised, by the virtue of which the insurance company has agreed to pay Rs 18 lakh compensation to the claimants. The offer so made is acceptable to the claimants.” “In view of this sum of Rs 18 lakh that has been awarded as compensation in favour of the claimants, which shall be paid by the company within 30 days failing which the compensation amount shall carry interest @ 9 per cent per annum from the date of filing of petition till actual payment,” the MACT order further stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mact-awards-rs-18-lakh-compensation-to-accident-victims-family-144632
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||City MC helpline number launched||The Municipal Commissioner-cum-CEO-Chandigarh Smart City Ltd, KK Yadav, today inaugurated an integrated call centre for all municipal services and launched new complaint number 0172-278720. “This call centre will cater to services like grievance management, online building permissions and others,” said Yadav. “The request to the call centre will be allocated to field officer in real time and the complainant will receive an SMS on his/her registered mobile number with unique ID of the complaint. The ID can be further be used for tracking complaint,” Yadav added. “Residents can also reopen their complaints in case service given to them is not complete. Also, in case complaint is not attended by field officers, it will be automatically go to higher officials,” said Yadav.  All previous complaint numbers, including 155304, have been closed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-mc-helpline-number-launched-144633
22-09-2020||---||Cong  workers seek withdrawal of  farm Bills||Panchkula, September 21Congress workers led by former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan today submitted a memorandum to the President of Indian through the Panchkula Deputy Commissioner against passing of the Agriculture Bills by the Central Government.In the memorandum protesters demanded that the President should not give his approval to Bills as these would be black laws for farmers.Addressing workers Chander Mohan said the Bills would end the existence of farmers and turn them into farm labourers of multinational companies and capitalists.Mohan further demanded that the government procurement should guarantee minimum support price for crops produced by farmers. “Farmers and farm labourers are the backbone of the country as they feed countrymen by working in fields,” said Mohan.The Kalka MLA, Pradeep Chaudhar, All-India Women Congress organiser Ranjeeta Mehta and other senior leaders also addressed workers before submitting memorandum to Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-workers-seek-withdrawal-of-farm-bills-144634
22-09-2020||---||25 livestock farmers get Pashu Kisan Credit Card||Chandigarh, September 21 The Department of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, UT, today introduced ‘Pashu Kisan Credit Card’ (PKCC) for livestock farmers to increase their animal husbandry business. While launching the scheme, Sanjay Kumar Jha, Secretary, Department of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, said, “So far, the department has identified 527 livestock farmers for issuance of the Pashu Kisan Credit Cards.” The PKCC can be used for availing a loan of Rs44,018 for a cow and Rs61,467 for a buffalo. The loan will be given to livestock owner in six installments (Rs7,336 per month) for cow and seven installments (Rs8,781 per month) for a buffalo by the bank concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-livestock-farmers-get-pashu-kisan-credit-card-144635
22-09-2020||---||Probe death of Dy Supdt: Health assn||Panchkula, September 21  Members of the Directorate Health Services Haryana Employees Welfare Association here today created ruckus at the office in Sector 6 over sudden demise of Deputy Superintendent Sarita Sachdeva and demanded an inquiry into the matter. After the commotion, the authorities transferred medical officer, Dr Yashpal Momiya, to Karnal while shifting Dr DN Bagdi from the Directorate of Health Services and Family Welfare.  The protesters alleged that Sarita had written adverse remarks on a charge sheet issued to a nursing staff. They said irked over this Dr Bagdi wrote to Sarita to take legal action against the nursing staff. Later, the file was sent to the DG, who sought clarification on this matter. However, instead of seeking clarification, Dr Bagdi issued show-cause notice to Sarita in the matter.  The protesters said clarification should have been sought by the administrative wing of the directorate and not by the DG. After the show -cause notice Sarita’s health deteriorated resulting in her sudden demise at a hospital.  The association president, Dilbagh Singh, said they had urged the DG, Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, to order investigation by a retired judge, but instead the directorate formed a committee of three doctors to inquire into the matter, which could submit a biased report.  They would also observe a pen down strike on Tuesday, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/probe-death-of-dy-supdt-health-assn-144636
22-09-2020||---||Long queues at Sampark centres||Chandigarh, September 21 Long queues were witnessed outside Sampark Centres in the city as people rushed to pay their water and electricity bills. An official said residents thronged Sampark Centres as today was the last date to pay electricity bills without late fee. Aman Sharma, a resident of Sector 27, said keeping in view the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the city, the UT Administration should have postponed the last date or set up extra windows to reduce the rush. There were no separte queues for senior citizens at Sampark Centres. Meanwhile, at some places people waiting in long queues reportedly flouted the social distancing norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/long-queues-at-sampark-centres-144637
22-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali admn asks pvt hospitals to increase Covid bed capacity||In the absence of better healthcare facilities in government hospitals for the level 3 Covid patients, the administration has asked private hospitals to increase capacity of beds in view of large number of active cases surfacing in the district.The district administration has also initiated treatment of level 3 Covid patients in view of adverse reports coming from Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala.At present, serious Covid patients were admitted to the GMC, Patiala, and Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, for treatment.While inaugurating a new Covid care ICU at Fortis Hospital on Monday, the Mohali Deputy Commissioner (DC), Girish Dayalan, said, “Enhanced cooperation between the public and private healthcare sectors can help battle against Covid-19 effectively. At the behest of the district administration Fortis Hospital has stepped up its Covid bed capacity to 120, including 75 level 2 and 45 level 3 beds.”“Due to presence of health care establishments in the district, besides local populace, admission requests from neighbouring districts and states such as Haryana, Himachal and Rajasthan keep pouring in. So, we requested private hospitals to scale up Covid care units. Conceding to our proposition, Fortis has increased the Covid bed capacity,” the DC added.“No single entity can do it alone. The nature of the Covid-19 crisis calls for a response based on public-private cooperation. We need to work together to protect everyone, everywhere,” the DC said.“Fortis Hospital has extended healthcare package for people opting for home isolation,” the DC added.Speaking on the occasion, Ashish Bhatia, COO, Fortis Hospitals said, “Our district has been exemplary with regard to public-private collaboration in the battle against Covid-19. We will support the civil authorities and remain committed to ramp up our services as and when required.”Abhijit Singh, Fortis’ zonal director, said, “We have been working closely with the local authorities and the healthcare delivery system to effectively combat this pandemic. The hospital has been admitting Covid positive mothers for safe delivery and dialysis facility is also operational.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-admn-asks-pvt-hospitals-to-increase-covid-bed-capacity-144638
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Scheduled power cut affects online studies of kids||The online studies of hundreds of students was hampered as a scheduled power cut in five sectors and two villages of the city left them in lurch.Sector 42, 43 51, 55, 22, Palsora and parts of Maloya Colony remained without power supply in the daytime.There was no electricity supply from 10 am to 2pm in Sector 42, 43, 51, 55 and Palsora. Besides, Sector 22 and Maloya Colony endured a six-hour power cut from 10 am to 4pm today.Majority of students attend their online classes during these hours and a power cut means that laptops and desktops are of limited use.Some students did manage to attend online classes on their mobile phones, but it was not possible for those, whose families had only one smartphone and their parents were out on duties.“Today my child could not attend the class as there was no power supply. The Internet connection kept going on and off, said Kirti Khanna, a housewife in Sector 51.Residents of Sector 51 complained that electricity supply kept playing hide and seek even after the scheduled power cut. There were frequent disruptions even during the evening.“A six-hour power cut in such humid conditions is too much to bear. The elderly and children get restless when fans and ACs are non-functional,” said Birender Ahlawat, a Sector 43 resident.An Electricity Department official said, “It was a scheduled power cut. We had informed residents through a public notice beforehand.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/scheduled-power-cut-affects-online-studies-of-kids-144639
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Two arrested for stabbing youth||PEC Senate MEETChandigarh: The Punjab Engineering College (PEC) Senate, which is scheduled to meet on Wednesday, will discuss issues pertaining to the structure of curriculum and changes needed. “A decision will not be taken, only discussions will be held on Wednesday. This is process that takes place after every five to six years. The discussion is the first stage,” said Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, PEC. On offering humanities and social science courses to engineering students of the December batch, Sanghi said they had not planned it yet. TNSMega job fairFatehgarh Sahib: The District Employment and Business Bureau would organise mega employment fairs from September 24 to September 30 in the district, said Anuprita Johal Additional Deputy Commissioner. She said the fairs would be organised at Desh Bhagat University, Mandi Gobindgarh, and District Bureau of Employment and Trade, Fatehgarh Sahib. Candidates can contact the bureau on 99156 82436. OCCellPhone, cash snatched in Sec 52Chandigarh: A North-West Delhi resident, Charan Singh, alleged that two unknown persons, riding a motorcycle, snatched his mobile phone, cash and documents from the 66 KV Sub Station, Sector 52, on September 19. A case has been registered under Section 379-B, IPC, at the Sector 36 police station. TNSMan injured in murder attemptChandigarh: An attempt to murder case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station against unknown person on the complaint of a Sector 44 resident, Pankaj Vaid. The incident occurred near Sector 43/44 light point when an unknown person attacked the complainant with intention to kill him on Sunday. The police got the injured admitted to the PGI. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-for-stabbing-youth-144640
22-09-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Road recarpeting work resumes in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21After a brief lull due to monsoon, the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation began recarpeting of roads and parking lots from Sector 43 here today. V-6 road is being refurbished in Sector 43-B, followed by Sector 43-A.In Sector 36, milling work (scratching of existing roads) began on V-4 road. It will be followed by relaying process.Some of the southern sector roads have not been re-carpeted since 2017 due to the paucity of funds. Residents have been complaining that they have never seen such a poor condition of roads in the City Beautiful. The pending work will be completed by December-end with a budget of Rs 30 crore.Recarpeting work worth Rs35 crore will be carried out next year for which the tendering process is already on.The Municipal Commissioner, KK Yadav, said: “Recarpeting work was stopped due to monsoon. We are aiming at clearing the backlog by December-end.”City residents may have a reason to cheer, but they need to brace up for frequent traffic snarls in the upcoming festive season.“It is not that we deliberately take up the road repair work in the festive season. Recarpeting is done throughout the year with a brief gap during the monsoon. Residents notice it only when there is rush during the festive season,” said another official of the Municipal Corporation.The stretch from the Airport road to the Inter-State Bus Terminal, Sector 43, (Vikas Marg) is also being refurbished these days.Roads to be overhauledSector 17: Overbridges, near Taj Hotel, KC Cinema, MC building along Jan MargSector 18: and 19: V-3, V-6, parking lotsSector 20: V-5 roadsSector 22, 23 and 24: V-5, V-6 roads and parking lotsSector 27 and 28: V-4 roads and parking lotsSector 29: V-6 roads and Centra Mall roadSector 30: V-6, V-4 roads and parking lotsSector 33: V-4 roadsSector 34-35: V-5 and V-6 roadsSector 37, 38, 39 and 40: V-3 and V-6 roads||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-recarpeting-work-resumes-in-chandigarh-144645
22-09-2020||Naina Mishra||At 3, Chandigarh has highest Covid beds per 1,000||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21For every 1,000 people in the city, there is an availability of three Covid beds, which is the highest in the country and much above the national average of one Covid bed per 1,000 people.Data on the availability of Covid beds across all states and union territories was tabled in the Rajya Sabha by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.As on September 18, the city has 21 Covid facilities wherein there are 3,552 beds. Of these beds, the UT has 885 oxygen-supported beds and 113 ICU beds. The remaining are for asymptomatic Covid patients or for those with mild symptoms.In April, the UT Administration had devised a contingency plan. Under the plan, it came up with a strategy to prepare logistics for 3,600 active infections at one point of time. Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said: “We had done our homework and prepared a contingency plan in the beginning of April itself when Covid-19 had just started to spread. We got cooperation from all government and private institutions and NGOs in converting their premises into Covid care facilities.”Gupta said: “We are operationalising three-level facilities in a staggered manner as per the actual requirement. We will try to increase the number of Covid beds.” The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has been following a graded approach and is advising states for expanding Covid-dedicated hospital infrastructure. The states are advised to plan for the requisite number of isolations, oxygen supported and ICU beds, based on the prevalent and expected case growth rate.Outstation patients continue to occupy UT bedsPatients from other states continue to occupy beds at government hospitals in the UT. Arun Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said: “Beds for critical patients will be a problem if these are occupied by patients from other states in a large number”.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said they had 192 Covid patients in Nehru Hospital Extension. Of them, 63 belong to Chandigarh, 61 to Punjab, 38 to Haryana and 18 to Himachal Pradesh. The PGI now has a total of 400 beds for the treatment of Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-3-chandigarh-has-highest-covid-beds-per-1-000-144648
22-09-2020||---||Panchkula reports 3 deaths, 50 fresh cases||Panchkula, September 21The district today reported three Covid deaths, taking the fatality count to 67.A 65-year-old woman from Barwala, an 82-year-old man from Sector 16 and a 57-year-old man from Natwal succumbed to the disease. All three reportedly had comorbidities.The district also witnessed 50 fresh cases. The case tally now stands at 5,110.The fresh cases include five from Sector 11, four each from Sector 15 and Sector 8, three each from Garhi Kotha, Sector 16, Sector 20 and Shahpur, two each from Barwala, Police Lines and Sector 7, and one each from Bir Ghaggar, Buddanpur, Dandardoo, Industrial Area, Kharak Mangoli, Jaloli, the MDC, Sector 4, Maheshpur, Pinjore, Raipur Rani, Rally, Ramgarh, Sector 10, Sector 12, Sector 12-A, Sector 19, Sector 27, Sector 28 and Tipra. While 1,270 cases are still active, 3,773 persons have been cured or discharged.Panchkula has so far conducted 59,226 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-3-deaths-50-fresh-cases-144650
22-09-2020||---||3 deaths in Chandigarh, 240 new cases||Chandigarh, September 21The city today recorded 240 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths, taking the case tally to 10,298 and death toll to 123.A 36-year-old man from Palsora, suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), right-sided hemo-pneumothorax, acute kidney injury and latent autoimmune diabetes, died at the PGI.A 68-year-old man from Sector 24, a case of hypertension and Type 2 diabetes mellitus, died at the PGI.A 70-year-old man from Sector 15 died at Fortis Hospital, Mohali. A total of 273 patients were discharged today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-deaths-in-chandigarh-240-new-cases-144651
22-09-2020||---||Namdeorao Zade likely to be Chandigarh Finance Secretary||Chandigarh, September 21Punjab-cadre IAS officer Namdeorao Zade is likely to be the next Finance Secretary of the UT.The post fell vacant after AK Sinha was relieved of the charge on September 1 after completing a three-year deputation with the UT.Sources said the Union Home Ministry had cleared the name of the 2002-batch officer for the post of Finance Secretary. Now, the Department of Personnel and Training would issue a formal order in this regard.The sources said Zade was the first choice of UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore among a panel of three IAS officers of the Punjab cadre.The other two officers are Kumar Rahul (2000 batch) and Arun Sekhri (2004 batch).Among the three, Rahul was the seniormost in the panel the Punjab Government had sent for the post.UT Home Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta said they were yet to receive a communication in this regard from the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/namdeorao-zade-likely-to-be-chandigarh-finance-secretary-144652
22-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Schools reopen, only 950 pupils show up||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 21Schools finally reopened today after months of closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic with only 950 students turning up in government schools, which makes for nearly 4 per cent of the total 25,000 students who had agreed to come to school after obtaining consent from their parents.While some government schools saw 10 to 12 students, a majority of the private schools remained shut as no students came to attend classes for guidance.One of the reasons for the low turnout was that parents did not send their wards despite giving consent earlier.Rajesh Kumar, Principal of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Mani Majra (Housing Board Complex), said, “We were expecting more students in line with the consent forms we had received. However, it seems parents have changed their mind and are not willing to send their wards to school. In the first shift, only 17 students came to attend classes.”In some government schools, students are being called in two shifts, one for Class X and the other for Class XII. A gap of one hour is kept in between to sanitise the classrooms before the next shift starts. A government schoolteacher said, “A few students came to attend classes. We have been strictly told by the authorities not to call any student on our own. Students can come only with the consent of their parents.”Aman Sharma, a non-medical student at the GMSSS, Sector 45, said, “I came to clear doubts in physics. It is a difficult subject and I needed assistance. The arrangements were in place and only 10 students were seated in one class. I will not go tomorrow now as my doubts have been cleared.”Some parents came to drop their children to the school themselves. Rajkumar, a parent, said, “Studies are important. The fear of coronavirus has decreased over time.”HS Mamik, chairman of Vivek High School, Sector 38, said, “Over 89 per cent students’ parents said they would not send their kids. We were expecting 10-14 children as their consent was received, but only four students came. We will see the trend over the next few days, but we will keep the school open for children.”In pvt schools too, few turn upIn private schools too, only a few students turned up for guidance. Reema Dewan, Principal of Delhi Public School, Sector 40, said, “Only one student turned up in Class XII though 10 students had given consent to join school. Despite our assurances, parents changed their mind on Sunday night and called up to convey that they weren’t willing to send their children to school.”Education Secy inspects schoolsTo ensure compliance with instructions by schools, Sarpreet Singh Gill, Secretary, Education, inspected some schools and observed that proper arrangements were made by the school authorities. Gill said, “We expect more students to join in the coming days, but the decision lies solely with the parents because they should feel comfortable in sending their children to school.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/schools-reopen-only-950-pupils-show-up-144653
22-09-2020||Kharar||Kharar roads offer a bumpy ride||Several road stretches in Kharar continue to be in a shambles. The roads are dotted with potholes and are in a dire need of recarpeting. The road from the Chajju Majra colony to Sante Majra village is in bad shape and crying for attention for a long time.Due to huge potholes, road accidents are often reported from here. When it rains, motorists fail to spot the potholes, leading to mishaps.The Kharar-Landran road near Fateh Burj is also in bad shape. The road is damaged and gives commuters a bumpy ride. Local residents have raised the issue with the authorities several times, but to no avail. Several inner roads, which lead to housing societies in Kharar, have not been recarpeted for a long time. In some areas such as Sunny Enclave, roads are damaged. Fed up with the authorities, residents in many areas have started filling potholes on their own. “The situation is bad. Almost all roads in Sunny Enclave are in a pathetic condition,” said Manjinder Singh, a resident of Sector 125.“We are sick and tired of the bumpy rides. The authorities must recarpet roads as soon as possible,” said Vikas Sharma, a resident of Sector 124. Officials said the tender process was on for carrying out repairs on roads. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-roads-offer-a-bumpy-ride-144654
22-09-2020||Mohali||Departmental probe against four cops||A year after Punjabi singer Harkirat Singh Mangat, aka Elly Mangat, was arrested by the Mohali police, a departmental inquiry has been initiated against four cops for allegedly manhandling the singer and also demanding a bribe of 7,000 Australian dollars from a friend of the singer.On the orders of the Punjab NRI Commission, AIG Navdeep Saini, Bureau of Investigation (BOI), has submitted a status report of the Special Investigation Team (SIT), headed by the SSP, Ropar, which conducted an investigation into the alleged torture of the singer in police custody.The Mohali police have now started a departmental probe against four cops — Rajesh Hastir, the then SHO of the Sohana police station, Sahil Kumar, Satwinder Singh and Jasdeep Singh — on the orders of IGP Amit Parshad, who marked the inquiry to the SSP, Mohali. According to the report, the four cops were involved in manhandling Elly Mangat at the Sohana police station after his arrest and demanding a bribe of 7,000 Australian dollars from his NRI friend Amolpreet Singh.Counsel for Mangat — GS Ghuman and GPS Ghuman — alleged that the police had shielded senior officials and took action only against junior cops. “The report states that the manhandling and extortion were done in the presence of DSP Ramandeep and Inspector Rajiv Kumar. They alleged that Mangat’s torture was carried out at the behest of these two cops. A criminal case should be registered against them. We demand capital punishment against all six cops,” they said.His counsel said they would knock at the door of the HC if the police failed to register a case against the cops. They said, “The SIT was formed on the instructions of IGP Amit Parshad, but its report kept lying unattended with the Punjab DGP for months.”Mohali SP (City) HS Virk said, “We have started an inquiry. Manhandling and bribe charges have not been proved yet.” The Sohana police had arrested Elly Mangat on September 11, 2019, when he had gone to settle a score with singers Rammi Randhawa and Prince Randhawa following a verbal spat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/departmental-probe-against-four-cops-144655
22-09-2020||Chandigarh||Get tested for virus, UT advises teachers||As a precautionary measure, schoolteachers have been advised to get tested for Covid-19. After nearly six months, schools partially reopened in the city today. Under the Unlock 4.0 guidelines, the Centre had allowed schools to reopen on a voluntary basis for students of Class IX to XII after getting consent from their parents.During a review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the UT Education Secretary to ensure that the guidelines of the Centre were followed when students come to the campus.The Administrator advised the teachers to get themselves tested for Covid regularly. Badnore directed Principal Secretary (Health) Arun Gupta to ensure that adequate number of ambulances was available for patients in home isolation, who needed to be transported from home in case their condition deteriorated. Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, stated that they had arranged 400 beds for the treatment of Covid patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/get-tested-for-virus-ut-advises-teachers-144657
22-09-2020||---||Dera Bassi Cong leader, kin among 150 infected||Mohali, September 21A senior Congress leader from Dera Bassi and four members of his family were among 150 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the count to 8,512.The Congress leader and his family members have been advised home quarantine. Unlike the surge in the past 10 days, the district saw some respite in cases coupled with an improvement in the recovery rate.Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, said 150 positive cases and 141 recoveries were reported today, while 134 positive cases and 112 recoveries were reported yesterday. The break-up of the fresh cases is as follows: Mohali urban (41), Kharar (11), Gharuan (26), Dhakoli (50), Dera Bassi (11), Banur (one), Boothgarh (three) and Kurali (7). The district reported two Covid deaths. An 82-year-old woman from Phase 10 died at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. She was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. A 46-year-old man from Dera Bassi died at Indus Hospital. He had diabetes.The district has so far reported 8,512 cases, while 5,708 patients have been cured of the virus. There are 2,642 active cases. The district has seen 163 Covid deaths.Some respiteUnlike the surge in the past 10 days, the district saw some respite in cases coupled with an improvement in the recovery rate. Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, said 150 positive cases and 141 recoveries were reported on Monday, while 134 positive cases and 112 recoveries were reported on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-cong-leader-kin-among-150-infected-144658
