22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: 7-month-old Phagwara infant with congenital heart defect tests positive; admitted to Chandigarh’s PGI||A seven-month-old baby from Phagwara with a congenital heart defect tested positive for coronavirus at Chandigarh’s Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, doctors said on Wednesday.The baby had been admitted to Ludhiana's Apollo Hospital Ludhiana until April 8, and was then moved to Chandigarh's Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, where she was critically ill and required continuous ventilator support and antimicrobials.She was to undergo a corrective surgery when the coronavirus infection was diagnosed. The source of the infection is yet unknown.“After a detailed assessment by the cardiologists and cardiothoracic surgeons, she was due to be taken up for open-heart surgery in the Advanced Cardiology Centre, PGI. However, a preoperative test for COVID-19 turned out to be positive on April 21,” read an official statement by PGI.The baby was subsequently moved to PGI’s COVID facility in Nehru Hospital Extension, PGI, and continues to receive ventilator support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-7-month-old-phagwara-infant-with-congenital-heart-defect-tests-positive-admitted-to-chandigarhs-pgi-74657
22-04-2020||---||Chandigarh admn changes curfew relaxation timings||Chandigarh, April 22Chandigarh administration has changed curfew relaxation timings for purchasing essential items in view of approaching summer season. From April 24, Friday, the curfew relaxation hours will be from 10 am to 2 pm, instead of present 11 am to 3 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-changes-curfew-relaxation-timings-74653
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Part of Sector 30-B, Kachhi Colony in Chandigarh declared 'affected pockets'||The UT Administration on Wednesday declared a part of Sector 30-B and the entire Kacchi Colony in Dhanas as 'Affected Pockets' amid the coronavirus outbreak.A cluster of approximately 590 households has been identified as part of the pocket in Sector 30.Focussed operations will be initiated in 'Affected Pockets' through an exclusive sealing plan developed in consultation with the various departments, according to an order by DC Mandip Brar. The movement of residents in these of pockets will be completely restricted and the entire pocket will be sealed by police personnel.There would be a total ban on the non-essential visitors in the Affected Pocket. Only authorized essential items/service providers, wearing necessary protection gear—such as masks, hairnet, gloves, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)—and carrying passes and valid ID Cards will be allowed to enter the area.A number of teams for conducting a door-to-door screening of every person falling in the Affected Pocket shall be deployed, said the order.All the staff on duty will be provided with PPE and other required devices for screening or thermal scanning.The Director of Health Services, U.T, Chandigarh shall also deploy several ambulances for carrying the health teams constituted for the door-to-door screening/thermal scanning from the hospital to the affected pocket and dropping them back, according to the order.The whole of the affected pocket will be sanitized. The solid waste will be collected from all the houses and public places of the affected pocket and disposed of as per the laid down norms of the Health Department.The demand for essential goods such as raw radon/milk/grocery/ medicines/ vegetables/gas cylinder/animal fodder shall be prepared and distributed by the Municipal Corporation and Director of Food & Civil Supplies, said the order.All the essential items will be provided by fully sanitized trolleys/vehicles. Each trolley shall be sanitized before entering and exiting from the Affected Pocket. The delivery of the same would be ensured at the doorsteps in the affected pocket.The regular safe drinking water supply shall be ensured by Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh.Chandigarh was declared as a 'containment zone' by the Advisor to the Administrator on April 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-part-of-sector-30-b-kachhi-colony-in-chandigarh-declared-affected-pockets-74586
22-04-2020||A Correspondent||Four youths detained for giving false information regarding non-availability of ration||Mohali, April 21The police have detained four youths staying at a paying guest accommodation at Kumbra village, Sector 68, for giving wrong information regarding non-availability of ration.Those detained have been identified as Roshan Kumar, Mukesh Kumar, Chitranjan and Anant Kumar.The SDM, Jagdeep Saigal, said one of them called on the helpline and complained that they have nothing to eat. He said cops reached the spot and found that they had a dry ration, which could easily last out for two months.“They have been sent to a temporary detention centre (Hockey stadium) for raising false alarm,” said Saigal.Sub-Inspector Aman Singh of Phase 8 police station, said after receiving the complainant, we checked their room and found 40-kg flour, 6-kg sugar, 5-kg pulses and two egg trays.He said no FIR has been registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-youths-detained-for-giving-false-information-regarding-non-availability-of-ration-74404
22-04-2020||Kharar||Ambika Prashad Pandey Foundation extends help||TBRL provides 7,000 face shields to PoliceChandigarh: The Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) on Tuesday handed over 7,000 full face protective shields to the Chandigarh Police for use while on duty during the lockdown period in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Dr Manjit Singh, Director, TBRL, said the face shields are single-use as well as multiple-use even the protective visor can be replaced easily if required. As many as 10,000 face shields for examining infected persons are being produced by the TBRL for PGIMER. While 2,000 pieces have already been handed over to the PGI another 5,000 pieces will be provided this week.Sanjay Beniwal, Director General, Chandigarh Police, lauded the role of the TBRL in providing personal protective equipment, sanitisers and face shield to the police. He appreciated that the TBRL designed and manufactured face shields was very useful and able to provide full face protection to police officials on duty. TNSCops provide ration, eatables to studentsKharar: The Kharar City police on Tuesday distributed ration, eatables among 21 students of Arunachal Pradesh who were residing in Kharar. The students were pursuing different courses on nearby colleges and were residing in New Swaraj Nagar. Kharar City SHO Bhagwant Singh himself reached their residence and provided ration and eatables to them. OCRavidas Sabha donates medical equipmentKharar: Sri Guru Ravidas Sabha, Kharar, have donated medical equipment worth Rs 25,000 to Dr Tarsem Singh, SMO, Civil Hospital, Kharar. Members of the Sabha donated PPE kits, masks, stethoscope etc to the hospital. Dr Tarsem Singh thanks them for this noble cause. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambika-prashad-pandey-foundation-extends-help-74400
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||INST roped in for Covid testing||1 held for dhaba worker’s murderChandigarh: A colleague of a dhaba employee, whose body was found in Sector 27, has been arrested for murder. The victim, Arjun, used to work at Paul Sweets Dairy and Dhaba. During police interrogation, the suspect, Budhi Lal, alias Golu, stated that on the intervening night of April 19 and 20, he and Arjun took liquor together. Following an argument, he repeatedly hit the victim with a brick on his head. Thereafter, he dumped the body near the market. He then returned and cleaned the blood from the crime spot. TNS‘Include biosafety in curriculum’Chandigarh: Over 900 participants from Jammu, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Assam have registered for a webinar on "Biorisk assessment and management: Preparedness for future researchers’, organised by Prof Archana Bhatnagar, Chairperson, Department of Biochemistry,PU, today. She emphasised that it's time to incorporate biosafety in the curriculum. Experts discussed different approaches of handling such epidemics and emphasised that harmonisation of biosafety, biosecurity etc. TNSTwo arrested for bike theftChandigarh: Two persons have been arrested for stealing a motorcycle. Complainant Ashok Kumar of Sector 32 here had reported that his motorcycle was stolen while it was parked near his shop in Burail. The police have registered a case at the Sector 34 police station. Later, Balbir Singh and Naresh Kumar of Burail village were arrested. TNSThief strikes at Dhanas houseChandigarh: A theft incident was reported at a house in Dhanas. Complainant Surender Parshad, a resident of small flats, Dhanas, reported that an unknown person had stolen gold and silver jewellery and cash from his house. A case has been registered at the Sarangpur police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inst-roped-in-for-covid-testing-74399
22-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Jamaati tests negative, discharged||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 21The administration heaved a sigh of relief after test result of one of the two Covid-19 positive patients (Jamaati women) came out negative.The woman was discharged today from Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, after she tested negative twice while the second woman’s first test came out negative, but her second test was reported as inconclusive, said Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, Fatehgarh Sahib.He said the discharged woman has been home- quarantined for 14 days. He said if result of second woman also comes out negative, there will be no Covid case in the district.Aggarwal said no new positive case has been reported in the district from the past two weeks. He said 103 suspected patients out of 114 have been tested negative abd results of 11 persons is awaited.It is pertinent to mention that the duo (women), residents of Aurangabad, came to the district along with 30 other Jamaatis.He said 43 primary contacts of the women tested negative. The Civil Surgeon said all the 848 NRIs have undergone home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jamaati-tests-negative-discharged-74396
22-04-2020||ATM van||ATM route plan for today||Location to start: PNB House, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Rajesh KumarContact No. 9815220993Proposed route: Maloya village and other colonies (10.30 am to 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, Canara BankLocation to start: Canara Bank, Plot No. 1, Sector 34-A, ChandigarhCoordinator: Jatin NandwaniContact No. 8727900954Proposed route: Sector 49 (10.30 pm - 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, SBILocation to start: LHO, SBI, 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Deepak ChechiContact No. 9478535876Proposed route: Faidan Village (10.30 am - 1.30 pm), Sector 42 CRPF Cant (1.30 pm - 4.30 pm) ChandigarhTime to start: 10.30 amATM van, Andhra BankLocation to start: Andhra Bank, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Satvinder GurnamContact No. 8146903533Proposed route: Mauli Jagran (10.30 am to 1.30 pm), Mani Majra village (2 pm to 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-route-plan-for-today-74389
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Now, get services of electricians, AC mechanics, plumbers in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-get-services-of-electricians-ac-mechanics-plumbers-in-chandigarh-74388
22-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo---||Over 2,500 screened in Nayagaon||Tribune News Service Mohali, April 21 The Health Department teams continue to screen people for identifying those affected with Covid-19 at densely populated Nayagaon in the district.  According to the information, more than 2,500 people had been screened in the village, including the Adarsh Nagar.  After four members of a family tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, Nayagaon was declared a containment zone. The administration had decided to hold a survey to identify buildings with families occupying a single room and sharing a common toilet in the village.  The first death in the district was reported from Nayagaon on March 31. Later, four members of a family of a sanitation worker posted at Covid ward of the PGI had also tested positive. The family has been living in a building that has 40 rooms occupied by an equal number of families. After this, a 25-year-old man was also tested positive.  Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh said that families are living in close proximity to each other in a densely populated building where a single infected person could spread the virus. He said they would identify the congested buildings so that the families can be scattered. They have screened about 2600 and taken 119 samples of the contacts of positive cases during the past three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-2-500-screened-in-nayagaon-74383
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Deliver vegetables, ration on doorstep in sealed areas: Governor||The UT Administrator, VP Singh Badnore, has directed Adviser Manoj Parida to involve representatives and volunteers for effectively maintaining sealing of various colonies and areas in the wake of the Covid-19.During the daily review meeting, the Administrator emphasised that vegetables and ration, especially in the areas, which have been sealed should be provided on doorstep, so that residents do not step out of their homes.Badnore directed Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, to ensure coordination among medical institutions handling testing and treatment of Covid-19 patients.Dr BS Chavan, Director Principal, GMCH-32, said five more departments, including ENT, ophthalmology, pulmonary, dermatology and radio therapy have been added to the telemedicine facility.KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said vendors, traders, hawkers and distributors of milk and delivery boys, among others, have been screened.Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner, said 1,700 MT of wheat has been procured in Grain Market, Sector 39, Chandigarh.Finance Secretary AK Sinha said discussion is being held with with the ESI authorities for providing wages to unemployed workers for the month of April.Rapid testing haltedParida informed the Administrator that the Centre had directed to stop rapid testing for the next two days till further clarification in the matter.Ration delivered in Kachi ColonyResidents of Kachi Colony, Dhanas, which was sealed on April 19 following Covid-19 positive patient, were provided dry ration by SDM (Central) Nazuk Kumar and SHO Ram Rattan. Ten teams comprising two cops and two staff members visited door-to-door to deliver ration. The SDM and other team members wore coveralls. “To ensure that no one goes hungry, we distributed 1,112 bags of dry ration. The bags were provided by the Rotary Club. We made 10 teams, which went door-to-door to deliver ration,” she said. The SHO said, “We thought of witnessing rush, but people were disciplined and ration comprising flour, cereal, rice and other items was delivered on doorstep.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deliver-vegetables-ration-on-doorstep-in-sealed-areas-governor-74382
22-04-2020||---||IMA for law to ensure safety of medical staff||Panchkula, April 21Concerned over the continuous attacks on doctors and other staff across the country, the Indian Medical Association today demanded enacting law to protect the medical fraternity.The IMA, under the Chairmanship of its president Dr Rajan Sharma, will participate in a protest, White Alert, by lighting candles at their work places.Dr Rachit Duggal, local head of the IMA, said though there were laws in every state, their implementation was not being ensured. He said the Centre should enact the laws concerned at the earliest.He said efforts would be made to reach out to the government through White Alert so that harassment of doctors was checked. He said action should be taken against the accused, who had abused or attacked doctors, nurses and other medical staff.He said while holding the White Alert, they would not neglect patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ima-for-law-to-ensure-safety-of-medical-staff-74381
22-04-2020||---||258 rounded up for curfew violations in UT||Chandigarh, April 21 A total of 258 persons were today rounded up by the UT police for violating curfew orders. The police said 135 vehicles were detained and 154 vehicles were also impounded in different parts of the city. Meanwhile, 67 violators were also made to download Aarogya Setu app today. The police also booked six persons for curfew violations, including three for not wearing face mask. Meanwhile, since March 23, a total of 16,660 persons have been rounded up, 8,583 vehicles have been detained and 5,048 vehicles have been impounded. A total of 635 persons have been booked for curfew violations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/258-rounded-up-for-curfew-violations-in-ut-74380
22-04-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||GS Chani propagates living in the moment||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 21For theatre artiste and documentary maker GS Chani, life has been lockdown-like for a long time now. He seldom found reasons to step out.“We are freelancers. So, there is hardly anything other than a good movie or theatre that motivates us to leave home. We aren’t sociable birds.”Nevertheless, the value of present is limitless and realisations aplenty, he says. “It is an opportunity to be with oneself. I’ve now understood the meaning of living in the moment.” He says this beautiful truth remains elusive when one is caught in the rat race of life. “You are most creative, peaceful and happy when you are living in the moment. You don’t get the chance to know yourself, to look into the mirror when life is running at its own pace but today, we are living in a time when you don’t know what will happen tomorrow.”Therefore, he says, the best way to tap on this time will be by “knowing one’s talent, potentials; I am doing it and discovering my infiniteness.” There is no escape to death, we all know and Chani reiterates. “To be able to sleep peacefully, exercise, give quality time to yourself is all that matters now.”The impact of Covid-19 on the mankind can’t be trivialised. Still, we can find a silver lining. “Look at it as a gifted time to reinvent yourself and rediscover your potential. Fill every moment with love by reaching out to people.” In the pursuit, he has thought of his repertoire of friends, got in touch with a few of them. “In these odd times, I am focusing on all good things that have had happened in my life and it fills me with gratitude.”He lives in the tranquility of music and Gurbani. “Like everyone else, my wife and I divide the chores. I’ve been making two meals daily, improvising the cook in me. Yoga for two hours is also a must. Then, reading takes a major portion of my day, be it Kabir or Guru Nanak. There is so much to learn and implement and what better time than now.”He suggests: “We have been living without caring about nature, the universe, not valuing our blessings. If we restart the same way, another pandemic may befall us, which can get even worse.” A great provocateur to stop and think, Chani wants everyone to break the established viewpoints, use critical faculty and to be more compassionate towards life in all its beauty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gs-chani-propagates-living-in-the-moment-74379
22-04-2020||---||City District Courts hear urgent matters via video-conferencing||Chandigarh, April 21Amid the lockdown, the District and Sessions Judge has made arrangements to hear urgent matters through video-conferencing.The District and Sessions Judge said two Additional District and Sessions Judges and two Judicial Magistrates had been working daily from home on a rotational basis to deal with urgent matters during the lockdown period. Hearing of such urgent matters was being conducted through video-conferencing with lawyers.The arrangements were made in the wake of the pandemic due to the outbreak of Covid-19 as well as in view of the orders of the High Court dated April 13, 2020, and in order to protect the precious life of judicial officers, officials, lawyers and litigants from Covid-19.If any lawyer wants to file urgent matter during the lockdown period, he can file the same on email id sochd@aij.gov.in, which will be sent to the judicial officer concerned on duty on his/her email for further proceeding in the matter. The duty roster is uploaded on the official website of the District Courts, Chandigarh. For any enquiry, lawyers can contact the superintendent on phone number 6239500196 and system officer on 8558890551.NK Nanda, president, District Bar Association, stated that all members, in case of extreme exigency pertaining to cases, could contact either the court superintendent on 7986434983 or him on 9814012461. Video-conferencing was already provided for the purpose of arguments and filing of cases would be facilitated accordingly and more effectively.How to file matterIf any lawyer wants to file urgent matter during the lockdown period, he can file the same on email id sochd@aij.gov.in, which will be sent to the judicial officer concerned on duty on his/her email for further proceeding in the matter. The duty roster is uploaded on the official website of the District Courts, Chandigarh. For any enquiry, lawyers can contact the superintendent on phone number 6239500196 and system officer on 8558890551.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-district-courts-hear-urgent-matters-via-video-conferencing-74378
22-04-2020||---||UT woman cop repatriated to IRB||Chandigarh, April 21A woman constable of the UT police posted in the Traffic Wing was today repatriated to the IRB (Indian Reserve Battalion) and departmental action has been recommended against her after a video of her arguing and misbehaving with Punjab Police personnel went viral.The woman constable has been identified as Usha Yadav, who is residing in Nayagaon. She was heading home on a scooter when the incident took place.The incident recorded by one of the Punjab Police personnel in a mobile phone shows Usha, who was riding an Activa scooter, entering into arguments with them after she was not allowed to take the road which was closed by the police due to the outbreak of Covid-19.The video shows that the woman constable is adamant on going from the same road, while police personnel on duty asked her to take another route. She then misbehaved with the cops and left. The video went viral, following which action was initiated against her by the UT police.“We have taken cognisance of it. She has been repatriated from the Traffic Wing to the IRB and departmental action has also been recommended,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-woman-cop-repatriated-to-irb-74377
22-04-2020||Mohali||43 violators held in Mohali||The Mohali police arrested a total of 43 persons for violating the curfew norms here today. These persons were sent to a temporary jail at the hockey stadium, Phase 8, here. Cases were registered against the violators under Section 188 of the IPC. Inspector Manphul Singh, SHO, Phase 1 police station, said of the total violators, 35 persons sent to the temporary jail were from Phase 1 only. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/43-violators-held-in-mohali-74376
22-04-2020||Our Correspondent---||Ration, food distributed among villagers||Kharar, April 21 A drive for disinfecting the area was carried out and ration/food was distributed among residents at various villages of Kharar. Awareness regarding sanitation was also created. Villages covered under the sanitation drive were Radiala, Sahauran, Dao Majra and Goslan. The campaign was being run under the supervision of Himanshu Jain (SDM, Kharar) and Hiten Kapila (BDPO, Kharar).  The administration assured people of continuous support. The staff of the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats was part of the exercise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ration-food-distributed-among-villagers-74375
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University sets up blood donation panel||Considering the shortage of blood banks amid Covid-19 lockdown, Panjab University (PU) and its affiliated colleges have appealed to extend help to the hospitals and blood banks by motivating the teaching and non-teaching staff and students to donate blood.Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, PU, has appointed a 15-member Blood donation motivation committee under the chairmanship of Prof Shankarji Jha, Dean University Instructions, and Dr Keshav Malhotra as coordinator. Blood donors will be given ‘pick and drop; facility in sanitised vehicles of the hospital. The committee has been in constant touch with the blood banks of the following hospitals where the blood can be donated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-sets-up-blood-donation-panel-74374
22-04-2020||---||PGI nurses tonsure heads to protest violence against policemen and healthcare workers||Chandigarh, April 21As many as 10 nurses at the PGIMER and Employees State Insurance Corporation Model Hospital tonsured their heads to protest the violence against policemen and healthcare workers across the country.Gauri Shankar, nursing staff at ESIC Model Hospital, said: “It is disturbing to see that people who are working on the frontline are being attacked. We cannot be mute spectators to the incidents of crime.”“We have sympathies with those losing their loved ones due to Covid-19 but no one has right to beat us up. Same stands for those abusing the survey teams working on the ground,” said Satyaveer Dagur, another protester from the PGIMER.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-nurses-tonsure-heads-to-protest-violence-against-policemen-and-healthcare-workers-74373
22-04-2020||---||CISF, cops distribute ration among sanitation workers||Mohali, April 21 The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the Mohali police today distributed ration packets among nearly 150 sanitation workers of the city. Sub-Inspector Baljinder Singh Mand said, “We have provided flour, sugar, rice, tea, turmeric, pulses and salt to the sanitation workers who are battling at the forefront against coronavirus pandemic.” He said even if the lockdown gets extended after May 3, the police will be providing food to the needy and destitute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cisf-cops-distribute-ration-among-sanitation-workers-74372
22-04-2020||---||City BJP unit donates sanitisers||Chandigarh, April 21 The BJP’s city unit president Arun Sood today donated a consignment of over 6,000 sanitisers to the Municipal Corporation for catering to the needs of sanitation workers. He handed over the consignment to Mayor Raj Bala Malik in the presence of MC Commissioner Kamal Kishore Yadav and Senior Deputy Mayor Ravi Kant. The sanitisers will safeguard over 5,200 contractual and non-contractual sanitation workers along with door-to-door garbage pickers.  “We want to express our thanks to Covid-19 warriors who are fighting against the pandemic. We are also arranging ration and cooked food for the needy,” said Arun Sood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-bjp-unit-donates-sanitisers-74371
22-04-2020||---||SLSA, Health Department begin tele-counselling service||Chandigarh, April 21The State Legal Service Authority (SLSA), UT, in association with the Health Department has started “psycho-medical tele-counselling services” for the public at large.The service was started on the directions of Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court-cum-Executive Chairman, SLSA.The counselling will be provided from 3 pm to 5 pm on all working days. The counselling will be free of cost for all patients and there will be a total patient-doctor confidentiality. Dr Nisha, Medical Officer, Health Department, UT, and Urvashi, clinical psychologist, will provide consultations to the callers.Mahavir Singh, Member Secretary, SLSA, and Ashok Kumar Mann, CJM-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, will be in-charge to monitoring the ground level implementation of the programme.Over 200 calls for foodThe State Legal Services Authority (SLSA) has received over 200 calls on its helpline numbers since April 1 for requirement of food, dry rations, medical help/medicines, domestic violence, queries about pending cases, legal aid for pending cases and legal advice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/slsa-health-department-begin-tele-counselling-service-74370
22-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||Mohali administration to provide 10K food packets to Jagatpura residents||Mohali, April 21A day after a news report regarding the plight of Jagatpura village residents was published in these columns, the district administration today decided to make special food arrangements for those living alongside the nullah in the village.Mohali SDM Jagdeep Saigal said now, they would distribute around 10,000 ration packets to around 2,000 residents of the village. “In coming to three days, the ration packets will be provided to these needy families by our teams,” said Jagdeep Saigal.A few teams of the administration also started distributing ration today itself.Hiten Kapila, Block Development Panchayat Officer (BDPO), and also the district nodal officer for food supply, said: “I don’t want any resident of the area to remain deprived of food. The district has large slum area and my duty is to provide food to around 14 lakh people. My teams have been working round the clock to do the needful.”Families living alongside the nullah in Jagatpura village had claimed that they are facing a lot of problems as they were not getting food or ration from anyone for the past few days.CRPF jawans and the police deployed at the entry and exit points were not allowing anyone to go outside the village to purchase food due to which, the poor families were harried. For the past few days, some workers of the Radha Soami Satsang Bhawan have been giving evening meal to some of these families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-administration-to-provide-10k-food-packets-to-jagatpura-residents-74369
22-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo ---||Steps to regulate traffic in Panchkula||Tribune News Service Panchkula, April 21  To restrict the movement of people in the city, the police have introduced the one-way traffic system by installing barricades on one side of roads.  The local police have also put up barricades at all entry and exit points of the city to restrict the movement of vehicles. The move aims at containing the movement of people, especially the youth, who were violating the lockdown.  Most of the barricades have been put up on the road from Sector 11-5 roundabout to command hospital light point. However, people could still be seen roaming about aimlessly and trying to dodge the police.  Mohit Handa, Deputy Commissioner of Police, said 55 barricades had been put up in Panchkula district out of which 33 barricades were interstate while 22 were inter-district. He said 751 police personnel were performing their duty and 1,572 vehicles were checked today of which 101 vehicles were challaned.  Mohit Handa said five calls regarding Covid-19 were received at the control room set up by the district administration. He said the police had also been keeping an eye on those quarantined at their homes. He said till date, 3,487 vehicles had been challaned while 162 had been impounded. He said cases had been registered against 97 people for violating the lockdown rules.  Meanwhile, Commissioner of Police Saurabh Singh made a surprise visit to the grain market in the city and reviewed the social distancing being observed by the labourers. He directed all those present to adhere to the norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/steps-to-regulate-traffic-in-panchkula-74368
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Banks to open in city on alternate days||The UT Administration has allowed the opening of bank branches on alternate days and certain essential bank operations on a daily basis. The Lead District Manager (LDM) had given a proposal for opening of a minimum number of bank branches, without causing inconvenience to general public or health risk to bank employees.  In a statement issued here today, the UT Administration said in view of the proposal, it had been decided that all controlling offices or back offices, currency chest branches, treasury branches, loan processing cells, Forex branches and cheque clearing/processing centers will open on daily basis with 50 per cent staff strength.  All ATM operations and bank correspondents would be operational on daily basis, cash in transit/cash replenishment agencies/IT and engineering support vendors for banks shall be operational on daily basis. All other branches will open on alternate days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/banks-to-open-in-city-on-alternate-days-74367
22-04-2020||---||Sector 18 woman’s 25 contacts traced||Chandigarh, April 21A total of 25 contacts of the 82-year-old woman, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, were traced and home-quarantined in the city on Tuesday. Officials said a door-to-door garbage collector, a milkman and an operator of a Verka booth in Sector 18, among others were quarantined. Her family members, living in two different houses in Sector 18, were quarantined yesterday only.Officials are yet to trace the source of transmission.The reports of the samples of two children, aged 16 and 13, who are contacts of a Covid positive Sector 30 woman, have come negative.A community contact of the Sector 30 case, who is residing in Sector 21, has also turned out to be negative for the virus.Samples of her 12 contacts taken in PanchkulaThe district health authorities are awaiting the reports of the 12 samples taken from the contacts of the 82-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 18 in Chandigarh, who was tested positive while under treatment at a private hospital here.Civil Surgeon Jasjit Kaur said the samples had been sent to the PGI for testing and the reports were expected tonight. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said 730 persons were placed under surveillance at various places in the district, of which, 143 were home-quarantined.He said 73 persons were quarantined at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Mouli, 54 at Nada Sahib Gurdwara and 10 in Sood Bhawan.He said 382 persons of the district had completed their 28-day quarantine period. He said 12 persons were admitted to the General Hospital, Sector 6, five to Command Hospital, seven to Mullana University and three to Alchemist Hospital here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-18-womans-25-contacts-traced-74366
22-04-2020||Chandigarh||Drones being used to enforce curfew in Chandigarh||With Chandigarh declared containment zone, the UT police have started using drones to monitor and enforce the curfew.Three drones equipped with a public address system and surveillance camera are being used in the city.Police officials said drones were being used to educate people on lockdown as well as to capture images and videos, which help in identifying areas witnessing movement of people and vehicles.“This aids enforcement by intensifying checking in such areas,” said a police official.These drones are also being used during early morning and evening hours to keep tabs on those visiting parks and other areas for a walk.During relaxation hours, social distancing norms in market areas and food distribution centres are being monitored. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drones-being-used-to-enforce-curfew-in-chandigarh-74365
22-04-2020||A Correspondent||6 more patients recover in Mohali||Mohali, April 21Six more Covid patients, who were admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur, recovered on Tuesday. With this, the total number of patients to have recovered from the pandemic has reached 14 in the district.District Epidemiologist Renu Singh said the recovered patients were Kamaljit Kaur (39), Harvinder Singh (43), Balwinder Kaur (61), Gurvinder Singh (42), Arshadip Singh (12) and Abdul Razaak (42). The first five patients belong to Jawaharpur village near Dera Bassi, from where 38 cases have been reported so far. Razaaq belongs to Mauli Baidwan village.Jawaharpur has the highest number of Covid cases in the district so far. The epidemiologist added that all these patients would be quarantined for 14 days as a precautionary measure at a centre in Sector 70. They would be sent home on successful completion of the quarantine period.She said these patients were admitted to the hospital on April 6. Renu Singh said the condition of the other patients from Jawaharpur was stable.Adviser wants councillors to help seal sectors Chandigarh: UT Adviser Manoj Parida today requested the Mayor to ask all councillors to help residents in sealing the sectors. “Madam Mayor, please put in a word to all councillors to lead and help residents in sealing colonies/areas/villages till May 3 in coordination with the local police,” Parida posted on Twitter. Mayor Raj Bala Malik said she was going to ask all councillors to come forward. “It is required and we will support the move of sealing the sectors to help contain the spread of the virus,” she told The Tribune. In some areas, the drive has already started. Sector 30 has been sealed by the authorities after positive cases were reported. Residents have themselves sealed Sector 40. They are conducting thermal screening and using sanitisers on everyone entering or exiting the sectors. A group of residents is keeping a check on all entry points. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-more-patients-recover-in-mohali-74364
22-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||Screening in Chandigarh just a survey?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 21How many members are there in the family? Did any outsider visit your house? Is anyone suffering from fever? These three questions lead to medical screening of residents of a majority of houses in the city.Though the UT Health Department is claiming to have screened about 9.15 lakh people in the past few days during the ongoing door-to-door screening campaign, the exercise is apparently a formality.Residents said officials were only asking a few questions and not conducting any check-up.“What if a resident lies? What if they hide information about a symptomatic member in the family? The department should conduct a medical check-up, only then will the exercise serve the purpose. Otherwise it is just like a survey,” said Dilbagh Singh Rana, president, Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 19.Dr JS Thakur, Chairman, Covid-19 Prevention and IEC Committee at the PGI, said: “This is not the right way. As per the protocol under the containment plan, they should specifically ask about four things — cold, cough, fever and difficulty in breathing.”RK Garg, president, Second Innings Association, a senior citizens body, said: “I am getting a lot of complaints about it. The screening should be done practically and as per the protocol. They are just casually asking questions. I got to know even ‘Beldars’ have been included in the screening team. Many of those in the teams are not qualified for the work.”One of the screening team members told Chandigarh Tribune: “Basically, we are only filtering out people and it is a kind of survey. We are not doing the required number of testing.”City Congress leader Yadvinder Mehta asked UT Adviser Manoj Parida on Twitter: “The Chandigarh Administration claims that almost 6 lakh people have been screened in the city till now.If this screening was done in Sector 30-B also, how come we have got four new Covid cases in the area today? Were they not screened or is it just in books?”Parida replied: “It is simple; if you had no infection yesterday, it does not mean you will not get it today. The idea is to catch it in early stages. The survey gives result as on that day. We don’t have 12 lakh testing kits. Otherwise I could forcibly test all. Even after that, cases may crop up since corona has no fixed pattern.”A resident asked him to start pool testing of 10-12 persons. Parida said it would be decided when needed and when they had enough kits.The Adviser told Chandigarh Tribune: “If there is any population left out for screening, bring it toour notice. We will send a team again.”Meanwhile, Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, was unavailable for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/screening-in-chandigarh-just-a-survey-74363
22-04-2020||Amarjot Kaur||When nobody else did, they came forward to cremate Covid victim||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 21Near the registration counter of the LPG crematorium in Sector 25, Raghbir Singh sits on a chair, tracing his memory to the day when he saw the body of a Covid-19 patient for the first time.On April 2, Raghbir Singh and his colleague Surinder Kumar, who have been hired on a contract basis by the city MC’s electrical division to operate the crematorium, could only remember the son of the deceased trying to lift the corpse on his shoulders as relatives and the police looked on from a safe distance.This went on for half an hour and then came the protection kits. Seeing that no one was willing to volunteer, the duo shed any fear they had of Covid-19, wore the kits, lifted the body and cremated it. “Now, there is a special team, comprising the Red Cross, Health Department and the police, for cremating those who die of Covid-19,” says Raghbir. “In the first case, everyone was clueless. I stepped forward for the sake of humanity,” he said.The experience was an eye-opener for Surinder. “I hadn’t thought of Covid-19 much before the body was brought from the PGI. The gravity of this invisible enemy pronounced itself in the body language of the patient’s loved ones,” he says. Raghbir would have lifted the body with bare hands, had the MC taken longer with safety kits. “Not even the pundit came near the body. Everybody stood in the parking lot, like silent spectators, videographing the cremation. The hearse-van driver told me not to touch the body, as I went to help the grieving son. Just then, the safety kits arrived,” says Raghbir.After the cremation, the duo fretted over passing the infection on to family. “We bathed here that day, washed our clothes and then wore them before going home. Even there, we bathed and changed into another set of clothes,” they recall.Both follow the same regime, even now. “Earlier, I would embrace my son on reaching home. Now, I ask him to stay away because I love him,” says Raghbir.The duo is paid about Rs 13,000 a month. The job is to set the body on fire and sift the remains and ashes. The 9 am to 5 pm shift extends at times. “A body takes about three hours to burn. We have to switch off the gas before we leave. So, we get late if a body comes at 4 pm,” Surinder adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/when-nobody-else-did-they-came-forward-to-cremate-covid-victim-74361
