22-05-2020||Mohali||First evacuation flight carrying passengers from USA lands at Mohali International Airport||The first evacuation flight carrying 100 passengers from New York via New Delhi landed at the Mohali International Airport here on Friday afternoon.Out of 100 passengers, 61 passengers belong to Punjab, 12 to Haryana, 16 to Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh 9 and two passengers belong to Uttarakhand. Divulging details about the passengers from Punjab, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said out of the 61 passengers from Punjab, five were from Mohlai, 10 from Amritsar, two from Bathinda, one each from Fatehgarh Sahib and Fazilka, three from Ferozepur, two from Gurdaspur, six from Hoshiarpur, five from Jalandhar, four from Kapurthala, seven from Ludhiana, one each from Pathankot, Sangrur, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Sri Muktsar Sahib and 11 from Patiala.Girish Dayalan further elaborated that as per the health department protocol, all the passengers were subjected to medical screening with strict compliance with the social distancing norms and nobody was found symptomatic. He also said the passengers hailing from the district would not be sent home as of now and would be kept under the quarantine at the various government facilities at hotels for 14 days as a precautionary measure.Dayalan said that district administration had made arrangements and sent the passengers belonging to the other districts and the states to their respective districts and states where they would undergo quarantine period.He also added that the next evacuation flight would land at the airport on 30th May from Ukraine.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, who led the health team, said that during the screening the health officials took utmost precaution and the passengers also maintained social distancing.He informed that no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold etc and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus.He further elaborated that all the passengers were also impressed upon by the Health Department teams deployed at the airport to take all health related precautions such as cover their face with masks, using hand sanitizers, washing hands as much as possible and observe social distancing guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-evacuation-flight-carrying-passengers-from-usa-lands-at-mohali-international-airport-88493
22-05-2020||---||Western Command chief visits Ambala headquarters, reviews preparedness of Kharga Corps||Chandigarh, May 22General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Command, Lt Gen RP Singh, visited the Kharga Corps Headquarters at Ambala on Friday.He was briefed by the Corps Commander, Lt Gen SS Mahal, on the operational and logistics preparedness of the army’s most potent strike formation, as well as measures instituted to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.He interacted with the troops and commended the ongoing efforts in ensuring force protection and at the same time maintaining a high level of operational readiness.He exhorted all ranks to remain focused on defeating this global pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/western-command-chief-visits-ambala-headquarters-reviews-preparedness-of-kharga-corps-88475
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab University announces results||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-university-announces-results-88410
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Four autos catch fire||Four autos parked at an open ground in Mani Majra caught fire under mysterious circumstances this afternoon. The auto drivers, who hail from other states, had left for their native places after the curfew was lifted. Sources said residents saw the autos parked at the ground opposite the Modern Housing Complex catching fire at 11.35 am. The autos were completely damaged. A resident said some material was burning near the autos and the fire probably spread to the vehicles. An investigation has been initiated. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-autos-catch-fire-88037
22-05-2020||---||Chandigarh imposes 5% Covid cess on liquor||Chandigarh, May 21The UT Administration has imposed 5 per cent Covid cess on all categories of liquor sold through wholesale licensees with immediate effect on the MRP in the city.The cess will be collected and remitted to the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation by the Excise and Taxation Department. “The cess will be kept in a separate account till a clarification is received on this from the Ministry of Home Affairs,” said an official.Earlier this month, the Administration had imposed cow cess for the extended period of the excise policy for 2019-20 (from May 16 to June 30). The cess was levied at the rate of Rs 5 per bottle of 750 ml of country liquor, Rs 5 per bottle of 650 ml of beer and Rs 10 per bottle of 750 ml of whisky.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-imposes-5-covid-cess-on-liquor-88038
22-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh  cramped markets may face social distancing blues||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21Amid lack of adequate space, traders at Shastri Market, Sector 22, the mobile market, Sector 22, and Palika Bazar, Sector 19, may find it hard to maintain social distancing in the coming days.Though the UT Administration has allowed opening of shops on an odd-even basis at these complexes, lack of open space is giving businessmen the jitters here.“There isn’t much footfall of customers for now, but once that happens, there could be chaos. There are many shops in a row and little space to entertain customers,” said a shopkeeper at Shastri Market.The market has an open entrance wherein it’s difficult to carry out thermal screening of customers. “We don’t have entrance gates either at the shops or at the market. It will be difficult to carry out thermal scanning of people right on top of our counters. However, we’ll have to work out some safe method to earn some money,” said another shopkeeper.Shastri Market has booths whereas the mobile market, Sector 22, has big showrooms. However, the problem at the mobile market is that business is carried out from small cabins, located mostly on the first and second floors of the showrooms. After witnessing huge rush in the initial days of relaxation, the police took charge today to control the situation.Car parking was not allowed in front of shops and vendors were not allowed to sit in the lobby. “Though a majority of the shops deal in mobile handsets and repair work, we also have hostels, liquor vendors, eateries, tobacco dealer and doctors in this row. Amid all this, social distancing will be a challenge. We are thankful to the Administration for allowing us run our business after nearly three months. We adhere to the guidelines, but rush at times makes our task difficult,” said Parkash, a mobile repair shop owner.At Palika Bazar, Sector 19, which is popular among the middle class, the situation is almost similar. However, Gopal, a shopkeeper, said, “We haven’t done any business after reopening so far. The question of social distancing will arise only when people come to make purchases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cramped-markets-may-face-social-distancing-blues-88040
22-05-2020||Panchkula||55-year-old man found +ve in Panchkula, untraceable||A 55-year-old cancer patient from Sector 2 here was found positive for Covid today, taking the district tally to 26. His whereabouts were yet to be known, said health officials.Chief Medical Officer Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “The patient had gone to Delhi for cancer treatment on May 16, where he was sampled and found positive for Covid the next day. But his family informed the health officials today.” She said the officials were also inquiring his family about his whereabouts.Now, the district has two active cases. The second positive patient is a resident of Rajiv Colony.On Tuesday, a 63-year-old cancer patient from Sector 10 had died of cardiac arrest, two after hours after she was tested negative for Covid-19.Teams to keep vigil on densely populated areasSeveral teams have been formulated for screening and random sampling of population in densely populated areas such as Rajiv Colony, Indira Colony, Pinjore and Kalka. Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said he had instructed officials to keep a strict vigil on Indira Colony, Budanpur, to stop the further spread of the virus. Sufficient police personnel should be deployed in both colonies, he said. — TNSOver 58K download Aarogya Setu appA total of 58,632 people have downloaded the Aarogya Setu application in Panchkula, said Ahuja. So far, 21,000 persons belonging to Uttar Pradesh and 8,000 from Bihar have registered themselves to go back to their home states. As many as 152 migrant labourers staying in Kalka were sent to Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, by buses on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/55-year-old-man-found-ve-in-panchkula-untraceable-88041
22-05-2020||---||Shortage of  labour hits recarpeting at Dhanas||Chandigarh, May 21Though the road recarpeting work began at Dhanas today, it will take a few more days for the work to begin at full pace due to the non-availability of labourers.Even as the local Municipal Corporation (MC) has asked its contractors to resume work, the latter are not able to find labourers due to the lockdown in place. A senior MC official said, “We have directed the contractors to start the recarpeting work, but they are finding it hard to get labour due to the lockdown.”MC Commissioner KK Yadav said, “The work has begun in Dhanas. I will take around three days for the work to go on full steam.”The recarpeting work was stopped in March after the curfew was imposed in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Before that, little work could be done due to non-conducive weather and lack of funds. The MC had estimated an expenditure of Rs 100 crore for road recarpeting in the 2020-21 fiscal. It had also prepared a list of 150 places where recarepting is pending since 2017-18 and 2018-19. Recapreting works are pending at 61 places for 2019-20. It is expected that these will be carried out in the current fiscal.A whopping Rs 120 crore was approved for road recarpeting in the 2019-20 financial year, but due to the shortage of funds, only Rs 31.54 crore could be spent from April 1 to December 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shortage-of-labour-hits-recarpeting-at-dhanas-88042
22-05-2020||---||Chandigarh to launch virtual classroom for students, IT professionals||Chandigarh, May 21An initiative taken in sync with the Central Government policy for promoting online classes in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC) under the aegis of the Department of Information Technology, UT, is launching its virtual classroom to fill the gap created by suspended conventional classroom learning due to ongoing nationwide lockdown.A statement issued by the department stated that SPIC would conduct high-end IT and bootcamp courses through virtual classroom for engineering students as well as IT professionals, who want to upgrade themselves.The virtual classroom will be like a real-time classroom experience where instructor can teach online more naturally using high definition video for face to face interaction. Students can enjoy clear audio, video, data sharing and use breakout sessions for collaborative and individualised learning experience.To promote this virtual classroom, SPIC is organising free sessions for students on emerging IT courses to give an insight to its curriculum and virtual classroom experience. IT students and professionals can visit SPIC website www.spicindia.com to get all detailed information. SPIC has sourced WebEx meet from CISCO under corporate social responsibility (CSR) for free till the lockdown period lasts.Course offered||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-launch-virtual-classroom-for-students-it-professionals-88043
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University Syndicate meeting on May 30||A meeting of Panjab University (PU) Syndicate will be held on May 30 at the Senate Hall on the university premises. The authorities have asked members to follow the national directives for Covid-19 Management issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs while attending the meeting. The main agenda of the meeting will be appointment of new Dean Student Welfare (DSW) and ad-hoc staff, starting of new academic year and promotion of employees.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndicate-meeting-on-may-30-88044
22-05-2020||---||Rs15,000 stolen from Sector 11 post office||Chandigarh, May 21 Two miscreants broke into the post office at Sector 11 on the intervening night of May 20/21and stole Rs 15,000 in cash. CCTV cameras installed outside a showroom in the market show miscreants wearing masks breaking into the post office at around 3 am. The incident came to light in the morning after the staff reached the post office. After receiving information, the police reached the spot. A forensic team also visited the post office for inspection. Only cash was stolen from the post office, the police said.  “A case has been registered at the Sector 11 police station and an investigation is on,” the police added. “CCTV cameras are not installed at the post office. Footage of CCTV cameras installed in the market is being scrutinised to identify suspects,” the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs15-000-stolen-from-sector-11-post-office-88045
22-05-2020||---||Peon molests 40-year-old woman, booked||Panchkula, May 21 The police booked a peon working in Western Command, Chandimandir, for molesting a 40-year-old woman. According to the complainant, on May 18, the suspect followed her and pulled her towards him. The victim subsequently fell down by the forceful action and sustained injuries on her knee. The complainant alleged that the suspect was stalking her from a long time.  “He even called on my mobile phone several times, following which I blocked his number. He then called on my mobile phone from a landline number. He even threatened me and my family when I refused to speak to him,” the complainant added.  The suspect has been identified as Pardeep Singh. A case was registered against Pardeep under Sections 323, 354, 354-D and 506 of the Indian Penal Code at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/peon-molests-40-year-old-woman-booked-88046
22-05-2020||---||Orders to pay school fee by May 31 under judicial scanner||Chandigarh, May 21 An order passed by the Education Secretary directing payment of school fees by May 31 has come under judicial scrutiny, with advocate Pankaj Chandgothia filing a public interest litigation (PIL) before the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In his petition filed in public interest, Chandgothia has questioned the “arbitrary, illegal and unconstitutional method” adopted by the Education Department to put the burden of paying the fee of city schools on students and their parents. He asserted that the deadline of May 31 falls within the lockdown period announced by the government.  Referring to the Covid-19 pandemic and its financial impact on each household, Chandgothia submitted that all educations institutions were under the lockdown, which was likely to extend for uncertain number of months as strict social distancing was not possible in such institutions.  It was uncertain to predict the continuity of the lockdown period, especially for schools, when the number of Covid-19 cases was significantly rising every single day, he added. Withdraw decision, BJP tells UT Admn The BJP has strongly condemned the UT Administration’s decision for parents to timely deposit the school fee for April and May by May 31. However, BJP state president Arun Sood took the issue and lobbied for an in-depth discussion with the Administration on Wednesday evening and Thursday too. He advised the Administration not to succumb to the pressure of school associations and stick to its previous decision. The BJP Chandigarh unit general secretaries, Chandrasekhar and Ramveer Bhatti, alleged that while taking this decision, parents, political parties and even members of the advisory committee of the Administrator were not consulted.  Without knowing the ground reality, the Administration took this decision only in the interest of one class, they added. It is noteworthy that at a time when parents, especially middle class city dwellers, including small shopkeepers, small industrialists and businessmen, are in dire financial position due to the lockdown, this decision of the Administration will bring more trouble for parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/orders-to-pay-school-fee-by-may-31-under-judicial-scanner-88047
22-05-2020||Aman Sood||Illegal liquor trade issue snowballs into political row||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 21The recovery of liquor in two different cases in the Ghanaur Assembly segment of Rajpura recently has snowballed into a political controversy with Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal leaders blaming each other for “being involved in illegal liquor trade”.While the SAD blames Madan Lal Jalalpur directly for backing the illegal liquor mafia and patronising them, Jalalpur says local SAD leaders are hand in glove with the liquor mafia.The controversy erupted last week when the Patiala police and the Excise Department raided an illegal distillery-cum-liquor-bottling plant, which was making huge money during the lockdown by selling illicit liquor under the guise of popular brands. The accused, operating the distillery from a cold store, were making liquor by diluting extra neutral alcohol (ENA), which was available at a cheaper price, and sold it at exorbitant rates. Khanpur Khurd sarpanch Amrik Singh, who is also an aide of Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, and Dipesh Kumar of Rajpura were booked after Thursday’s raid.Earlier, another cache of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) was seized from the tube well of a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader on Monday night. The tube well is allegedly owned by former SAD panchayat samiti member Darshan Singh of Pabri village. During the raid, the police recovered ENA in 20 drums and a few empty drums at Pabri village under the Kheri Gandian police station.However the SAD leaders today blamed Jalalpur for the illegal trade of liquor claiming that the Congress MLA was the man behind this entire operation. They said last week after the Congressmen were booked, he pressurised the police to show empty drums and planted the liquor at Pabri to shift the blame.“A week after the factory was sealed, the police buckled under the pressure of the Congress MLA and failed to arrest any of his close aides. Even the middlemen, who bought and sold this liquor, are also evading arrest,” said former Cabinet Minister Surjit Singh Rakhra, while speaking at the residence of SAD leader from Ghanaur Harpreet Kaur Mukhmailpur.“Call details of Jalalpur for the past one year should be made public and all his deals with llegal liquor traders will come to light,” Rakhra added.Mukhmailpur said, “Illegal gambling, mining and liquor manufacturing hub is the tag that the Congress has earned for Rajpura and Ghanaur.”“A High Court-monitored or the CBI probe is the only option that can nail actual culprits. Bribes and monthly cuts accepted by Congress leaders in Patiala and Rajpura need a thorough probe,” she added. The police acted on behest of the Congress to show a fake raid at Pabri village, she said.Blaming the Akali Dal and the BJP for the Rajpura liquor recovery case, Jalalpur said the illegal distillery was owned by SAD and BJP leaders and the Akali Dal was blaming the Congress to shift the blame. Police officials stated that a SIT had been formed to probe the cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illegal-liquor-trade-issue-snowballs-into-political-row-88049
22-05-2020|| ---||Parents of newborn whose body was found in bin located||Chandigarh, May 21 Almost a week after body of a newborn girl was found dumped in a garbage bin at Ram Darbar, the UT police have located her parents. A safai karamchari identified as Deepak spotted the body in the garbage on May 14 and informed the police following which a case was registered at the Sector 31 police station. The police investigation revealed that a woman identified as Rajnish, wife of Shree Parkash, both residents of Phase-II, Ram Darbar, had delivered a girl child at home on May 13. She was reportedly dead at the time of birth after which Shree Parkash dumped her body in the garbage bin. The couple hailed from Uttar Pradesh and had been staying in the city from last 13 years, the police said. Shree Parkash was an auto driver and has two children, the police added. “The postmortem of newborn will be done on Friday. We will collect blood samples of the couple for DNA sampling to match the same with the newborn,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-of-newborn-whose-body-was-found-in-bin-located-88050
22-05-2020||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University pensioners threaten fast unto death||Tribune News ServicePatiala, May 21Punjabi University pensioners, most of them in their 70s and 80s, are yet again forced to protest for monthly pension benefits. The retirees have now decided to go on fast unto death if the university fails to credit their pension benefits for the month of April pending for over 21 days now.Facing fund crunch since long, Punjabi University has been struggling to meet its expenditures. The university faced similar protests by pensioners in January this year after it failed to deposit pension amount of Rs 4.25 crore for the month of December till January 24. The retirees, including retired assistants, malis, peons, clerks and professors, then wrote to the Chief Minister’s Office.Gurcharan Singh, a retired pensioner of the university, said: “We are holding a protest for two hours daily. We will organise fast unto death if the university fails to credit the pension for April soon”.Sham Singh, president of the Punjabi University Retired Officers’ Welfare Association, said they were facing problems as it was the only source of livelihood of several pensioners.Sansar Singh Janjua, another retired professor of the university, said: “We met the Vice-Chancellor, Registrar and the finance officer several times in this regard, but to no avail.”University Registrar Dr Manjit Singh Nijjar said: “Pensioners met us today. We assured them that the pending amount will be credited at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjabi-university-pensioners-threaten-fast-unto-death-88051
22-05-2020||---||Survey on online education||Chandigarh, May 21 Out 82.1 per cent respondents having no previous experience of online teaching, 90.2 per cent teachers said they were taking online classes for the first time while 9.8 per cent teachers mentioned that they were not taking online classes during lockdown amid Covid-19 pandemic. This was the outcome of an online survey conducted on 3,550 teachers from different government, recognised private and government-aided private schools of Chandigarh and Punjab.  The sample survey involved 38.6 per cent primary teachers (PTs), 33.9 per cent trained graduate teachers (TGTs) and 27.5 per cent post graduate teachers (PGTs). The survey was conducted by Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) of Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36, including, Dr Anita Nangia, Dr Seema Sareen and Principal Dr Agnese Dhillon. The findings pointed out that 33.56 per cent teachers don’t face problem of lack of material and resources, while 61.66 per cent reported partcial problems and 7.77 per cent faced issues to great extent. Only 17.30 per cent teachers were fine with technical aspects, while  majority of the group faced this challenge to some extent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/survey-on-online-education-88052
22-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Home Guards step up vigil at training centre||Dera Bassi, May 21 To ensure the safety of home guard personnel amidst the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Commandant Gurlovedeep Singh distributed face masks among them. The vigil at the Home Guards Training Centre in Sundran village, near Dera Bassi, has already been stepped up. The staff deployed at the main gate makes sure that home guard personnels sanitise their hands with sanitiser before entering the centre premises. Commandant said, “Precautions to mitigate the pandemic are being adopted with utmost sincerity by Punjab Home Guards.” “Industrial fraternity at Sundran village is also coming forward to help the Home Guards Department by giving them PPE kits along with funds of Rs 35 Lakh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/home-guards-step-up-vigil-at-training-centre-88053
22-05-2020||---||Sample collection centre to come up at Bapu Dham||Chandigarh, May 21As Covid-19 poisitve cases continue to rise, the UT Administration has decided to set up a sample collection centre at a school in Bapu Dham Colony.During the review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed satisfaction about substantial improvement in recovery rate of Covid-19 patients (77 per cent) and doubling rate of 39 days. The deaths have been minimal despite comorbidities.Badnore, however, expressed grave concern about the rising number of positive cases in Bapu Dham Colony and called an urgent meeting of senior officiacls and doctors to decide a new strategy.The Administrator suggested use of local volunteers to detect suspected cases and send them for testing. He said there should be aggressive and intensive screening of all the pockets in buffer zone and wherever necessary, people under risk should be taken to quarantine centres.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said essential items were being provided to people confined in containment zones. He mentioned that 69,088 food packets have been distributed among the needy in various parts of the city.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said necessary arrangements were being made to screen passengers who would arrive in the city after bus, train and flights services are resumed.KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said sanitisation and fogging was being done in various parts of the city. Water supply was being augmented to meet the demand in summer, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sample-collection-centre-to-come-up-at-bapu-dham-88054
22-05-2020||---||District Courts take up more cases via video-conferencing||Chandigarh, May 21In an attempt to put a positive spin on the lockdown, the District Courts has started hearing criminal cases in which defence evidence have been closed and the matter has been fixed for arguments, filing of fresh cases of MACT, etc, apart from urgent matters, through video-conferencing till the end of the fourth phase of the lockdown on May 31.As per orders, the superior courts, including the Sessions Courts, will hear application for the release of compensation amount in LAC and MACT cases, cases pertaining to MACT in which the evidence of the parties has been closed and fixed for arguments, all cases which can be disposed of in term of compromise between the parties or by way of withdrawal, matters under Section 13 (B) of the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA), criminal cases in which defence evidence has been closed and matter has been fixed for arguments, criminal appeals that are fixed for arguments and in which accused are in custody and application for suspension of sentence in which accused are in custody.The order also states that subordinate courts will hear applications for the release of case property on “sapurdari”, matters relating to compoundable offences, all cases that can be disposed of in terms of compromise between parties or by way of withdrawal, cases in which defence evidence has been closed and the matter has been fixed for arguments, and cases that are fixed for arguments and in which accused are in custody.However, urgent matters (bail and stay) relating to superior as well as subordinate courts from May 19 to 31 will be dealt by judicial officers.Readers of the court concerned will facilitate the hearing of the cases in contacting the advocate concerned and assisting judicial officer for the smooth conduct of video-conferencing through Vidyo and Webex. In case of any technical failure, the hearing may be conducted through WhatsApp or Google Duo video calling as per the convenience of the judicial officer.The order stated that the urgent matters, which are received through email caodsj.chd@nic.in from 11 am to 12.30 pm, will be taken up on the same day through video-conferencing. The urgent matters received after this time will be taken up on the next day through video-conferencing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/district-courts-take-up-more-cases-via-video-conferencing-88055
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||JERC directs Electricity Department to issue monthly bills||In order to reduce financial burden on consumers, the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) has directed the Electricity Department to start issuing monthly bills instead of bi-monthly.Nearly, 85 per cent of the domestic and commercial consumers are getting bi-monthly bills at present.Earlier, the JERC had ordered the department to switch over to monthly billing system for all categories except agriculture water pumping supply.In annual tariff review appeal, the department had stated that they would face numerous problems in shifting to monthly meter reading from bi-monthly, as the department was facing an acute shortage of staff and software needs to be upgraded for monthly billing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jerc-directs-electricity-department-to-issue-monthly-bills-88056
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||CTU buses to ply in Mohali from today||The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will start local bus service to Mohali from Friday. A senior official said the city was now gradually starting to come back on track. On Wednesday, the CTU started plying buses on local routes after a gap of around two months. Number of passengers was low as people were not yet aware of the routes. After getting approval from the UT Administration, the CTU started 47 buses on 16 routes in the city. The price of a ticket has been fixed at Rs 20. The UT Administration had sought permission from the Punjab and Haryana governments to run buses in the tricity. The Punjab Government gave its approval, but the Haryana Government is yet to give its consent to ply the buses in Panchkula. A CTU official said the number of buses will increase to 159 after getting permission from Punjab and Haryana and the routes will also be increased to 52. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-buses-to-ply-in-mohali-from-today-88057
22-05-2020||---||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation to conduct virtual House meet on May 29||Chandigarh, May 21Detailed report of the Municipal Corporation’s (MC’s) work on Covid-19, road recarpeting and village development are among the agendas to be taken up during the MC’s General House meeting to be held via video-conferencing on May 29.“Mayor, Secretary and I will sit in the MC office while councillors will connect with us from their respective places via video-conferencing. Other than already planned agendas, we will finalise more agendas soon,” said the MC, Commissioner, KK Yadav.A few days ago, Devinder Singh Babla, Leader of the Opposition, asked the Mayor and Commissioner to hold a House meeting through video-conferencing. He had questioned the Mayor and the Commissioner of not replying to his suggestion.A councillor said, “Some councillors are not familiar with laptops or latest technology. I doubt they will be able to participate in the session.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-to-conduct-virtual-house-meet-on-may-29-88058
22-05-2020||Panchkula||Trader duped of Rs3 lakh||A crockery shop owner was allegedly duped of Rs 3 lakh by a person, who offered him a distributorship of Patanjali. Complainant, Raj Kumar Jindal, owns a crockery shop in Sector 10, Panchkula. As he was out of business during the lockdown, he  explored the possibility of buying Patanjali’s distributorship. “On May 14, the victim called on a contact number, which he found online. After sometime, he got a call from an unknown number and the caller identified himself as Sunil Gupta. The caller asked the victim to pay Rs 25,000 as registration cost to avail the distributorship. The caller promised the victim a discount of 40 per cent if he takes the distributorship. Later, the caller asked the victim to pay 50 per cent of the order amount and rest after one month. The victim placed an order of Rs 10 lakh (Rs 6 lakh after 40 per cent discount). So, he transferred Rs 3 lakh to a bank account ,” reads the FIR. A case was registered under Section 420 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trader-duped-of-rs3-lakh-88059
22-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo---||Telemedicine consultation for pregnant women||Tribune News Service Mohali, May 21 Gynaecologists at the Civil Hospital, Mohali, will start providing telemedicine consultation to pregnant women from June 1 as they are at a greater risk of getting infected. The Health Department is in the process of developing a telemedicine app where patients can get in touch with doctors from their mobile phones. At present, 20 to 25 patients have been seeking consultation through telemedicine. Dr Rajendra Bhooshan, Medical Specialist, Civil Hospital, said they cater to consultations sought by patients not only from the Mohali district, but across the state. He said they give consultation to around 25 patients daily.  Dr Bhooshan said telemedicine facility started by the state government around a month ago, has received a tremendous response. He said Mohali Civil Hospital’s turn comes on every Thursday. Dr Bhooshan said at present they were providing consultation to patients suffering from chest diseases and other ailments through telemedicine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/telemedicine-consultation-for-pregnant-women-88060
22-05-2020||Amit Bathla---||Public dealing starts at Panchkula Mini -Secretariat||Tribune News Service Panchkula, May 21 Residents today  visited the Deputy Commissioner office for day-to-day work at Mini Secretariat, Sector 1, Panchkula. Every person entering the building was thermally screened and adequate arrangement was made for hand sanitisers. Saral Kendra, which provides 204 type of facilities under one roof, entertains 70 people a day, with 50 per cent staff working on rotational basis. Vishal (45), who lives in Sector 20, visited the Deputy Commissioner office to get his vehicle ownership transferred. He said he had to wait for just 10 minutes. A group of people were also seen waiting outside the office of Additional Deputy Commissioner Manita Malik and Assistant Commissioner of Police Om Prakash. Dharampal, a resident of Khatauli, said he had come to meet a senior police official regarding a clash between two groups. He was not allowed to meet the official concerned as due to number of persons (10) with him. Panchkula Sub-Divisional Magistrate Dheeraj Chahal said as per the Haryana Government’s order, public dealing offices are operational with 50 per cent staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/public-dealing-starts-at-panchkula-mini-secretariat-88061
22-05-2020||Mohali||Four held in Zirakpur for stealing 800 litres of chemical||The Zirakpur police along with the Excise Department arrested four persons for allegedly stealing around 800 litres of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) from two tankers parked on the Patiala-Zirakpur road on the intervening night of May 20-May 21.The suspects have been identified as Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Patiala, Amarjeet Singh, a resident of Lalru, Kamaldeep Singh and Pratap Singh Virk, both residents of Zirakpur. The police have also recovered four drums filled with ENA from the possession of the suspects.According to the police, Gurmeet and Amarjeet are drivers of the tankers and allowed Kamaldeep and Pratap to steal ENA, which is used to prepare sanitisers and wooden polish.Actiong on a tip-off, a joint team of the police and excise officials along with Kharar SDM Himanshu Jain conducted a raid.“The suspects were caught red-handed. Apparatus used for stealing ENA from tankers was also seized,” said ASIRamesh Lal.A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 420, 379 and 188 of the IPC and 61-1-14 of the Excise Act.The suspects were produced before the court which sent them to two-day police remand. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-held-in-zirakpur-for-stealing-800-litres-of-chemical-88062
22-05-2020||---||24-year-old Mohali resident arrested for damaging PCR vehicle||Mohali, May 21 The Sohana police arrested a youth and booked three others for damaging a PCR vehicle during a long chase late last night here. The suspect has been identified as Vivek Dhiman (24) of Phase XI here. He was a graduate from the CGC, Landran. According to the police, Vivek and three of his accomplices were consuming liquor at a public place near the Phase 3-5 traffic lights around 12 midnight. When a PCR vehicle noticed the youths, cops tried to nab them as they were violating the lockdown norms. On seeing the police, the suspects sped away in their Alto car towards the Airport road. On suspicion, the PCR vehicle also chased them for over an hour. The PCR vehicle was damaged near the airport after hitting the road divider and the Alto car. The cop, who was behind the wheels, also suffered injuries. Later, another PCR vehicle started chasing the suspects. On reaching the Punjab-Haryana border near Lalru, the police managed to stop their car. Three out of the four suspects fled towards fields, while Vivek was nabbed on the spot. During the chase, the suspects jumped around three nakas. “Due to darkness, we were not able to nab other suspects, who might have fled towards a village. A PCR vehicle and the Alto car suffered damages as the tyres of both vehicles went flat during the chase,” said investigation officer ASI Amrik Singh. He said they were yet to identify other suspects, who hail from Haryana. A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 279, 337, 427, 186 and 120-B of the IPC. Vivek was released on bail today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24-year-old-mohali-resident-arrested-for-damaging-pcr-vehicle-88063
22-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||At times, even dead have to wait here!||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21Even dead have to wait at times at the Municipal Corporation-run LPG crematorium in Sector 25 here.Reason: A generator has been lying non-functional for the past one-and-a-half years here. As a result, there is no power backup. Whenever there is a power failure, people have to wait to cremate the bodies of their loved ones as electricity is needed to start the LPG-run system.However, if the body is of a Covid patient, the risk of infection increases. Bodies of Covid-19 patients have to be cremated without any delay.A retired Army officer requesting anonymity said: “My wife died recently and my family went to cremate her at the crematorium. We had booked the crematorium over the phone. However, in the middle of everything, electricity supply went off. We had to wait there before something could be arranged. Grieving people  should not have to deal with such kind of situation. I hope no one else faces this problem in future.”A worker at the crematorium said: “Bodies of Covid-19 patients are also brought here for cremation. Ideally, such bodies do not have to be kept waiting as it can increase the chance of transmission of infection. But the authorities are not bothered as the generator has not been working for the past over one-and-a-half years.” He said electricity is used to ignite LPG-based furnaces.MC Chief Engineer Shailender Singh said: “There is no generator backup. Our electricity wing officials said they had removed the battery of the generator because it had been stolen several times in the past. It is not a major problem as things are fixed in no time if there is some power-related issue.”Devinder Singh Babla, Leader of Opposition in the MC, said: “The MP had spent huge money from her funds on it. Still, they are not able to provide basic facilities.”In October 2018, MP Kirron Kher had inaugurated an LPG crematorium in Sector 25 here. Two gas-based furnaces were provided by Kher at a cost of Rs 1.09 crore from the MPLAD Fund. The crematorium requires only 17 to 18 kg of gas to cremate a body in an hour and a half. The cost is around Rs 1,000 per body.inaugurated in 2018In October 2018, MP Kirron Kher had inaugurated an LPG crematorium in Sector 25. Two gas-based furnaces were provided by Kher at a cost of Rs1.09 crore from the MPLAD Fund. The crematorium requires only 17 to 18 kg of gas to cremate a body in an hour and a half. The cost is around Rs1,000 per body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-times-even-dead-have-to-wait-here-88066
22-05-2020||---||13 fresh cases in Chandigarh, tally rises to 218||Chandigarh, May 21The city today recorded 13 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 218.Of the new cases, one is from Sector 30, while the rest are from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26. The Sector 30 patient is a contact of a positive case. She was attending her 3.5-year-old Covid-positive daughter at the PGI.In Bapu Dham, two are family contacts of a positive case, whereas five are family contacts and four community contacts of a positive case.Meanwhile, four family contacts of a positive case in Dhanas were tested. Three reports were found to be negative, while one will be resampled. High drama High drama prevailed at the PGI when patients were being shifted to post discharge care centres. A woman, who was looking after her baby at the PGI and had been advised to shift to Sood Dharamshala, said, “I will not go there as I got to know that they don’t provide food.” She later kept her baby on the floor and said they could take the baby to the quarantine centre and leave her behind. Later, other patients were discharged and the mother-duo was kept at the PGI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh-tally-rises-to-218-88069
22-05-2020||---||In Chandigarh, 37 discharged, 37 active||Chandigarh, May 21Thirty-nine more Covid-19 patients — 37 from the city and two from Mohali — were discharged from the PGI and Shri Dhanwantri College, Sector 46, today.Of the total 218 cases reported from the city, 178 have recovered, while three died. The number of active cases in the city now stands at 37.According to the PGI, a 27-year-old woman nursing officer at the institute, a 55-year-old woman and her granddaughter (8) from Sector 37 were discharged in the morning. They will be home-quarantined for seven days.In the evening, 21 asymptomatic patients — 19 from Sector 30, Bapu Dham, Sector 25, Sector 32, Mauli Jagran, Sector 52, Mani Majra and Maloya in Chandigarh and two from Mohali — were discharged under the new discharge policy for Covid-19 patients from the PGI. All of them remained asymptomatic during their quarantine period. Of them, 19 were sent to the post discharge care centre in Sector 22 for another seven-day isolation and two have been shifted to the post-discharge care centre in Mohali. A total of 15 patients were discharged from Shri Dhanwantri College, Sector 46.Only nutritional care for asymptomaticOf those discharged on Thursday, 19 have been shifted to the post discharge care centre in Sector 22 for another seven-day isolation. A senior ayurvedic physician, Dr Rajiv Kapila, Government Ayurvedic Dispensary, Sector 28, who had been posted at the Sector 22 centre till May 19 to monitor patients, said asymptomatic patients mostly required nutritional care and no medication or treatment was given to them. In case of any emergency, they could be shifted to a hospital.Cure for moderate to severe casesThe PGI Director, Dr Jagat Ram, said in moderate cases, normal blood oxygen level of 95-100 per cent falls. Such patients are given oxygen. Most of the severe cases are patients with comorbidities such as heart problems, renal failure, diabetes, hypertension, pulmonary dysfunction, etc. These patients are kept under 24X7 observation in the ICU and are treated according to their condition. They may be put on ventilator or dialysis or given symptom-specific treatment, Dr Jagat Ram added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-chandigarh-37-discharged-37-active-88070
22-05-2020||---||Mohali is now Covid-free||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 21Mohali today became the Covid-free district after the discharge of last two patients from the PGI, Chandigarh.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said, “As of now, there is no active case in the district. Of the total 105 positive cases reported from the district, 102 patients have recovered and three died.” He said a 30-year-old man from Nayagaon and a 24-year-old woman from Milkh village here were discharged from the PGI today. Dr Manjit said people should not assume that the deadly disease had been fully contained. “The Covid threat is still there. With the district becoming Covid-free, we should not assume that the disease has gone away forever. If we adopt a careless attitude, the disease can strike us again,” warned the Civil Surgeon.DCGirish Dayalan said precautions should be taken and guidelines be followed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-is-now-covid-free-88072
22-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Players find wearing masks on field a herculean task||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 21Though the UT Sports Department is yet to announce Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) before opening stadiums, players are getting curious on the use of masks, which have been made mandatory during practice sessions.High performance athletes do wear masks, but only PM 2.5 category, which is designed to protect from fine particles. This particular mask forces heart and lungs to work harder, so during tournaments body use oxygen more efficiently. However, here we are talking about normal masks through which it's not only difficult to talk, but walk and run. Many players will be using N95s or three-ply masks, which are cost efficient, for the first time in their career. “There is no option left. Not all players can afford specialised sports masks while normal masks are not preferred while running,” said Dr Ravinder Kahsyap, a sports medicine doctors. “Health is more important than anything, but wearing a mask was little uneasy. It's mandatory to wear it. We cannot help it at current times,” said international golfer Aadil Bedi.“It will be very difficult to practice wearing masks. We have never played like this even during practice session and also it will be difficult to breathe. The major part is social distancing, but it’s really difficult to follow,” said Adesh, a footballer.Last-minute changes in guidelinesOn Thursday, the UT Sports Department had almost finalised the guidelines to open stadiums, however, a late evening update by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) forced the department to stop the proceedings. “The SOP was almost finalised, but late evening the SAI and the Sports Ministry updated their guidelines, which forced us to drop ours. We will have to re-assess the updated version of the guidelines to make our SOP. It will take a day or so,” said a senior official.Disciplines categorisedThe updated guidelines by the SAI, distributed sports disciplines into four categories. The category A consists of non-contacted sports (archery, shooting, cycling, fencing, athletics and others), while category B includes minimal/medium contact sports (football, hockey, volleyball, handball) and indirect contact disciplines (weightlifting, tennis, badminton, table tennis). The category C is termed as full contact sports (boxing, judo, wushu, taekwondo, wrestling), while category D referred as water sports (except swimming). According to these categories, the states have been asked to make their SOP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/players-find-wearing-masks-on-field-a-herculean-task-88080
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||6 booked for not wearing mask||Workshop on languageChandigarh: The Department of English and Cultural Studies, Panjab University, organised seven day e-learning workshop titled “Spring Up!” under the guidance of Dr Deepti Gupta, department chairperson. Pranav Kapil, workshop coordinator, brought up various aspects of the study of language, literature and theory among students and teachers, who were unable to attend regular classes due to the Covid-19 crisis. TNSWebinar on Salt SatyagrahaChandigarh: The Department of Gandhian and Peace Studies, Panjab University, in collaboration with the UNESCO Network Chair organised a special webinar of Tushar Arun Gandhi, the great grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, on the topic “Salt Satyagraha and Self Sufficiency Model of Gram Panchayat” today. In his inaugural address Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University, stressed that the relevance of Gandhian philosophy was more relevant than the previous times. TNSDiscussion on industry sicknessChandigarh: The Department of Public Administration of MCM DAV College for Women, Sector 36, organised a webinar titled “Averting industrial sickness: Role of finance and organisational measures - A case study of devi graphics”. During the webinar, Janvi Satija, an alumni of the college, interacted with students of public administration (Honours). TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-booked-for-not-wearing-mask-88083
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Philanthropist donates Rs 1.92L among 192 families||SSP inspects community kitchenChandigarh: The SSP, Chandigarh, Nilambari Jagdale, visited the community (langar) kitchen of an NGO – Umang Ek Nai Soch and Sidh Baba Beriwale Darbar, Sector 35-A, Chandigarh. The SSP was satisfied with distribution of food and arrangements at the kitchen. She also commended work of the NGO and other social organisations along with the police force for feeding poor, needy and hungry people of the tricity through their ‘langar sewa’. NGO members Rakesh Uppal, Deepinder Singh and Sidh Baba Beriwale Darbar team, including Baba Bahadur Singh, Raj Jinda, Karan, Vijay, Subhash, Ujwal, Mani, Janu, Sahil, Akhil and Vinod were also present on the occasion. TNSSanitisers, masks distributed at KishangarhChandigarh: The Chandigarh Territorial Youth Congress distributed masks, sanitisers and juice at Kishangarh village today. Around 1,500 masks, 1,500 bottles of sanitisers and 1,000 juice bottles for children were distributed by SSP Nilambri Jagdale, Congress leaders HS Lucky, Gurpreet Gabi and Luv at Kishangarh. TNSRSETI donates 15K masksFatehgarh Sahib: Members of the Rural Self Employment Training Institute (RSETI) funded by the SBI and Punjab and Sindh Bank handed over 15,000 masks to Deputy Commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill at her office today. Appreciating efforts of the RSETI, the DC said, “Every one has contributed in this hour of crisis. That’s why district has succeeded in controlling Covid.” oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/philanthropist-donates-rs-1-92l-among-192-families-88086
