22-07-2020||Tribune News Srvice||Class XI admissions: Last date for registration extended up to August 3||Chandigarh, July 22The UT Education Department has extended last date of online registration for admission to Class XI up to August 3 (2 pm), in view of the technical issues faced by the students. A public notice in this regard was released by the department on Wednesday. On the second day of Class XI online registration, 8,740 students registered for admission. DSE Rubinderjit Brar said that the department is expecting record number of registration this year. In just two days, 11,540 registration have been made for Class XI admissions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/class-xi-admissions-last-date-for-registration-extended-up-to-august-3-116515
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 13th coronavirus death; records 29 new cases||Chandigarh reported its thirteenth coronavirus death and 29 new cases on Wednesday, a medical bulletin issued by the union territory’s administration said.The UT’s COVID-19 tally now stands at 780.The bulletin says that a 61-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran’s Vikas Nagar died at Alchemist Hospital in Panchkula’s Sector 21.  She was diabetic and also had hypertension and hypothyroidism. Her tests came back after her death.Sixteen of Chandigarh’s 29 new cases are contacts of previously diagnosed cases. Two people are employed at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32.Five of the new cases---including the deceased---are over 60.Eight people were released from hospitals after recovery.Chandigarh now has 241 active cases.Meanwhile, as cases continue to rise, Chandigarh Administration said it had put off its decision to impose a weekend-only curfew across the city. The decision came after neither Punjab nor Haryana had accepted its proposal to impose a weekend-only curfew across the tricity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-13th-coronavirus-death-records-29-new-cases-116473
22-07-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Chandigarh admn postpones decision on tricity weekend curfew, to take fresh view next week||Chandigarh, July 22The UT administration has postponed a decision on imposing a weekend curfew across tricity to check the Covid-19 spread.In a ‘war room’ meeting presided over by Governor of Punjab and Administrator, UT Chandigarh, VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday, it was felt that since Mohali and Panchkula have not agreed for a tricity closure on weekend, a fresh view on this issue will be taken in the next week.The proposal was discussed with doctors, officers, traders associations and political leaders.UT Adviser Manoj Parida had earlier said there was a view after discussion with doctors that since there was a lack of adequate compliance about social distancing and wearing a face mask, there was no option but to go for a total curfew on weekends in the tricity. It has become unavoidable to break the chain and check the sudden surge in Covid cases in the tricity.Meanwhile, the Administrator directed that there must be strict implementation of social distancing and mask wearing in all public places.  He also directed screening of persons coming from outside at the borders and strict action against those, who violate curfew orders from 10 pm to 5 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-postpones-decision-on-tricity-weekend-curfew-to-take-fresh-view-next-week-116471
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||36 new coronavirus cases take Mohali’s count past 600||Mohali reported 36 new coronavirus cases on Wednesday, district officials said---a development that takes the district’s cases up to 610.Mohali has been reporting a significant spike in coronavirus over this month. A reading of the state COVID bulletin shows that the district has been consistently reporting double digit figures since July 8, when the district’s COVID-19 tally stood at 325. The district’s cases have almost doubled since.     Mohali has 219 active coronavirus cases and has recorded 12 deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/36-new-coronavirus-cases-take-mohalis-count-past-600-116455
22-07-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Truck trailer falls over car on Dera Bassi highway; 2 escape unhurt||In a shocking incident, a trailer-truck driver lost control over his vehicle before crashing it into another vehicle on its way from Dera Bassi to Zirakpur on Wednesday morning.Two people survived the crash. At first, the truck driver hit the divider and hit another vehicle. The truck fell over the car, Alto. The incident took place around 11 am. The police have rushed to the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/truck-trailer-falls-over-car-on-dera-bassi-highway-2-escape-unhurt-116389
22-07-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports highest single-day spike with 47 coronavirus cases||Panchkula reported 47 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday morning, taking the district's total to 328.This is the highest spike ever in the district.Of the 47 infections, 16 ITBP officials—all men in their early 30s— have tested positive for the deadly disease. 18 CRPF personnel also tested positive.Other 13 infections include four males, a 4-year-old, 24-year-old, 30-year-old and 50-year-old, and three women from 54-year-old, 4-year-old, 35-year-old from Pinjore, two men—18-year-old and 21-year-old—from village Kherawali, two females—27-year-old, 35-year-old and 55-year-old male from village Maheshpur, and a 30-year-old man from Panchkula Sector 15 tested positive.All COVID-19 positive patients have been shifted to the isolation ward of the hospitals.Their family members and contacts are being isolated. The health teams will take samples of the family members and contacts for testing.Civil Surgeon Sector 6 hospital, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said that the process of tracing the family members and contacts of the infected patients has been started so that the health teams could take their samples for testing.As of now, there are 328 patients and out of these 138 patients have recovered and discharged from the hospital.There are 189 active cases and one death in the district.Reports of 102 tests were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-highest-single-day-spike-with-47-coronavirus-cases-116373
22-07-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Curfew move gets thumbs down||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 21Not many people in the city are in favour of the weekend curfew being considered by the UT Administration keeping in view a sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city.To check the spread of the virus, the UT Administration was planning to impose a total curfew from 7 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday.UT Adviser Manoj Parida had written to the Chief Secretaries of Punjab and Haryana to agree to the UT proposal for a total curfew in the tricity during weekends. However, both states had turned down the proposal.The UT Administrator will take a final call on the lockdown tomorrow.“The proposed curfew is absolutely not needed. It will be disastrous for economy. It would lead to unemployment and increase in crime,” said Naveen Manglani, president, Chamber of Chandigarh Industries. He said the UT Administration should use the police to ensure people wear a mask or maintain social distance, especially in congested areas, rather than challaning vehicles.“Challaning vehicles is not going to prevent Covid. It has been established that we have to control the virus while living with it and not by shutting down everything,” he added.Favouring a complete lockdown, Vikas Jain, an advocate, said, “The weekend curfew is not pragmatic to prevent the spread of Covid. At least 14 to 21-day lockdown is necessary to break the chain of the virus. It will prevent the in-house gatherings and assemblies that are enabling the transmission of the virus in the community. Unless and until borders of the tricity are closed, all efforts towards combating the virus will be futile.”Dr Rajesh Dhir, former president, Indian Medical Association, UT, said strict restrictions were needed to contain the virus and the weekend curfew would be part of the stringent restrictions only. “To break the chain, the Administration should go for a complete lockdown for 14 days and screen the entire population, so that positive cases are identified in one go,” he said.Dr KK Talwar, former Director, PGI, said with the passage of time, people forgot the guidelines issued for the containment of the virus. People move in groups at crowded places like Sukhna Lake, Rose Garden, etc, he said. The weekend curfew would remind them that the invisible enemy had not vanished from the city. He said the weekend curfew would not affect the economy as such, but it would definitely restrict the social gatherings.Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said, “We are not in favour of a lockdown or curfew in the whole city either on the weekends or for any longer period as it will be a blow to the already-struggling business community. Markets are still waiting for customers. The Administration should concentrate on awareness and enforcement drives to make people observe safety measures.”Prem Garg, president, Aam Aadmi Party, Chandigarh, said the weekend lockdown was not going to prove effective in containing the spread of Covid in any form. The lockdown was just some time given for making preparations to deal with the pandemic and not a solution to it, he added. The Administration would have to understand the ground realities. The poor and the labourers would have to suffer again and at the same time, the traders of the city would be ruined, Garg said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curfew-move-gets-thumbs-down-116258
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Stray dogs attack 62-yr-old in Sector 18||A senior citizen was attacked by a pack of stray dogs near Jain Sthanak in Sector 18 here this morning.One of the dogs bit the victim, Subhash Jain, a resident of Sector 8, on the right leg, leaving him bleeding profusely. “Had a car not driven past the animal, it would have bitten the flesh off my leg,” said the 62-year-old.Jain, a local businessman, was going on foot from Sector 8 to Jain Sthanak. As he reached near the temple, dogs started following him.They went to the GMSH-16 where the elderly man was administered an injection before being referred to the Civil Dispensary in Sector 19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stray-dogs-attack-62-yr-old-in-sector-18-116260
22-07-2020||---||Highest rise, 47 +ve in Panchkula||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 21The district today recorded the highest-ever spike in Covid cases with 47 more testing positive for the virus, taking the tally to 328.The 47 patients also include 16 ITBP personnel, aged 29 to 34, and 17 CRPF men, aged 25 to 58. A 10-year-old son of a CRPF man also tested positive for the virus.Others found infected in the district are a four-year-old boy, a 24-year-old youth, two men, aged 50 and 30, a four-year-old girl and two women, aged 54 and 35, all residents of Pinjore, two youths, aged 18 and 21, of Kherawali village, two women, aged 27 and 35, and a 55-year-old man of Maheshpur village, and a 30-year-old man of Sector 15, Panchkula.Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said samples of the family members and other contacts of the infected patients would be taken for the Covid test.As of now, there are 328 cases in the district. Of these, 138 patients have recovered and have been discharged. There are 189 active cases. The district has also reported one death due to Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/highest-rise-47-ve-in-panchkula-116262
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||14 more catch virus in Chandigarh||The city today reported 14 new cases of Covid, taking the virus count of the Union Territory to 751.Five of the 14 new patients were hospital employees. While four of them work at the PGI, the other was from the GMCH, Sector 32. Three female nursing officers of the PGI, who are residents of Sector 15, were found positive for Covid.Two of them are aged 25 and the third 26. A 28-year-old doctor of the PGI too contracted the infection. He is a resident of Sector 9. Two more nurses have been found positive at the PGI. They are residents of Punjab.A 25-year-old woman, working at the GMCH, tested positive for the infection. She is a contact of an already positive case reported from the hospital.Six others to test positive are contacts of previously diagnosed cases. Two women, aged 45 and 66, from Daria and a one-and-a-half-year-old girl, an 11 year-old girl, and two women, aged 66 and 32, from Sector 41 contracted the virus.Besides, a 31-year-old man from Behlana, a nine-year-old boy from Sector 29 and a 72-year-old man from Sector 9 tested positive for the virus. Their source of infection is not known.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-more-catch-virus-in-chandigarh-116263
22-07-2020||---||2 get remand, 1 bail||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 21The police today produced two suspects, arrested last night, before a local court for allegedly hitting a 60-year-old milkman with their car and then dumping his body at a secluded place in Sector 88 here.The two suspects, identified as Ramandeep Singh and Sukhdarshan Singh, alias Gaggu, were remanded in two-day police custody, while a juvenile, one of the suspects arrested earlier, was released on interim bail today.The fourth suspect, Rana, is yet to be nabbed by the police. All suspects are residents of Lehragaga town in Sangrur district.The police have added Section 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC against the suspects. Family members of the victim, Sukhdev Singh, had demanded that the police should add Sections 302 or 304 to the case as they had dumped the victim’s body on the way instead of admitting him to a hospital.The accident took place on Saturday around 6 pm near Bestech Mall in Sector 66 here when Sukhdev was returning home on his cycle after delivering milk. In the meantime, a Hyundai i20 car, coming from the rear side, hit his cycle following which Sukhdev sustained severe head injuries.Bystanders reached there after which the four suspects assured them that they would get the victim admitted to the GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh. The suspects took Sukhdev in their car. When the victim’s family members were informed, they rushed to the hospital, but did not find Sukhdev there. The victim’s kin kept on looking for him in all hospitals and clinics in Mohali and Chandigarh on Saturday and Sunday. Yesterday, they came to know that Sukhdev’s body was found near the fields in Sector 88.The Phase 11 SHO, Inspector Jagdeep Singh Brar, said, “During their questioning, it was learnt that Ramandeep was driving the vehicle, which has already been impounded. Further investigation is on and the fourth suspect will also be nabbed soon.”Earlier, the suspects were booked on charges of kidnapping, hurting and causing death due to negligence.One of the victim’s acquaintances, Gurpreet Singh, alleged that they had learnt that when the suspects dumped the body, they had taken help from their accomplices, who were in Baleno and Swift cars. He alleged that the police should also check their role and arrest them too.A case was registered against the suspects under Sections 304, 365, 427, 337, 279 and 34 of the IPC at the Phase 11 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-get-remand-1-bail-116264
22-07-2020||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court junks bail plea of ‘untraceable’ cop||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 21The Punjab and Haryana High Court today dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of “untraceable” Chandigarh police officer Jaswinder Kaur in a graft case after ruling that her conduct left a lot to be desired. The now under-suspension police official was the Station House Officer of the Mani Majra police station at the relevant time.Referring to a reply filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation in response to Jaswinder Kaur’s petition, Justice Sanjay Kumar asserted that it indicated that the petitioner failed to turn up after she was asked to attend the CBI office on June 30 in connection with the case.She made a false entry in the daily diary register at the Mani Majra police station to the effect that she had returned from the CBI office. Besides, she did not report for duty after she was transferred to the Sector 26 police station and remained incommunicado.The petitioner had allegedly asked for and received illegal gratification in the course of her official duties, when Randhir Singh approached her with a complaint alleging cheating. Justice Sanjay Kumar observed that her services were placed under suspension on July 2 and she was still untraceable. “Being a member of a uniformed service, the conduct of the petitioner leaves a lot to be desired. It is for the petitioner to face the investigation and prove her case. The failure of the petitioner to join the investigation and her reticence in coming forward even now disentitles her from seeking relief at this stage.”Dismissing the plea, Justice Sanjay Kumar added that the allegations levelled against her were serious in nature and her interrogation and cooperation with the investigation was “utmost necessary”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-junks-bail-plea-of-untraceable-cop-116265
22-07-2020||---||Two cops among 23 fresh cases in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 21Two more cops posted at the Gharuan police post, falling under the Kharar police station (Rural), tested positive for Covid-19 here today.Besides, 21 others also contracted the infection, taking the district tally to 574. The infected cops, aged 47 and 46, are residents of Gharuan.On Sunday, a 30-year-old woman sub-inspector, a 29-year-old sub-inspector and a 52-year-old head constable at the Gharuan police post were found suffering from the contagion. The Mohali Deputy Commissioner, Girish Dayalan, said a 35-year-old man from Phase 3B1, a 49-year-old man from Sector 126, a 41-year-old woman from Baltana and a 40-year-old woman from Phase 3B2 contracted the virus.A 47-year-old man and a 46-year-old woman from Hira Enclave, Kharar, two women, aged 28 and 62, and a 55-year-old man from Sarvjot Enclave, Kharar, a 59-year-old man and two boys, aged eight and 14, from Phase 6 and a 48-year-old woman from Kharar were diagnosed with Covid-19.Two men, aged 41 and 62, from Zirakpur, a 55-year-old man from Sector 69, a 26-year-old woman from Phase IX, a 22-year-old youth from Sector 66, a 37-year-old man from Sector 94, a 23-year-old youth from Sunny Enclave, Kharar, and a 37-year-old man from Gharuan also tested positive for coronavirus.The district has so far witnessed 574 cases. While 371 patients have been cured and discharged, there are now 191 active cases. The district has seen 12 deaths.Nine patients dischargedNine patients were discharged after defeating the virus. They are a 35-year-old man from Saidpura, three men, aged 30, 44 and 25, from Dera Bassi, a five-year-old girl, a 33-year-old woman and a 32-year-old man from Kharar and two women, aged 23 and 65, from Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-cops-among-23-fresh-cases-in-mohali-116266
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Juvenile among 2 held for theft||Two thieves, including a juvenile, have been arrested for a house theft at Indira Colony, Mani Majra. The suspects entered the house while the family was asleep and made off with valuables on the intervening night of July 13 and 14.One of the suspects has been identified as Happy, alias Champ (23), a resident of Mani Majra. Complainant Kusum (51) had reported that two mobiles, two gold rings, two silver necklaces and Rs40,000 were stolen. The items were recovered from them.The police said Happy had three cases registered against him earlier at the IT Park police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/juvenile-among-2-held-for-theft-116267
22-07-2020||---||All suspects traced, claim cops||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 21Two days after a Fortis Hospital staff nurse was strangled to death in front of a liquor shop in Sector 68 here, the police today claimed to have traced all suspects involved in the murder.DSP (City 2) Deep Kamal said: “Two prime suspects, Kamaldeep Singh Grewal (29) and Rinku (19), are already in police custody. Two of their accomplices have been identified and they will be arrested soon.”Kamaldeep and Rinku were produced before a court, which remanded them in three-day police custody.Arun and the suspects were standing in front of the liquor shop. A beggar came there. One of the suspects gave him Rs40. Arun objected to it, saying he would waste it in buying liquor. This led to heated arguments between both parties. Later, the suspects, who were already under the influence of liquor, thrashed Arun and strangled him to death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-suspects-traced-claim-cops-116268
22-07-2020||---||CHB to launch housing scheme for general public at IT Park||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 21The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will soon launch a housing scheme for the general public at Rajiv Gandhi Chandigarh Information Technology Park (IT Park).Under the scheme, the CHB will construct nearly 788 flats of different categories, including two bedroom, three bedroom and dwelling units for the EWS, in seven-storey buildings.At a meeting with board officials today, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore gave approval to the project, said sources.Now, the board will start preparing the detailed drawings of the scheme. It will be launched after obtaining detailed drawings and environment clearances.Earlier, the CHB had decided to construct 1,100 flats.The board has 123 acres in its possession at IT Park where 20 sites will be developed. The board will construct 788 flats at two sites, while the remaining 18 sites will be given to private builders for development. For this, the board has hired a private consultant so that the flats can be prepared with a better design.The housing scheme will come up close to the high-end officers’ flats to be constructed for the governments of Haryana and Punjab, and the UT Administration.The CHB got the possession of 123 acres after a residential project, Prideasia, failed to take off.The board has decided to launch the scheme after it failed to sell 18 residential and commercial sites in an e-auction two years ago. Due to the high reserve prices, not many developers evinced interest in the auction.The CHB will develop the scheme on two plots, measuring 10.51 acres and 6.43 acres. The prices will be fixed after approval of the drawing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-to-launch-housing-scheme-for-general-public-at-it-park-116269
22-07-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Panchkula shines in Haryana board exams||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 21Panchkula district has topped in Haryana with the pass percentage of 90.01 in the Class XII results declared by the Board of School Education, Haryana, today.A total of 2,583 candidates have appeared in the exam out of which 2,325 have cleared, 218 got compartment while 40 students have failed. All government schools in the district have exhibited excellent results than private schools. This year also, girls have outshined boys in all streams.Daily wager’s son tops arts streamSurinder Prajapati is a son of a daily wager, Joginder Prajapati. His mother, Shahodari Devi, is a homemaker and they live in Ahiyana flats. He said he wanted to become an IAS officer to serve the country and he wanted to take admission to Delhi University. He said writing poems and painting were his hobbies. He said teachers and other staff in the school were very helpful.Kanika Aggarwal (commerce stream) and Khushbu (arts stream) of Government Senior Secondary School, Raipur Rani, and Surinder Prajapati (arts stream) of Government Sanskriti Model School, Sector 20, have topped the district with 96.6 per cent.In the non-medical stream, Sneh of Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 6, topped the district with 95 per cent while Himani of Government Senior Secondary School, Pinjore, stood first in the medical stream by security 95 per cent.In the commerce stream, Deepika of Government Senior Secondary School, Nanakpur, has bagged the second place by securing 95.8 per cent and Dushali Gupta of Government Sarthak Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 12-A, and Roshni of Government Sanskriti Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 20, secured the third spot by securing 95.2 per cent.In the arts stream, Vanshika Chaudhary of New India Senior Secondary School, Sector 15, and Chanchal of Government Senior Secondary School, Thandog in Morni Hills, bagged the second and third spot by securing 95 per cent and 94.8 per cent, respectively.Kanika, who topped in the commerce stream, wants to become a chartered accountant like her father Pankaj Aggarwal. She said her mother Neelam Aggarwal is a homemaker. She said she studied for five to six hours a day.Khushbu, who topped in the arts stream, said she wanted to become an IAS officer. Her father Tarsem Kumar is a ‘nambardar’ while her mother Rekha is a homemaker. She said for busting stress, she played badminton and singing was her bobby.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-shines-in-haryana-board-exams-116270
22-07-2020||---||2,800 register on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 21Technical issues marred the first day of the registration process for admission to Class XI in government schools of the city.Despite the issues, 2,800 registrations were made for Class XI today.An official notice issued by the UT Education Department on its website read: “This is for the information of all that due to some technical issues, the registration process for admission to Class XI in government senior secondary schools of the UT will start at 3 pm on Tuesday.”Several students who reached the help desks designated in schools before 3 pm for filling admission forms had to return due to technical issues in filling the registration forms.The online registration for admission to Class XI in government schools will continue till July 30. Students can apply for admission through online facility at www.chdeducation.gov.in. The candidate can submit application with all required scanned documents after making payment online by July 31 till 2 pm. The prospectus for the same is available at www.chdeducation.gov.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-800-register-on-day-1-116271
22-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Soon, study room at PU Boys’ Hostel No. 4||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 21A storeroom at the Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hall (Boys’ Hostel No. 4), Panjab University, is being converted into a full-time study room.The room is under construction and will be ready in a month. The project was approved in 2018 and is now on the verge of completion. It will be the first fully-dedicated study room in any hostel and is likely to remain open for students 24x7.“For a student, the quest for understanding and knowledge is limitless and hostel inmates need a conducive atmosphere. We are committed to provide the best possible infrastructure and facilities to residents at hostels for growth and development,” said Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University.The fully air-conditioned room will be built on 1,250 square feet and will accommodate 70 students at a time. Basic facilities such as laptop/mobile charging points at every bay, Internet facility, provision for natural light and air have also been taken care of. The room will remain under CCTV surveillance and a security guard will be deputed for round-the-clock supervisions.“The idea of converting the store into a reading room was mooted in 2018 with the belief that the habit of reading strengthens memory, feeds imagination and stimulates creativity. Reading is an anti-stress therapy,” said Dr Bharat, Warden, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hall.The hostel is closest to the Student Centre and AC Joshi Library. For the benefit of the specially-abled (handicap) students, a ramp will be made to give them a direct access to the study room and office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-study-room-at-pu-boys-hostel-no-4-116272
22-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib sees 8 fresh cases||District Magistrate (DM) Amrit Kaur Gill has declared Guru Nanak Pura Mohalla in Bassi Pathana and Bhambhri village of the Khamano subdivision as micro-containment zones.As per the orders, no activity can be initiated in these areas without the prior permission of the DM. Civil Surgeon NK Aggarwal said eight new positive cases were reported today and 18 were discharged after treatment. He said of 14,592 samples collected in the district, 224 tested positive for Covid. He said till today, 163 patients had been cured and discharged from the hospital and there are only 59 active cases in the district. The test results of 332 were awaited. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-sees-8-fresh-cases-116273
22-07-2020||---||2 booked for stalking in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 21Two cases of stalking and criminal intimidation were reported from various parts of the city.In the first case, the victim alleged that Sandeep Singh Pannu, a resident of Faridkot, Punjab, harassed and threatened her by calling her from different numbers.Police sources said the victim had earlier complained against the suspect following which a case was registered and the matter was pending in the court.A case has been registered against the suspect under Sections 195-A (threatening a person to give false evidence), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 354 A (stalking) of the IPC at the Sector 36 police station.In another case, a 19-year-old youth has been booked for stalking and harassing a minor girl.The police said the suspect, identified as Ajay (19) from Daria, used to stalk a 16-year-old girl. The suspect also reached the victim’s house and threatened her. The victim told her father who then approached the police.The police have registered a case against the suspect at the Industrial Area police station and initiated an investigation into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-booked-for-stalking-in-chandigarh-116274
22-07-2020||---||Platform for Chandigarh data launched||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 21VP Singh Badnore, UT Administrator, today launched the Chandigarh Administrator’s Dashboard in the presence of Adviser Manoj Parida and officials of the Finance Department, UT, besides officials of the National Informatics Centre (NIC).The dashboard has been developed by the NIC with inputs from the Finance Department. This will facilitate and give an access to all government departments of the Administration to update the data of 81 schemes/services which are being implemented by them.Once the data of schemes/services is uploaded/updated by the departments, the same will be verified by the Finance Department after which the data will start reflecting on the Chandigarh dashboard as well as on the national dashboard. The government departments can access information pertaining to the UT in no time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/platform-for-chandigarh-data-launched-116275
22-07-2020||---||Excise Department raids Sector 7 chemist shop||Chandigarh, July 21On the directions of Excise and Taxation Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar, the Excise and Taxation Department, UT, today conducted a search on the business premises of M/S Romeela Chemist, Sector 7-C, Chandigarh.The search began at noon and lasted till 7 pm. It was conducted under the supervision of ETOs Amanpreet Singh and Maanek Ahlawat.The chemist mainly deals in medicines, sanitisers, etc, and was not filing GSTR-3B monthly tax returns from January 2020 onwards in spite of doing regular business.Certain documents and a computer system have been seized by the department for verification.The entire stock checking has also been done by the inspecting team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/excise-department-raids-sector-7-chemist-shop-116276
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||People roam sans mask at university||Several persons at the Panjab University campus markets are often seen either without wearing a mask or wearing it in an inappropriate way.Some cases of Covid-19 have already been reported from the PU campus, but apparently, residents on the campus and those visiting the PU are not bothered about taking precautions. “The PU security or the police should issue challans to the violators on the campus. The authorities should also give a free hand to the PU security personnel,” said one of the residents.Recently, the police rounded up several for not wearing a face mask at various places, including Sukhna Lake, Sectors 7, 27 and 28. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/people-roam-sans-mask-at-university-116277
22-07-2020||Panchkula||Two arrested for assault||The Chandimandir police have arrested Gorav and Sanjeev Kumar, residents of Khatauli village. Complainant Krishna Kumar alleged that the suspects attacked him and were involved in a clash during the lockdown. A case has been registered at the Chandimandir police station and further action is being taken. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-for-assault-116278
22-07-2020||---||64 violate curfew in Fatehgarh Sahib, held||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib, July 21The district police registered 49 FIRs, arrested 64 persons and impounded 20 vehicles for violating the night curfew imposed in the district, Senior Superintendent ofPolice (SSP) Amneet Kondal said.She said the district magistrate had imposed the night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am and any type of vehicular movement was banned during this period. She said during night patrolling, the police impounded 20 vehicles, registered 49 FIRs and arrested 64 persons for disobeying the orders.She said these orders had been imposed to stop the spread of Covid-19. Besides, the police were continuously checking those who had been quarantined and the violators would be booked. She said the police were going all out efforts to prevent the further spread of the virus by enforcing the directions issued by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/64-violate-curfew-in-fatehgarh-sahib-held-116279
22-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||24X7 water supply: Smart City company moots joint venture||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 21Having earlier failed to find any takers for its much-touted Rs160 crore 24X7 water supply project in Mani Majra, Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) has now decided to offer it via joint venture.Tender to be floated soonNow, a tender will again be floated in a week’s time to start the project. As per the new criteria, two companies may form a joint venture and participate in the bid to carry out the work.Now, a tender will again be floated in a week’s time to start the project. As per the new criteria, two companies may form a joint venture and participate in the bid to carry out the work.After no firm had come forward to show any interest in the project, private firms had suggested that a joint venture should be allowed. Following this, it was left on the technical committee meeting to take a call. It was approved in the technical committee meeting held today.This was confirmed by CSCL General Manager NP Sharma.There are two components — capital and installation of water meters — under this project. A total of 13,700 water connections have been planned to be covered in Mani Majra under this project. One of the main focus areas is to reduce water leakage from the existing 50 per cent to 15 per cent.Once a successful participant is selected, the contractor will have to complete the work in one and a half years. As per the plan, pipelines will be laid in the outer parts as well as inside the houses to keep water contamination at bay.Earlier, the Municipal Corporation used to lay down pipelines till the outer areas of houses. People used to misuse it by connecting pipelines on their own.This used to lead to water contamination.After carrying out this pilot project, Chandigarh Smart City Limited will start the work on providing 24X7 water supply in the entire city.The CSCL will be borrowing Rs440 crore on interest at the rate of two per cent from a French firm. It will pay Rs60 crore available with it, while the remaining Rs380 crore will be paid through consumers by increasing water bills effectivefrom 2027.The technical committee also approved an agenda regarding upgrade of a sewage treatment plant andrenovation of 40 public toilets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24x7-water-supply-smart-city-company-moots-joint-venture-116280
22-07-2020||---||Heart-lung machine installed at GMCH||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 21A new heart-lung machine, worth Rs1 crore, has been installed at the GMCH, Sector 32, to provide cardiac surgery services.Till now, the hospital was using an old machine given on loan by the PGI. A team of trained surgeons, anaesthetists, nursing staff, technicians and a fully functional cardiology department will provide optimum operative and post-operative care.Surgeries for single and multiple cardiac-valve replacement, coronary artery bypass surgery, basic congenital heart surgeries, including surgery in children born with a hole in heart, can now be performed at the hospital.An MoU between the GMCH and the PGIMER has also been signed by the UT Home Secretary and the PGI Director to provide support to the newly opened services as and when required atthe GMCH.At present, only the PGI, the PGIMS, Rohtak, and the IGMC, Shimla, are providing these services in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana.The Director-Principal, GMCH, stated that the full-fledged Department of Cardiovascular Surgery (CTVS) at the hospital would be of huge benefit to the patients of the tricity and neighboring states, who had been waiting to be operated, but had to suffer because of long waiting lists. The patients covered under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme can also easily avail of the service at the GMCH.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/heart-lung-machine-installed-at-gmch-116281
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||High Court issues notice to Chandigarh Smart City Ltd||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice of motion to Chandigarh Smart City Limited on a petition alleging that a clause in tender documents was restricting bids to “companies registered under the Companies Act”.The petitioner, HL Handa & Co, submitted that the dispute in the writ petition was that the impugned clause restricted bids to such companies in connection with a tender for rehabilitation and upgrade of an existing sewerage plant.Appearing before the Bench, senior advocate Chetan Mittal and Kunal Mulwani contended the accompanying form/undertaking in the tender document prescribed “sole proprietorship, partnership, public limited company and private limited company”. The prohibition was not only unreasonable, arbitrary, against the public policy and limiting the participation, but also amounted to avoiding competition.The Bench was told that the petitioner subsequently received a letter from the respondent regarding objection to participation in the technical bid while scrutinising of the tender documents. In response, the petitioner submitted in “common commercial sense” all kinds of firms are allowed to participate.But despite the same, the respondents were not allowing the petitioner to be technically qualified on the basis of the clause. Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash issued a notice of motion and a notice regarding stay for July 28. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-issues-notice-to-chandigarh-smart-city-ltd-116282
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Fresh non-bailable warrants against suspended cop||The CBI court has issued fresh non-bailable arrest warrants against suspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur of the Chandigarh Police in a bribery case.The warrants were issued on the request of the CBI, which informed the court that the agency failed to locate her despite its best efforts. The CBI court in the order said fresh arrest warrants should be issued against Jaswinder Kaur returnable on July 23. On July 16, the CBI court had issued warrants against her returnable on July 20. Jaswinder Kaur was booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh from Gurdeep Singh, a Mani Majra resident, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fresh-non-bailable-warrants-against-suspended-cop-116283
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Adviser releases book on museum’s iconic artworks||The Government Museum and Art Gallery has brought out a publication, Masterpieces, which features 60 iconic artworks of the museum from its rich collection.The book was released by UT Adviser Manoj Parida in the presence of Harish Nayar, Special Secretary, Finance, and Radhika Singh, director of the museum, today. The Adviser commended the efforts of the museum and suggested that the book should be made available at multiple tourist spots of the city to increase awareness about the museum’s rich collection.The publication has coloured illustrations and each artwork is accompanied by a textual description highlighting the aesthetic and historical significance of the masterpiece. Among those featured are Gandhara sculptures; miniature paintings from the courts of erstwhile Pahari and Rajasthani kingdoms; modern and contemporary Indian works by artists such as MF Husain, FN Souza, Satish Gujral; decorative art; rare manuscripts; coins dating back to Kushan and Gupta dynasties and some The book will be available for sale at the museum souvenir shop once it reopens for the visitors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adviser-releases-book-on-museums-iconic-artworks-116284
