22-10-2020||Chandigarh||3 more Covid deaths, 53 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Thursday reported three more COVID-19 fatalities, pushing the toll to 212 while 53 fresh cases took the infection count to 13,848, officials said.There are 712 active cases in the city as of now, according to the medical bulletin.A total of 82 patients were discharged after they recovered, taking the number of cured people to 12,924, it said.A total of 98,981 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 84,536 tested negative while reports of 142 samples are awaited, as per bulletin. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-covid-deaths-53-new-cases-in-chandigarh-159575
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports 58 fresh COVID-19 cases; total at 11,149||Mohali reported 58 COVID-19 cases on Thursday taking the district's total to 11,149. In the last 24 hours, 94 patients recovered from the deadly disease. The death total stands at 229.The city reports 560 active casesCOVID-19 cases:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-58-fresh-covid-19-cases-total-at-11-149-159524
22-10-2020||---||Woman crushed to death on Zirakpur flyover||Zirakpur, October 22A Scooty-borne woman was crushed to death under a bus on the Chandigarh-Delhi highway at the Zirakpur flyover on Thursday.The bus driver has been detained and the Zirakpur police have taken the body in possession and begun the investigation. The sister of the deceased, too, has suffered injuries and admitted to the hospital. Eyewitnesses said huge crowd gathered at the spot and police had tough time managing the traffic on the flyover.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-crushed-to-death-on-zirakpur-flyover-159504
22-10-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||5-member panel to redress grievances against promoters, builders||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, October 22A five-member committee has been constituted in the district to redress the grievances against promoters and builders for non-provision of basic amenities.The committee has been constituted under the chairmanship of Additional Deputy Commissioner (General), Mohali; with Superintendent of Police (to be designated by the SSP); Additional Chief Administrator, GMADA; Municipal Commissioner and EOs of the Municipal Committee as members while the Assistant Commissioner (Grievances) is the member-secretary.The committee will meet every Wednesday at 3:30 pm for resolution of pending grievances.“Timely and effective redressal of these grievances requires higher-level inter-departmental coordination, including that from Departments of Power, Water Supply, Urban Development and police in some cases. So it was deemed essential that a Special Committee be constituted to look into these cases,” said Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-member-panel-to-redress-grievances-against-promoters-builders-159498
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||3 arrested for stabbing youth||Protest by NSUIChandigarh: The Panjab University NSUI unit protested outside the Vice-Chancellor’s office. “We demand that every exit semester student should get his result as soon as possible,” said Manoj Lubana, NSUI. TNSWebinar at PGGCChandigarh: Postgraduate Government College (PGGC), Sector 46, organised a webinar on ‘Covid-19: Pandemic, Developmental Challenges and Rebooting Measures’. The webinar was to create awareness on the current public health scenario, developmental challenges and rebooting measures taken at regional and national levels. TNSMgmt assn pollChandigarh: CA Uma Kant Mehta has been elected president of the Chandigarh Management Association (CMA). The CMA-executive elections for 2020-21 were conducted online on October 18. Karun Kashmiri was elected vice-president, Dr Ashwani Vig secretary, SB Khullar was elected joint secretary and RK Nayyar treasurer. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-arrested-for-stabbing-youth-159338
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Minor pregnant, uncle arrested||An uncle of a 14-year-old girl has been arrested on a charge of raping the minor. The victim, a resident of Sanjay Colony, Industrial Area, Phase I, was found two-month pregnant. Childline, Chandigarh, had received information that a girl was brought to the GMSH-16, where she was found pregnant.  The suspect, a father of four, repeatedly raped the victim. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-pregnant-uncle-arrested-159192
22-10-2020||Sandeep Rana||House tax defaulters may lose water connection||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21Residents who failed to pay their property tax despite repeated notices will have to lose their water supply connection. As many as 200 such defaulters were served a notice today.The local Municipal Corporation (MC) has identified total about 8,000 defaulters with a total dues of Rs7 crore. They are now being served notice directing them to clear their dues in a month or lose water connection.If they fail to pay in the given time, their details will be forwarded to the public health wing of the engineering department, which will cut their water connection.“Today, we served notice to 200 house tax defaulters asking them to pay or lose water connection. Our purpose is not to remove the connection, but to force the defaulters to cough up as a huge amount was pending against them for a long time,” said Anil Kumar Garg, Additional Commissioner, MC, who heads the property tax branch.He said daily 34-40 persons were still coming to them to pay tax even as the last date expired on July 31.Besides, an equal number of commercial tax defaulters are being served property attachment notice. The city has a total of 1.06 lakh residential and commercial tax payers. Nearly 41,000 property owners are either fully or partially exempted from paying the levy.“The house tax dues exist since 2013-14. Some have paid a part of the tax while some have not paid at all. Some have dues of a few years. It includes penalty,” said an official concerned.Officials said they had collected Rs3 crore more tax than what they had earned till October 21 in the last fiscal. Though in the last fiscal too the civic body had started the process of snapping water connection of about 5,100 defaulters in March, it could not be undertaken fully due to the Covid-induced lockdown.It will be for the first time in the city when a property tax defaulter will lose a water connection.In figures||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/house-tax-defaulters-may-lose-water-connection-159193
22-10-2020||---||3 of Lawrence Bishnoi gang held by Chandigarh Police||Chandigarh, October 21Three alleged members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, who provided shelter to gangster Monty Shah in Rajasthan, have been arrested by the local police. The suspects also helped Monty escape from Hanumangarh, Rajasthan, before the UT police conducted a raid to nab him.A team, led by Inspector Baldev Kumar, SHO of the Sector 34 police station, nabbed the suspects, identified as Deepak Wadhwa (28) and Parwinder Wadhwa (26), brothers, and Virender Soni (26), all residents of Hanumangarh, on the intervening night of October 20 and 21.Police officials said the suspects were the sleeper cell of the Bishnoi gang, who provided harbour to Monty Shah and also helped him by providing a motorcycle to evade arrest in Rajasthan.“They are key members of the Bishnoi gang and were involved in providing shelter, arms and ammunition and vehicles to shooters of the Bishnoi gang,” said a police official.Monty had fired gunshots to threaten deceased Sonu Shah’s brother Parveen Shah and his associate Tirath, who is key witness in the Sonu Shah murder case.The police said the suspects had provided a vehicle and ammunition to Monty to fire at Tirath and Parveen Shah. Recently, the police had announced a reward of Rs50,000 for provided information about Monty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-of-lawrence-bishnoi-gang-held-by-chandigarh-police-159194
22-10-2020||Mohali||Mohali sees 2 deaths, 79 cases||Two persons died of Covid-19, while 79 new cases were reported from the district today. As many as 98 more patients have recovered in the past 24 hours.Among the cases reported today, Dera Bassi accounted for six, Dhakoli (21), Gharuan (two), Kharar (four), Kurali (one), Lalru (one) and Mohali urban (44). The district has so far seen 11,880 positive cases, of which 598 are active. As many as 11,053 persons have been cured. The district has reported 229 Covid deaths till now. On Tuesday, three fatalities and 27 new cases were reported. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-2-deaths-79-cases-159195
22-10-2020||---||Badnore for testing vans near temples||Chandigarh, October 21To break the chain of coronavirus transmission, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has stated that mobile Covid-19 testing vans should be placed near temples and gurdwaras during the festivities so that devotees can volunteer for such testing.The Health Department recently started sending mobile testing vans to different locations in the city.During a review meeting on the pandemic, the Administrator directed the Police Department to be alert during the festival season to ensure that there was no crowding during the celebrations.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said they had 105 Covid patients in Nehru Extension Block, among whom 19 belonged to Chandigarh.He said they had tested 565 Covid samples, of which 35, belonging to Chandigarh, were found positive.The acting Director of the GMCH, Sector 32, said they had tested 912 Covid samples and only 40 were found positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badnore-for-testing-vans-near-temples-159196
22-10-2020||Panchkula||Two deaths, 30 more infected in Panchkula||The district today reported two deaths, taking the fatality count to 109, while 30 new coronavirus cases pushed the infection count to 6,900.A 76-year-old man from Pinjore, who was suffering from Hodgkin’s lymphoma (cancer of the lymphatic system, which is part of the immune system), and a 66-year-old man from Sector 16, who was suffering from diabetes, succumbed to the disease.Among the fresh cases, five were from Pinjore, four each from the MDC, Sector 5, and Sector 15, two each from Kalka, Sector 25 and Sector 26, and one each from Abheypur, Barwala, Mandana, Morni, Sector 10, Sector 11, Sector 16, Sector 20, Sector 21, Sector 27 and Sector 6. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-deaths-30-more-infected-in-panchkula-159197
22-10-2020||
||Third suspect in goldsmith robbery case in police net||Chandigarh, October 21  The third suspect, who had allegedly robbed a goldsmith in Sector 23, has been arrested by the local police. Three suspects have been arrested now, while the fourth had passed away after the crime.   The suspect has been identified as 19-year-old Umesh, alias Chotu (19), a resident of Dhanas. The knife used in the crime and gold have been recovered from Chotu. Samrat Thandar, a resident of Sector 23, was robbed at his house on October 17. Two suspects had entered his house during the daytime and robbed 150 gm of gold and a purse containing documents. The third suspect was waiting for them on a bike near the house.   Police sources said Bikas, who has a jewellery shop in Sector 23, had hatched a conspiracy to rob the goldsmith. He had reportedly suffered losses due to the goldsmith and wanted to take revenge. Bikas and Kamlesh, whose motorcycle was used in the crime, were arrested earlier. One suspect, Rahul, had passed away a few hours after the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/third-suspect-in-goldsmith-robbery-case-in-police-net-159198
22-10-2020||Naina Mishra||PGI set to give second dose of Oxford vaccine tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) today completed the first dose of vaccination of 100 volunteers for the late-phase human clinical trials of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, also known as Covishield in India.The second dose is to be given after 28 days of the first dose, which will be on October 23. The institute has so far screened 143 candidates for the vaccine. Dr Jagat Ram, PGI Director ‘All volunteers safe’It is a big achievement. All volunteers are safe without much side effects. This vaccine will be beneficial for the masses to prevent the Covid-19 infection.One among the vaccine volunteers is a 64-year-old senior doctor of the PGI. He said, “I have comorbidities such as hypertension and diabetes. I considered exposing myself to find out what effect the vaccine will have on elderly people with comorbidities like me. This is for the cause of mankind and I am willing to risk it even at the cost of my well-being.”He said, “So far, I am doing well and have completed 23 days ever since the first dose. Initially, I developed fever and mild aches in the body, but recovered quickly. I feel fine ever since then.”As per the protocol, Covishield or Placebo or Oxford/AZ-ChAdOx1 will be administered under a two-dose schedule on day one and 29 as 0.5 ml dose intramuscularly.64-year-old PGI doc ‘For the cause of mankind’I have hypertension and diabetes. I considered exposing myself to find out what effect the vaccine will have on elderly people with comorbidities like me. This is for the cause of mankind and I am willing to risk it even at the cost of my well-being.This is a phase two/three, observer-blind, randomised, controlled study in healthy adults in India for comparison of the safety of Covishield with Oxford/AZ-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 and Placebo, and immunogenicity with Oxford/AZ-ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 in the prevention of the SARS CoV-2 infection.Both Covishield and the Oxford/ChAdOx1 have the same virus protein but differ in their make — the exact nature of the difference has not been publicly disclosed. The trial also seeks to quantify these differences, if any.The trial involves 1,600 volunteers in 17 cities across the country likely to be inoculated in the coming months in the combined phase two/three trials. These trials check whether the vaccine is safe and capable of producing an immune response to disarm future infections by the SARS-CoV-2 virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-set-to-give-second-dose-of-oxford-vaccine-tomorrow-159199
22-10-2020||---||Chandigarh reports 54 fresh cases||Chandigarh, October 21The city today recorded 54 fresh cases of Covid 19, taking the tally to 13,795. No fresh fatality was reported.As many as 1,134 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours and 54 persons were found positive. A total 118 patients discharged today.The total number of cured patients has reached 12,842. There are 744 active cases in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-54-fresh-cases-159200
22-10-2020||---||Chandigarh police nail youth who provided bike to shooters||Chandigarh, October 21Almost 10 days after a 26-year-old former SOPU chief was gunned down by three bike-borne assailants outside a mall in the Industrial Area, the UT police managed to arrest a youth who had provided the motorcycle to the attackers to carry out the crime.The suspect has been identified as Gurvinder Singh (23), alias Dhadi, alias Lambar, a resident of Rurki Pukta in Mohali district.Gurlal Brar, a former state president of SOPU, was shot dead outside City Emporium Mall while he was waiting for his friends in his SUV on the roadside on the intervening night of October 10 and 11.The police said five teams were constituted to trace the motorcycle and a few hours after the crime, a Pulsar motorcycle, bearing a Chandigarh number, was found abandoned near Sector 28. On verification, the police found that the bike had the number of another Pulsar motorcycle, which was registered in the name of a Sector 41 resident.The police then verified the engine and chassis numbers of the bike and found that it was registered in the name of Ranjit Singh of Thona village in Ropar district.A team, led by DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh, traced Ranjit and found that he had sold the bike in 2014 through a broker, Jasbir Singh of Kharar. However, he had no idea to whom the motorcycle was sold.One of the team members, Inspector Neeraj Sarna, found that a traffic cop had impounded the same bike in Chandigarh on December 10, 2016. Kulbir Singh was riding the motorcycle at that time.The police traced Kulbir Singh, who revealed that he had given his bike to Gaganpreet Singh of Rurki Pukta and the vehicle was further taken by Gurvinder Singh and Geeta, alias Gurmeet Singh, both residents of the village.The police then nabbed Gurvinder while riding an i20 car in the city.During interrogation, Gurvinder disclosed that he, along with his friend Geeta, were asked by Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, a member of the Davinder Bambiha gang, to provide a motorcycle with a fake number plate to Neeraj Chaska and Mani as they had planned to eliminate Gurlal Brar.The police said Gurvinder and Geeta got a fake number plate affixed to the motorcycle and handed it over to Neeraj Chaska and Mani at Sunny Enclave, Kharar, three days before the murder.“All suspects, including Gaurav Patial, are key members of the Davinder Bambiha group. It is suspected that Neeraj Chaska and Mani had fired at Gurlal Brar,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, SSP, UT .Cancel club licence: SSPThe SSP has written to the DC for cancelling the licence granted to Para, a night club at Centra Mall, for violating guidelines. Sources said DSP (East) Gurmukh Singh had sent a report to the SSP, mentioning that the club provided free entry, food and drinks to miscreants with a criminal past. The sources said Gurlal Brar, who was wanted by the police, was visiting Para, but the club failed to inform about him.Suspect a drug addict, peddlerGurvinder Singh, who has been arrested in the former SOP chief’s murder case, and his friend Geeta are allegedly drug addicts and involved in the supply of drugs. They were earlier arrested in a case of attempt to murder in Kurali. They remained in jail for around eight months where they came in contact of other criminals. Gurvinder was out on bail in an NDPS Act case.Gangsters Budha, Baba to be brought to cityGangster Sukhpreet, alias Budha, and Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, are allegedly operating the Davinder Bambiha gang after the encounter of Davinder Bambiha. The UT police have obtained their production warrant and the two gangsters, who are lodged in jails of Punjab, will be brought to the city for questioning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-nail-youth-who-provided-bike-to-shooters-159202
22-10-2020||---||CAT relief for computer teachers||Chandigarh, October 21The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) today stayed an order of the Education Department to relieve computers teachers. It has fixed October 27 as the next date of hearing on their petition.The computer teachers, who were working in government schools in the city for years, had approached CAT through counsel Beant Singh Seemar against the order issued on October 1.Seemar said CAT stayed the order directing the department not to replace them by way of new appointments.The computer teachers were sacked after the Administration outsourced their service to a private company. Earlier, the teachers were working on a contract basis.The teachers also complained to the Administration that they had not received salary for four months.More than 150 computer teachers have been working on a contract basis since 2008. They were selected in 2008 by a UT agency, Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cat-relief-for-computer-teachers-159203
22-10-2020||Mohali||Gang of thieves busted, 4 held||The police today claimed to have busted a gang involved in drug peddling and theft cases in the district.The SP (City), Harvinder Singh Virk, said a case was registered on October 17 under Sections 20, 61and 85 of the NDPS Act; 379 and 411of the IPC at the Phase-11 police station against Sagar, a resident of Dolatra village in Muzaffarnagar district of UP. He is at present residing in Sector 52.On October 17, the Phase 11 police set up a naka on the railway station road. They caught Sagar with 200 gm of marijuana, two daggers, one metal cutter and four mobiles. During investigation, Sagar revealed the name of his accomplice Kishan, a resident of Ram Darbar. Kishan was arrested with one bike, 13 intoxicant injections and one LCD set. The names of two more accomplices — Rahul Kumar and Sukhmaan Singh — surfaced. Both were arrested on October 19. The police seized two cars, two motorcycles, one laptop, two LCD sets and a country-made .315-bore pistol from them. The accused were produced before the court that sent them to police remand till October 23. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gang-of-thieves-busted-4-held-159204
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Tributes paid to police martyrs||Police Commemoration Day was observed by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) on its Hallo Majra campus here today.Inspector-General, North-Western Sector, K Vijay Kumar paid floral tributes at the CRPF memorial and addressed those present.The names of martyrs of para-military organisations and state police forces, who died while performing their duties over the past year, were read out loud. Serving and retired gallantry awardees were also honoured on the occasion.Two-minute silenceMohali: To mark Police Commemoration Day, District and Sessions Judge RS Rai, DC Girish Dayalan and SSP Satinder Singh, along with other police personnel, paid homage to the martyrs of the police force. “I salute the 39 policemen and security personnel of the state who lost their lives to Covid-19,” said IGP Amit Prasad. Earlier, a two-minute silence was observed in the memory of the martyrs. — TNSFamilies honouredFatehgarh Sahib: Families of the seventeen police martyrs belonging to the district were honoured by SSP Amneet Kondal here today. — OCBlood donation campPatiala: The Patiala police organised a blood donation camp to mark Police Commemoration Day at the Police Lines on Wednesday. A parade is organised every year on October 21 to commemorate the martyrs of police and paramilitary forces. Inspector General of Police Jatinder Singh Aulakh and SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal donated blood along with other police officers and staff. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tributes-paid-to-police-martyrs-159205
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||PEC to reschedule practical exams||The Punjab Engineering College (PEC) Senate approved the rescheduling of dates for conducting practical examinations and for evaluating the even-semester marks on the basis of the past performance of students, said Director Prof Dheeraj Sanghi here today. The Senate also approved conducting the exams after Diwali. The exams will span over seven to eight weeks instead of the usual three to four weeks. The new date sheet will be announced later by the Dean Students Welfare. It has also been approved that the students will not be forced to take the exams, considering the ongoing situation.  “We have decided conducting exams in small batches and for a longer duration,” said Sanghi, Director, PEC.  The SOPs will be released later according to the situation. “Accepting the demands of student representatives, we have agreed upon evaluating the students of second and fourth semesters on the basis of their past performance. It has been further decided that the top 95 per cent will get through to the next semester, while the remaining five per cent will have to appear for the physical examinations,” added Sanghi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pec-to-reschedule-practical-exams-159206
22-10-2020||Chandigarh||Now, email to get mark sheet||To facilitate exit classes students, who have passed their examinations but are unable to get a proper result due to reappear or re-evaluation in the previous semester, the PU has launched an email-ID — resultenquiry@pu.ac.in.  “Earlier, students had to submit Rs500 and wait for getting mark sheets. Now, we are trying to send all details directly to the beneficiaries or to the institutions,” said Prof Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examination. “The students are required to submit a request for confidential result on the launched email and the branch concerned will send the results,” said Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-email-to-get-mark-sheet-159208
22-10-2020||
||Rising through the ranks — caddies turn professional golfers||Chandigarh, October 21 Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) is perhaps the only club of the region to have more than 305 registered caddies who are not only caddying but also promoting the sport by coaching and playing in the professional circuit. According to Sukhjyot Matharoo, CGC Course Captain, there are as many as 138 registered A-Class caddies, 60 B-Class caddies and 107 are C-Class caddies. “We have many caddies who are playing in the professional circuit. Some are doing well and the others are still making progress. Many among them are coaching and promoting the sport in their own ways,” said Matharoo. He said: “Not all who come here wish to become professional golfers or coaches. The first aim is always to earn money. However, some gradually develop their interest and players like Harinder Gupta, Akshay Sharma, Ranjit Singh, Rajiv Kumar Jatiwal and Amrit Lal have been doing well in the national and international circuit,” added Matharoo. Meanwhile, many caddies said they had been coming here to earn a living. “I have been here for the past five years and witnessed some changes. Earlier, we came here to earn money but lately, many among us have developed interest in the sport. The young generation has learned that expertise in this sport will make sure they get fame and money,” said Krishan, a caddie. “There have been many instances wherein regular golfers come here and ask for a particular caddie. The reason being their interest in the sport which helps the golfers to enjoy the game,” said Ashu, a young caddie.        On an average, a full-time caddie earns somewhere between Rs 600 and 700 per day, five days a week. Barring a few, they are hired on a daily basis and paid a fixed amount by their patrons. “A regular caddie covers 36 holes a day and that leaves him with no time to look for any other job. If a person is spending this much of time, he has an opportunity to learn for a lifetime,” said Ankur, who has been here for the past 12 years. “The CGC is a great platform to perform and to learn, but not all are lucky enough to get through the hard work. This sport needs concentration, technical assistance and hard work which is not easy for a person who is coming from a poor background. Caddies-turned-professionals like Harinder, Akshay and newcomer to circuit Amrit have done a lot of hard work,” said Navtej, another caddie.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rising-through-the-ranks-%E2%80%94-caddies-turn-professional-golfers-159210
22-10-2020||Sandeep Rana||Politics takes over Chandigarh’s welfare||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 21While the city’s development has taken a hit due to the poor financial condition of the Municipal Corporation, the fight between a faction of the ruling BJP and MC Commissioner KK Yadav has intensified. Politics seems to have taken over the welfare of the city.A day after all BJP and nominated councillors, except councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, and the Opposition councillors boycotted the virtual House meeting, Chandigarh BJP president and senior councillor Arun Sood blamed Yadav for “non-development” of the city. Yadav has often cited the lack of funds as reason for stalled development.Earlier incidents“The Commissioner has halted the development of the city. Is three-time increase in water tariff, raising Sector 23 booth’s rent from Rs14 to a whopping Rs28,600, broken roads and non-functional street lights development?” said Sood.The former Mayor said: “If anything has been passed, the House has the power to revise it. Virtual meetings are held so that we do not raise our voice.”On the cash-crunch, he said: “If officers have no funds for the city’s development, from where do they get money for setting up their swanky offices?”Meanwhile, BJP general secretaries Ramveer Bhatti and Chandrashekhar today released a press statement accusing the Commissioner of discriminating against the party workers and working under the influence of the Congress.The Commissioner refuted all allegations saying, “I am performing my duties with sincerity for the welfare of the UT and will continue to do so.”Congress president Pardeep Chhabra said: “The BJP is misguiding people to divert their attention from its failure. They are staging a drama as they do not want to rollback the hike in water charges.”AAP leader Chandermukhi Sharma said: “The BJP leaders have come under pressure due to the recent protests by FOSWAC and AAP at the MC office.”Next House meetingOrganisation general secretary of BJP Dinesh Kumar said Mayor Raj Bala Malik had assured him of holding a physical House meeting next time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/politics-takes-over-chandigarhs-welfare-159211
