22-12-2020||Chandigarh||2 more Covid deaths, 56 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Tuesday reported two more COVID-19-related deaths pushing the toll to 312 while 56 more cases took the infection tally to 19,184. There are 364 active cases in the union territory as of now, according to a medical bulletin.A total of 79 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 18,508, the bulletin said.A total of 1,70,841 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,50,787 tested negative while reports of 125 samples were awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-covid-deaths-56-new-cases-in-chandigarh-188012
22-12-2020||New Delhi||Bank fraud: ED says accused who defrauded IOB paid managers’ flight, hotel bills||Probing a Rs 299-crore Indian Overseas Bank loan fraud case, similar to the alleged USD 2 billion worth PNB swindle, the Enforcement Directorate has found that the accused “paid” for the air travel and hotel stay of a senior bank manager and his family as kickbacks.The central probe agency said “lapses” were also detected on the part of at least three managers—Anil Kumar, P C Rana and N Chokalingam—of the IOB branch in Chandigarh, “as well as the concurrent auditors”.       The ED case is related to its criminal money laundering investigation “in a case related to buyers credit fraud of Rs 299.14 crore at the IOB, Chandigarh”.The agency took cognisance of an FIR filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), to file a case under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against IOB Assistant Manager Ashu Mehra, proprietor of heights international company Amanpreet Singh Sodhi, owner of vision procon company Dinesh Kumar and directors of a firm saibhakti impex Pvt ltd—Gaurav Kirpal and Aman Kirpal.“A charge sheet was filed by the CBI against the accused revealing wrongful loss to the tune of Rs 299.14 crore to the bank on account of fraudulent unpaid LOUs (letter of undertaking) and that an amount of Rs 11.36 crore commission for 24 LOUs was also not received by the bank,” the ED said.A similar modus operandi of misusing the LOUs has been alleged by probe agencies in the Brady House branch (Mumbai) of the Punjab National Bank (PNB) that led to a fraud estimated to be worth USD 2 billion, which came to light in 2018.Diamond merchants Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi have been alleged as the masterminds of this swindling, identified as one of the biggest case of bank loan fraud in the country.                 About the latest case, the ED said its probe found that the accused Amanpreet Singh Sodhi, Dinesh Kumar and Gaurav Kirpal “conspired” with IOB assistant manager Ashu Mehra “for illegal diversion of funds to the bank accounts of fraudulent buyers on behalf of Indian import firms”.“These amounts were first credited by the overseas funding bank—Bank of Baroda, Bahamas and PNB, Dubai—into the HSBC Account of the Hong Kong-based export company Colour Wave (HK) Ltd though no imports took place.”  “The accumulated amount in the HSBC account was further remitted to India in the accounts of accused companies by showing it as adjustments for exports of third-party payments,” the ED alleged.It was found, the ED said, that the goods were either exported by the accused to different buyers or consignees by resorting “to gross over-valuation or in some cases there was “no export”.“In this manner the accused have generated the proceeds of crime by resorting to trade-based money laundering,” the ED claimed.It was found that “payments for the air travels and hotel stays of the accused Ashu Mehra and his family members was borne by accused Dinesh Kumar and Gaurav Kirpal”, the agency said.The agency has attached properties worth over Rs 91 crore of various accused involved in the case till now, with an attachment of Rs 6.03 crore being done recently. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-fraud-ed-says-accused-who-defrauded-iob-paid-managers-flight-hotel-bills-188005
22-12-2020||---||Protesting farmers show black flags to Haryana CM Khattar during his Ambala visit||Ambala, December 22A large number of farmers showed black flags to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar when his convoy was passing from Aggarsain Chowk in Ambala City on Tuesday.The farmers tried to block the convoy. However, the police managed to get the farmers aside and provided a safe passage to the CM’s convoy.Also read: Shiv Sena takes a dig at Modi over his gurdwara visit amid farmers' stirAlso read: Farmer union leaders to meet, discuss plan of actionAlso read: Armed with revolutionary poem by Pash, Faridkot farmer cycles 400 km to Tikri borderSome farmers even wielded sticks on the vehicles.Khattar is here to address public meetings in support of BJP’s mayoral and ward candidates in the Ambala Municipal Corporation election.The agitating farmers said that they would continue to protest till the farm laws were withdrawn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protesting-farmers-show-black-flags-to-haryana-cm-khattar-during-his-ambala-visit-187930
22-12-2020||---||Flagship schemes reviewed||Chandigarh, December 21The basic thrust of development schemes should be on eradication of poverty and to fulfil the basic needs of people with the available resources to make them self-reliant. This was stated by Nityanand Rai, Minister of State for Home, while reviewing implementation of various flagship schemes of the UT during a meeting here today.The meeting was attended by UT Adviser Manoj Parida, besides other senior officers of the Administration. The Adviser highlighted the achievements of the best performing schemes of the Administration such as One Nation One Ration Card, 100 per cent DBT through abolition of FPS, power privatisation, abolition of manual scavengers, Greenest Capital City, more than 100 per cent sewer treatment capability, migrant labour facilitation during lockdown and e-beat system.A brief presentation on 47 schemes of various sectors such as education, social welfare, agriculture, housing and urban affairs, health, finance, animal husbandry, food and supplies, power, sports, etc., being implemented in the city was made. The Minister appreciated the efforts of the UT Administration for the successful implementation of schemes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flagship-schemes-reviewed-187784
22-12-2020||---||RLA to hold driving test at Mani Majra Circus Ground||Chandigarh, December 21The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA), UT, will carry out regular driving test for transport category vehicles at the Circus Ground in Mani Majra from January 1.An official spokesperson said the test would be carried out on every Monday and Friday from 10 am to 12 noon.The spokesperson stated that at present, registration of new non-transport vehicles and affixation of third registration mark and High Security Registration Plates were being carried out by the automobile dealers concerned. As a result, inspection or passing of new non-transport vehicles, which were being registered by dealers, had been exempted by the Central Government. At present, only a few vehicles were coming for passing or inspection in Sector 42.Henceforth, inspection or passing of vehicles will be carried out in the open parking near Children Traffic Park, Sector 23, from Monday to Friday (except gazetted holiday) from 10 am to 4 pm and 10 am to 1 pm on every Saturday from January 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rla-to-hold-driving-test-at-mani-majra-circus-ground-187785
22-12-2020||---||Panchkula’s development in reverse gear: Upinder||Panchkula, December 21 Congress mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia on Monday said her vision is overall development of Panchkula on the similar lines to her previous stint as Mayor of the Municipal Corporation (MC).  “My family has been involved in social services and politics for the past 40 years. We are well aware with every ground-level issue of the city,” she added. Talking about her five-year tenure as the Panchkula Mayor, Upinder Kaur Ahluwaliasaid she passed numerous proposals for all round development of the city. “Since 2018, when my stint ended, the development has been in the reverse gears due to dilly-dallying approach of the BJP, which despite being in power at the Centre and in the state failed to ensure welfare of the city,” maintained Upinder. “Cows which are holy to all of us are abandoned on roads for want of a proper cowshed. In 2017 end, we inaugurated the work of a stray cattle shed at Sukhdarshanpur, but till now its work is lying abandoned,” Upinder added while questioning the BJP. She also mentioned about  stray dog menace while attacking the BJP while campaigning in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkulas-development-in-reverse-gear-upinder-187786
22-12-2020||---||Minister gives possession letters, keys to 15 families||Chandigarh, December 21 Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai today handed over possession letters and keys of houses to 15 families at Maloya under the Affordable Rental Housing Scheme at a programme held on the premises of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB). He congratulated all 1,700 beneficiaries of the scheme and asked them to maintain cleanliness and hygiene. He said two-room flats with kitchen space, bath and toilet and balcony would provide them dignified living. The Minister appreciated the efforts of the UT Administration for providing houses to migrant labourers, street vendors, industrial workers and other poor persons. He also congratulated the UT Administration for being the first among all states/UTs, in the country to implement the scheme and also completing about 80 per cent target within such a short period. He advised the Administration to ensure that all beneficiaries of the scheme are linked with other welfare schemes such as Ayushman Bharat, cooking gas pipeline and direct benefit transfer schemes. The Minister stated that the government was committed for the welfare of farmers, migrant labourers and women. Manoj Parida, UT Adviser and CHB chairman, stated that Chandigarh had relocated about 1,700 families within a short period of two months. All allottees had been provided with water and electricity connections on the day of possession and most of them had started living in a good atmosphere. Mayor Raj Bala Malik and other senior officers of the UT Administration attended the function. The UT Administration appointed the CHB as the nodal agency and concessionaire for the scheme. The initial monthly rent has been fixed as Rs3,000 with biennially enhancement by 8 per cent and the maximum rental period under the scheme is 25 years. As many as 2,195 vacant small flats at Maloya were earmarked and it was decided to relocate occupants of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 under the scheme. The CHB has allotted 1,703 flats to the families staying in pre-fab shelters. About 500 more families will be provided similar flats on affordable rent of Rs3,000 per month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-gives-possession-letters-keys-to-15-families-187787
22-12-2020||Panchkula||Goyal: Saffron party ended horse-trading in mayoral poll||BJP’s mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal on Monday said his party ended the era when Mayor was elected through horse trading. “For the first time, the Mayor’s election is going to be direct. It will curtail trading of councillors to select Mayor,” Goyal added.While campaigning at various places, including Rajiv Colony, Indira Colony, Khark Mangoli, Madrasi Colony and Ashiana Complex today, Goyal spoke about his vision for Panchkula if elected as Mayor.Goyal gave credit to Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta for bringing various development projects to the city. Ever since the BJP government was formed six years ago, the water and electricity supply had improved in the city, Goyal added.The BJP leader also blamed the Congress for poor condition of roads in the city.“The Congress did nothing during its tenure. The BJP after coming into power improved health facilities like upgradation of 100-bed to 300-bed at the Civil Hospital. The party also improved facilities like dialysis, MRI and CT scan at the government hospital,” Goyal said.“In the field of education, only two English government schools were there in the city. The BJP government started 55 English medium schools in the city,” Goyal added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/goyal-saffron-party-ended-horse-trading-in-mayoral-poll-187788
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Technocrats XI lift cricket trophy||A fine batting performance by Ashok Malik (66) enabled Technocrats XI to beat ARS Redbacks by 8 runs in a nail-biting final of the XXth MG Cup Premier League Cricket Tournament at Tau Devi Lal Cricket Stadium, Sector 3, Panchkula, today. Technocrats XI won the toss and elected to bat first. After losing three quick wickets, the team recovered well through Ashok Malik (66 off 50 balls), Manoj Raizada (32 off 18 balls), Rajat Mor (24 off 15 balls), Gaurav Tondon (22 off 17 balls) and Yash Rohilla (23 off 19 balls). Technocrats XI scored 215 for the loss of 8 wickets in the stipulated 25 overs. In reply, Sandeep Bhattacharya and Gaurav Bhatia from ARS Redbacks were out on the first ball they faced, leaving the team tottering at 0 for 2 wickets. Later, Deepak (78 off 68 balls) and Sansar Bali (41 off 30 balls) provided strength to the team. In the last 5 overs, 48 runs were required for the win. Anil (20 off 14 balls) tried his best, but the total fell short by 8 runs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/technocrats-xi-lift-cricket-trophy-187789
22-12-2020||---||Chandigarh bans sale, use of Chinese kite string||Chandigarh, December 21 The UT Administration has banned the procurement, sale and use of “Chinese maanjha/pakka dori” for kite flying in the city. In an order, District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said: “A large number of people flying kites use synthetic/nylon glass-coated thread, popularly known as ‘pakka thread/dori’ or ‘Chinese maanjha/dori’. Made of synthetic material, these are non-biodegradable and cause serious injuries to human beings, birds and are equally disadvantageous to the wildlife and environment.” “Chinese maanjhas’ or such other harmful substances for kite-flying are banned in Chandigarh for 60 days,” the District Magistrate said. The ban would come into force with immediate effect and would be effective till February 18, 2021. Any breach of the order would invite action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-bans-sale-use-of-chinese-kite-string-187790
22-12-2020||---||Collection box, valuables stolen from Sector 66 temple||Mohali, December 21Two youths decamped with the collection box and other valuables from Shiv Shakti Mandir in Sector 66 here last night.Management committee members said the incident came to light when the priest opened the temple around 5 am. The loss has been estimated at approx Rs25,000.The incident took place on December 19 around 11 pm when two unidentified youths scaled the wall of the temple and broke open the locks around the collection box. The duo fled with the box within two minutes.The incident was captured in the CCTV cameras. The committee has registered a complaint with the Phase 11 police station.The temple had witnessed three such thefts in the past and approximately Rs1 lakh had been stolen in such incidents, said a committee member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/collection-box-valuables-stolen-from-sector-66-temple-187791
22-12-2020||---||2 Chandigarh players test +ve ahead of prep camp||Chandigarh, December 22A day ahead of the preparatory camp for the city team for the Syed Mustaq Ali Trophy, pacer Shrestha Nirmohi and batsman Raman Bishnoi have been found Covid positive. However, both players are asymptomatic.The UT Cricket Association held a special session on Covid-19 for all probables at the Sector 16 Cricket Stadium. The Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy (Plate Group) will be played in Chennai from January 10.Dr Rajesh Dheer, Head of the ENT Department, GMSH-16, gave tips to players and support staff to avoid Covid in their upcoming tour.Manan Vohra, former captain of Chandigarh team, who was also associated with Rajasthan Royals, also shared his experiences of being in the realm of ‘bio-bubble’ to the players during the IPL played in the UAE.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-chandigarh-players-test-ve-ahead-of-prep-camp-187792
22-12-2020||---||Haryana BJP chief seeks votes for candidates||Panchkula, December 21Haryana BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar today addressed a number of public gatherings in Panchkula, seeking votes for BJP candidates contesting the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections.While addressing a press conference at the BJP’s headquarters in Sector 2 here today, Om Prakash Dhankar said the party was contesting the elections with an agenda of developing Panchkula as a business hub at the state and the national level.He said before the BJP came into power in 2014, there was no direct election for the Mayor’s post. The Khattar government decided that power should be in the hands of people to choose the Mayor.“We have a clear vision for urban Panchkula. We are contesting these elections on a six-point agenda, which focuses on improvement of quality life of people, better transportation, health, education, adequate supply of water and making Panchkula a smart city,” Dhankar stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-bjp-chief-seeks-votes-for-candidates-187793
22-12-2020||Mohali||MP lays stone for high-level bridge||Construction of a high-level bridge over Patiala ki Rao rivulet at Nayagaon village to Singha Devi temple will be done at a cost of Rs403.59 lakh and the project will be completed within six months. This was stated by MP Manish Tewari after laying the foundation stone for the bridge here today.The bridge will connect Khuda Lahora to Karoran link road to Singha Devi temple over Patiala ki Rao rivulet. Due to the unavailability of a bridge over Patiala ki Rao rivulet, people have to go through the rivulet to reach the temple. In fact, the temple cuts off from the mainland during the rainy season. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mp-lays-stone-for-high-level-bridge-187794
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||PUTA protest enters 32nd day||The ongoing protest by the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) executive entered its 32nd day here today. The PUTA executive, which continued its dharna in front of the Vice-Chancellor’s camp office, was today joined by a delegation of principals and teachers, both serving and retired, from colleges and universities of Punjab. The delegation joined the protest under the banner of the Punjab Educationists’ Forum, led by Dr Tarsem Bahia, president of the forum and a former Fellow and Syndic and former general secretary of the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-protest-enters-32nd-day-187795
22-12-2020||Naina Mishra---||Chandigarh steps up reimbursement process for EWS admissions||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 21 The UT Education Department has stepped up the process of reimbursing dues of private schools with regard to admitting students of economically weaker sections (EWS) under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. After a long wait of nine years, the schools are now being reimbursed for the education of EWS children studying in higher classes as well. Till now, the schools had received reimbursement for only the students of the entry-level class. It was contended that an EWS child got free education till Class VIII and the schools must also be reimbursed under the RTE Act for subsequent classes. Sources claim that the pending amount is estimated over Rs 3 crore is now going to be paid to private schools. So far, the department is settling the claims up to the 2017-18 session, for which per child cost was decided by the administration. The reimbursement rate for the sessions 2018-19 and 2019-20 is yet to be decided by the administration. According to the Director, School Education, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, the EWS reimbursement claims of private schools will be settled by March 31. “We have initiated the process of reimbursement and very soon, the department is going to notify the reimbursement rates for 2018-19 and 2019-20 as well.” In October last year, the Education Department had sanctioned the long-pending reimbursement amount for three years to the unaided schools for admitting EWS students under the RTE Act, 2009. The cumulative reimbursement for three years amounts to over Rs 99 lakh. The reimbursed expenditure is the extent of per-child expenditure incurred by the state or the actual amount charged from the child by the school, whichever is less. The per-child expenditure of the state was Rs 1,797 per month (2015-16), Rs 2,197 (2016-17) and Rs 2,348 (2017-18).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-steps-up-reimbursement-process-for-ews-admissions-187796
22-12-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir---||WWF to help Chandigarh in preparing Sukhna management plan||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, December 21 The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), an international NGO, will provide  overall technical support to the UT Administration for regulating activities at  Sukhna Lake. In a proposal submitted to the UT Forests and Wildlife Department, the WWF gave its consent to work on five key components for preparing a management plan of the lake. The NGO will provide support in review and analysis of all existing knowledge, information and data. Terms of reference for studies include to fill the knowledge gaps, conducting field surveys (avian surveys, Rapid Assessment of Wetland Ecosystem Services (RAWES) and social-economic surveys), designing stakeholder engagements and conducting stakeholder consultations, capacity building programme for key stakeholders on wetland conservation and drafting of different chapters of Integrated Management Plan (IMP) and finalisation of IMP.  Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, UT, said after the lake was declared a wetland, it was required to prepare a management plan to regulate activities in the lake.  Being a knowledge partner of the UT Administration, the NGO would not charge anything for preparing the integrated management plan for the lake, said Dalai.  Under the plan, the WWF will prepare guidelines to regulate activities, such as boating, number of boats, pedal boats or non-pedal boats, desilting, availability of water in case of deficit rainfall, fishing, and maintenance of lake, etc. The area of Sukhna Lake comprising 493 acres was declared wetland in June this year considering that for sustaining the biodiversity values, the ecological character of wetland ecosystem needs to be maintained by regulating developmental activities within the wetland as well as within its zone of influence. After declaration of wetland, various activities, including setting up of industries, were prohibited in the lake. Some activities were to be regulated such as felling of trees, eco-tourism activities, aquaculture, agriculture and horticulture activities. Various activities, including rainwater harvesting, use of renewable energy sources and adoption of green technology for all activities, environmental awareness, were to be promoted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wwf-to-help-chandigarh-in-preparing-sukhna-management-plan-187799
22-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh inches closer to WHO’s pandemic-under-control line||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21After a gap of at least four months, the weekly positivity rate of the city has plummeted to 5.6 per cent, which is now nearing the “under control” rate (5 per cent) of the World Health Organisation (WHO) regarding the Covid-19 pandemic.In the week ending December 20, the UT saw 435 fresh Covid cases against 7,634 tests conducted, marking a positivity rate at 5.6 per cent. According to the WHO advisory issued in May, a positivity rate of less than 5 per cent for two weeks indicates that an epidemic is under control.The preceding two weeks recorded 6.6 per cent and 6.9 per cent positivity rate, respectively. Against 5,924 tests in two weeks, 882 cases were reported. The city had earlier recorded a positivity rate of 5.3 per cent in the first week of July. In the October first week, the positivity rate had touched 15 per cent.Earlier, experts in the city had predicted a second wave of Covid-19 in the wake of the festive season and the onset of the winter. However, the surge noticed during the festive season was not much greater in magnitude. It was presumed that the winter could lead to gatherings of people in closed spaces and virus sustaining in colder climate could result in an increase in cases. However, experts have now noticed that the winter season in the city has led to lesser mobility in the community, which has caused a decline in cases as well.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said: “The weekly positivity rate has gone down drastically to 5.6 per cent. Such a trend has been observed after a very long time. Once the positivity rate comes below 5 per cent, we can be sure of pandemic control in the city.”Kang added: “The testing has also gone down in the recent days because fewer people are getting themselves tested voluntarily. Mobility has been reduced during the winter season. Our OPDs are also empty during the morning time due to cold weather.”The percentage of active patients in Chandigarh is only 2 per cent, while 96.3 per cent patients have recovered from the disease. In the last week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.3 per cent every day.55 fresh cases, 2 deaths in cityChandigarh: The city on Monday reported 55 fresh cases of Covid and two deaths, taking the UT tally to 19,128 and toll to 310. A total of 101 more patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. The tally of cured patients in the city is 18,429, while 389 cases are still active. — TNS74 new cases, no death in MohaliMohali: Seventy-four new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district here on Monday. As many as 160 patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. No fresh Covid death was reported. The district has so far seen 17,572 cases, of which 15,527 patients have been cured. TNS21 fresh cases, one fatality in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district on Monday reported 21 fresh coronavirus cases and one death. The Covid tally has reached 9,735 and the toll 139. An 86-year-old man from Sector 4, who was also suffering from coronary heart disease, succumbed to the disease. TNSWeekly numbersTill December 20 – 435 cases | 7,634 tests | 5.6% positivity rateTill December 13 – 611 cases |9,127 tests | 6.6% positivity rateTill December 6 – 685 cases | 9,857 tests | 6.9% positivity rate||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-inches-closer-to-whos-pandemic-under-control-line-187800
22-12-2020||---||Hemkunt Special Express to pass through city||Chandigarh, December 21From December 30, the Hemkunt Special Express will pass through Chandigarh Railway Station.A spokesperson for Ambala Division of the Northern Railway today confirmed that train number 04609 and 04610 will now pass through Chandigarh.Officials at the division said: “The Hemkunt Special Express will help in easing the traffic on the main lines of Ambala, Rajpura, Sirhind and Ludhiana.”Special train number 04610 will arrive at the station at 2:10 am on December 30 and 04609 will arrive in Chandigarh at 9:58 pm on December 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hemkunt-special-express-to-pass-through-city-187801
22-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court stays non-bailable warrants against former DSP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21Just about two months after a Mohali court issued non-bailable warrants against former DSP Kanwal Inder Pal Singh in the Multani murder case, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed to keep the order in abeyance.Justice Alka Sarin also directed keeping in abeyance another order whereby his application for cancellation of non-bailable warrants issued against him in the case was turned down. The direction would remain in force till January 15 — almost a week beyond the deadline set by the former police official’s counsel for his return to the country from Canada.“The petitioner will remain bound by the statement made by his counsel that he will return to the country on January 9. The petitioner may, thereafter, take recourse to his remedies in accordance with law,” Justice Sarin asserted.The petitioner, through senior counsel Bipan Ghai and SPS Bhullar, told the Court that non-bailable warrants were issued in the FIR registered on May 6 for murder, abduction and other offences under Sections 302, 364, 201, 344, 330, 219, 120-B of the IPC registered at the Mataur police station in Mohali district.Ghai contended that the petitioner had initially joined investigation on October 2 and again the next day. He travelled to Canada for some personal work only when he was told that he was no longer required for further investigation. It was further contended that the petitioner travelled after taking requisite permissions from the authorities concerned.Ghai further contended that the petitioner, in response to a call from SHO Rajiv Kumar on October 10, sent a message that he was in Canada and ready to cooperate. The petitioner had no intention of evading arrest, he added.Referring to an order dated October 3 passed by the Supreme Court in the case of ‘Sumedh Singh Saini versus the State of Punjab and another’, Ghai contended concession of anticipatory bail was given to the person nominated as the main accused.The State counsel, on the other hand, factually disputed the averments in the petition before submitting that the petitioner knowingly left the country to evade his arrest.“Without going into the merits of the case at this stage and keeping in view the fact that a statement has been made before the Court by the counsel for the petitioner that he would return to the country on January 9, 2021, and would thereafter apply for anticipatory bail and the fact that the main accused in the case has already been granted the concession of anticipatory bail by the Supreme Court, the impugned orders dated October 19 and November 25 will remain in abeyance till January 15,” Justice Sarin added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-stays-non-bailable-warrants-against-former-dsp-187802
22-12-2020||---||Activa rider killed in  hit-and-run at Sector 52||Chandigarh, December 21In a hit-and-run case, an Activa rider was killed after being hit by an unknown vehicle in Sector 52.According to the police, the complainant, Rakesh Kumar, reported that the vehicle driver sped away from the spot after hitting the Activa near the waterworks in Sector 52 on December 19.The injured, identified as Kailash, a resident of Sector 41, was admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he later succumbed to his injuries on December 20.The police have registered a case against the unidentified driver of the vehicle at the Sector 36 police station.One killed, another hurt in road mishapZirakpur: One person was reportedly killed while another was injured when an unknown vehicle hit the two scooter-borne youths from the rear side on the Zirakpur-Patiala highway. The deceased has been identified as Raj Kumar, a resident of Mauli Jagran. The pillion rider, Rajpal, was injured in the accident. He was taken to the Civil Hospital in Dera Bassi. The police have registered a case against the unknown driver of the vehicle involved in the mishap. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/activa-rider-killed-in-hit-and-run-at-sector-52-187803
22-12-2020||---||Child society rescues nine||Chandigarh, December 21The District Child Protection Society today rescued nine child labourers from the motor market and rehri market in Mani Majra.Boys in the age group of 12 to 16 were found performing labour work at various outlets. After the rescue, a medical examination of the children was conducted at the civil dispensary, Mani Majra. They were produced before the Child Welfare Committee, Chandigarh, and admitted to Snehalaya, a home for children, Maloya.The child society has been working for the implementation of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. The District Child Protection Unit conducted drives, in collaboration with the Bachpan Bachao Andolan, Labour Department, Anti-Human Trafficking Unit and Childline 1098, in various parts of Mani Majra today. Two teams were constituted for rescuing children involved in labour work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/child-society-rescues-nine-187804
22-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||Waste segregation takes off today, but is the MC ready?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21Nearly three and a half years after launching the “segregation of waste at source” project, the MC will flag off two-bin vehicles to start the project afresh in the city tomorrow.In June 2017, Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VPSingh Badnore had launched the project on World Environment Day at Tagore Theatre in Sector 18, but the civic body failed to implement it. Two-coloured bins were distributed among residents by spending over Rs2 crore, but the segregation never took off. This has been affecting its Swachhta ranking every year.However, buoyed by the hope of getting 390 vehicles by December 31 and claims of having convinced existing waste collectors, the authorities are giving it a shot again. The MC, it seems, is not much prepared even now as residents have not been made aware about the project properly.Leader of the Opposition in the MC House Devinder Singh Babla said, “No resident in the city is aware about the garbage segregation. The MC has not made any efforts to make people understand how to go about it. I request the Mayor to first give all information to city residents about garbage segregation and adjust all collectors who have been lifting garbage from houses for the past so many years.”In the first phase, 97 vehicles are being put to use in Sector 1 to 30. Though the project will be launched at the Raj Bhawan by Badnore at 11.30 am tomorrow, waste segregation and collection through these vehicles will start on Wednesday.“Tomorrow, the vehicles will mainly be used for creating awareness. From Wednesday, the actual work will start. No mixed waste will be lifted. Vehicles will use jingles. Every vehicle will have a suggestion book. Residents call also complain on the MC’s helpline,” said an MC official.All area councillors in Sector 1-30 will separately flag off vehicles at 1.30 pm tomorrow.The Municipal Officer of Health, Dr Amrit Warring, said, “We are already making people aware about the move through newspapers and the radio. Tomorrow also, our vehicles will make people aware about it. We will take both collectors and residents along to implement 100 per cent segregation.”97 vehicles to be used in first phaseIn the first phase, 97 vehicles are being put to use in Sector 1 to 30. The project will be launched on Tuesday, but waste segregation and collection through the vehicles will start on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-segregation-takes-off-today-but-is-the-mc-ready-187805
22-12-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Winged guests arrive at Mote Majra for winter stay||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 21Bar-headed geese, gadwell, common coot, grey heron, crested grebe and red pochard have arrived at the Mote Majra pond for this year’s winter sojourn.More of the flock is set to arrive here in the coming days. Northern shoveler, greater white-fronted goose, Eurasian wigeon, greylag goose, pintail ducks and cormorants are also expected here shortly.Birdwatchers say crested grebe and red-crested pochard have been witnessed at the pond after two years.The Mote Majra wetland, also popular for the bumper yield of water chestnuts, is still riddled with the crop residue. It will decay and settle on the bed of the water body in the coming days, creating ideal conditions for the migratory birds. The slightly obscure site is popular among avid bird watchers.“From the bird watcher’s point of view it is the best site as it is accessible from all sides and lets the watcher see the bird from close quarters. Since the nearly 32-acre water body has shallow water, it is ideal for migratory birds. They do not have to forage deep into the water for their food,” said Kulbhushan Kanwar, an old timer here.Sukhna Lake and the site near the Chhat village are the other popular bird-watching sites in the region.Birdwatchers say the ideal time to sight birds is early in the morning but the migratory birds in particular have all the time in the world.“They are there all day long, basking in the sun. One can go anytime and enjoy nature without creating disturbance or commotion,” says Gian Singh, a Mote Majra resident. He jokingly says bird watching comes naturally to every child born in the village.Birdwatchers say residents of the village are “very good hosts” as they go out of their way to make the birds’ stay comfortable here. “Not many people know that it is a historic site. In old times, it was known as Kalyanpur Daab (named after saint Kalyan ji). Royals used to come here for hunting but now the villagers make sure nobody creates any disturbance here. Sometimes, birds spoil their crops but they are okay with it,” said Gian Singh.Mote Majra village is situated on the Landran-Banur Road in Kharar tehsil, 21km from Mohali bus stand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/winged-guests-arrive-at-mote-majra-for-winter-stay-187806
22-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||Happy ending: Fire-hit ties knot as help pours in||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 21Despite the fire tragedy that befell her family home yesterday, 26-year-old Roopa tied the nuptial knot at the Community Centre in Sector 29 here today.All ornaments and cash meant for the wedding were destroyed in the fire that broke out at ‘jhuggis’ in Colony No. 4 on her mehndi ceremony yesterday. She was taken to the GMCH, Sector 32, as she had fainted due to the shock.Her family was forced to cancel the wedding event. However, things improved for them today as help started pouring in from different quarters. “After everything was burnt in the fire, we had planned to marry her off in a simple way. With love and support from people, our hopes and happiness were restored. The wedding happened as per the previous arrangements,” said Rahul, Roopa’s brother-in-law. “Love from people has brought back smile to the face of the bride-to-be,” he added.Among those who supported the wedding are Suresh Sharma, Chief Managing Director, Sector 34-based Allengers Group of Companies. He contributed Rs1 lakh.Hansa Tubes Pvt Ltd from Sector 8, Panchkula, gave Rs10,000 and some clothes as ‘shagun’. “We read about your loss in The Tribune and are saddened at it. Problems are a way of life so be brave. We are sending ‘shagun’ for the wedding,” read a letter sent by company’s official Hans Raj Gupta.A retired DSP (Chandigarh Police) also contributed Rs21,000 to the wedding. An NGO, Central Human Rights against Crime and Corruption, gave clothes and other goods to the family.Meanwhile, city Mayor Raj Bala Malik and Shakti Prakash Devshali, area councillor, reached the colony to extend help to the victims of the fire incident. They distributed dry ration among families who lost ‘jhuggis’ in the fire.Malik and MC Commissioner KK Yadav gave Rs10,000 each to Roopa and the councillor also extended a help of Rs5,000 from their own pockets. Besides, the Mayor told the mother of Roopa that she would not be charged any fee for the Community Centre.In the ‘jhuggi’ that was destroyed, Roopa used to live with her mother. Both of them are small-time workers. Her father passed away several years ago. Roopa has four sisters and two brothers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/happy-ending-fire-hit-ties-knot-as-help-pours-in-187807
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Varsity teacher  granted project||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/varsity-teacher-granted-project-187808
22-12-2020||Panchkula||Owners of 3 poultry farms land in soup||A case has been registered against three poultry farms in Raipur Rani allegedly for causing housefly menace.The case has been filed against the owners of Sahib Poultry Farm, Bagwali, Sharma Poultry Farm, Golpura, and SS Poultry Farm, Mouli, under Sections 268 (public nuisance), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous of life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous of life) of the IPC at the Raipur Rani police station.The action was taken against the poultry farm owners on the basis of an inspection carried out by the authorities concerned following which a report was submitted to Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, who ordered an FIR against the poultry farm owners for failing to comply with the parameters of the Environment Department.The FIR was filed on a complaint of the Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department. As per the district administration, there are around 120 poultry farms in Barwala and Raipur Rani blocks of the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/owners-of-3-poultry-farms-land-in-soup-187809
22-12-2020||Chandigarh||Youth held for pick-pocketing||Hookah: four of Sec 7 club heldChandigarh: The UT police checked a club, Grapho 07, in Sector 7 and found hookah being served there in violation of the District Magistrate’s orders. The police said four persons — club owners Jatin and Aakash Nagpal and managers Vikas and Sandeep Kumar — were arrested in a case registered under Sections 188 and 34 of the IPC at the Sector 26 police station. All four were later released on bail. In less than a week, four cases have been registered against clubs at the Sector 26 police station for serving hookah to customers. TNSUBS starts MBA registrationChandigarh: University Business School (UBS), Panjab University, started online registration of candidates for admission to MBA programmes (MBA, MBA-IB, MBA-HR and MBA-EP) at UBS for the session 2021-22 on December 18 and it would continue till February 1. Candidates are advised to visit website https://ubsadmissions.puchd.ac.in for getting information pertaining to the eligibility criteria, online registration and application form, admission schedule and fee. TNSVirtual X-mas celebrationsChandigarh: The Covid-19 pandemic failed to dampen the high spirits of educators who went the extra mile to bring cheer and hope to the students of Sacred Heart Convent School, Sector 26, confined within the four walls of their homes. They effectively used the virtual platform to showcase a well-scripted play, 'Season of Hope'. The mentors cheerfully celebrated the birth of Jesus Christ through mellifluous musicals and mesmerising dance recitals. Addressing the students on the joyous occasion of Christmas, Rev. Sr. Arti, Principal, impressed upon the pertinence of upholding the virtues of humility, love and compassion in these trying times. TNSOnline yoga for self-managementChandigarh: The Interdisciplinary Centre for Swami Vivekananda Studies (ICSVS), Panjab University, is organising a 14-day online workshop on yoga for self-management till December 26. On fourth and fifth day of the workshop, a special session was conducted by Prashant Verma, a research fellow at ICSVS. He highlighted the role of yoga in curing constipation. He gave live demonstrations of various "asanas. On sixth and seventh day, a special session was organised on diabetes management. Parvinder Singh, from Punjabi University, Patiala, gave a live demonstration of various yoga "asanas" which are very beneficial in controlling diabetes, a lifestyle disease. He stressed that a balanced diet played a major role in saving us from the onset of this disease. He also warned that the "asanas" should be performed correctly and under the supervision of a yoga expert. TNSMilk consumer awareness campMohali: The Punjab Dairy Development Board organised a milk consumer awareness camp at Housefed Complex, Phase 10, here, on Monday. As many as 34 consumers brought milk samples at the camp. The results of the samples were given in writing on the spot. Dairy Development Inspector Mandeep Singh Saini said urea and neutraliser contents were checked in the milk samples and the report was found to be nil. Of the 34 samples, 33 were up to the standard while one sample was found to have water. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-for-pick-pocketing-187822
