22-11-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 2 deaths, 80 more cases in Chandigarh||Two more people succumbed to coronavirus in Chandigarh on Sunday as 80 fresh cases took the infection count in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana to 16,671, according to a bulletin.So far, the disease has claimed 260 lives in the union territory.There are 1,094 active cases as of now, the bulletin said.A total of 119 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 15,317, the bulletin said.Till now, 1,32,090 samples have been taken for testing, of which 1,14,651 tested negative while reports of 62 samples are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-2-deaths-80-more-cases-in-chandigarh-174258
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Soon, residents will be able to keep tabs on Chandigarh MC staff||Residents of the City Beautiful will soon be able to track the online location of sanitation workers deputed in their respective areas on the basis of GPS-enabled smart watches.The MC will be making the facility available on the website to provide accessibility to the residents. The software will show the presence of the workers deployed in a particular area. If residents find workers are either absent or are fewer than the sanctioned number, then they can bring the matter to the notice of the authorities.The civic body had launched an application a few days ago with which officers are now able to track the staff’s location on their mobile phone. It is expected that in a month’s time, the service for residents will also become operational. “We have launched an app so that the officials concerned can keep a track of the location of workers. Soon, residents will also be able to keep a check on workers deputed on the field job,” said Dr Amrit Warring, Medical Officer of Health, MC.Officers in the MC said the introduction of GPS watches had helped them curb the earlier problem of ghost employees. Besides, it has significantly improved the field attendance of workers.On the one hand, the MC has strengthened the online tracking system, but on the other, at the last House meeting, a committee was formed to review the decision to equip 40,000 employees of different wings of the corporation with GPS watches. While the move was made on the insistence of the ruling BJP after safai workers’ unions went on strike, most officers are in favour of GPS watches.At the first committee meeting held recently, councillor and former mayor Rajesh Kalia sought to know from the officers what was the benefit of the watches on which about Rs18 lakh per month was being paid as rent. According to Kalia, the watches showed false location. Like in some cases when an employee was working in Sector 17, the watch showed the location of Kedarnath. But officers maintained there could be some issue with one or two watches, but not all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/soon-residents-will-be-able-to-keep-tabs-on-chandigarh-mc-staff-173883
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mani Majra continues to be Covid-19 hotspot in Chandigarh||Of 96 localities in Chandigarh where Covid has spread its tentacles, Mani Majra continues to be a hotspot as a maximum number of infections have been reported from the locality, even when the city is grappling with the resurgence of the infection.There were 45 active cases on October 28 in Mani Majra. The active infection count rose to 100 on Friday. The locality has reported 1,432 cases so far, which accounts for eight per cent of the total cases.On the contrary, Bapu Dham Colony at Sector 26, the locality that once accounted for more than 60 per cent of the UT’s total cases in May, has no active case and is now Covid-free. The area has reported 345 cases till now.With a population of 1.5 lakh, Mani Majra is one of the densely populated areas of the city, thus the chances of infection spread are very high here. Sudhanshu Gautam, SDM (East), said: “A majority of cases here are being reported from Pipliwala town and Mani Majra Housing Complex. A lot of employees who reside in these areas had contracted infection from their workplaces. When the relaxations were eased in the unlock guidelines, a lot of movement was witnessed in Mani Majra.”“Secondly, some areas are congested here. A complex comprises at least 24 flats.,” added Gautam. He said: “We have earmarked the areas – Pipliwala town, Shanti Nagar, Modern Housing Complex, mohallas, Darshini Bagh, Rajiv Nagar, New Shivalik Enclave – as zones. We have been able to contain the spread with the help of micro-containment zones and IEC.”Mandip Brar, Deputy Commissioner of Chandigarh, said: “The Covid-affected zones committee regularly meets to review the situation on the ground.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mani-majra-continues-to-be-covid-19-hotspot-in-chandigarh-173885
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Baltana resident held with 20 heritage chairs stolen from Panjab University||The police have arrested a resident of Baltana, Sarfaraj, who was involved in the theft of 48 heritage chairs from Panjab University, here today. As many as 20 chairs, of the 48 stolen heritage chairs, have been recovered from a forest area in Dhanas near the university. The 48-year-old carpenter was remanded in three-day police custody.Officials said Sarfaraj is part of a big gang operating in Chandigarh, Delhi and Mumbai. The police also suspect the involvement of university employees in the theft.Sources said Sarfaraj's involvement was also found in such thefts earlier also but there was no conclusive evidence.A case has been registered under Section 380 of the IPC at the Sector 11 police station. The report says 48 chairs were stolen by unknown persons by breaking the locks between November 1 and 3.The police said Sarfaraj did not steal the chairs himself but took these from thieves and was entrusted to deliver them in Delhi and Mumbai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/baltana-resident-held-with-20-heritage-chairs-stolen-from-panjab-university-173886
22-11-2020||Panchkula||Canter driver robbed of Rs14L in Panchkula||Four miscreants allegedly robbed a Canter driver of Rs14 lakh at gunpoint near Garhi Kotaha in Raipur Rani here last evening.The incident took place around 5.30 pm when Dharambir was driving back to Marranwala in Pinjore after unloading 8 tonne scrap and collecting cash from Jagadhari in Yamunanagar.On a complaint of the victim's employer and scrap trader Nirbhay Singh, a case has been registered against four unidentified persons under Section 25 of the Arms Act and Section 392 of the IPC at the Raipur Rani police station. According to the complainant, Dharambir left with a scrap-laden truck (HP63-8861) for a metal factory in Jagadhari. The next day, the driver collected a payment of Rs14 lakh from the factory owner Gaurav and left for Marranwala.On his way back, four men in a car looted him of the cash by pointing a gun at him near an eatery in Garhi Kotaha village. According to the victim, the rear number plate of the car was covered with a khaki tape. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/canter-driver-robbed-of-rs14l-in-panchkula-173887
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panel seeks detail of missing furniture of Panjab University||A panel formed to look into the matter of missing heritage furniture from the department of sociology, Panjab University, has asked the authorities concerned for the number of articles registered and missing.The panel, headed by Prof Navdeep Goyal, said: "The department has been asked to provide details."Sources said as per record, there had been a total of 82 chairs registered under the heritage category at the department. The matter came to light after advocate Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, submitted representations to the office of Chancellor and the Vice-President of India along with the UT Administrator and the UT Adviser regarding the missing furniture.The representation was filed in accordance with Article 51A of the Constitution. He claimed that a large number of chairs (heritage: designed by Pierre Jeanneret) were stolen from the PU.On November 12, officials of the sociology department lodged a complaint with the Sector 11 police that the missing furniture included 36 chairs from the department's seminar hall, 10 chairs from the second floor hall and two chairs from the department's office. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-seeks-detail-of-missing-furniture-of-panjab-university-173889
22-11-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula CMO tests +ve, dist logs 62 cases||The Panchkula Chief Medical Officer (CMO), Dr Jasjeet Kaur, and the in-charge for contact tracing, Dr Mankirat, were among 62 persons who tested positive for Covid-19 today. The infection count has reached 8,270 in the district.Testing in govt officesThe Health Department has decided to carry out tests in government offices. The district has increased its daily testing capacity to over 900 samples per day.Dr Jasjeet Kaur announced about her being infected in the medical bulletin WhatsApp group for media.According to officials of the Health Department, their office premises have been sanitised. With no new death, the Covid toll in the district stands at 121. The recovery rate in the district is 92.43 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-cmo-tests-ve-dist-logs-62-cases-173890
22-11-2020||Mohali||3 deaths, 117 cases in Mohali||Three deaths due to Covid-19 and 117 new cases were reported from the district today. As many as 93 patients recovered from the virus during the past 24 hours.Among the new cases, 67 were from Mohali (urban), 33 from Kharar, six from Dhakoli, five from Gharuan, three from Lalru and one each from Boothgarh, Dera Bassi and Kurali.The district has so far reported 14,300 cases and 12,769 patients have been cured. With three more deaths today, the toll reached 266 in the district. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-deaths-117-cases-in-mohali-173891
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||3 die, 119 new cases in Chandigarh||The UT today reported 119 cases of Covid-19 infections and three deaths due to the virus. The tally has climbed to 16,591, while 258 people have died due to the infection so far.A 45-year-old woman from Sector 29, a case of type 2 diabetes mellitus and acute kidney injury, died of Covid. A 61-year-old man from Maloya, a case of acute kidney injury and liver disease with complications, breathed his last at the PGI. A 79-year-old woman from Sector 34 succumbed to the virus at Fortis Hospital, Mohali.The number of active cases in the city is 1,135. As many as 102 more people have got better of the virus. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-die-119-new-cases-in-chandigarh-173892
22-11-2020||Mohali||Drive with caution on this potholed road in Zirakpur||Airport Road near Chhat village in Zirakpur is dotted with potholes, posing threat to commuters’ lives.The stretch is full of deceptive spots, which often take the drivers by surprise. In the day time, several four-wheelers heading for the airport are rushing against time. A stretch of the road from McDonald’s point to the Zirakpur traffic lights has several such hazards.“It is an irony that a stretch on the track named as Airport Road is in such a bad shape. It shows that nobody is really bothered about the commuters’ safety or comfort,” said Sukhdev Chaudhary, a resident of Peer Muchalla.Commuters said the situation was so bad that the police had put up barricades at some fatal spots to caution the drivers to slow down. However, it aggravates the situation as the drivers of fast-moving vehicles apply the brakes suddenly, putting those travelling in vehicles following them at risk.“Almost all government officials use this road off and on and they are surely aware of its bad condition. Still it has not been repaired for a long time,” said Vishwas Bhardwaj, a Dera Bassi resident.On rainy days, the uneven road is filled with muddy water, making it difficult for road users to spot the potholes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drive-with-caution-on-this-potholed-road-in-zirakpur-173893
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees lowest Nov temperature in 3 years||The city’s minimum temperature today dipped to 8.4°C, the lowest in the month of November since 2017. Yesterday, the minimum temperature was recorded at 9.7°C.In November last year, the lowest temperature was 10.4°C while in 2018, it was 8.7°C. In 2017, the city had recorded 6.8°C as the lowest temperature in November.At 8.4°C, the minimum temperature is a notch less than the normal temperature. The maximum temperature recorded in the city today was 22.2°C, which is four degrees above normal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-lowest-nov-temperature-in-3-years-173894
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh colleges issue SOPs, timetable||After the Directorate of Higher Education (DHE) approves opening of colleges for final-year students from November 23 despite Panjab University announcing continuation of online classes, various local colleges, having no other option, issued SOPs and timetable.Face mask must on the campusAmong SOPs, students have been asked to wear face mask on the college campus and gathering at common places such as canteens or halls have been banned. Students have also been asked to carry their ID cards.On November 17, Prof RK Singla, Dean of University Instructions, PU, had announced that the university decided to continue with online mode of teaching for the time being in all teaching departments/regional centres/affiliated colleges/constituent colleges for the current semester.The Dean, College Development Council (DCDC), had said the decision to continue online classes was taken for the time being and would be reviewed every week. On November 18, the DHE issued orders to open colleges (optional) for only final-year students.“There’s no confusion and colleges will open for final-year students as of now. UT colleges follow the Chandigarh Administration’s instructions,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, Higher Education.On Saturday, various city colleges issued SOPs and timetable. “We have no other option but to follow the instructions. We have issued timetable. We are not expecting huge rush of students, but those who are coming will adhere to all rules and regulations,” said an official of colleges.Among SOPs, students have been asked to wear face mask on the college campus and gathering at common places such as canteens or halls have been banned. Students have also been asked to carry their ID cards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-colleges-issue-sops-timetable-173896
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board razes 60 pre-fab shelters in Sector 52||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) continued its demolition drive in pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and razed nearly 60 vacant structures here today. The CHB had demolished eight such structures under the supervision of senior police and civil officials yesterday.The UT Administration had decided to relocate the residents of pre-feb shelters in Sectors 52 and 56 to EWS flats in Maloya-I under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme of the Centre.The CHB has already given allotment letters to 352 residents of pre-fab shelters of Sector 52 and 56 in Maloya-I. Under the scheme, the allottees will be required to pay monthly rent of Rs3,000, which would be increased biennially by eight per cent. The total rental period would be for a maximum of 25 years.An official said about 280 houses had been evacuated in Sector 52. Of this, nearly 68 houses had been demolished in the past two days. The drive would continue for the next few days.However, most of the shelters in Sector 56 had already been demolished by the CHB.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-razes-60-pre-fab-shelters-in-sector-52-173897
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Two-day online conference||Panjab varsity VC visits labsChandigarh: Professor Raj Kumar Vice Chancellor, Punjab University, along with Professor RK Singla, Dean of University Instructions, visited the labs of the Botany Department and the University Institute of Pharmacy to oversee the upkeep and ongoing research activities in the laboratories. During his visit, the Vice-Chancellor interacted with research scholars and showed keen interest in their research projects. He assured them of all possible help for the promotion of quality research on the university campus and stated that there would be no dearth of resources and money for the same. TNSN’tnl Pharmacy Week observedChandigarh: The University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences under the aegis of MHRD Institution’s Innovation Council and IPA, Panjab branch, celebrated the 59th National Pharmacy Week with the theme “Pharmacists: Frontline Health Professionals”. The weeklong celebrations included number of online competitions, events and webinars under the leadership of Prof OP Katare, president, IPA, Punjab branch, Prof Bhupinder Singh Bhoop, vice-president, IPA, Punjab branch, and Prof Indu Pal Kaur, chairperson, UIPS & secretary, IPA, Punjab branch. The week began with an e-poster competition with 30 entries from institutes across the country. Over 100 candidates from institutes such as NIPER, Mohali, NIPER, Hyderabad, Jamia Hamdard and Lovely Professional University registered for the context. TNSDate for form submission extendedChandigarh: Panjab University has extended the last date to submit registration forms of undergraduate and postgraduate classes of all teaching departments, regional centres, affiliated and constituent colleges of the university. The last date for undergraduate classes has been extended to December 1, while for postgraduate classes it is December 10. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-day-online-conference-173900
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Champions Cricket Academy log victory||Champions Cricket Academy, Kharar, registered a 23-run win over Chandigarh Cricket Academy in the 2nd Panna Lal Memorial U-21 Cricket Tournament at Dera Bassi.Batting first, Champion Cricket Academy boys scored 243/9 in the allotted 40 overs. Kalis Thakur and Ravi Karan Gill contributed 47 runs each, while Kushal Pal (34), Aryan Verma (32) and Sukhman Singh (25) were the other main contributors. Luvpreet claimed three wickets, while Shivang Ahuja took two wickets for the bowling side.In reply, Chandigarh Cricket Academy scored 220/8 in 40 overs. Naman Bansal (84) was the main scorer for the side. Saksham Gupta (54) and Nehal Pajni (25) were the other scorers for the side. Surinder Sandhu, Sukhman Singh and Raman Kumar took two wickets each for the bowling side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/champions-cricket-academy-log-victory-173901
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||FOSWAC, Powermen Union to protest privatisation||The Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC) and the UT Powermen Union (UTPU) have condemned the decision of privatisation of the UT Electricity Department by violating the rules, regulations and provision of the Electricity Act 2003 as well as the directions of the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC). They also decided to hold a protest march against the decision.FOSWAC and Powermen leaders stated that the Centre published a draft of the Electricity Amendment Bill - 2020 on April 17, 2020. Thereafter, it decided to privatise the distribution of all Union Territories without waiting for the Electricity Amendment Bill - 2020 to be placed/passed in Parliament.Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, FOSWAC, and Gopal Datt Joshi, general secretary, UTPU, stated that the move of privatisation was ill-conceived, unilateral without consulting the stakeholders and devoid of merit.They said the Administration was in so much hurry that it never felt the need to invite objections from stakeholders (FOSWAC and UTPU, stakeholders of residents and employees, respectively) or taking opinion from the JERC.“We, as stakeholders, feel that the supply of electricity to various consumers at reasonable rates is the basic necessity and it is the duty of the government to fulfil this legitimate need,” they said.The leaders said: “There is a strong apprehension that there will be no control over arbitrary increase in rates by private companies whose sole interest is to make profit from the business.”They said the Electricity Department was relatively maintaining good supply of electricity at reasonable rates without any gap of revenue in purchase and sale within the permissible transmitting loses and there was no reason to justify the privatisation at all.Bittu said the government was hell-bent on privatising the department despite being in huge profit for the past several years.“We apprehend that the sole motive of the private sector is profit making and residents will end up paying highly increased power tariff,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foswac-powermen-union-to-protest-privatisation-173902
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Literati-2020: Day 2 sees meaningful conversations||While talking about one of the chapters in her latest book, “Grandparents Bag of Stories”, Sudha said the best medicine really is genuine affectionate and compassionate hug to an individual in need. That’s what the world requires today, more than anything. Proud of her culture, she enjoys writing in her local language, Kannada, and says her works are for the common people. Giving respect to one another is a part of her character and that reflected when she continued to call Vivek Atray as Vivek ji. Her advice for the millennials is to imbibe highest work ethics, not be afraid of hard work, acquire skills and be proud of your country.When asked what’s happiness to her, she smiled and said, “It is not in any material acquisition but working for the people in need, which keeps me joyous and nothing worries or disturbs me since I understand life is transient.”After a motivational session, a conversation with author-historian Rakhshanda Jalil got us thinking about some of the real issues that our country is grappling with. She spoke about the emerging negative parochial outburst amongst people during the pandemic. Calling it an unfortunate situation, she said it resonates with her recent book, “But You Don’t Look Like a Muslim”, published by Harper Collins.Rakhshanda feels despite all struggles in the past, our nation hasn’t learnt from it. People continue to judge others on the basis of external representations. Her idea of growth is when people rise above the stereotypes and find unity in diversity. The adverse impact of the social media in today’s time, she said, is so visible.“Though the current year taught us to live frugally and learn from the fragility of life, people have unfortunately failed to learn to be compassionate, more caring and tolerant that is because they are fanned by misinformation and illogical campaigns on the social media that corrupted the people’s mind,” said Rakhshanda.The author says it is time we learn our lessons and step away from the narrow, limiting thought patterns and shun violence on the basis of religion.From the outer word, the attention shifted to the inner mechanism in the third session that had scientist-psychologist Shymal Vallabhjee and banker-turned-fitness trainer Shwetambari Shetty. A discussion on how can people develop good eating habits at the time when fast food is the easy and tempting option, the growing addiction to sugar, to eating when hungry… the session was quite interesting.Shymal emphasised on the importance of fasting, which, he said, is, “a validated science from the Vedic times and common to every religion as it cleanses and detoxifies the body.”He also explained the reason for sugar addiction as it is used in most products to increase shelf life, which most of us are unaware of. Working with some international players, he believes it is important to understand your body at the cellular biology level and then choose the foods.Shwetambari on the other hand advised conscious eating, being aware of what’s going inside your body and how the body responds to various foods, and enjoying what you eat.This was followed by another interesting interaction on yoga. US-based political blogger, yoga practitioner and author Jerome Armstrong highlighted the benefits of yoga and how it controls mind, body and soul through proper control of breath.He said it even brings about dynamic changes in the lifestyle of people and encourages them to internal reengineering. In the same session, yoga acharya Ira Trivedi suggested practicing yoga in the morning as that’s when the metabolic system works at its best capacity.In the evening session, we saw songwriter and author Anmol Malik, daughter of music director Anu Malik, and another prolific writer Vibha Mitra, explore the softer dimensions of the Impossible Secrets: Coming of Age Stories for Young Adults. Anmol said studying in abroad made her responsible, mature and she has shared the lessons she learnt in her book. Vibha said while writing for young adults, one had to be careful, especially using safe choice of words that resonate with them.The award-winning author and journalist with his recent bestseller, “2019: How Modi won India” Rajdeep Sardesai, consulting editor with India Today, was another highlight of the evening session ‘Power Coffee’ in conversation with author-journalist Jupinderjit Singh.In this session, he shared his memories of working as a lawyer after returning from Oxford to entering journalism. “2014: The Election that Changed India”, and “2019: How Modi Won India”, according to him, were the documentations of Indian political and democratic scenario for the posterity to understand what, how and why of these historic events. He said, “Both books were written to educate the readers and make politics accessible to them, inform them about political trends and events that unfolded.”Talking about the current scenario of TV journalism, he said: “With over 400 TV channels in the country, TV journalists are sharply polarised and divided just like our society, and strongly believed that TV journalism is on the decline and Sushant Singh Rajput’s case sounded the death knell turning channels into a ‘tamasha’.”Fake news through social media channels is impacting the lives of people. Print media, according to him, protects and retains its credibility and it’s time editors and owners of channels raised the bar and improved the standards of journalism to plug the decline of this medium.The last session of the day, “Once Upon a Time: The Fabulous Four Met a Spyder’, focused on children writing and revolved around the latest novel “Itsy Bitsy Spyder” by Bangalore-based author Apeksha, and another children’s writer Rajesh Talwar whose recent fantasy “Fabulous Four Battle Zoozoo Wizard” has been published.— Gurnaaz Kaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/literati-2020-day-2-sees-meaningful-conversations-173903
22-11-2020||Chandigarh||Satvik Veena maestro lights up live concert||A selective audience of music aficionados were treated to a soulful and mesmerising spell of classical music at a live concert, ‘Springs of Desert’, organised by Pracheen Kala Kendra at its ML Koser Indoor Auditorium here today.The welcome live concert, which happened after a hiatus of eight months due to the pandemic, was led by world trotting Satvik Veena maestro Tantshree Samrat Pandit Salil Bhatt with Abhishek Mishra on ‘tabla’ and Ustad Kutla Khan on ‘khartal’. The highlight of the concert was a veritable mix of classical and Rajasthani folk music, which gave the magnificence of both traditions.Pandit Salil Bhatt bared the melodic character of raga “Vishwa Kauns” invented by him and dedicated to his guru and father Padma Bhushan Pandit Vishwamohan Bhatt - the illustrious Mohan Veena maestro and Grammy award winner. He explained the unique formation of raga, which differentiates it from the similarity of raga Jog Kauns and raga Malkauns.Salil began with an elaborate alaap, which melted into the slow paced composition ‘Vilambat gat’ and later the fast-paced ‘Drut gat’ set to teen tal of 16 beats. The audience relished the Rajasthani folk music compositions weaved in classical presentations such as ‘Balam ji Mhara’ in raga Desh, ‘Hichki’ in raga Kirwani and more raga Jog and Bhopali. Versatile young percussion maestro Abhishek Mishra and Ustad Kutla Khan articulated the Satvik Veena melodies on tabla and khartal, respectively.Chief guest Guru Sushil Jain honoured the artistes while Sajal Koser expressed gratitude to the audience and apologies to those who could not be entertained due to safety measures. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/satvik-veena-maestro-lights-up-live-concert-173904
22-11-2020||Zirakpur||Two killed in accident||Woman held with heroinChandigarh: The operations cell of the UT police arrested a woman with 200 gm of heroin worth Rs16 lakh near the furniture market roundabout. A case under Section 21 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspect, a resident of Sector 56. She said she got the contraband from a person, seemingly an African national, in Delhi. The 40-year-old was produced in a court, which sent her to police remand. TNSThree booked on fraud chargeChandigarh: The police have booked a Sector 37 resident, Vikash Sethi, for allegedly cheating a Sector 41 resident Radha Krishan of Rs3.70 lakh in 2018 on the pretext of providing him visa for Cyprus. A case under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC has been registered. In another case, the Sector 3 police have registered a case against Gurminder Singh and his wife, both residents of Chandigarh, for allegedly cheating a Moga resident, Harjap Singh, of Rs7.50 lakh for providing him study visa for Australia in April, 2016. The suspects neither provided him visa nor returned his money. A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered. TNSOne booked for credit card fraudChandigarh: The police have registered a case against an unknown person for duping a woman of Rs 1 lakh by fraudulently transacting from her credit card on an e-commerce portal in September this year. A case under Sections 120-B, 419 and 420 of the IPC has been registered. TNSHealth & wellness centres upgradedMohali: The state government is converting all sub-centres of the state into health & wellness centres christened as Tandrust Punjab Sehat Kendras in a phased manner. In line with this, there health & wellness centres in Gharuan and five in Dera Bassi have been upgraded and renovated. Another 34 upgraded health & wellness centres will be ready soon. Manned by community health officers, multipurpose health workers (male and female) and ASHA workers, these centres will provide 27 free-of-cost medicines, six diagnostic tests and tele-consultation facilities. TNSForgery, cheating case registeredMohali: The Mullanpur police have booked management officials of a real estate firm, Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers Private Limited, in a case of forgery and cheating in a housing project in New Chandigarh. The case was registered on the complaint of a Ropar resident, Manpreet Singh. According to him, the suspects sold him a residential floor in September 2019. They had no authority to sell the land from the competent authority. The police said the officials would be summoned to join the investigation. TNSOne booked for celebratory fireDera Bassi: The police have registered a case against a Delhi resident for allegedly firing in the air during a wedding function at a hotel on the national highway near here on Friday night. The suspect has been identified as Bobby Luthra, a resident of Delhi. The police said manager Sanjeev Kumar, in his complaint, stated that the hotel was booked for the wedding of a girl from Dera Bassi. Luthra, who was dancing at the wedding venue, fired two shots with his pistol, despite being stopped by the groom’s relatives and hotel managers. He, however, ignored the request, the police said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-killed-in-accident-173905
