23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 180 new coronavirus cases; 10 deaths take toll to 137||Chandigarh recorded 180 new coronavirus cases, a medical bulletin said on Wednesday---developments that take the union territory’s COVID status to 10,726 infections.The UT also recorded 10 fatalities, taking its death toll to 137.Seven of the 10 fatalities were people over 60. Three of the seven deaths occurred earlier but were counted in the tally only on Wednesday.  A 76-year-old man from Sector 21 died at Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Saturday. The bulletin said the administration had yet to get complete details of this case.Besides those, two other deaths were entered into Chandigarh’s death count on Wednesday---a 69-year-old woman who died on September 15 and an 80-year-old man who died on September 14. Both died at PGI. The bulletin attributed this late addition to delay in receiving information.The rest of the deaths occurred within the last 48 hours.A 75-year-old man died from Sector 38 who was diagnosed with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection---a condition often seen severe COVID cases---died at Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16 on Wednesday. A 75-year-old man from Sector 38 who was also diagnosed with SARI from COVID-19 died at GMSH-16 also died on Wednesday.A 46-year-old man diabetic man from Mauli Jagran died at PGIMER on Monday.  An 82-year-old man from Sector 15 with diabetes and ARDS died in Mohali’s Fortis Hospital on Monday.A 53-year-old man from Sector 46 with what the bulletin says was “community acquired pneumonia and SARI” died at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 on Tuesday.A 47 year old man from Khuda Jassu who had a renal transplant died at GMSH-16 on Tuesday,A 60-year-old woman from Sector 44 died at GMCH-32 on Tuesday.The last fatality was a 72-year-old man from Sector 47 was brought death to GMSH-16 on Saturday. He tested positive after his death.Chandigarh also recorded more recoveries than infections for the second consecutive day---the bulletin said 255 patients have been discharged from various places, including home isolation.Twenty-three per cent of Chandigarh’s cases are now active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-180-new-coronavirus-cases-10-deaths-take-toll-to-137-145492
23-09-2020|| ||Panchkula district sees one death, 146 fresh Covid cases||Panchkula, September 23 The district reported another Covid death on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 72. A 76-year-old woman from Sector 9, who was suffering from hypertension, diabetes and coronary heart disease, succumbed to the disease. The district reported 146 fresh cases, taking the overall count to 5,328. The fresh cases include 11 from Sector 7, 10 from Pinjore, seven each from Sector 15, Sector 2 and Sector 8, six each from Kalka, Sector 16 and Sector 4, five each from Khera Sita Ram, the MDC, Sector 5, Sector 20, Sector 21, Sector 26, Sector 6 and Sector 9, four each from the MDC, Sector 4, Sector 10, Sector 11, Sector 12-A and Sector 25, three each from Kot, Sector 12 and Sector 14, two each from Manakpur, Sector 19 and Surajpur, and one each from Amravati Enclave, Bir Ghaggar, Buddanpur, Chandimandir, Hangoli, Haripur, Karanpur, Khatoli, Mouli, Nada Sahib, Old Panchkula, Power Colony, Sector 18, Sector 27, Tipra and Tagra. While 1,153 cases are still active, 4,103 persons have been cured or discharged.  Panchkula has so far conducted 61,165 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-district-sees-one-death-146-fresh-covid-cases-145471
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports four coronavirus deaths, 238 new cases||Mohali reported 238 new coronavirus cases and four deaths, district officials said---developments that take the district’s numbers to 8,939.All four of those who died had pre-existing medical problems, and three were over 65 years.A 50-year-old man from Manauli with liver problems died at Sohana Hospital. Two women, both 66, died at Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital. They were both diabetic, and one also had hypertension. The last fatality was a 70-year-old man from Chaumajra who was diabetic and had hypertension. He died in Ivy Hospital.Mohali’s fatalities stand at 171.Mohali Urban reported 78 new COVID cases, the most infections on Wednesday.Kharar (40), Gharuan (25), Dhakoli ( 54), Dera Bassi (11), Banur (5), Boothgarh (7), Kurali (6), Lalru (12).Mohali also reported 156 recoveries on Wednesday.Just under a quarter of the district’s cases are still active.Mohali’s numbersTotal cases: 8,939Active:  2,637Deaths: 171||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-four-coronavirus-deaths-238-new-cases-145470
23-09-2020||Mohali||Evacuation flight from Dubai carrying 86 passengers arrives at Chandigarh||An evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 86 passengers from Dubai landed at the Chandigarh International Airport at Mohali on Wednesday.The IndiGo operated Air Bubble flight carrying the 86 stranded passengers from Dubai amid COVID-19 outbreak arrived at the local airport at 2.28 pm.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per government guidelines. Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport with joint efforts of all the authorities/agencies which were involved in the processing of passengers which were governments of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, CISF, Immigration, Customs and Punjab Police etc., along with Chandigarh International Airport.A health department spokesman said that during the screening the health officials took utmost precaution and the passengers also maintained social distancing.He informed that no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold etc and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus.He further elaborated that all the passengers were also impressed upon by the health department teams deployed at the airport to take all health related precautions such as cover their face with masks, using hand sanitizers, washing hands as much as possible and observe social distancing guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/evacuation-flight-from-dubai-carrying-86-passengers-arrives-at-chandigarh-145457
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Public dealing hit in Chandigarh MC office amid standoff between officials, BJP leaders||The standoff between the Municipal Corporation officials and the BJP leaders affected public dealing in the civic body's office for most of Wednesday.Public and staff entry was not allowed inside the office even as the MC employees went on a pen-down strike protesting against the BJP leaders and insisting on an apology from local BJP leader Gaurav Goyal for manhandling and abusing MC commissioner's secretary on Tuesday.Heavy police presence kept an eye on the protesting employees near the main gate. A handful of AAP workers too protested against the unruly behaviour of BJP leaders in front of the office.Around 2 pm, employees' unions' leaders moved to the Sector 17 police station and demanded that an FIR be registered against Goyal.High drama was witnessed at the MC office on Tuesday when a group of state BJP leaders clashed with the staff members of the MC Commissioner’s office over a meeting with the civic body chief.One of the members of the BJP delegation, Gorav Goyal, allegedly manhandled and abused the Commissioner’s secretary Jatin Saini when he asked them to wait for some time as the Commissioner was in a meeting.In his complaint to the Sector 17 police station, SHO, Saini has written, “I was on duty and he obstructed me in my duty as well as manhandled me and used abusive language. He also threatened me of dire consequences and to remove me from service. It is requested to take appropriate legal action against Mr Goyal.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/public-dealing-hit-in-chandigarh-mc-office-amid-standoff-between-officials-bjp-leaders-145431
23-09-2020||Mohali||4 more lose life in Mohali, toll 167||The district on Tuesday witnessed four fatalities due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 167. It also witnessed 188 fresh cases, taking the total number of infections to 8,701.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said a 56-year-old man from Desu Majra died of Covid-19. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. A 57-year-old man from Manauli also breathed his last. He had a heart ailment. Both of them died at a hospital in Sohana. He said a 73-year-old man from Mubarikpur also died of the virus today. A 68-year-old man from Dera Bassi also lost his life. He was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. Both patients died at the GMCH, Patiala.Of the total fresh infections, 84 cases were reported from Mohali (urban), 16 from Kharar, 34 from Gharuan, 43 from Dhakoli, three from Dera Bassi, two from Banur and three each from Boothgarh and Kurali.Meanwhile, 267 patients were cured or discharged today.The district has so far reported 8,701 cases, while 5,975 patients have been cured of the virus. There are 2,559 active cases. The district has seen 167 Covid deaths so far. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-more-lose-life-in-mohali-toll-167-145266
23-09-2020||---||Air Marshal MM Singh, a decorated war hero, passes away at 89||Chandigarh, September 22Air Marshal Man Mohan Singh, a decorated war hero and well-known face in the service fraternity and academic circles of the city, passed away at the age of 89. He had settled in the city after hanging up his boots as the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief (AOC-in-C), Western Air Command.His mortal remains were consigned to the flames today amidst a small gathering of family members and military veterans.Air Marshal Singh was in the reckoning for appointment as the Chief of Air Staff, but was overlooked for elevation by the Rajiv Gandhi government, following which he put in his papers in 1988.Commissioned in January 1951, he belonged to the 54th Course at the Air Force Academy. From July 1962 to February 1972, he commanded three IAF squadrons, No. 24, 26 and 15, in that order. As Group Captain, he served as the Station Commander of No. 11 Wing at Tezpur and on promotion to Air Commodore, he was posted as Air Officer Commanding No. 1 Wing, Srinagar. He became an Air Marshal in 1984 and was elevated as the AOC-in-C in August 1985.Air Marshal Singh was decorated with the Vir Chakra for gallantry during the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war and was later awarded the Ati Vashisht Seva Medal and the Param Vashisht Seva Medal for distinguished service. During the 1971 war, he was commanding an operational fighter squadron in the Eastern Sector. According to his citation, his squadron flew 110 sorties in Bangladesh in close support and anti-shipping roles and met all its operational commitments without damage to any of its aircraft. He personally led 19 sorties and successfully engaged enemy defence positions, gun boats and ships despite heavy ground fire. When heli-borne operations across the Meghna river commenced, his squadron provided effective air cover for the successful completion of the task. In addition, the squadron provided valuable support to the Army in Agartala Sector in spite of the fact that the aircraft had to operate from a short runway at Agartala. Throughout the operations, he displayed courage and devotion to duty of a high order.Hailing from Jalandhar district in Punjab, Air Marshal Singh was also associated with the Dashmesh Academy Trust. He was also a speaker and commentator on contemporary military affairs.Was overlooked for elevation by Rajiv government||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/air-marshal-mm-singh-a-decorated-war-hero-passes-away-at-89-145267
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Swindlers’ gang busted, six land in police net||A gang of swindlers, which used to dupe people on the pretext of insurance policies, has been busted by the cyber crime investigation cell of the UT police. Six suspects have been arrested. They were operating a fake call centre in Zirakpur, from where calls were made to gullible people.The police said a case of cheating was registered at the Sector 34 police station on a complaint of Nirmal Singh, a resident of Sector 44, who reported that an unknown person called him in June this year and discussed his old insurance policy.The fraudster claimed that the complainant’s insurance policy, worth Rs25 lakh, had matured and if he wanted to claim it, he would have to deposit fee and some documents.The complainant got lured and he deposited Rs16.5 lakh in different bank accounts.He later realised that he had been cheated.The police said they had also received a similar complaint of fraud from a Sector 42 resident, AD Rajput, who lost Rs2 lakh on the pretext of paying an instalment of his insurance policy in advance. He was also duped by the same gang.During the investigation, Yogesh Verma, a resident of Green Field Homes, Kishanpura, Dhakoli, Zirakpur, Pranav, a resident of Ambala Cantt, Manish Kumar, a resident of Gulmohar City Extension, Dera Bassi, Subham Bhardwaj, a resident of Sunny Enclave, Sector 125, Mohali, Arjun Yadav, a resident of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula, and Rakesh Kumar of Jahawarpur village in Dera Bassi, were arrested on September 21.Inspector Devinder Singh, in-charge of the cyber cell, said some of the suspects had earlier worked as insurance agents and had information about many people having insurance policies.An amount of Rs4 lakh, 30 mobile phones along with SIM cards of different service providers and 10 diaries containing information regarding victims, have been recovered from the suspects.They had set up a call centre in Zirakpur and used to target senior citizens, who had purchased insurance policies from different companies, by alluring them to deposit money on the pretext of huge maturity amount of their policies.The suspects were produced before a court today, which remanded them in three-day police custody. — TNSDuped people in garb of insurance policies||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/swindlers-gang-busted-six-land-in-police-net-145268
23-09-2020||Panchkula||Four deaths in Panchkula, 72 cases||The district on Tuesday reported four Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 71. A 65-year-old woman from Sector 12, an 87-year-old man from Sector 16, a 78-year-old man from Barwala and a 78-year-old man from Sector 19 succumbed to the disease. The district also witnessed 72 fresh cases, taking the case tally to 5,182. Among the new patients, 10 were from Sector 21, six from Pinjore, five each from Raipur Rani and Sector 8, four each from Sector 19 and Sector 20, three each from Sector 11, Sector 12 and Sector 2, two each from Bir Ghaggar, the MDC, Sector 4, the MDC, Sector 5, Morni, Sector 14, Sector 15, Sector 4 and Sector 9, and one each from Barwala, Kanouli, Manaktabra, the MDC, Sector 6, Police Lines, Sector 1, Sector 10, Sector 12-A, Sector 16, Sector 18, Sector 25, Sector 26 and Sector 28.While 1,219 cases are still active, 3,892 persons have been discharged or cured.Panchkula has so far conducted 60,126 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-deaths-in-panchkula-72-cases-145269
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Recoveries outnumber cases in City Beautiful||The city reported four Covid deaths and 266 fresh cases today, taking the death total to 127. The UT saw more recoveries than fresh infections. In the past 24 hours, the city reported 383 recoveries. The case tally stands at 10,546. A 26-year-old man from Sector 35, who was suffering from metabolic encephalopathy (mental disorder), paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (a rare blood disorder) and acute kidney injury, died at the PGI.The second fatality was of a 48-year-old man from Sector 52, who was suffering from pneumonitis (lung inflammation). Another 61-year-old Covid patient from Dhanas died due to the acute respiratory distress syndrome. He was also a diabetic. The fourth fatality in the city was of a 50-year-old man from Sector 37.Mani Majra has reported the maximum number of cases with 19 infections, followed by Sector 40 (15), Sector 45 (14), and Sector 19 (12).The UT has 2,622 active cases. So far, 7,794 have recovered from the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/recoveries-outnumber-cases-in-city-beautiful-145270
23-09-2020||---||BJP leaders, traders ‘rough up’ MC chief’s secy, trigger protest||Chandigarh, September 22High drama was witnessed at the Municipal Corporation office here today when a group of state BJP leaders and Grain Market Association office-bearers allegedly roughed up a staff member of the MC Commissioner’s office over a meeting with the civic body chief.One of the delegation members, (Gorav) Goyal, allegedly manhandled and abused MC Commissioner’s personal secretary Jatin Saini when he asked them to wait for sometime as the official was already in a meeting.In his complaint to the Sector 17 police station SHO, Saini said, “He obstructed me from performing my duty, manhandled me and used abusive language. He also threatened me with dire consequences. It is requested that appropriate legal action be taken against Goyal.”As per the complaint, Rambir Bhatti, state general secretary of the Chandigarh unit of the BJP, and other members were present there.Around 10 state BJP leaders and Grain Market Association office-bearers were stopped from meeting MC Commissioner KK Yadav around 1 pm. Sources said Saini asked the BJP leaders to wait as a former Congress Mayor had gone to meet KK Yadav. This enraged the BJP workers, who had come to meet the MC Commissioner regarding the demands of the Grain Market Association to put the enhanced parking charges on hold.Saini told the BJP men that the former Mayor had a prior appointment with Yadav. Hence he had gone inside to meet him.BJP delegation members came out of the office and resorted to sloganeering and sat in protest. City BJP president Arun Sood, Asha Jaswal and Deputy Mayor Jagtar Singh Dhillon intervened to disperse the protesting members. Meanwhile, members of five-six employees’ unions gathered outside the MC office in protest against the manhandling of an employee as the police kept an eye.However, during the melee and subsequent protests, Covid protocols were flouted at every step in the MC office as well as the Grain Market Association meeting at Satsang Bhavan in Sector 26.BJP leaders’ main grouseThe main grouse of BJP leaders against the Administration is that despite being the ruling party, officials conveniently overlook their opinion. Before going to meet the MC Commissioner, Rambir Bhatti and other Grain Market Association office-bearers had addressed a gathering at Satsang Bhavan in the morning. In the meeting, they rued that officers come here just for three years, but resort to high-handedness and take arbitrary decisions. “The BJP, once known as the party of traders, has ruined the trader community. Demonetisation, GST and now the lockdown has broken the backbone of traders,” said an office-bearer of the association.Cong panel seeks FIR against culpritsChandigarh: The Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee objected to the behaviour of some BJP leaders, who manhandled MC Commissioner’s personal secretary Jatin Saini. The committee demanded the registration of an FIR. City Congress president Pardeep Chhabra and other senior leaders said instead of working for the welfare of city residents, the BJP was busy serving the interests of party leaders during the past five years. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-leaders-traders-rough-up-mc-chiefs-secy-trigger-protest-145271
23-09-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Students lose sleep for overseas online classes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 22The pandemic has been nothing short of a nightmare for most students who came back to Chandigarh in March and are studying online at their universities abroad. While erratic timings, courtesy time-zone difference, have sent their biological clocks in a tizzy, most students are losing sleep over picking between pre-recorded lectures and live lectures.A second-year student from a university in Canada, who has been here since the lockdown, said, “We are expected to be up all night and sleep during the day. It is taking a toll on our health. I feel like I am isolated from family and friends. Our university gives asynchronous lectures. The pre-recorded ones lack interaction and if you want to be involved with the class, you need to attend live lectures.”A third-year student, who is studying in a university in Seattle, US, is facing a similar situation. “My classes start at 9 pm. The hardest are the lectures that start at 3 am,” he rues. The student added, “It’s easily five hours of classes and then we have assignments and mid-terms too. The hardest thing is to sit up at wee hours to give a mid-term (exam). While some professors are benevolent to give us a 24-hour bracket to choose from, others want us to appear for exams at the designated time.”Most students said they missed the classroom environment and community activities centred around academics. “In the online setup, you cannot even text someone else because those settings are blocked by professors to avoid spamming,” said a student. “I want to become an insurance actuary and we have a club for actuaries in my university, but I will not be able to join it,” he said.Another city-based student from a university in British Columbia said, “I didn’t have the transfer credits, so for me, in order to graduate in four years, I have to take a full course load. The classes are hectic. I am taking five classes and doing internship too.” He added, “On Mondays, my classes start at 10.30 pm till 5 am. On Tuesday, I have pre-recorded classes and have another class in the morning. So I stay up one day and the next day, I am sleeping early. It’s messing up with my health.”Another student studying in Canada is planning to leave in November. “My parents called me here in March. They said international flights would be shut in March. Only recently have they opened up flights for students with visas and I am going back. I am applying for medical insurance and looking for a place to stay.”One of the students’ parent shared: “It’s been a stressful time for our children and we are now sending them back to their colleges. That’s the only solution.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-lose-sleep-for-overseas-online-classes-145272
23-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Education Department asks school heads to call at least 40 pupils a day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 22A day after schools witnessed thin attendance due to lack of consent from parents, the UT Education Department today asked the heads of government schools to call at least 40 to 45 students daily to schools by motivating parents.On Monday, only 950 students turned up at 90 government schools as many parents withdrew their consent. As per a survey conducted by the department, 25,000 consent forms were submitted.A similar trend was witnessed on Tuesday as only five to 10 students visited each school for guidance. A message sent to WhatsApp group for schools principals reads: “As today was the first day and all of us know that even after receiving consent from a good number of parents, less number of students attended the classes today. Now, efforts are needed to motivate parents for sending their wards to schools as per the staggered timetable prepared by schools. Also, you can manage to call more number of sections/classes so that at least 40 to 45 students are present per day. At least those who earlier consented to attend the school must be motivated to come as per their schedule.”Earlier, the department had communicated to school heads to ensure that online or distance learning should continue and that students from Classes IX to XII should be permitted to visit the school only on a voluntary basis for taking guidance from teachers.A government teacher said: “We were informed not to call students ourselves yesterday by the inspection team. Now, we have been asked to convince parents to send their children to schools. This is against the principle of seeking consent.”District Education Officer Alka Mehta said: “We have just asked to motivate parents who had given consent earlier.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/education-department-asks-school-heads-to-call-at-least-40-pupils-a-day-145273
23-09-2020||
||Students take compartment exams at 20 centres||Chandigarh, September 22 The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) conducted the first compartment exam for Classes X and XII at 20 examination centres in the city today.  Around 2,000 students have registered for compartment exams from the Chandigarh region. Officials confirmed that a high percentage of students had shown up for the exams. As per CBSE officials, a maximum of 12 students were seated in one classroom to maintain 6-feet distance between them.  Class X students appeared for the social studies exam, while exams for several subjects, including physical education, political science and history, were organised for Class XII students. The compartment exams for Class X will continue till September 28 and Class XII till September 30. DAV-15 principal tests positive for Covid Principal of DAV-15 school, which is also a centre for compartment exams, tested positive for Covid a few days ago. Two other staff members have also tested positive for the virus. The principal said she was in isolation and had deputed another faculty as the in-charge of the compartment centre.  In a statement issued, the school authorities stated: "Proper and required precautionary measures are being taken. Regular fogging is being done for the safety of all staff members on duty and students. It is being ensured that proper social distancing is practised and every teacher on duty is properly scrutinised and before entering the premises," reads the statement. The statement further reads: "The Central Board of Secondary Education had  also been informed by the  school principal about her infection and she has appointed other teachers to take care of the ongoing CBSE examinations."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-take-compartment-exams-at-20-centres-145274
23-09-2020||---||Panchkula MLA: Will release funds for smart classrooms||Panchkula, September 22Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta inaugurated the work to upgrade 38 primary and three senior secondary schools in the district to Sanskriti Model Schools at a ceremony in the Sector 19 government school here today.With this, a total of 53 primary schools and six senior secondary schools have now come under the category of Sanskriti Model Schools in the district. Of these, four senior secondary schools and 38 primary schools fall under the Panchkula constituency.Addressing the audience, Gian Chand Gupta said due to the improvement in the quality of education in government schools in the past few years, parents were now keen on sending their children to the schools. He thanked Education Minister Kanwar Pal for the initiative.Gupta said the chain of Sanskriti Model Schools in Panchkula would create an identity for the region. He said it was mandatory to develop the education sector as per the future requirements.He said the children would also get education in smart classrooms. He said he would release funds from the discretionary grant to develop these classrooms in all senior secondary schools in the constituency. He announced he would also release funds to ensure clean drinking water and clean washrooms in these schools. He directed Education Department officials to ensure the complete plan for schools was ready in two months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mla-will-release-funds-for-smart-classrooms-145275
23-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda
||Panjab University starts getting team entries||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, September 22 The Directorate of Sports, Panjab University (PU), has started receiving team entries for inter-college competitions.  The first lot of inter-college competitions is scheduled for the first week of November and entries are invited till October 15. In July, the department released their annual sports calendar for all affiliated colleges of Punjab and Chandigarh.  “We are expecting more responses. This year’s competitions will not be the same as previous years, but the show will go on,” said Dr Parminder Singh, Director Sports, (PU). “However, the competitions may be delayed by 15 to 20 days as exams are on and the admission process is also underway. Till that time, we will finalise the tournament venues, timings, travel for teams and SOPs for conducting championships at Punjab colleges, Chandigarh colleges and on the PU campus,” he said. No update on budget On 40 per cent budget cut in sports activities that is reportedly recommended by a PU committee, Parminder Singh denied having any such information. “If we conduct championships, there’s is no question for a budget cut, but if we don’t, there’s obviously a cut,” said he.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-starts-getting-team-entries-145277
23-09-2020||
||No means to check cheating: Panjab University faculty||Chandigarh, September 22 The ongoing Panjab University blended-mode exams have no provision for stopping students from cheating, claim a few faculty members. However, officials maintained that the open-book examinations were conducted in this manner only. “The exams are not completely online. Students have to use pen and paper. We prepared doing it in a limited time and are setting examples for others. The other universities are following the same patterns. Open-book exams are conducted in this manner only. Students are responsible enough and preparing for the exams will help them only,” said Parvinder Singh, Controller of Examination, PU. Some faculty members have been raising questions on finding out ways to stop cheating during the exams to maintain the credibility.  “If teachers are so concerned about it, they should have set tough question papers. There are many subjects which are innovative and could not be just learnt from books. Amid the pandemic, the university has taken such a huge step under limited resources and time,” said a high-level official.  The exams have evoked mixed response from students too. “Those who want a good and bright future will not take to cheating. Those who want to cheat may end up doing it even in the offline mode. We are not school kids, we all are grownups,” said Anchal, a student.  “The PU is doing its best in the pandemic. Those in the habit of raising questions will do so even about the wisest decision,” said Khushpreet, another student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-means-to-check-cheating-panjab-university-faculty-145278
23-09-2020||
||PUTA poll: SOPs released, voters to bring own pens||Chandigarh, September 22 The Returning Officer for the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) elections today released standard operating procedures (SOPs) for voters.  The elections are scheduled to be held on September 25 and 26. The SOPs as mandated in the national directives for the Covid-19 management and MHA guidelines would be strictly followed, said Vijay Nagpal, Returning Officer.  “Pamphlets carrying names of contestants in both teams will be pasted at every voting booth for the convenience of members. Contestants may hand over these to voters. Voters will bring their own pens,” said Nagpal. While giving details about the voting plan, he said on September 25, voting would be held at the English auditorium from 8.30 am to 11 am for AC Joshi Library, ancient history, community education, Chinese & Tibetan, defence studies, economics, fine arts, French, Gandhian studies, geography and USOL voters.  From 11 am to 1.30 pm, voting will be held for English, German, Hindi, history, human rights, Indian theatre, library science, life-long learning, mass communication, music, political science, police administration, psychology, public administration, lexicography, Punjabi, Russian, Sanskrit, social work, sociology, Urdu and women studies departments. From 2 pm to 3.30 pm, for anthropology, biochemistry, biophysics, biotechnology, botany, environmental studies and from 3.30 pm to 5 pm, for chemistry and physics departments. On September 26 (9 am to 1 pm), voting will be held for chemical engineering, UIET and UIHTM. The counting of votes will be held on September 26 at 1.30 pm and the annual general body meeting will take place at 3.30 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-poll-sops-released-voters-to-bring-own-pens-145279
23-09-2020||---||Court denies bail to accused||Chandigarh, September 22A local court has dismissed an anticipatory bail application of Harsimranjit Singh, one of the five accused in the 2013 Audi-Tavera accident case.The court had issued fresh arrest warrants in February, 2020, after the accused failed to appear for case hearings despite repeated summons. Harsimranjit has been charged under Section 212 (harbouring offender) of the IPC.The police have also chargesheeted Panchkula resident Rajat Kapoor, who was allegedly driving the Audi, Trivikram Singh Toor and Gurpreet Singh, who were accompanying him, besides Harsimranjit Singh and Prabhjit Singh, who allegedly helped the three accused escape in another car.Two students and a driver were killed in the head-on collision between the Audi and the Tavera in July 2013. The accident took place when four students from Ghaziabad were heading back home in a Tavera from Dharampur in Himachal Pradesh. They were on way to the ISBT, Sector 17, when their Tavera collided with the Audi on the road dividing Sector 17 and 18. Tavera driver Hast Bahadur, along with two students, Sahil Juneja, and Kuldeep Singh, sitting on the rear seat, died on the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-denies-bail-to-accused-145280
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Father-son duo attacked in Sector 52||A father-son duo was attacked by some miscreants at Sector 52 today following an altercation. Victim Jai Kumar, a resident of Sector 52, alleged that he had objected to a few youths from selling ganja near his house, which led to the incident.  He said around six persons attacked him and his son Rahul. Rahul was stabbed multiple times following which he was admitted to the GMSH, Sector 16, from where he was referred to the PGI. Jai also suffered injury on his forehead. “Around four years ago, my another son Krishan was murdered,” he added. The police were informed about the incident. An investigation into the matter was on at the Sector 36 police station. “We have received a complaint with the names of the suspects following which a case will be registered against them,” a police official said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/father-son-duo-attacked-in-sector-52-145281
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||CTU to soon launch QR code-based payment mode||Passengers travelling in Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) buses will no longer need cash to buy ticket as they will soon be able to make payment by scanning the QR code with their mobile phone. The CTU will soon provide this facility under the Digital India initiative as the National Payment Corporation of India has made it mandatory to provide QR code-based payment facility in the CTU buses.  As a pilot project, the facility will be provided in eight to 10 buses on one or two routes, after which the new system will be implemented in all buses. For this, the department has sought applications from interested banks and companies. After getting this facility, it will be easy for the passengers to make online payment. A senior official of the Transport Department, UT, said they would soon provide this facility in all CTU buses and the passengers would be able to purchase the ticket by just scanning the QR code available with the bus conductor. He said the department had been working on the project for the past quite some time and now they were hopeful to launch it soon. Interested banks and companies can apply by September 25 and the hired bank or the company would have to design and provide the UPI QR code, he said. The department will provide this facility in addition to the cash transactions, as the earlier system of purchasing the ticket in cash will also continue.  The system would be made available in local and long-route buses and it would help the passengers in maintaining safety amid the Covid-19 pandemic, he added. The CTU had recently resumed the inter-state bus service to the states of Punjab and Haryana. At present, the tickets could be purchased online on CTU website ctuonline.chd.gov.in or through the mobile app, “CTU Musafir”, dedicated for the purpose. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-to-soon-launch-qr-code-based-payment-mode-145282
23-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali gets 2 ultra-modern ambulances||Two ultra-modern ambulances have been provided by the Punjab Government to the district health authorities. These would be deployed at Nayagaon and Singhpura near Zirakpur to transport road accident victims to the hospitals.  The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, while flagging off the ambulances from his office today, thanked Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for the initiative in providing ambulances. Dr Manjit Singh said the BS-VI ambulances had more inside space than other ambulances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-gets-2-ultra-modern-ambulances-145283
23-09-2020||
||Covid-testing camps for food business operators in Mohali||Mohali, September 22  The district administration will organise Covid testing camps for food business operators (FBOs) under Tandrust Punjab Mission. Reviewing the sampling status in the district, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said it had been decided to further increase sampling in the district. He said weekend camps would be organised area/marketwise wherein sampling of all FBOs and their staff would be undertaken. The samples of hotel/restaurant staff, dairies, grocery/kiryana stores, vegetable/fruit sellers and small vendors/rehriwalas would be taken during the camps, he added. Girish Dayalan said, “The only way to defeat Covid-19 is aggressive testing. We are covering containment zones, contacts of positive patients, walk-in patients, suspected patients, international travellers, domestic passengers, government offices involving public dealing, but as the city and state have gradually relaxed the lockdown restrictions, the Covid testing is being scaled up to cover maximum population.”  As of now, nearly 67,000 samples have been culled for testing in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-testing-camps-for-food-business-operators-in-mohali-145284
23-09-2020||
||Woman held for duping P’kula couple of Rs18.5L||Panchkula, September 22  The police today arrested a woman for duping a couple of Rs18.5 lakh on the pretext of sending their daughter abroad.  The arrested woman has been identified as Shilpi, a resident of Panchkula.  According to information, Shilpi and her accomplice Rishi Chauhan, a resident of Sector 17, had friendly relations with complainants Deepak and his wife. Deepak wanted to send his daughter abroad and when Shilpi came to know about this, she introduced the complainant to Deepak and his wife Lucky and told him that the couple had sent various people abroad. He said after this, Deepak and Lucky demanded Rs10 lakh for sending their daughter to Australia and promised him that they would send their daughter to Australia within six months. He said he paid Rs10 lakh cash to Deepak and Lucky after Shilpi and Rishi assured him that he would get the money back if his daughter was not sent abroad. He said he kept on waiting for the visa of his daughter, but in vain.  The complainant said when he demanded his money back from Shilpi and Rishi, they told him that he would not get the money back. He further alleged that Shilpi and Rishi had also taken Rs8.5 lakh for gold kitty, but they neither gave him gold nor returned his money. He said Shilpi had also threatened to eliminate him. He said he, accompanied by a few persons, also tried to meet the suspects, but he came to know that all of them had fled abroad. He said the suspects had duped many persons in a similar fashion.  A case has been registered under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Haryana Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishment Act, 2013, at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-held-for-duping-pkula-couple-of-rs18-5l-145285
23-09-2020||
||Traders down shutters, protest proposed 5-fold hike in parking fee||Chandigarh, September 22 Members of the Grain Market Association today observed a complete shutdown against the proposed five-fold hike in parking free. Association president Ram Karan Gupta and general secretary Mohit Sood said businesses at the Grain Market had already been affected badly and continued to suffer enormous losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision of the Market Committee to levy five times higher rates of parking fee this year would be additional burden and unfair to customers and all concerned, they said. Moreover, the police had closed the main entrance to the grain market, which had blocked easy access to customers to the market. Members of the association observed a complete strike today to protest against these dictatorial diktats of the Market Committee, they said. Gupta said they would observe an indefinite strike and eventually more markets of the city would join their agitation, if the arbitrary parking tender was not withdrawn. “We demand that various conditions incorporated in the parking tender should be withdrawn immediately,” he said. Gupta said the busy road in front of SCFs had been illegally declared as a parking space and the two-hour time limit for revalidating the parking ticket on two or four-wheelers was uncalled for. “We apprehend that the conditions of the parking contract have been modified to favour the contactor. Terms and conditions should be reviewed by the competent authority. These suggestions of the association should have been considered before finalising the tender,” Gupta said. Meanwhile, Charanjiv Singh, chairman, and Anil Vohra, president, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, extended support to the Grain Market Association. Later, the traders met Nazuk Kumar, Administrator, Market Committee, in support of their demands. Gupta said Kumar listened to their point of view carefully and assured them of discussing the matter with the Deputy Commissioner. He would again meet the traders tomorrow after discussing the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-down-shutters-protest-proposed-5-fold-hike-in-parking-fee-145286
23-09-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration seeks suggestions from Advisory Council||Chandigarh, September 22Members of the UT Administrator's Advisory Council have been asked to give their opinion on the issue of allowing nursing homes in residential areas.The suggestions are to be given at the earliest as recommended by the standing committee on urban infrastructure and planning to enable the Administration to examine and decide the issue accordingly.The standing committee, in its meeting held under the chairmanship of Rajendra K Saboo in July, had rejected the proposal to allow nursing homes in residential areas of the city.The UT Administration had directed the committee to consider the proposal of local MP Kirron Kher for allowing conversion of residential plots to nursing home sites.Sources said a meeting of the council was proposed to be held on September 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-seeks-suggestions-from-advisory-council-145288
23-09-2020||Chandigarh||Water supply to be hit||September 23September 24 and 25Normal water supplySeptember 265 booked for stabbing manChandigarh: Five persons have been booked for stabbing a Mauli Jagran resident. The victim, Manish, alleged that Papli, Happy, Kala, Vinod and Ravi, all residents of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula, stabbed him near a Verka booth in Mauli Jagran on September 20. TNSMobile phone, cash snatchedChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants snatched a mobile phone and cash from a rickshaw-puller in Sector 43 here. Complainant Hanuman (22) reported that he was sleeping near a tea stall outside the ISBT-43 on September 20. Two persons arrived there around 2 am and asked him for ‘beedi’. He told them that he didn’t smoke ‘beedi’, following which they thrashed him and snatched his mobile and Rs1,600. TNSSOI submits memorandumChandigarh: Members of the Student Organisation of India (SOI) submitted a memorandum addressed to the PU Controller of Examination. “Efforts are being made by SOI to get one of the exams of MA psychology (second year) postponed. Online examination is still a new concept for students. The SOI took initiative to write to the authorities regarding the postponement of one the exams from September 25 to 27,” said a member. A delegation also demanded to allow PU scholars to use labs and hostels. TNSDentist booked for cheatingChandigarh: The UT police have booked a city dentist for allegedly duping an NRI woman on the pretext of medical tourism. The complainant, Enid Nayabundi of Nairobi, Kenya, had complained that she had taken a dental tourism package from a dentist and visited India. In her complaint, the woman has stated that she was not satisfied with the services provided to her and demanded a refund of around $4,300. She had submitted a complaint to the UT police in October 2018. A case of cheating has been registered at Sector 19 police station and an investigation has been initiated. TNSMan held with poppy huskChandigarh: The operation cell of the UT police on Tuesday nabbed a drug peddler while allegedly possessing poppy husk. A team, led by Inspector Ranjit Singh, in-charge, operation cell, nabbed Manish Kumar, alias Rinku (45), a resident of Zirakpur, at a naka on the road at the rear of the Police Lines, Sector 26. The police said the suspect, a driver, was riding a scooter and he tried to throw a polythene bag on seeing the police. Cops caught the suspect and found that he was carrying 3.5-kg poppy husk. A case against him has been registered under the NDPS Act at Sector 26 police station. He will be produced in the court on Wednesday. TNSPunjabi varsity staff to hold marchPatiala: The Punjabi University employees, who have been holding a protest outside the VC’s office for two hours every day for the past 45 day, will now hold a protest march on Wednesday for their demands. They said: “The Vice-Chancellor should come to the office to give proper guidance to the university and resolve the issues of teachers, staff and pensioners.” TNS2 held for theft of jewelleryFatehgarh Sahib: The police arrested two persons and recovered cash and gold jewellery worth Rs5 lakh from their possession. Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Amneet Kondal said the district SHO, Rajneesh Sood, arrested a domestic help and her friend and recovered Rs75,000 cash, gold and diamond jewellery worth Rs5 lakh stolen from the house of a leading rice miller of Sirhind. The district police also claimed to have arrested three peddlers and recovered 24,300 intoxicant tablets from their possession. A case was registered under the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-supply-to-be-hit-145302
23-09-2020||Kharar||Four rob liquor vend cashier of Rs 15 lakh||An amount of Rs 15 lakh was allegedly looted from the cashier of a liquor vend by four persons here this morning. The robbers, who came on two bikes, beat him up with sticks and took away his bag containing the cash.Cashier Rajesh Kumar left his office at 9.15 am on an Activa scooter to deposit the amount at an SBI branch in Kharar.When he reached a narrow lane near a gurdwara, he was stopped by two persons, who were on a Bullet motorcycle. Two other persons were following him on another Bullet motorcycle. They all had their faces covered. They tried to snatch his bag. When he resisted, he was beaten up with sticks and the bag containing the cash was snatched. The police said the bag contained Rs15.30 lakh. An FIR has been registered against unknown persons and the matter is being investigated.The police said two of the suspects had been caught on CCTV cameras. The registration number of one of the motorcycles was also partially visible. Sources said 20 staff members of the office had been questioned. Rajesh, who sustained an injury on his hand, was working with a contractor, Baljinder. The latter was running his office from a “kothi”. Other staff members were also there. Rajesh was on his way to deposit the amount, which was the payment received over three days. — TNSVictim was on way to deposit cash in bank||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-rob-liquor-vend-cashier-of-rs-15-lakh-145303
