23-04-2020||Mohali||PG owner booked for misbehaving with woman in Mohali||The local police have booked a 27-year-old man, owner of a paying guest accomodation, for misbehaving with a woman and extorting rent money from her.The accused has been identified as Manoj Kumar, a resident of Kumbra village.The police said that the woman in her complaint said that she was residing in the paying guest and alleged that the accused demanded rent from her. She said that when she told Manoj that she doesn’t have the money to pay the rent, he allegedly abused and assaulted her.The woman alleged that the accused had misbehaved with earlier, too, and entered her room.A case has been registered against the accused in Phase VIII police station.Station House Officer, Inspector Rajneesh Kumar, said that the woman had filed a complaint with them. He said the accused was arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pg-owner-booked-for-misbehaving-with-woman-in-mohali-75109
23-04-2020||---||6-month-old Phagwara girl detected with coronavirus dies at PGI||Chandigarh, April 23The six-month-old girl from Phagwara, who was admitted to PGIMER Chandigarh for corrective heart surgery has died.She had tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday.She was on ventilator till Wednesday night.Dr Ashok, PGI spokesperson, confirmed that the girl died on Thursday afternoon.The baby weighing 3 kg was diagnosed with acyanotic congenital heart disease with congestive heart failure.She had been referred to the PGI from a Ludhiana hospital where she had spent 36 days. She was admitted to the Advanced Paediatric Centre on April 9 in a critical condition.She was later sent to Covid facility at Nehru Hospital Extension.Meanwhile, all close contacts of the baby are being screened.Earlier, PGI officials had said they were investigating as to how the baby got the infection. Given that the incubation period of Covid is upto two weeks, it is possible that the baby may have been incubating the infection at the time of admission to the PGI, they had said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-month-old-phagwara-girl-detected-with-coronavirus-dies-at-pgi-75096
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘Allow use of loudspeakers for azaan’||The Muslim community has urged the UT Administration to allow use of loudspeakers for azaan from mosques in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Chaudhary Amjad, president, BJP Minority Morcha, has urged the administration for azaan from mosques for observance of holy month of Ramzaan, which starts from April 24. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allow-use-of-loudspeakers-for-azaan-74771
23-04-2020||A Correspondent||1,507 complete quarantine at home in Mohali district||Mohali, April 22According to the district administration, 1,507 international passengers who had arrived at the Mohali airport in the recent past, have completed their home quarantine. At present, 445 persons are still undergoing quarantine at home.Mohali Deputy Commissioner said the Health Department had traced 1,157 contacts of the Covid patients and put them in home quarantine. Of them, 712 have completed their quarantine period.The Deputy Commissioner said the district administration has so far distributed 52,958 food packets among the needy. He said they had received 2,404 complaints on the helpline and 1,926 complaints were resolved already.The district has 650 PPE kits and enough N95 masks at various hospitals for health workers.Meanwhile, the Mohali Senior Citizens Association (MSCA) donated 400 PPE kits (each packed with a sanitiser bottle and four masks) to the police today.Superintendent of Police (City) HS Virk said: “The police are thankful to the MSCA for contributing towards the welfare of the police personnel.”The association had earlier also donated 100 PPE kits to the Civil Hospital, Mohali.Those entering district to be screenedThe Deputy Commissioner has ordered that all those who are bonafide residents of Punjab and are travelling from other states to the district will be screened. Those found asymptomatic will be placed under home quarantine for 14 days and if anyone is found symptomatic, his/her tests will be conducted.The Deputy Commissioner said all supervising officers, surveillance officers and rapid response teams must ensure compliance with the Health Department protocol.A report must be complied by the Civil Surgeon on a daily basis, ordered the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-507-complete-quarantine-at-home-in-mohali-district-74770
23-04-2020||Mohali||Arunachal CM thanks Mohali  DC for helping students||Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu today thanked Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan and the Punjab Police for helping students of his state during the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. As per information, youths hailing from Arunachal Pradesh are staying staying in Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi. The policemen distributed dry ration to the students on the orders of the Deputy Commissioner.Khandu tweeted, “I thank Shri GirishDayalan, DC, Sas Nagar, and Shri Kuldeep Chahal, SSP, SAS Nagar, for helping Arunachali students in Mohali, Kharar and Dera Bassi with ration and other essentials during this Covid_19 pandemic! #IndiaFightsCorona.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/arunachal-cm-thanks-mohali-dc-for-helping-students-74769
23-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||Vendors use invalid curfew passes, Mohali administration in slumber||Mohali, April 22Vendors selling fruits and vegetables were found using invalid special curfew passes, which were issued to them by the administration in the wake of the Covid-19 scare.Numerous such vendors can be seen selling essentials on their carts in the city. In some cases, passes made for selling veggies on three-wheelers are being used by vendors for their carts.One such incident came to light in Sector 57 when a vendor was stopped by residents at the entry point.Gursahib Singh, Tejinder Singh and Gurdev Kaur, said a vendor asked them to sell vegetables in the area. They said on checking his pass, they found that it had expired on April 14.Jyoti Singla and Armik Singh, both residents of Sector 70, Mohali, said several vendors can be seen selling fruits and vegetables in their sector. The duo was doubtful if every vendor has a valid pass.Residents urged the administration to allow two vendors in an area, which should be specified on passes as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vendors-use-invalid-curfew-passes-mohali-administration-in-slumber-74768
23-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Now, apply online to get impounded vehicles released||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 22To facilitate vehicle owners, whose vehicles were impounded due to curfew violations, the courts in Fatehgarh Sahib Sessions Division have displayed the procedure to release these vehicles on the official website of the court according to which the vehicle owners can move applications for release of vehicles on Sapurdari online without personally coming to the court i.e. through email on court’s official email IDs:- for Fatehgarh Sahib djfgs-chdnic.in, for Amloh courtamlohgmail.com and for Khamano khamanocourt@gmail.com, said District and Sessions Judge Nirbhow Singh Gill.Ashish Kumar Bansal, Civil Judge (Sr Division), Fatehgarh Sahib; and Ashish Thathai, Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Amloh, said the reports from the police station concerned were also being called online and the applicant could check the status of his application by filing the CNR number, which was written on the acknowledgement receipt sent to the applicant when he filed the application online. They further said the release order was then sent directly to the police station concerned from where the applicant could get the vehicle released after furnishing the bonds in the police station itself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-apply-online-to-get-impounded-vehicles-released-74767
23-04-2020||---||Chemists in Mohali told to collect details of medicine buyers||Mohali, April 22Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan on Wednesday ordered medical store owners, including Jan Aushadhi stores and doctors running private clinics to maintain record of medicine buyers and patients.One has to record name, mobile number and address of people who buy medicine for fever, cold, throat infection and flu.The data needs to be provided to the Civil Surgeon through an e-mail. The Civil Surgeon will then track people for Covid-19 symptoms. Any violation of the order will lead to registeration of an FIR under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chemists-in-mohali-told-to-collect-details-of-medicine-buyers-74766
23-04-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula leads tricity in testing||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, April 22Moving ahead strategically to collect random samples from containment zones, apart from suspected Covid-19 patients and their primary and secondary contacts, Panchkula has taken around 1,200 samples so far, maximum in the tricity. Chandigarh has taken 529 samples while Mohali has done 1,045 tests to date.Of the total samples, 270 were collected from containment zones, which include Khark Mangoli, Rehna village, Sector 15 and other areas.“Panchkula has so far only used RT-PCR (Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) tests on samples to diagnose Covid-19. Apart from the suspected patient and their contacts, we have collected samples from the containment zones as well. At present, samples are being sent to the PGIMER, CSIR-Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh; and Kalpana Chawla Medical College, Karnal,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Civil Hospital.The administration plans to open a Covid-19 testing lab at Panchkula Civil Hospital within a week.“Machines are being installed and calibrated. Training of staff is underway,” the Civil Surgeon said.It is expected to cut down the waiting period for Covid-19 reports, an official said. Currently, average waiting time for a Covid-19 report is around 1.25-day.Rapid kits not used“Rapid kits will not be used for two days on the directions of the ICMR,” said Dr Kaur.No fresh case reportedNo fresh case was reported from Panchkula on Wednesday for the second day. On Monday, a 20-year-old from Pinjore, who had attended a religious congregation in Himachal Praadesh and also visited Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh, was found Covid-19 positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-leads-tricity-in-testing-74765
23-04-2020||Manpriya Singh||It’s quality family time, food for Gen Oberoi||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22Those who’ve defended the national boundaries can’t be expected to mince words. Which is why Lt Gen Vijay Oberoi, former Vice-Chief of Army Staff, doesn’t leave out anybody caught in the Covid equation, be it the government, China, or daily wagers.“Ideally, it shouldn’t have happened. Though China is to be blamed for everything, but now we have to see the situation as a challenge,” he says.There is no denying the joys of family meals and time spent together. Then there are two labradors in the house, one of which retired from the Army and was adopted. My elder daughter is a great cook. She keeps trying new dishes and ensures that we don’t miss street food. We recently relished dum biryani and gol gappas made by her. Lt Gen Vijay Oberoi, former Vice-Chief of Army StaffAs for the situation that is in popular culture today referred to as lockdown, he says, “Military teaches you a lot of things. One is how to make your life not just liveable, but also exciting, no matter where you are and how you are.”He says, “This lockdown has mostly affected those who discuss business over lunch and cocktail.”His day begins with exercise, which he does while watching news, followed by reading and writing. He recently finished reading a book, India: A History by John Keay. “It’s the history that was never taught to us.” He says, “I’m associated with War Wounded Foundation, an NGO for the war disabled, in Delhi. Its matters are to be tended to.”With the lockdown in place, he is spending most of his time with wife and elder daughter who, as chance would have it, happened to be visiting just before the nation suddenly came to a halt.Stuck with his elder daughter and grandchildren at his Panchkula residence, he says, “There is no denying the joys of family meals and time spent together. Then there are two labradors too in the house, one of which retired from the Army dog and was adopted. My elder daughter is a great cook. She keeps trying new dishes and ensures that we don’t miss street food. We recently relished ‘dum biryani’ and ‘gol gappas’ made by her.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-quality-family-time-food-for-gen-oberoi-74795
23-04-2020||Ambala||2 suspects surrender in Ambala murder case||Two suspects involved in the Gurmej murder case surrendered before the court today and were sent to five-day police remand.CIA-2 in-charge Aman Kumar said: “Two suspects Manjinder and Sandeep surrendered today and claimed that only they were involved in the Gurmej murder case and there was no role of the other four suspects in the case.”Gurmej, who was out on parole, was allegedly killed over old enmity by his nephew Manjinder and his accomplice in Rollon village of Ambala on April 20.Gurmej was sentenced to life imprisonment for killing his brother Ranbir Singh over property dispute in 2015. He came out on 42-day parole on April 3, due to Covid-19.Pooja, wife of the deceased, in her complaint had stated that three men, including Manjinder and Sandeep, had attacked her husband. She told the police that Manjinder’s mother Gurmesh Kaur, his sister Kuljinder Kaur and wife Rajni also reached there and started thrashing Gurmej.The injured was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, from where he was referred to the GMCH-32. He later succumbed to injuries. A case was registered against six persons, including Manjinder, Gurmesh, Kuljinder, Rajni, Sandeep and one unknown person at the Mahesh Nagar police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-suspects-surrender-in-ambala-murder-case-74777
23-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Domestic violence complaints halve in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22In contrast to the projections of rise in the number of domestic violence incidences during the lockdown, the reported calls related to family disputes and domestic violence have reduced by 50 per cent in the UT.It has been observed that in the pre-lockdown period (between March 9 and March 22), around 181 calls were reported. During the lockdown period (between March 23 and April 4), only 93 calls have been made to the police control room (PCR) and 22 complaints filed at the public window.However, experts claim that the trend can be rather disturbing as the point of worry is whether there is access to the helpline.Mahavir Singh, State Legal Service Authority, UT, said: “The women may not have access to such helpline numbers. They may not be able to reach out for help as they are all locked in their homes. The women in lower strata don’t have proper guidance.”Dr Jyoti Seth, a former sociology professor at the PGGC-42 and member of the Advisory Council of Jagori Rural Charitable Trust, said: “Women, particularly in the two sections of society – middle and lower class — may have problems in accessing the helpline. There is a space constraint in the lower strata with four to five family members living in a room. How can these women get a chance to seek help?”Seth, who also deals with the subject of violence, adds: “In a majority of the cases, women afflicted with violence reached out to us through references in the community.”Distressed women in the city are making frantic calls on the women helpline and to the Chandigarh Police Women Cell, but the call rate is quite low. The women helpline (181) received six calls related to domestic violence. The helpline staff is providing couples with counselling with the help of the police.A UT women helpline official, Vikram Jeet Godwani, said: “All six calls related to violence have been settled by the helpline. We cannot rehabilitate women in distress in shelter homes during the lockdown. Why will any woman move out of her home? We have been assuring women that we will sort out the problems at our own level.”Godwani said: “The lockdown may have intensified aggression.” DSP Charanjit Singh said: “In most cases, counselling is being provided. If we think there is a danger to life, we take preventive action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/domestic-violence-complaints-halve-in-chandigarh-74776
23-04-2020||A Correspondent||5 villagers booked on molestation charge||Mohali, April 22The Sohana police have booked five residents of Rurka village for allegedly molesting a woman member of the panchayat and for violating the curfew norms yesterday.The suspects have been identified as Gurpreet Singh, Gurdarshan Singh, Gurjant Singh, Billa and Ladi. The police have also booked a few other residents of the village.The complainant told the police that the suspects had gathered in the village and were involved in a scuffle during which they sexually harassed the victim and passed lewd remarks against her.Gurpreet Singh was also booked in a case of sexual harrasment in July 2015.A case has been registered in this regard under Sections 354, 342, 509, 294, 149, 506, 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sohana police station.“We have conducted raids on their houses, but the suspects were not found there. An investigation is on and we will nab them soon,” said Sub-Inspector Naib Singh, investigating officer.‘Sexual harassment’The complainant told the police that the suspects sexually harassed the victim and passed lewd remarks against her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-villagers-booked-on-molestation-charge-74775
23-04-2020||---||Chandigarh residents to assist in sealing of sectors||Chandigarh, April 22Residents will act as temporary marshals to assist in sealing of all sectors.According to officials, the Deputy Commissioner has made Sub-Divisional Magistrates and Deputy Superintendent of Police in-charge, who will lead sealing in different sectors with the help of members of residents’ welfare associations.“It will be a restricted movement in sectors. Every vehicle entering and exiting the sectors will be checked and sanitised,” said a senior official.Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), said, “We gave six names to DSP Ram Gopal for the cause. We will help in every way possible. We will be working like temporary marshals.”UT Adviser Manoj Parida had yesterday asked Mayor Raj Bala Malik to ask councillors to lead and help in sealing of sectors. Councillors Devinder Singh Babla and Davesh Moudgil have already started working on it.In Sector 40, it was first started by local residents. DP Singh, who led the move there, said, “We are checking vehicles entering our sector. We are also checking curfew passes of those exiting the sector. It is being ensured people wear masks and use sanitisers. We are also doing thermal screening.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-residents-to-assist-in-sealing-of-sectors-74773
23-04-2020||---||Not just urgent, hear other cases too: Bar||Chandigarh, April 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association today asked the Chief Justice, members of HC administrative committee and all Judges to hear “cases of not only extreme urgency”, but of “regular urgency” as well. In all, the High Court Bar Association gave seven suggestions for implementation.The Bar suggested that the request for the cases to be heard was required to be allowed to be made to the Judges, who might then decide whether a particular matter was required to be taken up.A larger number of Benches could also be requested to hold courts by video-conferencing so that more number of cases could be taken up on a daily basis. Even old ordinary and regular cases, with the consent of all parties, could be allowed to be taken up where some urgency could be shown by the counsel. In such matters, written synopsis could be permitted to be filed.For those “electronically and technologically handicapped” or by and large unfamiliar with the system of video-conferencing, one or two regular courts could be held, where counsel in batches of five to 10 could be allowed to attend the court and plead before the Bench.“All cases pertaining to anticipatory bail, regular bail, habeas corpus and protection matters be taken up through automatic route through video-conferencing, without any need of mentioning the same,” it was added.The association further added the e-filing process and online hearing process were required to be made more user-friendly so that lawyers not too conversant with the computers, online and technical procedures were able to file their cases easily and argue the same through video-conferencing.For technologically handicappedFor those electronically and technologically handicapped or by and large unfamiliar with the system of video-conferencing, one or two regular courts can be held, where counsel in batches of five to 10 can be allowed to attend the court and plead before the Bench.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/not-just-urgent-hear-other-cases-too-bar-74772
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||60-yr-old woman commits suicide||Two suspected patients admittedKharar: Two suspected Covid-19 patients have been admitted to the Kharar Civil Hospital. Dr Tarsem Singh, SMO, Kharar Civil Hospital, said one person resides in Mehak Nagar and the other on Mandi Road. He said their samples have been sent to the PGI. He said their family members have been home-quarantined. OC11 arrested for curfew violationKharar: The police have arrested 11 persons on Wednesday for violating curfew imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Kharar (City) police SHO Bhagwant Singh said the arrested include Attar Singh, Gurjant Singh, Dinesh Kumar, Pritpal Singh, Bhupa Ram Sharma, Harvinder Singh, Sanjeev Kumar, Ramesh Chand, Gaurav Sharma, Sukhwinder Singh and Binder Singh. The SHO said all of them have been sent to a temporary jail in Mohali. OCHawkers to be screened todayMohali: Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “We will undertake screening of newspaper hawkers, agents and distributors in the entire district to allay fear in the minds of public, besides ensuring safety of hawkers.” He said the screening will be held in a phased manner and the first phase will begin on April 23 from Phase 2 and Phase 7, where a total of 300 persons will be screened. On April 24, the screening drive will be held in Zirakpur. OC‘Waive interest on study loan’Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Chapter of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) has written to the Finance Ministry, RBI Governor and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to waive interest on education loan for a period of three months. NSUI state president Reetinder Singh Robby said, “Many students have taken loan to pursue higher studies. Due to current scenario, it has become difficult for students to repay loan.” TNSBlood donation camp organisedChandigarh: The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) in association with the Department of Transfusion Medicine, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, organised a blood donation camp. A total of 25 units of blood were collected. Dr Paramjit Kaur and Dr Rajbir Kaur Cheema informed that there was a daily requirement of around 25 units of blood. TNSYouth held for stealing liquorChandigarh: Almost a month after 270 boxes of beer were stolen from a truck parked outside a store in Industrial Area, Phase I, the Chandigarh police have nabbed the accused and recovered 36 boxes. The incident took place on the intervening night of March 22 and 23. The accused has been identified as Anil Kancha (25), a resident of Colony No 4. TNSYouth arrested for theftChandigarh: A 20-year-old youth was arrested by the police for stealing Rs 10,000 and documents from Chandigarh Sweets shop in Dariya. The accused has been identified as Rahul, alias Mungi, of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula. TNS289 rounded up for violationsChandigarh: A total of 289 persons were on Wednesday rounded up by the Chandigarh police for violating curfew orders. The police said 205 vehicles were detained and 112 vehicles were also impounded in various parts of the city. TNSTwo held with illicit liquorChandigarh: Two persons were arrested for possessing illicit liquor. Jagdish, a resident of Kishangarh village, was arrested with 141 quarters and 11 bottles of English wine. A case has been registered. In another incident, Manoj of Dadu Majra Colony was arrested while possessing three boxes of English wine. A case against him has been registered. Both accused were later released on bail. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-yr-old-woman-commits-suicide-74802
23-04-2020||---||15 men assault doctor in Pinjore||Panchkula, April 22A doctor of the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, here was allegedly assaulted by around 15 men at a “theekri pehra” at Pinjore this evening.The victim, identified as Dr Ashok, who is deployed at the Covid control room at the Mini-Secretariat in Sector 1, told the police that the incident occurred when he was on his way to drop his children at his in-laws’ house in Surajpur.“I have recently shifted to a health sub-centre in Burj Kotian for stay. It was my night shift. So, my children had to be dropped at my in-laws’ house in Surajpur. I was stopped by some locals, including a resident named Jarnail Singh, who dragged me out of my car and threatened to kill me,” Dr Ashok told the police.The police have registered a case against Jarnail Singh under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Pinjore police station.On April 11, a staff nurse of the Civil Hospital was allegedly assaulted by some youths guarding an entry point to Billah village near Ramgarh. On April 9, ASHA workers alleged misbehaviour while conducting a survey at Indira Colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-men-assault-doctor-in-pinjore-74764
23-04-2020||Chandigarh||6-month-old Phagwara girl tests positive at PGI||A six-month-old girl has tested positive for Covid-19 at the PGI. She was admitted with a medical condition of congenital heart defect for which doctors were planning a corrective surgery.As many as 54 health care workers at the Advanced Paediatrics Centre — 18 doctors, 15 nursing officers, 13 hospital attendant/sanitation attendant, two physiotherapist and six technicians — have been exposed to the virus. All of them have been quarantined. Four patients, along with their families, have been shifted to other cubicles.The baby, weighing 3 kg, was diagnosed with acyanotic congenital heart disease with congestive heart failure. She had ventricular septal defect, atrial septal defect and patent ductus arteriosus.The Phagwara girl had remained at a Ludhiana hospital for 36 days and was subsequently referred to the PGI for a corrective surgery. She was admitted to the Advanced Paediatrics Centre (APC) on April 9 in a critical condition. She was stabilised and required continuous ventilatory support and antimicrobials. She showed gradual improvement in her general condition.“After a detailed assessment by cardiologists and cardiothoracic surgeons, she was due to be taken up for an open-heart surgery in the APC. However, a pre-operative test for Covid-19 turned out to be positive on April 21,” reads an official statement of the PGI.The baby was subsequently shifted to the Covid facility at Nehru Hospital Extension. She continues to receive ventilatory support. — TNSHer close contacts being screenedAll close contacts of the baby are being screened. “We are investigating how the baby got the infection. Given that the incubation period of Covid-19 is generally up to two weeks (though it can vary), it is possible that the baby ‘may have been incubating the infection’ at the time of admission to the PGI. However, as she did not have any suggestive travel history or family contact, she did not fulfil the requirements for pre-emptive screening,” said PGI officials.14 contacts of Sector 18 woman test negativeA total of 14 family contacts of the Sector 18 Covid positive case were sampled and all of them have tested negative for the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-month-old-phagwara-girl-tests-positive-at-pgi-74763
23-04-2020||---||10 am-2 pm curfew relaxation in Chandigarh from April 24||Chandigarh, April 22In view of the onset of the summer season, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has decided to change the curfew relaxation timings for purchasing essential items.From April 24 (Friday), the relaxation hours will be from 10 am to 2 pm instead of 11 am to 3 pm. During the daily review meeting on preparedness to deal with Covid-19, the Administrator advised the Mohali and Panchkula authorities to maintain strictness in their areas.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said 619 people had been quarantined in the UT. MC Commissioner KK Yadav said all vendors had been screened and new passes were being issued sector-wise to avoid unnecessary crowding or confusion.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said as many as 62 stranded labourers had been kept at the shelter in Maloya. He added that 1.77 lakh people had downloaded Aarogya Setu mobile application in the UT.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said in addition to door-to-door screening operations, he had directed the MC authorities for starting anti-dengue operations and surveillance.The Administrator also appealed to the residents to clean their water tanks and sanitise their houses for preventing the dengue outbreak.Stipend of medicos doubledUT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has decided to enhance the stipend being given to the interns of medical colleges from Rs 300 per day to Rs 600 per day. Thus, students playing a role in the fight against Covid-19 will get Rs 18,000 per month from April 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-am-2-pm-curfew-relaxation-in-chandigarh-from-april-24-74762
23-04-2020||---||Woman seeks termination of pregnancy||Chandigarh, April 22A woman has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking the termination of pregnancy during the Covid lockdown period after the foetus showed symptoms of Down syndrome.Taking up her plea, Justice Harsimran Singh Sethi of the High Court directed a medical board to clearly give its opinion as to whether the termination of the pregnancy would be feasible in the facts and circumstances of the present case and legal requirements.Referring to a report of a doctor from the PGI where she was being examined during her pregnancy, her counsel told Justice Sethi’s Bench that the foetus had shown the symptoms of Down syndrome, which would result in physical as well as mental handicap to the child after birth.Justice Sethi was also told that the pregnancy was beyond 20 weeks and its termination could not be allowed without opinion of two medical practitioners in accordance with the provisions of the Medical Termination and Pregnancy Act, 1971.Elaborating, the counsel asserted that the pregnancy may be terminated by a registered medical practitioner, but only on the opinion of two registered medical practitioners rendered in good faith to the effect that the life of the pregnant woman would involve a risk if the pregnancy was continued or the child would suffer physical or mental abnormalities.Appearing for the institute, counsel Amit Jhanji informed the Bench that a regular medical board had already been constituted to assess this request for termination of pregnancy. The petitioner could be examined by the medical board on Thursday. The report/recommendation of the medical board could be presented to the High Court on the next date of hearing, if directed.The petitioner’s counsel stated that she was in a position to appear before the medical board for her medical examination. “In view of the above, let the petitioner present herself in the office of the Medical Superintendent at 11 am on April 23, who will ensure that the Medical Board, already constituted by respondent institute for the said purpose, assesses the petitioner’s request for the termination of pregnancy,” Justice Sethi added.Before parting with the order, Justice Sethi asserted that the recommendation/report prepared by the board would be placed before the High Court in a sealed envelope.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-seeks-termination-of-pregnancy-74761
23-04-2020||---||Part of Sector 30-B, Dhanas colony in Chandigarh ‘affected pockets’||Chandigarh, April 22The UT Administration has declared the entire geographical areas falling under a part of Sector 30-B and Kutchi Colony, Dhanas, as “affected pockets” and has sealed both areas to prevent the spread of Covid to the adjoining areas.A cluster of nearly 590 households has been identified as part of the affected pocket in Sector 30-B.As per an order issued by Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar, the movement of inhabitants of the affected pockets is absolutely restricted and both pockets have been sealed by deployment of adequate police force and setting up of required number of nakas. Now, there will be a single entry/exit and a total ban on non-essential visitors in these pockets. Only authorised essential item or service providers, wearing necessary protection gear such as masks, hairnet, gloves and PPE kits and carrying passes and valid ID cards will be allowed to enter these pockets.Teams of the Health Department will conduct door-to-door screening of each and every person of all households and the whole of the affected pocket will be sanitised. Also, solid waste will be collected from all houses and public places and disposed of as per the norms laid down by the Health Department.The demand for essential items such as ration, milk, groceries, medicines, vegetables and gas cylinders will be assessed and distribution will be carried out by the Municipal Corporation and the Director, Food and Civil Supplies.All essential items will be provided by fully sanitised trolleys/vehicles.Members of the Residents Welfare Association, if any, and prominent citizens of the area will be encouraged to work as authorised Covid volunteers to aid the police and the Administration in enforcement of the guidelines issued by the Health Department and in motivating the citizens to comply with these.UT Adviser Manoj Parida had declared the city a containment zone on April 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/part-of-sector-30-b-dhanas-colony-in-chandigarh-affected-pockets-74760
23-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC official on 14-hour duty to ensure supplies||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 22The likes of Vivek Trivedi, a government official, are ensuring that there is no dearth of essentials for city residents.Trivedi, Social Development Officer with the MC, has been involved in screening and issuing curfew passes to vendors, who have been supplying grocery, vegetables and fruits in various parts of the city. Three kind of vendors are currently operating in the city — mobile, street and those on CTU buses.In the time of such a pandemic, it becomes our social responsibility to serve the public. I am passionate about the task. We get inspiration from MC Commissioner KK Yadav and Mayor Raj Bala Malik. This is what I pass on to my team. — Vivek Trivedi, Social Development Officer, MC“We have roped in 180 registered vendors for the job. All of them have been screened. We have given them masks, gloves and sanitisers. We are looking after everyone’s safety,” says Trivedi.Besides, he is involved in delivering dry ration and cooked food in different areas. “These days, we work for about 14 hours. I reach the MC office at 8.30 am. After planning and preparing for the day, we leave for getting essentials delivered at 11.30 am and return by 4.30 pm. After that, we do other related works till 8 pm. Simultaneously, we keep monitoring vendors’ issues,” he says.“Initially, I had to convince my family about being on duty. In the time of such a pandemic, it becomes our social responsibility as well. I am passionate about the task. We get inspiration from MC Commissioner KK Yadav and Mayor Raj Bala Malik. This is what I pass on to my team,” shares Trivedi. “We are all acting like volunteers. My team members — Rohit Kumar, Amzad Khan, Balbir Singh, Rajiv, Deepak, Dishant, Dr Sumit Arora and others — are quite passionate and do not fear anything and understand their responsibilities,” he smiles. Besides distribution of cooked food and ration, 500-kg dry oat meal has also been distributed. They also have around 700-800 people who get cooked food daily. In all tent shelters, food is delivered daily.‘’The Association of Professional Social Workers and Development Practitioners, Swarmani Youth Welfare Association, IFUNA, Chandigarh chapter, Sant Nirankari Mission and other civil society and youth organisations, FICCI and Marico Ltd have supported us,” he concludes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-official-on-14-hour-duty-to-ensure-supplies-74759
