23-05-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana HC cancels summer vacations for itself, lower courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 23Two months after the Punjab and Haryana High Court went into restricted functioning mode following the Covid outbreak, it has decided to cancel the summer vacations for itself and the subordinate courts in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.The cases would continue to be heard in the High Court through videoconferencing during the period.This is the first time in recallable past that the vacations have been cancelled, even though the High Court has been taking a break from the summer holidays to a limited extent for adjudicating appeals pending in criminal matters only.An order passed on behalf of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha Saturday said it was notified for general information that the ensuing summer vacations in the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh from June 1 to June 26, both days inclusive, stood cancelled.The order added the court would continue to function with the present arrangement of filing, listing and hearing of the cases through video conferencing, subject to the roster being prepared by the Chief Justice.It was further notified that the ensuing summer vacations in the subordinate courts in the states of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh from June 1 to June 30, both days inclusive, also stood cancelled and the courts would function with the present arrangement of hearing of cases.The order comes at a time when the total pending cases in Haryana is 8,92,041, while no less than 6,46,342 cases are awaiting adjudication in Punjab. Even a small Union Territory like Chandigarh has 49,268 cases pending.National Judicial Data Grid figures reveal more than 5.6 lakh cases are pending in the High Court alone. It is suspected that many of the petitioners in these cases are no more there to pursue their grievances. When some of these cases are suddenly listed, the counsel are often at a loss in the absence of complete records or instructions.Even though the High Court has been making concerted efforts to bring down the pendency, the number of old pending cases has been piling up progressively; and with the Covid lockdown and shortage of Judges, the piles are unlikely to shrink easily. The High Court, as of now, has 55 Judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. Three Judges are scheduled to retire this year upon attaining the age of superannuation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-hc-cancels-summer-vacations-for-itself-lower-courts-88919
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh's Bapu Dham Colony reports 14 more coronavirus cases||Chandigarh reported 14 new cases---all from Bapu Dham---on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the union territory to 233.  Bapu Dham colony is the worst-affected area in the city and a coronavirus hotspot.Two women aged 38 and 36 and a 18-year-old male, all from the same household, had tested positive on Saturday morning. Eleven other people, including five teenagers, tested positive from two houses in Bapu Dham Colony later the same day. Chandigarh's COVID-19 tally now stands at 233, with 51 active cases. Its death toll stands at three.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-bapu-dham-colony-reports-14-more-coronavirus-cases-88854
23-05-2020||Manpriya Singh||Biz gathers steam as food outlets offer contactless delivery||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 22If someone orders butter chicken during these Covid times, it signifies more of their love for it and less about their faith in the home delivery system being Covid-safe, laughed a delivery guy when asked if he could guarantee food safety through precautions.‘Sending sanitisers, temperature details’Ankush Arora of Uncle Jack’s in Sector 8, says the endeavour has been to educate consumers about precautions. “We are sending out pamphlets and sanitisers and details of the temperature of the food when it was packed along with the orders. All these are specified and punched with the bag.”He said, “Customers now ask us to either leave the bags outside the gate or place these on a chair/table just inside the premises.” Burger King has directed its delivery personnel to maintain a distance of three metres while handing over food, just to be on the safe side.All these precautions seem to have worked, as Himanshu Pant, manager at the chain’s Sector 35 outlet, admits to having made an average of 100-plus deliveries for the past three days. “We also monitor the temperature of the rider and make deliveries to those who opt for a prepaid order and not cash on delivery. This makes a lot of difference.”Goldie’s Roost, another fixture in the fast food lane, Sector 8, Chandigarh, has been relying on their in-house staff for deliveries. “We started operations only on Friday and we haven’t partnered through Zomato and Swiggy. In the first couple of hours, someone ordered butter chicken,” says cashier Sabal Singh. “Given the contactless deliveries in place, people’s response has been encouraging so far, as we’ve been steadily delivering 12 to 15 parcels every day for the past three-four days,” says Manav Mehra, owner, Mainland China. Mehra feels the food industry will not be affected in the long run. However, he is not sure about food joints functioning inside closed space. “I feel closed spaces, especially those housed inside malls, will be the last ones to gain public’s confidence.”Ankush Arora from Uncle Jack’s admits to getting a mixed response from various sectors of the city. “Our Sector 8 outlet did better than expected, as did the markets in Ludhiana and Mohali. However, response to our Sector 35 branch has been lukewarm, perhaps because students and other PG crowd in those sectors have all gone back home.”Those who have ordered food have their logic. Puneet Garga, who ordered a birthday cake last week, says, “How the food is delivered matters. I’d rather order a dish that requires no direct contact with hands.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biz-gathers-steam-as-food-outlets-offer-contactless-delivery-88606
23-05-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Administration changes testing protocol in Bapu Dham||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 22The incessant surge in Covid-19 positive cases in Bapu Dham Colony has prompted the UT Administration to change its testing protocol in this containment zone.Earlier, primary contacts of only that household were tested for Covid-19 and quarantined from where a positive was reported.According to revised strategy, all persons will be isolated and tested for Covid-19 irrespective of a positive case in the entire building.UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta, said, “In Bapu Dham around six – seven persons live in a household. Earlier, we were testing only immediate members of a household and used to quarantine those living on other floors of the building from where the positive case was reported. We tested only those who developed symptoms over a period of time.”Gupta said, “Now, we will isolate and test all persons living in the same building whether vertically or laterally. However, it is a challenge to test everybody in the containment zone.”On Thursday, it was decided to set up a sampling centre in the Bapu Dham Colony and as many as 58 persons were tested today.No takers for nourishment centresThere have been no takers from the Bapu Dham Colony for nourishment centres set up at two schools for elderly and comorbid persons. Two more quarantine facilities have been set up, including girls hostel No. 8 at Panjab University and Government Model School, Raipur Kalan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-changes-testing-protocol-in-bapu-dham-88608
23-05-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula Covid tally stands at 25||The health officials today said the 55-year-old infected man from Sector 2 is not being included in Panchkula’s Covid tally as he was tested in Delhi, where he had gone for his cancer treatment. Thus the city’s tally stands at 25. According to bulletin of the Haryana Government, 24 people have been cured so far in the district and there was one positive patient, a resident of Rajiv Colony, who has been isolated at the Civil Hospital. Civil Surgeon Jasjeet Kaur, said, “We are not including the 55-year-old patient in Panchkula’s tally as he was tested in Delhi.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-covid-tally-stands-at-25-88609
23-05-2020||---||Parents protest over  tuition fee demand||Chandigarh, May 22Scores of parents gathered outside St Xavier’s School, Sector 44, and protested against the demand of tuition fee by the school administration. They contended that the school did not provide online classes and has charged fee for two months.A parent, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The school did not conduct any classes and now they are claiming fee. I wonder what is this for? We are facing a huge financial crisis at home and they are charging fee.”Naresh Handa, Assistant Director, St Xavier School, said, “School teachers have been sending online study material to students on WhatsApp. The claim that school did not impart any online classes is baseless. We have always been sympathetic towards parents who are facing financial hardship and never pressurised them to pay fee.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parents-protest-over-tuition-fee-demand-88610
23-05-2020||---||Caddies to get Rs 200 per shift as ball spotters||Chandigarh, May 22The Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) has devised an innovative way to give gainful employment to caddies who have been forced out of service due to the lockdown.Instead of accompanying a golfer, the caddies will now be deployed at each hole as ball spotters or ball boys to help him find the ball in case it goes wayward. Additionally, they will be tending to the pins and bunkers, thus, saving the time of the players and making the game faster.“For this, they will get Rs 200 per shift (4 hours each). In case a caddie does two shifts, he gets Rs 400. In this way, the caddies will have something to earn and their routine of coming to the golf course will not get changed,” said Sandeep Singh Sandhu, president, Chandigarh Golf Club.A total of 144 caddies will be benefited from this novel initiative and the amount will be charged on the players. The club, on its part, has reduced the charges to Rs 100 per day for the golfers. On May 20, the UT Administration had eased restrictions and allowed the golfers to play at the CGC but barred the caddies from accompanying them to maintain social distancing.The idea had been borrowed from the colonial practice of employing a forecaddie in addition to a caddie. The Karnataka Golf Association and Delhi Golf Association too are following the same programme. Since the lockdown, The Tribune has twice (April 27 and May 20) highlighted the plight of caddies in the tricity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/caddies-to-get-rs-200-per-shift-as-ball-spotters-88611
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||312 migrants stay put as hope floats||A total of 1,237 persons boarded the ‘shramik’ special train that left for Motihari in Bihar at 3.25 pm.  As per information, around 3,500 migrants were contacted on their phones for this train and 1,549 persons gave their consent. Later, only 1,237 persons turned up at the holding centre. Though capacity of the train was 1,600, it had lower occupancy due to poor response from labourers who registered for moving out from Chandigarh. For Saturday’s special train, scheduled at 2 pm for Gaya in Bihar and Dhanbad in Jharkhand, the administration contacted 3,403 persons. Of them, 1,602 have given their consent for taking the train for Bihar. The administration had set up two holding centres at Chandigarh College of Engineering Technology (CCET), Sector 26, where migrants were screened. UT Adviser Manoj Parida today visited the holding centre to see the arrangements. “It has been observed that after opening of industrial and commercial units, a considerable number of migrants are not interested to move out,” said Yashpal Garg, Secretary Social Welfare, UT Administration. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/312-migrants-stay-put-as-hope-floats-88612
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||PIL against MHA lockdown guidelines||A week after the Ministry of Home Affairs came out with Lockdown 4.0 guidelines, a lawyer today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court challenging the provisions permitting up to 50 guests in marriage related functions during current lockdown period.  The Union of India, the State of Punjab and Haryana, and Chandigarh Administration have been made as respondents in the PIL, expected to be listed for urgent hearing next week. The petitioner, advocate HC Arora, referred to the case of Bapu Dham Colony, where a few persons attended a marriage anniversary function which lead to the spread of Covid-19 among 129 persons.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pil-against-mha-lockdown-guidelines-88613
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Woman among two held with banned capsules, injections||Two persons, including a woman, were nabbed by the Chandigarh police from different parts of the city and recovered 1,600 banned capsules and 22 banned injections from them. The accused was identified as Salim Ansari (36) a resident of Mori Gate, Mani Majra. In another case, the police arrested a woman while possessing 22 banned injections. Police officials said the accused was nabbed near Sector 39 petrol pump. A case against the accused has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-among-two-held-with-banned-capsules-injections-88614
23-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||PGI report bares chinks in Chandigarh’s Bapu Dham handling||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 22The PGI has submitted a 17-point recommendation to the UT Administration, which shows that there were critical gaps in the containment strategy adopted by the Administration at Bapu Dham Colony, the city’s worst Covid-affected zone.The report, a copy of which has been accessed by The Tribune, was submitted to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore this week. A key recommendation was institutional quarantine of all family contacts of positive cases outside the colony. However, despite the fact that around 30 families were most affected and cases after cases were reported from within the families, the Administration failed to shift them to a quarantine centre.Since these EWS category houses have little space for home-quarantine, the infection transmission was bound to happen. The Administration recently started making the said arrangements, but the cases have already spread like a wildfire.The report also called for active surveillance of influenza like illness (ILI)/severe acute respiratory infections in the colony as per the national guidelines for Covid-19. According to the report, key activities should be active case search, listing and tracking of contacts, recording temperature with handheld infra-red thermometer to identify patients with fever even without ILI symptoms and recording oxygen saturation with pulse oximeter to identify high-risk individuals for testing.In the report, the PGI team headed by Prof JS Thakur suggested to set up a real-time epidemiology and health intelligence unit. It was recommended that mapping of vulnerable population (senior citizens and patients with chronic non-communicable diseases) should be undertaken. However, Prof Thakur refused to comment on the report.UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta said, “We will consider whatever recommendations are there.” The report has nowhere compared Mumbai’s Dharavi’s infection rate with that of Bapu Dham.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-report-bares-chinks-in-chandigarhs-bapu-dham-handling-88617
23-05-2020||---||30 back from US, Canada, Malaysia in Chandigarh, Mohali||Chandigarh, May 22As many as 30 residents of Chandigarh and Mohali returned from abroad today.A flight carrying 100 passengers from New York landed at the Mohali international airport today. Among the passengers were nine from the city and five from Mohali.UT Nodal Officer Shashank Anand, DIG, said a total of 25 persons returned to the city today. Apart from nine from the US, three arrived from Malaysia at the Amritsar airport. As many as 13 arrived from Canada and had landed at the Delhi and Amritsar airports. All foreign returnees have been quarantined in various hotels of the city.A total of 44 persons have returned to the city from abroad so far. One of them has been discharged after completion of the quarantine period. He has been advised 14 days of self-monitoring at home. He had tested negative for Covid, Anand added.Hotel Mountview and Hotel Shivalikview have been designated as quarantine centres for Chandigarh residents returning from abroad. The UT Administration has also short-listed five private hotels and a hostel in Panjab University as quarantine centres for foreign returnees.Students and others whose visas have expired and those who want to meet their parents in Chandigarh are returning to the city. They have been quarantined for 14 days in city hotels on payment basis.The first batch of foreign-returnees had arrived in the city on May 9.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-back-from-us-canada-malaysia-in-chandigarh-mohali-88619
23-05-2020||Amit Bathla||Panchkula DM issues orders against blocking entry of maids, delivery boys||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, May 22Residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), sector groups and housing societies in Panchkula will no longer be able to stop housemaids from going to their work in houses and flats.The Panchkula District Magistrate today issued an order directing the RWAs to ensure the movement of visitors, maids, essential commodity suppliers and e-commerce delivery boys to their localities.After relaxations during Lockdown 4.0, maids want to work to run their households in this hour of crisis, but they are denied entry in housing societies.The DM order has also suggested the RWAs, housing societies to persuade residents to make an arrangement for the stay of maids if they are coming from outside.“In case household workers/maids are coming from outside, residents may be persuaded to make arrangements for their stay inside their houses,” the order added.KK Jindal, president, RWA, Sector 20, said, “We had asked people to complete their household chores on their own if they can. Otherwise, we never stopped anybody from employing maids. We have advised residents to ensure they (maids) do not come from the infected areas.”Geeta (30), a maid living in a rented accommodation at Budhanpur, is struggling to make the ends meet. Her husband, a migrant labourer, is without work. “We both are finding it difficult to feed our three children in these difficult times,” she said.Before the lockdown, she used to work at three houses in Sector 9. She has not been called back to work yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-dm-issues-orders-against-blocking-entry-of-maids-delivery-boys-88624
23-05-2020||Amarjot Kaur||RWAs in Chandigarh can’t block entry of maids, delivery boys||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 22Stop domestic help, face the musicUT Advisor Manoj Parida said, “People from all walks of life are allowed to move freely, except in containment zones. A maid or a resident can make a police complaint if their right to movement is being prohibited and action will be taken.”With new relaxations in Lockdown 4.0, maids, who comprise informal economy’s largest working women population, stood a chance at recovering from the cataclysmic financial blows of the three lockdowns during the pandemic. However, with self-imposed ‘social policing’ by some residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), these women are now left fending for themselves.The RWAs of several sectors have been monitoring the entry of maids in societies even though the Centre has allowed the services of domestic help even in red zones, barring only the containment zones where any public movement except for emergencies is strictly prohibited.Speaking on the issue, UT Adviser Manoj Parida has made it clear that the RWAs had no business to decide whose entry is to be stopped. “People’s right to movement has not been stopped. These RWAs have no business to decide who’s to be stopped and who’s not to be stopped from entering anyone’s house,” he said.On April 30, FOSWAC chairperson Baljinder Singh Bittu wrote to the UT Finance Secretary regarding ‘relaxation in curfew’. One of its nine recommendations was: “No maids/home helpers should be allowed to come out of colonies to work in different houses.” He said, “For the next two months, people should not allow maids to work in their houses. It can spread the infection.” Echoing similar sentiments, Rai Singh Chauhan, president, RWA (Category II), Sector 51, said, “Even though we have not stopped their salaries and have given them ration, we are not allowing maids to enter the societies in our sector.”Parida said, “This disease has been brought by rich people from outside and now they’re saying that the maids will not be allowed? This is a highly elitist approach.” He added, “Restriction in movement is imposed only in containment zones and only the police are authorised to keep a check on the movement.”The housemaid’s tale“Don’t count the lives, count the number of livelihoods lost if you want to gauge the severity of the pandemic. Is beemari se zyada toh gareeb log is desh mein garmi se mar jate hai (the number of poor people who die of heat strokes is more than the number of people who have died of Covid-19,” said Malti, who has been struggling to make ends meet for the past two months. “People are scared that their neighbours will call the police, so they don’t allow me to work. From some houses, I got salary, from others, I got ration. Yet, there’s no money at home as my children are small. My husband was working at a factory, but he was asked to go back too.”A similar worry haunts Kanta. “I have not been able to pay house rent for the past two months. I could not even go out to get my salary as I don’t have a separate bank account and I don’t even use Paytm. Even though the lockdown is lifted, no one is calling us back to work,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rwas-in-chandigarh-cant-block-entry-of-maids-delivery-boys-88626
23-05-2020||---||Now, Panchkula shops to open 6 days a week||Panchkula, May 22Revising its previous orders, the Panchkula administration today allowed opening of all shops, including those located in commercial markets, on all days expect Monday from 9 am to 6 pm. Also read:Now, Panchkula shops to open 6 days a weekRWAs in Chandigarh can’t block entry of maids, delivery boysEarlier, all non-essential shops were allowed to operate three times a week. According to the fresh order issued by the District Magistrate, all essential shops are allowed to remain open on all days from 7 am to 6.30 pm. All standalone shops and internal sector markets in Panchkula will have to follow social distancing norms and other precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Milk booths have been advised to carry out their business from a distance.Rules for rehri marketsThe administration announced separate rules for congested rehri markets in Sector 7, 9, 11 and 17, Railly, Abheypur, Haripur, Maheshpur, Budhanpur, Banna, Madanpur, Jaisinghpur and Bhainsa Tibba. Shops facing eastern and northern sides in these areas will remain open between 9 am and 6 pm on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday, whereas shops facing western and southern sides will function on Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday between 9 am and 6 pm.Similarly, there are separate rules for shops located in areas falling under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation in Kalka and Pinjore towns.Barber shops to remain shutThough sweets shops, bakeries and restaurants will be operational only for delivery services, barber shops, salons and spas will remain completely shut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-panchkula-shops-to-open-6-days-a-week-88629
23-05-2020||---||Auto driver hangs himself to death||Chandigarh, May 22A 48-year-old auto driver today committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Mauli Jagran.The police said the victim left a suicide note in which he mentioned that a woman was blackmailing him following which he was taking the extreme step. He mentioned that his family should not be troubled for his death.The victim has been identified as Sri Parkash, a resident of Vikas Nagar, Muali Jagran. His family found him hanging and informed the police. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead."The victim mentioned about a woman in the suicide note, but didn't write her name," said a police official. The body has been shifted to a mortuary and the victim's sample will be taken for the Covid test.Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Mauli Jagran police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-driver-hangs-himself-to-death-88630
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bapu Dham Colony woman tests +ve||Aadhaar centre to resume WorkChandigarh: The Aadhaar Seva Kendra, SCO 57-59, Sector 17-A, Chandigarh, will be functional from Saturday. Initially, the services will be available through prior appointment only. Residents can book the appointment through the portal https://appointments.uidai.gov.in/bookappointment.aspx or use mAadhaar App. The kendra will function on all seven days of the week from 9:30 am to 5 pm. TNS10 held for not wearing maskChandigarh: Ten persons were arrested while roaming in the city without wearing a face mask. The police said the persons violated the District Magistrate’s lockdown orders, following which they were booked under Section 188 of the IPC. While two cases each were registered at the police stations in Sector 31, 39, 34 and Maloya, a case each was registered at the Sector 49 and the IT Park police stations. The violators were later released on bail. TNSCop returns lost purse to ownerChandigarh: A UT traffic cop, who found a woman’s purse in Sector 7, returned it to its owner on Friday. Constable Pawan Kumar found the purse near the Sector 7 market. He traced its owner Suman Lata through the address mentioned in documents found in the purse. The constable went to the woman’s house and returned the purse to her. The woman later tweeted the picture of the constable returning the purse and thanked him for the gesture. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bapu-dham-colony-woman-tests-ve-88632
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||Masks, sanitisers donated||Puneet Singh, president, Inner Wheel Club, Chandigarh, today handed over 700 packets of sanitary napkins, 400 masks and 288 bottles of sanitisers to Mayor Raj Bala Malik. The club had previously distributed 200 dry ration bags to the needy families in Mani Majra, in slum areas of Saketri, Khuda Ali Sher, Roorki Kham and Takpur villages, said Usha Saboo, a senior member of the club.The club had been distributing cooked food to about 600 persons through gurdwara in Khuda Ali Sher. It had also donated Rs 1 lakh to the PGI for medical equipment. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/masks-sanitisers-donated-88637
23-05-2020||Chandigarh||60 Chandigarh cops to retire on May 31||minor sexually abused, 1 heldChandigarh: The Chandigarh Police have arrested a 42-year-old-man for sexually abusing a minor boy in Mani Majra on Thursday. The police said 10-year-old boy was playing outside his house when the suspect, who stays on the ground floor, took him to the second floor and sexually assaulted the child. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the IPC. OCPassport services from May 26Chandigarh: Appointment to applicants for passport-related services at the Passport Seva Kendra, Chandigarh-I, Passport Seva Kendra, Chandigarh-II, and Regional Passport Office, Sector 34-A, Chandigarh, will be given from May 26. Applicants will be allowed entry on the basis of appointment provided online. tnsRelief for govt house allotteesChandigarh: The UT Administration has decided to consider the period from March 1 to May 31 as “dies non”, meaning no work no pay, in respect of the allottees or occupants of government houses for all means and purposes. The spokesperson said the usual house vacation/occupation period would be extended. TNSTeenaged girl ends her lifeChandigarh: A 16-year-old girl reportedly committed suicide by hanging at her house in Hallo Majra here on the intervening night of May 20 and 21. Sources said the victim had some arguments with a boy following which she took the extreme step. Her father said he saw his daughter hanging around 1.30 am on Thursday. She was rushed to the GMCH-32, where doctors declared her brought dead. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/60-chandigarh-cops-to-retire-on-may-31-88639
23-05-2020||Rajmeet Singh||Completion certificates issued since Jan cancelled in Zirakpur||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 22In a decisive action against unscrupulous private builders, the Local Government Department has cancelled all partial and completion certificates issued to residential-cum-commercial projects in Zirakpur since January.Affecting over a dozen projects, top departmental functionaries found that all such certificates have been illegally issued (since January 28) by the Zirakpur MC.The Additional Chief Secretary, Local Government, Sanjay Kumar has already placed Zirakpur Executive Officer (EO) Manvir Gill under suspension three days ago.A probe by the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) of the department revealed that despite instructions from Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra that technical approval for completion/occupation certificates had to be given at the level of the government, the EO continued to issue certificates illegally. Pointing to a larger builder-official-politician nexus, the certificates issued to incomplete projects by the Zirakpur MC were meant to be used by builders to stop payment of assured monthly returns to their investors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/completion-certificates-issued-since-jan-cancelled-in-zirakpur-88573
