23-10-2020||Mohali||Two more coronavirus deaths take Mohali’s fatalities to 231||Two more deaths in the last 24 hours took Mohali’s fatality count from coronavirus to 231, district officials said.The district saw 37 new coronavirus cases—Mohali urban (23), Dera Bassi (1), Lalru (1), Kharar (4), Gharuan (5) and Kurali (3) all reported new cases.Mohali also reported 56 recoveries from various hospitals across the district.Mohali infection count now stands at 11,975, of which 537 are active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-coronavirus-deaths-take-mohalis-fatalities-to-231-160079
23-10-2020||---||Mohali to issue temporary licence for sale of crackers||Mohali, October 22The district administration will issue temporary licence/permission for the sale of crackers through sewa kendras in the district.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the service related to the acceptance of applications for temporary licence for the sale of crackers was available through sewa kendras from today onwards.He said this service was available in the offline mode and could be availed by applicants through sewa kendras of the district. An applicant could visit the Sewa Kendra and fill an application form or download it from the website, www.punjab.gov.in. The applicant could submit it along with the required documents (any ID proof, self-declaration) at the Sewa Kendra.Dayalan said the district manager, Sewa Kendra, would forward the application to the concerned PLA branch or any other designated branch by the district administration. Facilitation charges of Rs100 per application will be collected at sewa kendras. Government fee or any other fee will be collected by the branch concerned as per the guidelines issued by the Department of Industries and Commerce, Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-to-issue-temporary-licence-for-sale-of-crackers-159766
23-10-2020||---||Shagun bag with Rs 3L, gold stolen from wedding venue in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 22A bag containing shagun envelopes with Rs 3 lakh, gold ornaments worth several lakhs and two mobile phones was stolen from a wedding function at Hotel Sunbeam in Sector 22 here.Usha, a resident of Sector 49 and the bride’s mother, lodged a police complaint in this, following which an investigation has been initiated.Sources said the suspect who was wearing a mask entered the hotel and mingled among the guests. He later stole the bag. The police have registered a case and initiated investigations into the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shagun-bag-with-rs-3l-gold-stolen-from-wedding-venue-in-chandigarh-159767
23-10-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Relief for city’s five-star hotel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22Providing the much-needed relief to a five-star hotel in the city, the court of UT Adviser Manoj Parida has set aside the resumption order passed by the Chief Administrator.A revision petition was preferred by M/s Lok Priya Buildwell Private Limited, which runs Hotel JW Marriot, against the order passed by the Chief Administrator in respect of the hotel site on block 6 of Sector 35. The revision petition was filed by advocates SK Jain and Vikas Jain.Vikas Jain, counsel for the petitioner, submitted that the Additional Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer, Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, had cancelled the allotment/lease of the site on account of non-payment of ground rent. He submitted that the authorities had wrongly charged 20 per cent interest on account of non-payment of ground rent while applying condition number 5 of the allotment letter.He argued that the condition number 5 of the allotment letter applied for the non-payment of principal amount of premium and not for the non-payment of ground rent. Thus, the Additional Commissioner, MC, had wrongly cancelled the lease of the site and also wrongly imposed 20 per cent interest on the amount of non-payment of ground rent while passing the impugned order dated November 11, 2017. The appeal filed by the petitioner had also been wrongly dismissed by the Chief Administrator on March 20, 2020.The counsel for the MC submitted that it was clearly mentioned in the clause 5 of the allotment letter that in case the petitioner failed to make payment of the outstanding dues, he was liable to pay 20 per cent interest on account of non-payment of ground rent.He submitted that as per the Chandigarh Leasehold of Sites and Building Rules, 1973, only 6 per cent interest can be imposed till the balance amount of ground is paid.Vikas Jain contended that there is no provision under the Chandigarh Leasehold Sites and Building Rules, 1973, for charging 20 per cent interest for non-payment of ground rent and for cancellation of the site for non-payment of the ground rent.“Moreover, there is no notification done/adopted by the MC for imposition of 20 per cent interest for non-payment of the amount of the ground rent. In spite of paying the entire principal amount, imposition of 20 per cent interest without any notification and without any contract is arbitrary and illegal,” said Jain. The MC is wrongly charging 20 per cent interest for non-payment of ground rent from various allottees of buildings in Chandigarh.Jain says his client has suffered huge mental torture because of wrongly imposition of 20 per cent interest for non-payment of ground rent against the rules by the MC.Setting aside the impugned order passed by the lower courts, Adviser Manoj Parida remanded the case back to the Additional Commissioner, MC, for deciding afresh and passing a speaking order in accordance with law.Ground rent issueVikas Jain, counsel for the petitioner, submitted that the Additional Commissioner-cum-Estate Officer, Municipal Corporation, Chandigarh, had cancelled the allotment/lease of the site on account of non-payment of ground rent. He submitted that the authorities had wrongly charged 20 per cent interest on account of non-payment of ground rent while applying condition number 5 of the allotment letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/relief-for-citys-five-star-hotel-159768
23-10-2020||---||Blackmailers’ gang busted, 2 women in Kharar police net||Mohali, October 22The Kharar police have arrested two women of a six-member gang for allegedly luring people and demanding money by blackmailing them for registering false rape cases against them.The arrested suspects have been identified as Rajwinder Kaur, a resident of Fazilka, and Usha Rani, a resident of Faridkot. The duo was today produced before a court, which sent them to two-day police custody.Divulging details, DSP Rupinder Kaur Sohi said two women had been arrested while four other members of the gang, including a woman named Rekha, were still at large. Rajwinder and Usha had duped a large number of tricity residents through a planned scam.She said the suspects used to join companies as receptionists. After few days, they used to threaten company owners for registering a false rape against them. In this scam, one of the gang members Keshav Sandhir, a resident of Ludhiana, was impersonating as a Punjab Police ASI, who used to demand money from company owners for settling the rape case.Sohi said Raj Kumar, a Nayagaon resident, recently gave an advertisement on OLX to hire two women staffers at his guest house in Sector 25, Chandigarh, following which the suspects visited his office. The complainant stated that he had hired both women on a monthly salary of Rs 9,000. After few days, they started threatening him for implicating him in a false rape case and demanded Rs 15,000 through their gang members, who claimed themselves as cops.Raj Kumar lodged a complaint with the police. The cops laid a trap and arrested Rajwinder. Later, Usha Rani was also arrested.Inspector Bhagwant Singh, SHO of the Kharar city police station, said: “The suspects also lured a physiotherapist in Phase 1, Mohali, by taking over Rs 1 lakh from him in a similar manner recently. The gang was active for the past one year. We will nab the absconding suspects soon.”A case was registered against the six persons, including three women, under Sections 384, 385, 389, 170 and 120-B of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/blackmailers-gang-busted-2-women-in-kharar-police-net-159769
23-10-2020||---||Class XII student gives sanitary napkins to needy||Panchkula, October 22Priyanka Khanna, a Class XII student of Carmel Convent School, Chandigarh, has started an initiative and created a digital payment gateway to raise funds to procure sanitary napkins for underprivileged girls living in and around the slums of the city.She collaborated with a start-up organisation, “Befikr”, and an NGO, “Hamari Kaksha - A Class Apart”, who supported her cause in supplying sanitary napkins to the needy.A whooping Rs35,000 was collected single-handedly by her in less than a week.She said: “I aim to eradicate the taboos associated with puberty and menstruation prevalent in their minds and address their concerns regarding health and hygiene.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/class-xii-student-gives-sanitary-napkins-to-needy-159770
23-10-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Consider claims of ‘relieved’ computer teachers: CAT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has directed the UT Education Department to consider the claims of “relieved” computer teachers for releasing their salary. The CAT was told that the computer teachers working in government schools till last month had not been paid salary since June.Counsel Beant Singh Seemar, who appeared before the CAT on behalf of the computer teachers, claimed that the teachers were not paid salary for the past four months. The teachers were into financial crisis sans salary.In an order released today, Sanjeev Kaushik, member (J) of the CAT, asked the Education Department to consider the claims of the teachers for releasing their salary.Earlier in a representation given to the Education Department, the teachers raised the issue that they did not receive salary for four months.More than 150 computer teachers have been working on a contract basis since 2008. They teachers were selected in 2008 by a UT agency, “Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC)”. The problem started after the work was given to a private company through Gem portal instead of the SPIC from this year.Seemar challenged the order of the Education Department for reliving computer teachers and prayed for the direction to consider their demand for releasing their salary.The Education Department had issued reliving orders of the teachers last month.Sameer told the CAT that the Education Department had passed the order in violation of the decision in a case of Yashowardhan and others. The applicants had filed a contempt petition before the court against the order, which was still pending. He also drew the attention of the court to an advertisement issued by the contractor for engaging computer instructors to be appointed in government schools.The CAT stayed the order directing the department concerned not to replace the teachers with the new appointment. The counsel also claimed that the department was directed in 2014 by the CAT to let the instructors continue with their services till the Administration gets regular computer teachers appointed at government schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consider-claims-of-relieved-computer-teachers-cat-159771
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to have 2 more automatic air quality monitoring stations||To monitor the air quality of the city on a real-time basis, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) will soon procure and install two more Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring stations (CAAQMS).This was informed at a meeting held on the action taken till date regarding the directions issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on August 21, 2020. The directions were issued to assess optimal number of stations required as Chandigarh has been identified as a non-attainment city.The CPCC informed that Chandigarh’s population lies in the category of 10,00,000 - < 50,00,000 and requires three manual and five CAAQMS to be installed as per the criteria mentioned above.“Abiding by the orders of the NGT, Chandigarh is having six manual air monitoring stations and one CAAQMS has been installed in Sector 25. Two more CAAQMS are in the procurement stage,” stated the CPCC. — TNSApp for redressal of public grievances||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-have-2-more-automatic-air-quality-monitoring-stations-159772
23-10-2020||---||Power staff protest privatisation||Chandigarh, October 22Employees of the UT Electricity Department, under the banner of the UT Powermen Union, Chandigarh, held a dharna against the privatisation of the “profit-making” department.Addressing the protesters, Gopal Datt Joshi, general secretary of the Federation of UT Employees and Workers and the UT Powermen Union, and president Dhian Singh condemned the privatisation policy of the government. They said the government hurriedly decided to privatise power distribution in the UT, which was against the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003.Opposing the decision of privatisation of the Electricity Department, the speakers said the department was generating profit for the past five years. Last year, the department had earned a profit of Rs258 crore and this year, Rs117 crore.They said if the decision of privatisation was not taken back, the union would observe a joint protest with engineers and employees of North Zone on October 29, another protest with Punjab and UT employees on October 30 and a joint rally with UT employees on November 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/power-staff-protest-privatisation-159773
23-10-2020||Mohali||Girl run over by CTU bus, dies||A girl riding pillion on a scooter was killed when a CTU bus coming from Delhi ran over her near the Zirakpur-Chandigarh flyover this evening.The victim, Simran, was a resident of Raipur Kalan in Chandigarh. According to information, the accident occurred when Simran, along with an acquaintance, was returning home on a scooter. As they reached near Sharma Farm near the Zirakpur flyover, a CTU bus coming from the Ambala side allegedly hit their two-wheeler in the rear side. She fell in the middle of the road and was run over by the bus resulting in her death on the spot. Her acquaintance had fallen towards the left. The post-mortem examination will be conducted tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girl-run-over-by-ctu-bus-dies-159774
23-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court to petitioner: Can’t turn back clock||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22Cannot turn back the clock, stated the Punjab and Haryana High Court while declining a resident’s request for issuance of directions to the Chandigarh Housing Board to transfer the ownership of a flat under its erstwhile GPA transfer policy.The resident had applied for the transfer of a flat’s ownership before the Chandigarh Administration issued circular dated December 19, 2017, banning the registration of properties on the basis of GPA/will. The circular was issued nearly six years after the Supreme Court’s judgment on the issue in the case of ‘Suraj Lamp and Industries Private Limited versus the State of Haryana and another’.The Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash made it clear that the applicant was not entitled to get the property transferred on the basis of GPA/will even if the process was initiated before the issuance of the circular, but remained inconclusive.The Bench observed the petitioner had purchased the flat on the basis of GPA/willsomewhere in 1995, but submitted application on June 2, 2016, for the transfer of the ownership under the then existing policy. The Board asked for Rs1,99,944, but the petitioner wanted to know the exact details of how the amount was calculated. When the correspondence between petitioner and the Board was ongoing, the UT Administration issued a circular directing the CHB not to transfer ownership where the applicant’s claim was on the basis of Will or GPA or SA, etc.The Bench asserted: “Although, the petitioner states he did not deposit the amount on the account of previous unsavoury experience with the Board, which had asked for “unreasonable” amount from him for issuance of a ‘no dues’ certificate. However, this cannot turn the clock back and entitle him to revive his application.”The Bench added the petitioner was applying under the policy that permitted him to seek transfer of ownership acquired by him on the basis of GPA/will, etc. But the policy was withdrawn by the Administration and a new circular was issued. Since the transaction under the policy was not complete, no right was fructified in the petitioner’s favour. The Bench added the circular was not issued by the Board, but the Administration. The Board, being its entity, was bound to implement the circular.“Although the Chandigarh Administration was bound to implement the judgment immediately, late compliance cannot be made as a ground for permitting the application of petitioner. Those dwelling owners who took the benefit of the policy existing prior to December 19, 2017, cannot be put at a disadvantage by turning the clock back,” the Bench concluded.The case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-petitioner-cant-turn-back-clock-159775
23-10-2020||
||‘Consumer courts not a tool to create nuisance value’||Mohali, October 22 The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission today denied any compensation to a city resident, who had filed a complaint against online shopping platform, Myntra, for charging tax/GST on sold items. The complainant, Manu Rana, a resident of Sector 70, had earlier filed six similar complaints against Myntra after purchasing petty items. He had contended that when the product was sold to him on sale/discount directly/indirectly, the opposite party had no right to impose tax or charge GST on the discounted item/product. The commission members observed: “We feel that such consumers are definitely not bona fide. Rather, they are misusing the process of law by continuously filing such complaints. It is seen that even the advocate in most of these cases is the same. Consumer commissions are not meant to be a tool for creating ‘nuisance value’.”  However, the commission directed the opposite party to refund the claimed GST amount in the aforesaid complaints to the commission and a punitive cost of Rs200 to be deposited in the legal aid account set up by the commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consumer-courts-not-a-tool-to-create-nuisance-value-159776
23-10-2020||Panchkula||Mansa Devi Complex internal roads in tatters||The condition of roads in the Mansa Devi Complex (MDC) area, particularly internal ones, is pathetic.The potholed road around the exit of Singh Dwar gives motorists a bumpy ride. Even though the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) had claimed to recarpet 20 km of roads in five sectors of the MDC earlier this year at a cost of Rs2.66 crore, the roads seemingly failed to stand the vagaries of weather.As a result, the repair work ended with bad roads.Harsh Agarwal, president, Residents’ Welfare Association, MDC, Sector 4, said, “I think certainly there has been a lot of improvement in the condition of main roads after the recarpeting work but many internal roads are still in bad shape.”Vijay Gupta of the MDC, Sector 5, RWA said the entry and exit points to several societies in their area have a number of deep potholes. He added that internal roads had not been repaired for the past more than a year.Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta had asked the engineering wing of the HSVP to keep a strict vigil on the contractor to ensure a high-quality road repair work. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mansa-devi-complex-internal-roads-in-tatters-159777
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two gangsters held, weapons recovered||Two alleged members of the Kali shooter gang were arrested by the crime branch of the UT police. A .32-bore pistol, a country-made pistol and four cartridges were seized.  The police said they had a tip-off that two members of the gang, which was involved in a case of attempt to murder in Mohali, were roaming in the city following which a naka was laid in Sector 50 and the suspects riding a Thar jeep were stopped.   The suspects — Summy (23) of Zirakpur and Shiv Shankar (22), alias Sonu, a resident of Jagatpura—  were held with the weapons. During the investigation, it came on record that Summy and Shiv Shankar have a tainted past. Ravinder Singh, alias Kali shooter, is an associate of Lawrence Bishnoi and is presently lodged in the Burail jail. During a surprise check of barrack number 10 last month, three mobile phones were recovered from Kali and two others inmates.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-gangsters-held-weapons-recovered-159778
23-10-2020||Mohali||3 sent to police custody for stealing ornaments||The Dera Bassi police have arrested three persons on a charge of stealing jewellery from a locked house here.The suspects have been identified as Shubam Kumar, Binder and Rinku, all residents of Deha Basti in Mirpur of the Dera Bassi block here. They were produced in a local court today, which sent them to two-day police custody.Stolen items — a ‘mangal sutra’, a gold chain, two pairs of gold earrings, three pairs of silver anklets, a pair of bracelets and a silver coin — were recovered from them.Dera Bassi DSP Gurbakshish Singh said all three confessed to have perpetrated the robbery in a locked house of Gold Palm Society on Wednesday.On getting the information about the robbery, Dera Bassi SHO Satinder Singh had formed a police team, led by Mubarakpur SHO Arshdeep Singh, and a barricade was put up near the railway bridge in Mubarakpur on Thursday. On seeing the cops, the suspects tried to flee, but the police nabbed them after a brief chase, said the DSP. On frisking them, the police found stolen ornaments from them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-sent-to-police-custody-for-stealing-ornaments-159779
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration bans Chinese string||The UT Administration has banned the procurement, sale and use of “Chinese maanjha/pakka dori” for kite flying in the city. In an order, District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said, “A large number of people flying kites use synthetic/nylon glass-coated thread, popularly known as ‘pakka thread/dori’ or ‘Chinese maanjha/dori’. Made of synthetic material, these are non-biodegradable and cause serious injuries to human beings, birds and are equally disadvantageous to the wildlife and environment.”“Chinese maanjhas’ or such other harmful substance for kite flying are banned in Chandigarh for 60 days,” he said. The ban would come into force with immediate effect and would be effective till December 19. Any breach of the order would invite action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-bans-chinese-string-159781
23-10-2020||---||Development works gaining pace: Balbir Singh Sidhu||Mohali, October 22The development works in SAS Nagar are gaining momentum, said Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu while inaugurating the installation of paver blocks and premix-laying works at Police Colony in Phase 8.Paver blocks will cost around Rs 18 lakh while premix-laying is expected to cost about Rs5 lakh.Addressing the gathering, Sidhu said those living in residential societies and colonies of Mohali had been paying taxes to the Municipal Corporation, but little or no development work was carried out during the previous government’s regime.He said he released funds from his discretionary quota for the development works in the region.Sidhu said markets of the city were being transformed so that visitors get amenities.He reiterated that the development works in Mohali constituency were in a full swing and there would be no paucity of funds for the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/development-works-gaining-pace-balbir-singh-sidhu-159782
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Online classes for PG courses from November18||Panjab University released a tentative admission schedule for the semester I students of postgraduate courses.The online classes for the postgraduate courses will start from November 18. Submission of documents will be completed on or before October 24, while the completion of verification of forms (to be done by the categories/ weightages verification teams and by the departments) will be completed from October 26 to 28.The tentative list will be uploaded on October 29 and objections will be invited till October 31.A provisional merit list will be uploaded on November 2, while provisional admission list (after taking care of the objections) will be sent to the DUI office for approval (category-wise) on November 3.The list will be uploaded and released between November 4 and 10. Admissions without late fee will be allowed till November 14, followed by commencement of classes from November 18.Late admission with the permission of the Panjab University Vice-Chancellor will be allowed from November 21 to 25 with a late fee of Rs3,000. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-classes-for-pg-courses-from-november18-159783
23-10-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali Municipal Corporation survey yet to be completed||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 22The Mohali Municipal Corporation is yet to complete the survey being conducted for the delimitation of wards even though the meeting of the panel concerned is to be held tomorrow.The MC had ordered a re-survey of wards in the new sectors as the number of people living in the area had reportedly decreased. Sources in the Municipal Corporation said the survey team had not submitted its report to the authorities till the filing of this report.Earlier, the MC had constituted 35 teams for carrying out a survey in which people were to be asked three questions — head of the family, number of family members and caste. On August 7, the Punjab Government had constituted a board to decide the delimitation of wards of the Mohali MC. The board will also take a call on the allotment of 50 per cent of wards reserved for women.Municipal Corporation Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said a survey was being conducted in some of the sectors as the survey teams had found some houses locked. He said the teams would be submitting a report, which would be presented before the board.Former Municipal Corporation Councillor SS Dhanoa said they were waiting for the board meeting, wherein decision on the delimitation of wards in the Municipal Corporation would be taken. He said if any discrepancy was found in the survey, they would lodge a complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-municipal-corporation-survey-yet-to-be-completed-159784
23-10-2020||Naina Mishra||Poor air quality may aggravate Covid symptoms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 22Covod-19 patients may further have a tough time as the air quality continues to deteriorate in the city due to the burning of the crop residue.Doctors have warned that respiratory illnesses such as viral influenza increase with the spike in the pollution level as poor air quality leads to inflammation in the lungs, making them more vulnerable to the virus.“The winter season is just around the corner. The emissions of particulate matter will stay in the atmosphere and the air quality may deteriorate further. Any more stubble burning will badly affect the region,” said Surinder Paul, Director, IMD, Chandigarh Department.Dr D Behera, Department of Pulmonary Medicine, PGIMER, explains: “Due to pollution, Covid patients with severe lung problems may require more oxygen and it may also aggravate the lung damage. Patients with mild to moderate disease can also witness poor lung functioning.”Dr Ravindra Khaiwal from the School of Community Medicine and Public Health, PGI, said: “Over 1,400 instances of crop-residue burning (mainly from Haryana) were recorded last Sunday. The air quality index (AQI) has been slightly above 100 (moderate level) in the recent past. However, if the residual burning continues and weather gets colder, the air quality will further deteriorate.”Dr Khaiwal added: “There are several studies available from China and Italy wherein the severity of Covid-19 was linked to air pollution.”In the study titled ‘Air pollution trend in Chandigarh city situated in Indo-Gangetic Plains: Understanding seasonality and impact of mitigation strategies’ authored by Ravinder Khaiwal (Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER), the city showed higher PM10 concentration during the winter than the monsoon due to crop-residue burning and meteorology. During 2018, the winter season recorded the highest PM10 levels and the concentration decreased by 28 to 47 per cent during the monsoon as compared to the winter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poor-air-quality-may-aggravate-covid-symptoms-159785
23-10-2020||---||3 more e-services launched||Chandigarh, October 22Three services related to licensing, horticulture and encroachment challans were launched under the e-governance project here on Thursday.The project is aimed at minimising manual intervention, ensuring transparency and providing convenience to public by eliminating the need to visit or queuing up at government offices.MC Commissioner KK Yadav said 11 out of the total 29 services planned under the project had gone live so far. With the launch of e-horticulture services, people will be able to get the services of the Horticulture Department online.Yadav said with new e-challan system, the enforcement officer shall be able to create online challan and will be to capture supporting on-ground images of violation/seizure. He said the violator would receive his/her challan on the given mobile number and email and could pay fine online or offline on the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-e-services-launched-159789
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Three succumb, 53 contract virus in Chandigarh||22 infected in P’kula; recovery rate 95%Panchkula: The district on Thursday reported 22 new cases of Covid, taking the tally to 6,922. Six cases were reported from Sector 15, four from Sector 4, three from Pinjore, two each from Kalka and Sector 20, and one each from Bhairon Ka Sair, Morni, Sector 12, Sector 14 and Sector 7. With 6,580 patients having been cured, the district recovery rate stands at 95 per cent. TNSNo fatality, 58 new cases in MohaliMohali: The district on Thursday reported 58 fresh cases of Covid, taking the infection count to 11,938. There was no new fatality due to the virus and 96 more patients have been cured. Of the fresh cases, 46 surfaced in Mohali (urban), three each in Dera Bassi and Gharuan, four in Kharar and two in Lalru. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-succumb-53-contract-virus-in-chandigarh-159794
23-10-2020||KK Yadav||Expect pothole-free roads by May next, says MC Commissioner Yadav||Justifying the hike in water tariff and promising to make the city pothole-free by May next year, MC Commissioner KK Yadav claims to have established accountability of the MC staff towards the city. Yadav, who has been criticised by the ruling BJP, spoke to Chandigarh Tribune.Q. The bad condition of roads has remained an issue during your tenure. Why couldn’t these be improved?Recarpeting of roads was pending since 2016 and financial constraint was the main reason. The MC needs around Rs50 crore to recarpet around 350-km road every year. We had recently allotted recarpeting work worth Rs33 crore, while work worth Rs35 crore will be started in the coming month. By May next year, all roads in the city will be pothole-free. We have collaborated with the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR), Sector 26, that has designed all roads due to which the life span of these will increase from the present five years to eight.Q. What is MC doing to tackle the stray dog menace?We have just started a dog sterilisation drive, which will solve the problem to a large extent. Additionally, construction of an animal birth-control centre in Raipur Kalan is nearing completion.Q. What is the progress in terms of dark spots?We have lit up 80 per cent of the dark spots, while the remaining 20 per cent will be lit up by November.Q. Chandigarh has failed to make it to the top 10 cleanest cities in the country for the second year in a row. What according to you is lacking or stopping the city from figuring among the cleanest cities?I feel public participation is very important to bring the city among the cleanest. For this, we had started a Swachh ward competition to increase public participation. The city has improved its ranking from last year’s 20 to 16 in the last Swachh Survekshan rankings and we hope to bring the city among the top 10 next year.Q. The hike in water tariff has become a major issue with RWAs and political parties opposing it tooth and nail. Do you feel the hike is justified?We are giving 11-hour daily water supply in the city, which comes at a cost of Rs203 crore annually, while our revenue through the water bills is only Rs75 crore. To meet the deficit, the water tariff was hiked after inviting public objections, which will help the MC generate a revenue of around Rs150 crore. Moreover, the slabs in Chandigarh are the lowest across the country. Only 22 per cent users will fall in the fourth slab of the tariff, which has increased three-fold.Q. How did you tackle fund crunch?We emphasised on the GIS (geographic information system) mapping of properties that has helped the MC increase the income from property tax from the previous Rs22 crore per year to about Rs60 crore. The increase in water tariff will further help us narrow the deficit.Q. You have introduced GPS watches for the field staff, but there are protests against the move. How do you see this?As a government employee, we are answerable to the public. Nobody should have a problem in wearing the watch during the duty hours as we are bound to work during that time. I also wear the watch and a majority of the staff have no problem in wearing it.Q. The ruling BJP is up in arms against you and alleges that you are against development in the city. What do you have to say on this?As the Commissioner, I perform my duties within the limits of the Municipal Corporation Act. It is my duty to ensure that the MC is run as per this Act, and if something goes wrong, I am responsible for that.Q. It’s been almost two and a half years for you as the MC Commissioner. What do you feel are your achievements?Bringing 28 e-governance services online, of which 11 have already been introduced. This will make the services time bound and transparent. Moreover, it increases our accountability towards citizens. Besides, introducing a call centre (helpline) for people to air their grievances and redressal of their issues in a stipulated time frame is another achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-pothole-free-roads-by-may-next-says-mc-commissioner-yadav-159796
23-10-2020||---||Safai workers to go on indefinite strike today||Chandigarh, October 22Up against being asked to wear GPS-enabled watches, the Safai Karamchari Union has decided to go on an indefinite strike from tomorrow.Union president Krishan Kumar Chadha said all sanitation workers and door-to-door garbage collectors, along with various employees' federations, will be part of the protest.“If the MC is interested in making us wear these watches, they should also show interest in 'regularising' 2,800 vacant posts. These watches are faulty and we face health issues due to these,” alleged Chadha.He said there were a total of 3,300 safai workers and 3,000 garbage collectors. “We have 32 employee unions of various departments supporting us. We will march from the office of the edial Officer of Health to the MC office and stage a dharna there,” he said.The civic body distributed 4,000 smart watches among its employees, including the Commissioner and officers. The watches have been hired from a company for Rs18 lakh rent per month. Through these watches, attendance can be marked and the location checked.Om Prakash Saini, president of the Chandigarh Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society, said, “We will be part of the protest, but will lift waste tomorrow. The next course of action will be decided after tomorrow’s protest. We are protesting as we want to work independently as we have been doing so far and not under the corporation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/safai-workers-to-go-on-indefinite-strike-today-159798
23-10-2020||Chandigarh||Trains cancelled due to farmers' agitation||Webinar at universityChandigarh: To observe International Chef Day, School of Hotel Management, Airlines and Tourism (SOHMAT) of Desh Bhagat University organised a webinar on ‘Healthy food matters’. Dr Sandeep Malik, Director, Institute of Hotel & Tourism Management, Maharishi Dayanand University, Rohtak, and Vivek Sharma, Assistant Professor, Himachal Pradesh Technical University, Hamirpur, were the key speakers. TNSUT police launch ‘mirror’ bookChandigarh: In an innovative way to educate people about the repercussions of violating traffic rules, the Chandigarh Traffic Police on Thursday launched a public awareness drive with a book that has a mirror on the first page, which is shown to the violator, followed by the second page that has a mirror with bandages pasted on it. The police said the book would make people realise that violating traffic rules could lead to accidents and land them in the hospital. The book was launched by SSP (Traffic and Security) Manoj Kumar. TNSReservation roster management systemChandigarh: UT Adviser Manoj Parida on Thursday launched the reservation roster management system developed by the NIC for the Personnel and Social Welfare Departments of the UT Administration. Briefing about the features of the system, Secretary Personnel SK Jha said: “The system allows the HODs to monitor on their dashboards the real-time category wise vacancy position of SC/OBC and sends automated quarterly alerts to the branch in-charges to update the information.” TNSMan held with poppy huskChandigarh: A 40-year-old man has been arrested with 3.18 kg of poppy husk. A team of the Sarangpur police station nabbed the suspect, Yasin Mohammad, alias Kala, of Milk Colony, Dhanas. The police had set up a naka on the Dhanas village-PGI road to check vehicles. Cops saw a pedestrian trying to flee on seeing them. The suspect was nabbed and poppy husk was recovered from a bag he was carrying. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trains-cancelled-due-to-farmers-agitation-159799
