23-12-2020||Chandigarh||Boy dies as truck hits cart||Rs5l, gold stolen from houseZirakpur: Gold, valuables worth Rs30 lakh and Rs5 lakh were stolen from a locked house at the AKS-2, a society in Zirakpur, on Monday night. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera. The owner, Naresh Kumar, and his family had gone to Hoshiarpur for a relative’s marriage. A DDR has been registered. TNSTertiary water supply to be hitChandigarh: There will be no tertiary-treated water supply in Sector 14 to 29 from December 23 to January 1. According to the MC, due to the ongoing work on installation of aerators/mixers for tertiary-treated water at the UGR in Sector 29-B, the supply will be affected. TNSLecture Series launchedChandigarh: The Society for Promotion of Science & Technology in India and the Chandigarh Chapter of the National Academy of Sciences, India, in collaboration with the Haryana State Council for Science, Technology & Innovation, launched a lecture series on Tuesday to celebrate National Mathematics Day, the birth anniversary of the great mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan. To mark the occasion, a series of online activities involving lectures, quiz, poster competition and declamation will continue till March. The first in this series was a lecture, "Mathematics behind Data Transmission", by Prof Gurmeet Kaur Bakshi, from the Department of Mathematics. TNSWebinar organisedChandigarh: Dr Prabhdip Brar, Chairperson, University Institute of Fashion Technology & Vocational Development (UIFT&VD), organised a webinar on Tuesday on "Non-Surgical Aesthetic Treatments - Instagram Face or Psychosocial Benefits..." by Dr D Sara Sangha, BS in Pharmacy from Mangalore University and Post-doctoral Research Fellow in Vascular Cell Biology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio, the US. It was attended by more than 75 participants, including faculty, research scholars and students of final year. TNSJudo, TT trainees hold cyclothonChandigarh: The Sports Department organised cyclothon rallies under the Fit India campaign of the Centre. Judo and table tennis trainees of Sports Complex, Sector 34, along with their coaches, paddled in the sector while raising slogans "Fitness Ka Doze, Aadha Ghanta Roz" to create awareness on good health among the residents. Krishan Lal, Senior Judo Coach and in charge of Youth Affairs, also took part in the rally to motivate the trainees. TNSPU declares ResultsChandigarh: Panjab University declared the results of MA Community Education and Development 4th semester, MSc (Cosmetology & Health Care) 4th semester, BSc (Hons) in Physics & Electronics 6th semester, BEd Special Education (Mental Retardation) 4th semester and Postgraduate Diploma in Marketing Management 2nd semester. The results can be seen at the respective departments/colleges or at Panjab University's website. TNSMayor opens green beltChandigarh: Mayor Raj Bala Malik inaugurated a green belt at Mauli Jagran here on Tuesday. She said besides ornamental trees, this green belt has play equipment for children, a walking track, benches and huts. Having an area of 1.25 acres, the green belt also has various flower beds. TNSMan held with banned vialsChandigarh: A 45-year-old man has been arrested by the local police with banned vials, tablets and capsules. According to the police, Sudesh Kumar, alias Binder, a resident of Sector 29, was nabbed from the Industrial Area, Phase II, with 26 banned vials, 80 tablets and 24 capsules on December 21. The police have registered a case against him under the NDPS Act at the Sector 31 police station. TNSLoud music has DJ in troubleChandigarh: A DJ-cum-manager was booked by the local police for playing music at high volume at a nightclub, Play Ground, in Sector 26. A police team was patrolling the area on the intervening night of December 21 and 22 when they found loud music being played at the club by a DJ, identified as Parmit Singh (31). The police said a case under Section 61 of the Punjab Police Act had been registered at the Sector 26 police station. The DJ was arrested and later released on bail. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-dies-as-truck-hits-cart-188306
23-12-2020||---||UTCA probables’ list||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22The Union Territory Cricket Association (UTCA) announced a 37-member probables’ squad for undergoing a preparation camp for the coming Syed Mutaq Ali Trophy, starting from January 10, at Chennai.Chandigarh will face Nagaland on January 11, Manipur on January 13, Mizoram on January 15, Sikkim on January 17 and Arunachal Pradesh on January 19. The team will leave for Chennai on January 1.Squad: Aman Bharti, Anirudh Kanwar, Amit Parashar, Ankit Kaushik, Arrpit Singh, Bhagmender Lather, Bipul Sharma, Gaurav Gambhir, Gaurav Puri, Gurinder Singh, Jaskarandeep Singh, Jaskaran Sohi, Karanveer Singh, Kunal Mahajan, Manan Vohra, Mandeep Singh, Ronit Dhawan, Sarul Kanwar, Uday Kaul, Aayush Sikka, Amrit Lal Lubana, Harshit, Jagjit Singh Sandhu, Mohd Arslan Khan, Nippun Pandita, Taranpreet Singh, Shivang Saini, Jagmeet Singh, Pardeep Yadav, Arjun Azad, Chiragvir Singh Dhindsa, Rajangad Bawa, Sehbaaz Singh, Surya Narayan Yadav, Yuvraj Choudhary, Sanyam Saini, Amit Kumar Shukla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/utca-probables-list-188305
23-12-2020||---||It’s Aryan vs Aryan in tennis final||Chandigarh, December 22Aryan Arora will face Aryan Thakur in the boys’ U-16 final of the ongoing Roots-AITA Challenge Series (CS) III National Ranking Championship. In the semifinals played today, top seed Arora defeated Aditya Chauhan 9-4 whereas second seed Thakur overpowered third seed Navya Verma 9-5.In the quarterfinals, Arora ousted Aarush Sharma 9-2, Chauhan defeated Lakshya Gupta 9-2, Verma beat Umang Singh 9-3 and Thakur defeated Kartik Sunil Kumar 9-3.In the girls’ U-16 semis, Riya Kaushik stunned Rubani Sidhu 9-6 and Maitreyi Phogat edged past Radha Sadhra 9-8(5). In the quarterfinals, Riya outclassed top seed Harleen Kaur Dhanda 9-8(1), Rubani defeated third seed Vanya Arora 9-6, Radha beat Ananya Dogra 9-5 and Maitreyi overpowered Bhumi Kakkar 9-7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/its-aryan-vs-aryan-in-tennis-final-188304
23-12-2020||---||Girl found dead on railway track||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, December 22An unidentified body of a girl was found near the railway track in Gazipur today.The Railway police have kept the body at the Dera Bassi Civil Hospital for the next 72 hours for identification. ASI Rajinder Singh said the girl was in her early 20s and was wearing blue jeans, white top and pink shoes.A mobile phone with no SIM card has been found near the body.The police suspect that the girl, probably from nearby housing societies, was crushed to death by the Ambala-Chandigarh Deluxe Train around 4 pm. No suicide note has been found on the girl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girl-found-dead-on-railway-track-188303
23-12-2020||Mohali||Illicit liquor: Two land in police net||The police have booked four persons for selling illicit liquor and arrested two of them from Jagatpura and seized 20 cartons from their possession. Those arrested have been identified as Vikram Thakur, a resident of Bilaspur (HP), and Sukhwinder Singh. Their investigation revealed that two Zirakpur residents, Om Kumar and Pradeep Kumar, were also involved in buying liquor from Chandigarh and selling it in nearby areas. A case has been registered against the suspects. Vikram and Sukhwinder have been sent to police remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/illicit-liquor-two-land-in-police-net-188302
23-12-2020||---||Sanitary landfill site work allotted||Chandigarh, December 22Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) today allotted the work of sanitary landfill site in Dadu Majra to Varun Procon firm.According to the CSCL, financial bids of three companies were opened yesterday. Being the lowest bidder, Varun Procon was awarded the work. The company will carry out the work at a cost of Rs12.40 crore with a one-year deadline.It was formally given during the CSCL’s Board of Director meeting today.The 8-acre site will be used for dumping of non-recyclable solid waste generated from the city. The site will be covered with a 4.5m tall and 10m deep boundary wall. The waste dumped there will be covered at all times. No foul smell will be generated at the site.Leachate, which comes on road and the neighbouring colony, would be treated and go through sewerage. It would be done in a scientific way and there would be no pollution, said officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sanitary-landfill-site-work-allotted-188301
23-12-2020||---||Betting gang busted, 4 arrested in Kharar||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 22The police have arrested four members of a gang involved in betting on cricket matches and supplying narcotics. The police recovered Rs2.02 lakh, four mobile phones, two laptops, 10 syringes and four registers from their possession.The suspects have been identified as Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Sector 56, Johnny Bagla, a resident of Anupgarh district, Ganganagar, Vijay Rana, a resident of Sector 41, and Ashwani Chohan, a resident of Panchkula.They have been booked under Section 420 of the IPC, Sections 13-A, 3 and 67 of the Gambling Act and Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the Kharar City police station.According to the police, the suspects were running a large-scale business of betting and match fixing through their mobile phones and laptops in their car. The suspects have a big betting gang and they smuggle drugs and supply narcotics to customers.They were rounded up in their car near a school in Kharar. During the search of the vehicle, 300 grams of narcotics was recovered from the possession of Rajesh Kumar. Four mobile phones, betting money worth Rs2.2 lakh, two laptops, 10 syringes and four registers were also recovered from his accomplices.The suspects were produced before a court, which sent them to two-day police custody. Further investigations are on in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/betting-gang-busted-4-arrested-in-kharar-188300
23-12-2020||---||Woman killed, son hurt as mini-truck hits bike||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 22A woman, who was riding pillion on her son’s motorcycle, was killed in an accident near the Alipur Industrial Area near Naggal village here.The victim has been identified as Adesh Devi (48) from Khera Sita Ram in Kalka.The accident, according to an eyewitness, took place on December 20 around 7 pm when a speeding mini-truck hit their bike.The mother-son due fell off the bike and suffered serious injuries. They were rushed to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital, where doctors declared Adesh Devi as brought dead and referred her son Sachin to the GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh, in view of his serious condition. The driver of the truck fled from the spot.Eyewitness Naveen Mohammed of Parwanoo said the mini-truck bore the registration number — HR 68 A 7536. The police said its owner was from Sector 25 as per the registered address.Head Constable Mahipal, the investigating officer in the case, said they were yet to trace the driver of the mini-truck.A case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304-A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by an act endangering the life or personal safety of others) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-killed-son-hurt-as-mini-truck-hits-bike-188298
23-12-2020||Amit Bathla||Ahluwalia, Goyal share vision||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 22With campaigning for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections entering its last phase, one thing that top contenders from the BJP and the Congress don't forget to mention wherever they go for seeking votes is their vision for Panchkula as "sapnon ka shehar" or Smart City.If we go by the 'Smart Cities Mission' of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, "there is no universally accepted definition of a smart city. It means different things to different people. The conceptualisation of Smart City, therefore, varies from city to city and country to country, depending on the level of development, willingness to change and reform, resources and aspirations of the city residents.The government, however, has laid down core infrastructure elements under the Smart Cities Mission that makes a city smart. This correspondent spoke to BJP's Kulbhushan Goyal and Congress' Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia about their views and this is what they have to say.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ahluwalia-goyal-share-vision-188297
23-12-2020||---||Cong releases 20-point manifesto||Panchkula, December 22The local unit of the Congress today released its manifesto for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections.The 20-point manifesto was unveiled by Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja’s political adviser Ram Kishan Gujjar in the presence of former Deputy Chief Minister Chander Mohan and party’s mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia.In the manifesto, the party promises primary focus on Covid-19 and seamless rollout of a vaccine, once it is available; strengthening of e-governance through e-contact centres; adequate and clean water supply; disbanding enhancement in several HSVP sectors; shifting of dumping ground from residential areas; beautification of Singh Nullah; end to stray cattle/dogs; rehabilitation of slum areas; setting up new fire stations; installation of CCTV cameras and frequent patrolling to check crime; free parking; proper maintenance and beautification of parks; upkeep of roads; building old-age homes; mobile dispensaries for seniors; setting up a modern library; installation of security gates in various sectors and better connectivity with Chandigarh and Zirakpur.Congress manifesto is just a farce, says saffron partyThe BJP called the Congress manifesto a farce, saying Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia did nothing for the development of the city during her previous five-year tenure as the Mayor. BJP’s mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal said sensible voters of Panchkula would not fall for fake promises by the Congress and they would choose BJP’s development agenda in the forthcoming elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-releases-20-point-manifesto-188294
23-12-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh MC panel examines objections, suggestions on proposed wards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22The Delimitation Committee for wards of the Municipal Corporation (MC) today examined the objections and suggestions received against the draft notification issued recently.An official said the committee was looking into all objections and suggestions received against the proposed wards and would take appropriate decision accordingly.If found feasible, the objections would be considered and changes made in the proposed wards, he added.The committee received nearly 180 objections from residents of various areas of the city against the proposed wards.In an objection filed with the Delimitation Committee, Col Gursewak Singh (retd), president, Residents Welfare Association (RWA), Modern Housing Complex (MHC), submitted that the notification on the delimitation of wards had caused a great deal of anguish and resentment among residents of 3,353 dwelling units of the MHC in Sector 13. It was noticed that the proposed ward was arbitrary, defied logic and was thus rejected by all residents of the MHC, he said.He said the main objection was that the proposed ward number 4 would be divided into three pockets with no contiguity. Moreover, clubbing of high revenue-generating MHC with far away Basti Kishangarh, having a large number of rural voters, would be counter-productive, he added.Similar objections were received from other areas also.On December 9, the Local Government Department had issued a draft notification for delimitation of wards of the MC, increasing the number of wards from the existing 26 to 35.The department had invited views, comments or suggestions, if any, from the general public and other stakeholders on the draft notification within a period of seven days. The process was necessitated as the MC is going to the polls in December 2021. On the basis of the 2001 census, the last delimitation of wards was held in 2006. However, the next process for delimitation of wards, which was to be held in 2015 on the basis of the 2011 census, could not be conducted as the issue of merger of villages with the MC was still pending.At present, there are 26 wards in the MC, which include sectors and nine villages. The 13 new villages, which were included in the MC last year only, are: Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-panel-examines-objections-suggestions-on-proposed-wards-188292
23-12-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Health Department to soon start verbal autopsy of deceased||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22The UT Health Department will soon start the verbal autopsy of those who died of Covid-19 so as to establish what factors led to the deaths in Chandigarh.In Chandigarh, 312 victims have so far succumbed to Covid, with a majority of them above 60 years of age. Although the Health Department has identified ‘hypertension’ and ‘diabetes’ as two major factors contributing to Covid deaths in Chandigarh, the verbal autopsy will further explore the line of treatment of each deceased and the delay, if any, in availing of emergency response.About verbal autopsyVerbal autopsy (VA) is a method of gathering information about symptoms and circumstances for a deceased individual to determine their cause of death.This technique will comprise a methodical interview with the next of kin or caregiver of the deceased to determine the symptoms and signs of the illness that preceded the death and a review of the medical records.According to Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh: “Many elderly in home isolation who succumbed to Covid-19 reported late to hospital emergency service. The verbal autopsy will find out the reasons that led to the delays and other lapses in their treatment. We will speak with the family members of the deceased to study the course of illness.”Verbal autopsy (VA) is a method of gathering information about symptoms and circumstances for a deceased individual to determine their cause of death. This technique will comprise a methodical interview with the next of kin or caregiver of the deceased to determine the symptoms and signs of the illness that preceded the death and a review of the medical records.While other states in the country are mulling forensic autopsy, Chandigarh has no plans so far to proceed with the methodology.In May, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said that no invasive techniques should not be adopted for forensic autopsy in Covid-19 death cases as doctors and other mortuary staff are exposed to health risks due to organ fluids and secretions.According to the ICMR standard guidelines for medico-legal autopsy in Covid-19 deaths in India, deaths in hospital and under medical care due to coronavirus infection are non-MLC cases and do not require a post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-health-department-to-soon-start-verbal-autopsy-of-deceased-188291
23-12-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||CHB to auction over 260 properties in January||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22Residents will get another opportunity to own a property in the city as the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is all set to auction properties in January next year.An official said the board was preparing a list of the properties to be auctioned in the last week of January. More than 260 properties, including commercial and residential, could be put up for auction.However, the final decision on the number of properties to be auctioned would be taken in a meeting of Board of Directors to be held early next month.Last year, not even a single bidder showed interest in the auction of CHB properties as the reserve price was too high for both residential and commercial properties. To get a good response, the CHB has decided to revise the reserve price of the properties this time.The official said the properties to be auctioned include 212 listed for auction last year and nearly 51 new flats in Sector 51.Lots of CHB properties, both commercial and residential, have been lying vacant in Mani Majra, Sector 45, 41, 47, 39, 38 (West), 49 and 51 for quite a long time.Last year, the CHB had put up 64 residential and 148 commercial properties for auction. The reserve price for a freehold three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 was Rs1.07 crore and the reserve price for Sector 39 leasehold HIG flat was Rs1.31 crore. Nine leasehold and 55 freehold properties were put up for auction last year.The board had fixed the reserve price of two-bedroom flat in Sector 51 at Rs99.92 lakh. The reserve price of EWS flat was fixed at Rs30 lakh to Rs32 lakh. The reserve price for one-bedroom flat in Sector 63 was fixed at Rs54.80 lakh. Similarly, reserve prices of commercial properties ranged from Rs50 lakh to Rs2 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-to-auction-over-260-properties-in-january-188278
23-12-2020||---||Webinar on needonomics||Chandigarh, December 22The Ashra Club of GGDSD College, Sector 32, on Tuesday organised a webinar on ‘Needonomics for atmanirbharta’ for undergraduate and postgraduate students.Prof MM Goel, a Kurukshetra-based needonomist, was the key speaker. Dr Balraj Thapar, Principal, delivered the welcome address and highlighted the achievements of Professor Goel.The needonomist motivated the students to be self-reliant in the post-Covid era as it would help address the issue of employment in the nation. He said: “Economy can be made consumer-friendly by adopting the NAW (need, affordability and worth) approach of marketing with the focus on need-based priorities in the choices of all kinds.”Dr Meenu Gupta, convener of the club, proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-on-needonomics-188263
23-12-2020||Chandigarh||FDP on artificial intelligence held at PU||The Centre for Academic Leadership and Educational Management (CALEM), Department of Education, and the Department of Computer Science and Applications (DCSA) are jointly organising a seven-day faculty development programme (FDP) on “Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning – Basics and Applications” from December 22 to 28. It started with an introduction to the programme by Dr Anuj Sharma, coordinator. The chief guest at the inaugural session, Prof Kuldeep Chand Agnihotri, Vice-Chancellor, Central University of Himachal Pradesh; and Prof Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Panjab University, talked about the importance of AI for society. Earlier, Prof Kirandeep Singh, Chairperson, Department of Education, welcomed all dignitaries and the participants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fdp-on-artificial-intelligence-held-at-pu-188262
23-12-2020||---||Four films of PGI nominated for fest||Chandigarh, December 22It was another milestone accomplished by the PGI as four of its educational films have been nominated under different categories for the International Science Film Festival of India 2020.The film titled “War against COVID 19” directed by Abhijeet Singh, Junior Photographer, Department of Clinical Photography, under the able guidance of Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics), PGI, is nominated under the category, “Science and awareness on COVID-19 and other health emergencies”. The video briefs the journey of the PGI and its preparedness for war against the Covid pandemic.Another film, “Breast Cancer”, also directed by Abhijeet under the guidance of Maninder Deep Kaur and Dr Budhi Singh Yadav from the department of radiotherapy, PGI, is nominated in the category, “Science for self-reliant India”.The third film, “Hypoglycemia”, directed by Kritika Thakur (Final year BSc student in animation and audio visual creation) is nominated under the student category, “Science for self-reliant India”, and has been developed under technical guidance of Brijlal, l Senior Technical Officer/Coordinator for BSc Animation and Audio Visual Creation.The last film, “Badlaav”, also directed by Kritika is nominated under the student category, “Science and awareness on Covid-19 and other health emergencies”.Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the festival today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-films-of-pgi-nominated-for-fest-188260
23-12-2020||Deepankar Sharda||BoF meeting likely next month||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22Panjab University is likely to convene a meeting of its Board of Finance (BoF) next month, confirmed sources.The previous meeting, which was scheduled for December 15, was postponed after members and authorities remained inconclusive on conducing the meeting online or offline. While many members insisted on conducting a physical meeting, the authorities wanted to have an online meeting.“The meeting is likely to be listed in the first week of January 2021. Since it’s an important meeting, the authorities are also keen to conduct it to take various decisions. However, it’s not confirmed whether it will be online or offline. The stakeholders should choose a middle way to conduct this meeting,” said the source.With the term of the current Syndicate heading towards an end on December 31, the plans to conduct this meeting next month is also crucial.The BoF meeting was held almost a year ago and is important for approving PU’s estimated budget and take clearance from members on the balance sheet.“The members of BoF will remain the same. However, there are many unanswered questions, including what is the status of this meeting in the absence of the governing body? This has never happened in the PU history. As asked earlier, the authorities should come up with clarity for all stakeholders within a limited time frame,” said the source. According to the PU calendar, the executive body has the power to consider and make recommendations to the Senate. It also grants power to the Syndicate to pass orders on various university matters.Syndicate members move courtSeven former Panjab University senators have moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court demanding senate elections. The senate term ended on October 31, but elections were not held this year. After the term of the Syndicate, the executive body of the PU, ends, the university will be left without a governing body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bof-meeting-likely-next-month-188259
23-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||HC issues notice of motion to PU||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued notice of motion to Panjab University and other respondents on a petition alleging that the proposed committee slated to replace the Senate would comprise representatives of the ruling political party. The petitioners, seven former senators, were demanding senate elections.Among other things, the petitioners claimed that certain candidates owing allegiance to the ruling political dispensation, apprehending unsuccessful contest, wanted Senate to be abolished and replaced by the committee.Petitioners’ contentionAccording to the petitioners’ counsel, R Kartikeya, the agenda was being further supported by some 30 former employees/officers of the university, who appeared to be looking for post-retirement rehabilitations and had already been tipped to be part of the proposed committee.Taking up the matter, Justice Fateh Deep Singh of the High Court also fixed January 12 as the next date of hearing in the matter. The petitioners, Prof Keshav Malhotra and others, through counsel R Kartikeya, submitted they had reasons to believe that the candidates owing allegiance to the ruling political dispensation initially pressurised the university administration and their political bosses to defer the Senate elections to avoid an unsuccessful contest. “They had now started another agenda for abolishing the Senate and to replace it by a committee which would comprise representatives of the ruling political party as the committee would be nominated by the office of Chancellor, through the MHA”.Kartikeya added the agenda was being further supported by some 30 former employees/officers of the university, who appeared to be looking for post-retirement rehabilitations and had already been tipped to be part of the proposed committee.Their objective to abolish the Senate had been openly advocated from time to time as their illegal actions were overruled by the Senate and Syndicate. Some of them even went to the extent of describing the members of the Senate as “vultures”.“In furtherance of this agenda, the petitioners have reasons to believe that they have been frequently corresponding with the office of the Chancellor and have also sent a draft for abolishing the Senate,” Kartikeya added.He further submitted the Senate was the varsity’s basic and fundamental body, which could not be replaced “on account of political malice and failure of certain individuals to successfully contest elections”.The varsity governance over the years had been balanced with the presence of the Senate, which adequately represented all individuals concerned and faculties. The agenda to take over the university through political-executive action would be completely unwarranted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-issues-notice-of-motion-to-pu-188258
23-12-2020||Mohali||Three deaths, 49 cases in Mohali||Three Covid-19 deaths and 49 new cases were reported from the district here today. As many as 90 more patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 44 were reported from Mohali (urban). The district has so far seen 17,621 cases, while 15,617 patients have been cured. — TNSChandigarh records 56 cases, two fatalitiesChandigarh: The city on Tuesday reported 56 fresh cases of Covid and two deaths, taking the UT tally to 19,184 and toll to 312. A total of 79 more patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. The tally of recoveries is 18,508. TNS42 more test positive in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Tuesday reported 42 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 9,777. The Covid toll remained at 139. While 9,359 patients have recovered from the infectious disease so far, 279 cases are still active. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-deaths-49-cases-in-mohali-188257
23-12-2020||---||Woman worker dies in factory machine mishap||Panchkula, December 22A woman, employed as a labourer at a factory in the industrial Area, Alipur, was killed after being reportedly caught in a drill machine.The woman, Sonia, was working in the factory for the past eight months and was living with her husband Manpreet Singh in a rented accommodation in the Alipur area.The police filed a case on a complaint of her husband Manpreet Singh, who alleged negligence on the part of factory owner Dilu Sharma.According to the complaint filed by Manpreet, he received a call from the factory about an injury to his wife.“When I reached the premises, I saw my wife being taken to the Civil Hospital in an ambulance. However, she later succumbed to the injuries,” he told the police.Manpreet has also alleged that his wife had informed him of the factory “being unsafe in the use of machines” several times before the incident claimed her life.A case has been registered under Section 304A (death by negligence) of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-worker-dies-in-factory-machine-mishap-188256
23-12-2020||---||‘Sonic boom’ sends people in a tizzy||Chandigarh, December 22A loud thumping sound echoed across the tricity on Tuesday evening.Residents were shocked wondering what had happened. People heard a thumping sound as their doors, windows and cars shook around 8 pm.“I was surfing the Internet when I heard a loud sound as if someone had smashed my door. I ignored it, but later got calls from my friends, who said they had a similar experience,” said Kunal, a Mohali resident.“I was sitting in my car when it suddenly shook to my utter surprise. I do not know what is was,” said Ravi, a resident of Sector 44, Chandigarh.The police said they had no information about it. A Met official said it was a sonic boom. It was believed to have occurred in Ambala and the Air Force could throw more light on it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sonic-boom-sends-people-in-a-tizzy-188255
23-12-2020||New Delhi||ED: Accused paid bank manager’s flight, hotel bills||Probing a Rs299-crore Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) loan fraud case in Chandigarh, similar to the alleged USD 2 billion worth PNB scam, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has found that the accused “paid” for the air travel and hotel stay of a senior bank manager and his family as kickbacks.The ED in a statement said, “lapses” were also detected on the part of at least three managers - Anil Kumar, PC Rana and N Chokalingam - of the IOB branch in Chandigarh, “as well as the concurrent auditors”.The ED case is related to its criminal money laundering investigation “in a case related to buyers’ credit fraud of Rs299.14 crore at the IOB, Chandigarh”. The ED took up the case for investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of a CBI FIR against IOB assistant manager Ashu Mehra, proprietor of Heights International Amanpreet Singh Sodhi, owner of Vision Procon Dinesh Kumar and directors of a firm, Saibhakti Impex Pvt Ltd, Gaurav Kirpal and Aman Kirpal.“A charge sheet was filed by the CBI against the accused revealing a wrongful loss to the tune of Rs299.14 crore to the bank on account of fraudulent unpaid LoUs (letter of undertaking). An amount of Rs11.36 crore as commission for 24 LoUs was also not received by the bank,” the ED stated.The ED stated that its probe found that the accused, Amanpreet Singh Sodhi, Dinesh Kumar and Gaurav Kirpal, “conspired” with IOB assistant manager Ashu Mehra “for illegal diversion of funds to the bank accounts of fraudulent buyers on behalf of Indian import firms”.The agency has so far attached properties worth over Rs91 crore of various accused involved in the case till now. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ed-accused-paid-bank-managers-flight-hotel-bills-188254
23-12-2020||Amit Bathla||Bigwigs raise Panchkula MC poll heat||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 22The BJP and the Congress have drawn up plans to give a final push to the campaigns in support of their candidates for mayoral and councillors’ seats in the local Municipal Corporation. The civic body is going to the polls on December 27.Today, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur addressed a public gathering in Khatauli village in Barwala to garner votes for the BJP.Haryana CM to be in Panchkula tomorrowAccording to district BJP president Ajay Sharma, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will be in the city on December 24 to address public meetings in support of the party candidates.Addressing the gathering, Thakur said it was only due to relentless efforts of Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta that development works to the tune of Rs4,000 crore were carried out in Panchkula city.He urged people to vote for BJP’s mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal and other party candidates to strengthen the democracy at the grassroots level.For the Congress, former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal canvassed for his party candidates today. He made an appeal aimed at voters from Aggarwal community at a hotel in Sector 5. State Congress chief Kumari Selja was present on the occasion. Other prominent party leaders present at the event were Punjab minister Vijay Inder Singla, former deputy CM Chander Mohan and Kalka MLA Pardeep Chaudhary.As per campaigning schedule for December 23 shared by the Panchkula Congress media in-charge, Selja will address four public gatherings in support of her party candidates. Her events will be held at Ramgarh (ward number 19), Bir Ghaghar (ward number 16), Labour Chowk, Rajiv Colony, Indira Colony (ward number 7) and Sector 20 Ashiana complex (ward number 15).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bigwigs-raise-panchkula-mc-poll-heat-188222
23-12-2020||---||Waste collectors protest near project launch site||Chandigarh, December 22Some door-to-door waste collectors held a protest at a park in Sector 7, in front of Punjab Raj Bhavan, when two-bin vehicles were flagged off by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today.They even tried to stop the vehicles after these were flagged off, but cops dissuaded them from doing it and asked them to protest peacefully.Shamsher Lotiya, president of a door-to-door garbage collectors’ union, said, “We want to collect waste through rehris only. We want to collect monthly charges on our own and continue keeping dry waste.”He said they would hold a protest in Sector 17 if the new system continued.Another garbage collectors’ union, led by OP Saini, has already agreed to the MC plan. The civic body is adjusting these collectors as drivers or helpers for the two-bin vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-collectors-protest-near-project-launch-site-188221
23-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||Confusion marks waste segregation launch in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 22The launch of two-bin waste segregation vehicles seems to have ended in a confusion and inconvenience to local residents today.After Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore flagged off the vehicles at the Raj Bhawan, these were supposed to only raise awareness in Sector 1-30 today. The collection of segregated waste was to start tomorrow.However, it was all chaos depicting poor planning.At places like Sector 8, rehris to lift waste did not come, but twin-bin vehicles came in the afternoon to collect garbage. In most parts of Sector 13 (Modern Housing Complex, Mani Majra) neither rehri nor vehicles came to lift household waste. In Sector 27, rehris came for waste collection, but residents in most parts here did not see any MC vehicle moving around for awareness.In Sector 22, no rehri came, but vehicles were seen creating awareness with jingles playing in it. Sector 22 residents lamented that neither garbage was lifted from their households, nor they could understand what the speeding vehicles tried to convey.Dr DS Arora, a resident of Sector 8, said, “Vehicles today lifted waste in our sector. We already segregate waste, but they asked us not to give wet waste in polythene. We told them it will be unhygienic to keep it in the open.”“Only vehicles moving fast through streets of Sector 22 were seen. No one came for waste collection,” shared Sushil Malhotra, general secretary, Government Houses RWA, Sector 22.The Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation said the MC should involve RWAs to make its plan reach the public.Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla rued, “Without making residents aware, it will not be possible to implement the project properly.”BJP councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali said, “In my ward, the vehicles only created awareness. There could be some teething problems, but we have only upgraded the waste collection system without any cost to people. It is meant to fix accountability.”Meanwhile, MC officials said from tomorrow, only vehicles would collect garbage in Sectors 1-30 under the first phase of the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/confusion-marks-waste-segregation-launch-in-chandigarh-188220
23-12-2020||---||Khaki shame: 2 Mohali cops sacked for murder attempt||Mohali, December 22In a major embarrassment for the Mohali police, ASI Rashpreet Singh and Constable Davinder Singh have been booked for attempt to murder for allegedly barging into Sector 71 resident Naresh Kumar’s house and trying to rob him at gunpoint on December 20.The duo is absconding since then and has been dismissed from service with immediate effect.ASI Rashpreet Singh, posted at the Industrial Area police station, Constable Davinder Singh, posted at the Saneta police post, and an unidentified driver of a vehicle have been booked under Sections 307, 458, 382, 323 and 34 of the IPC and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Mataur police station. The police are raiding various places to arrest the suspects.ASI was promoted after encounterRashpreet Singh was promoted to the rank of ASI (Local Rank) in April this year after taking part in an encounter in a Haryana village with gangsters in which he had suffered a bullet injury on his leg. Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, ‘’You were rewarded for your bravery but that does not mean you start abusing your position. He is absconding right now, but will be arrested soon.’’Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, ‘’They were found absent from duty during the time of loot and were captured in the CCTV footage at the spot. They will be arrested soon. The possibility of their involvement in other incidents cannot be ruled out. The case is under investigation.’’In his complaint to the police, Naresh alleged that the incident occurred on December 20 around 9.30 pm when the inverter of his house broke down. His son Pranav came out of the drawing room to check the inverter. Two unidentified persons entered the house posing as DSPs of the Excise Department. Rashpreet pointed a pistol at him and asked him to hand over all gold and cash in the house. Meanwhile, they locked the door of the drawing room from inside. When Naresh became suspicious, he asked them for a search warrant and their identity cards. The duo panicked and started beating up Naresh Kumar. The complainant read the name of Davinder Singh on the name plate attached with the uniform when he tried to grab Naresh by the arms. Rashpreet hit him several times on the head with the butt of the pistol with the intention of killing him. Later, they fled the spot in a car waiting outside.The duo, in their police uniform, failed in their bid to loot money or gold from the victim’s house, said the top cop. Victim Naresh Kumar suffered injuries on the head and nose. He has been admitted to a private hospital in Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khaki-shame-2-mohali-cops-sacked-for-murder-attempt-188219
