24-09-2020||Chandigarh||4 COVID-19 deaths in Chandigarh; infection tally at 10,968||Chandigarh reported four deaths and 253 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the death total to 144. The administration has added three deaths—that were previously reported as deaths—due to other reasons to COVID-19 death total. The city's coronavirus tally stands at 10,968.COVID-19 deaths:A 42-year-old woman from Kishangarh died at GMCH-32. She was diabetic. A 72-year-old man from Sector 32 succumbed to the virus at Mukat Hospital. He was also suffering from diabetes.A 76-year-old man from Sector 25, who was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, breathed his last at GMSH-16.A 41-year-old man from Burail, a case of pneumonia, severe acute respiratory syndrome and a kidney disease complication, also died at GMCH-32.In the last 24 hours, the city has recorded 293 recoveries.  While 8,342 have recovered from the virus so far, 2,482 cases remain active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-covid-19-deaths-in-chandigarh-infection-tally-at-10-968-145950
24-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali see more recoveries than COVID-19 cases; tally crosses 9,000-mark||Mohali reports more recoveries than coronavirus cases on Thursday. The city reported two deaths and 169 COVID-10 cases, taking the district's death total to 173.The infection tally stands at 9,108.COVID-19 deaths:A 77-year-old man, from Industrial Area, Phase 1, Mohali died at PGIMER. He had heart disease.A 45-year-old woman from Mullanpur Garibdas died at PGIMER. She suffered from diabetes and hypertension.Divulging details, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, said that two co-morbid patients died due to the Covid-19 virus during the past 24 hours. He said a 77-year-old man from Industrial area phase 1 Mohali, who was suffering from heart disease. The other patient was 45-year-old woman from Mullanpur Garibdas, who was suffering from diabetes, hypertension. Both the patients died at PGIMER, Chandigarh, he added.COVID-19 cases:In the last 24 hours, 349 patients have recovered from the deadly disease.Mohali reports 2,356 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-see-more-recoveries-than-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-9-000-mark-145933
24-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports four coronavirus deaths||Panchkula reported four deaths and 101 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the death total to 76.The coronavirus tally stands at 101.COVID-19 deaths:A 60-year-old man from Tipra, a 64-year-old man from Kalka, a 45-year-old woman from Sector 20, and a 65-year-old man from Kalka succumbed to the disease.All of them reported co-morbid conditions.COVID-19 cases:The district also witnessed 101 fresh cases, taking the Covid tally to 5429.The fresh cases include 12 from Kalka, 8 each from Sector 20 and Sector 21, 7 from Sector 15, 6 from Pinjore, 5 each from Raipur Rani, Sector 10 and Sector 7, 4 each from MDC Sector 5, Sector 12 and Sector 16, 3 from Sector 11, Two each from Garhi Kotaha, Rampur Seuri, Sector 8, Sector 4 and Sector 8, one each from Amravati Enclave, Bhagwanpur, Chandimandir, CRPF, Hangoli, Haripur, Johluwal, Khatouli, Kot, Masumpur, MDC Sector 6, Railly, Rajiv Colony, Ramgarh, Sector 2, Sector 25, Sector 27, Sector 6, Sector 9 and Tagra Hansua.While 1,160 cases are still active, 4,183 persons have been discharged or cured.So far, Panchkula has conducted 61, 570 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-four-coronavirus-deaths-145922
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||24 more micro-containment zones declared in Chandigarh||To curb the spread of the deadly disease, the UT Administration on Thursday has declared 24 more micro-containment zones in the city.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, that the issue of the outbreak of COVID-19 was examined by a committee, and they have acknowledged that the affected areas should be declared as micro-containment zones.Affected areas:Parts of Sector 7, 15, 19, 20, 24, 27, 32, 33, 35, 37, 39, 41, 44, 46, Mauli Complex, Ramdarbar, Phase 2, New Indira Colony, Indira Colony and Pipliwala Town.On September 16, 27 areas were declared as micro-containment zones.Parida added, that regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue, and frequent sanitization of the areas would also be conducted.Residents were advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene.New micro-containment zones:Sectors 7, 15, 19, 20, 24, 27, 27, 32, 33, 35, 37, 39, 41, 44, 44, 46, and 46. Mauli Complex, Ram Darbar-II, Ram Darbar-II, New Indira Colony, Indira Colony 398-411, Pipliwala Town, and Pipliwala Town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24-more-micro-containment-zones-declared-in-chandigarh-145856
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||4 killed as under-construction building collapses in Punjab's Dera Bassi||Four people, including three labourers, were killed after a double-storey building collapsed in Punjab’s Mohali on Thursday morning. Four persons died in the incident which took place in Mohali’s Dera Bassi, said officials. Earlier, three bodies of labourers were taken out of the debris while the owner of the building, Hardev Singh (72), who suffered head injuries, was rushed to a hospital. Sorry to learn of a sad incident in Dera Bassi where a private building collapsed killing 4 people. District Administration along with @NDRFHQ team reached spot but unfortunately, all 4 people trapped had succumbed to injuries. We will pay ex-gratia of 2 lakh to kin of deceased.  The owner succumbed to his injuries at the hospital in Chandigarh. Other deceased were identified as Gopi (60), Raju (46) and Ramesh (45), said Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan. Four other labourers who were working around the building survived, a spokesperson said. The rescue operation lasted four hours and a team of the National Disaster Response Force was deployed to find anyone trapped under the debris. The two-storey commercial building collapsed after the roof of an under-construction shop on the second floor caved at around 9.30 am at Mira Malli Mohalla, said officials. A magisterial probe has been ordered into the incident and Dera Bassi Subdivisional Magistrate Kuldeep Bawa has been asked to submit a report within 10 days, officials said. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-killed-as-under-construction-building-collapses-in-punjabs-dera-bassi-145831
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Deadly virus kills 10 in Chandigarh||The city today witnessed the highest number of deaths due to Covid-19 as 10 persons succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 137. Besides, 180 fresh coronavirus cases were reported.Read also: Highest recoveries in September in UTSeptember has not only witnessed the maximum number of Covid-19 cases, but also the maximum number of recoveries.As many as 5,498 patients recovered in September alone, accounting for 68 per cent of the total recoveries. The city’s recovery rate has shot up to 75 per cent. There are now 23 per cent active cases in the city. The city had witnessed its first Covid fatality on May 4. It had earlier recorded the maximum number of seven deaths on August 30.A 46-year-old man from Mauli Jagran died of the virus. He was a diabetic. An 82-year-old man from Sector 15 also succumbed to the infection. He was suffering from the acute respiratory distress syndrome and diabetes.An 80-year-old man from Sector 36 also breathed his last. A 76-year-old man from Sector 21 and a 75-year-old man from Sector 38, who had severe respiratory infection, also lost the battle to Covid-19.A 72-year-old man from Sector 47 was brought dead at the GMSH, Sector 16. He tested positive posthumously. A 69-year-old woman from Sector 40 died at the PGI.A 60-year-old woman from Sector 44 died at the GMCH, Sector 32. She was suffering from tachycardia, a heart disorder having fast heartbeats.A 47-year-old man from Khuda Jassu, who had post-renal transplant complications and community acquired pneumonia, also died of the virus. A 53-year-old man from Sector 46 also died due to Covid-19. He had community acquired pneumonia and was also suffering from severe acute respiratory syndrome.The city reported 255 recoveries in the past 24 hours.The UT has 2,537 active cases. With 180 fresh cases reported today, the infection tally rose to 10,726. As many as 8,049 patients have defeated the virus in the city so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deadly-virus-kills-10-in-chandigarh-145614
24-09-2020||Mohali||Mohali sees 4 more fatalities, toll rises to 171||The district witnessed four Covid fatalities during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 171. It also witnessed 238 fresh cases, taking the tally to 8,939, while 156 patients were cured or discharged today.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said two men and two women died of the virus during the past 24 hours. A 50-year-old man from Manauli died at a hospital in Sohana. He was suffering from liver disease. A 66-year-old woman from Mohali died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. She was a diabetic. Another 66-year-old woman from Phase 9 also died at Rajindra Hospital. She was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. A 70-year-old man from Chaumajra died at Ivy Hospital. He was a patient of hypertension and liver disease.Of the 238 fresh cases, 78 were from Mohali (urban), 40 from Kharar, 25 from Gharuan, 54 from Dhakoli, 11 from Dera Bassi, five from Banur, seven from Boothgarh, six from Kurali and 12 from Lalru. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-4-more-fatalities-toll-rises-to-171-145615
24-09-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula sees one death, 146 cases||The district reported another Covid death today, taking the toll to 72. A 76-year-old woman from Sector 9, who was suffering from hypertension, diabetes and coronary heart disease, succumbed to the disease.Read also: Recoveries surpass fresh cases for 3rd day in Panchkula It also witnessed 146 fresh cases. The overall count now stands at 5,328.The fresh cases include 11 from Sector 7, 10 from Pinjore, seven each from Sector 15, Sector 2 and Sector 8, six each from Kalka, Sector 16 and Sector 4, five each from Khera Sita Ram, the MDC, Sector 5, Sector 20, Sector 21, Sector 26, Sector 6 and Sector 9, four each from the MDC, Sector 4, Sector 10, Sector 11, Sector 12-A and Sector 25, three each from Kot, Sector 12 and Sector 14, two each from Manakpur, Sector 19 and Surajpur, and one each from Amravati Enclave, Bir Ghaggar, Buddanpur, Chandimandir, Hangoli, Haripur, Karanpur, Khatoli, Mouli, Nada Sahib, Old Panchkula, Power Colony, Sector 18, Sector 27, Tipra and Tagra.While 1,153 cases are still active, 4,103 persons have been cured or discharged.Panchkula has so far conducted 61,165 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-one-death-146-cases-145616
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||PGI resumes trials of Oxford vaccine||The PGI today resumed the ongoing Phase II trials of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine — Covishield. The first dose is likely to be administered within two days, a source confirmed.As reported earlier, 0.5 ml of the dose will be given to the candidates and it will be repeated after 28 days. The candidates will be kept under observation for two to four weeks.Prof Jagat Ram, PGI DirectorThe institute screened 10 volunteers on Wednesday of whom nine were recruited as they fulfilled the eligibility criteria. The first dose will be administered in two days on nine candidates. After that, each batch of 10 to 15 candidates will be administered doses of the vaccine to attain a target of 100 candidatesTen candidates were screened today, with nine of them fulfilling the eligibility prerequisites for the study, including the minimum age of 18, no underlying medical condition and no prior Covid-19 infection. Besides, family members of the candidates are also required to be Covid negative.The recruitment of candidates was put on hold for a short while at the PGI as approval for the safety of the first 100 participants from the Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB) was awaited. The trials were to begin by the first week of September after recruiting volunteers.The Serum Institute of India (SII) and the ICMR have partnered for the clinical development of two global vaccine candidates. One among them is ChAdOx1-S, which is a non-replicating viral vector vaccine developed by the University of Oxford/AstraZeneca. This vaccine is undergoing Phase II/III bridging studies initiated by the ICMR at 17 clinical trial sites, including the PGI.The premier institute is going to assess immunogenicity (formation of antibodies) along with the safety of the vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-resumes-trials-of-oxford-vaccine-145617
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Power cuts irk Chandigarh residents||Several sectors in the city witnessed power cuts for four to five hours today, causing inconvenience to residents, shopkeepers and office-goers.In Sector 19, owners of showrooms and booths had to bear the brunt of a power cut around 11 am. The Sector 19-27 lights were non-functional, causing traffic snarls at the intersection. “I had just opened the shop when there was a power outage. What will an electric appliances shopkeeper do without electricity,” asked a Sector 19 shopkeeper.Non-functional traffic lights at the Sector 21/22/34/35 intersection spelt traffic chaos on the busy road in the afternoon.There was a scheduled power cut in Sector 45, 52, 61, Burail and parts of Kajheri from 10 am to 2 pm.Similarly, there was a scheduled power cut from 10 am to 3 pm in Sector 8-B and from 10 am to 4 pm in Sector 23, 39 (West) and Sector 21-D. Residents of most southern sectors have been experiencing long power cuts for the past two-three days due to maintenance work.School kids are the worst sufferers as their online classes get affected. “There was a six-hour power cut in Sector 53 yesterday, making it difficult for the elderly and children to bear the humidity,” said Anjana Salaria, a college lecturer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/power-cuts-irk-chandigarh-residents-145618
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Standoff ends, MC Chandigarh work hit||The standoff between Municipal Corporation employees and BJP leaders ended here this evening, with both parties withdrawing their police complaints. However, public dealing remained affected for two days at the MC office.Local BJP leaders, including Gorav Goyal, and officials of the MC employees’ union met in the conference hall of the office around 4 pm and struck a ‘compromise’ in front of the SHO, Sector 17 police station.“Both parties had lodged complaints against each other. Now, the matter has been settled amicably and we do not want to pursue our complaints,” read the letter given to the SHO.BJP state general secretary Rambir Bhatti and MC Commissioner’s personal secretary Jatin Saini were among five persons who signed the ‘compromise’ letter.City BJP president Arun Sood, former Mayors Rajesh Kalia, Asha Jaswal and Deputy Mayor Jagtar Singh Dhillon were involved in negotiations with MC officials for the past two days. Even after striking a deal, both sides insisted on claiming moral victory.Rakesh Kumar, general secretary of the coordination committee between MC employees and the Administration, said: “Gaurav Goyal clarified that there was some misunderstanding with Jatin Saini, which led to this situation. So, he apologised for his mistake.”Goyal on the other hand said: “The matter was settled amicably between both parties. There is no question of apologising to anyone.”Public dealing at the MC office was also affected for the past two days as employees protested against the manhandling of one of their colleagues. Today, they refrained from entering the office and sat outside the office in a pen-down strike. Heavy police force and restricted entry at the gates deterred public from entering the office. The BJP, the Congress and the AAP tried to fish in muddy waters of the civic body. High drama was witnessed at the MC office when a group of state BJP leaders roughed up a staff member of the MC Commissioner’s office over a meeting with the civic body chief yesterday. One of the BJP delegation members, Gaurav Goyal, allegedly manhandled and abused MC Commissioner’s personal secretary Jatin Saini when he asked them to wait for sometime as the official was already in a meeting.Ram Rattan, SHO of the Sector 17 police station, said: “Both parties have settled the matter amicably and withdrawn their complaints.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/standoff-ends-mc-chandigarh-work-hit-145619
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||AAP protests, wants BJP leader arrested||Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today held a protest outside the MC office, demanding the arrest of the BJP leader who allegedly manhandled the office secretary of the MC Commissioner Chandigarh AAP convener Prem Garg said it was wrong to use violence against anyone. “If the ruling party attacks a government official, it will hurt the morale of officers.It is an attack on the self-esteem of government employees,” he said.If the BJP was really worried about the city, BJP leaders should raise their voice against the way money was being collected from poor gardeners, he said, adding that roads in the city had not been repaired for long.AAP organisation secretary Vikram Singh Pundir alleged BJP councillors abused public servants, while party leaders misbehaved with officials. “Today, most councillors, the Mayor and the MP are from the BJP; during the past four years, they have ruined the city by way of corruption. Now, they are trying to spoil the city’s atmosphere by hooliganism,” he said, demanding the immediate arrest of such BJP leaders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-protests-wants-bjp-leader-arrested-145620
24-09-2020||Zirakpur||Bicycle mishap victim succumbs to injuries at PGI||A woman riding pillion on a bicycle, who was hit by a speeding car in Zirakpur, died during treatment at the PGI.The incident occurred on September 20 at 10.30 pm. Lakhan, who was riding the cycle, in his complaint to the police, said his wife Ragini died in the mishap. He said they had left the Sushma society for their house in Dhakoli when a speeding car hit their cycle and sped away from the spot.Ragini fell on the road and sustained serious injuries. She was rushed to the PGI where she died during treatment. The Dhakoli police have registered a case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bicycle-mishap-victim-succumbs-to-injuries-at-pgi-145621
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Violators cock a snook at TVIS challans||While the UT police have issued 1,55,925 TVIS (Traffic Violation Information Slip) or postal challans since e-challaning was introduced in 2018, a majority of the violators have failed to pay the fine.Of the total TVIS challans issued since August 9, 2018, till September 16 this year, only 23.67 per cent of the challans have been paid. As per the records, only 36,909 traffic violators have paid the fine, while 1,19,016 violators are yet to pay the amount.A TVIS challan is issued on the basis of violations caught on CCTV cameras installed at various light points in the city or pictures of violations sent by citizens to the police through social media, including Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter. A TVIS challan is sent on the registered address of the vehicle owner. An SMS is also sent on the vehicle owner’s mobile phone.About TVIS challanA TVIS challan is issued on the basis of violations caught on CCTV cameras installed at various light points in the city or pictures of violations sent by citizens to the police through social media, including Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter. A TVIS challan is sent on the registered address of the vehicle owner. An SMS is also sent on the vehicle owner’s mobile phone.SSP (Traffic) Manoj Kumar Meena said implementation of online payment of challans had resulted in an increase in the payment of fine for traffic challans. “The percentage of people paying fine online has gone up in the past two months,” the SSP said.He said they were updating the information of e-challans on the centralised e-challan database. If a vehicle from some other state was issued a TVIS challan in the city and the fine was not paid, it would reflect on the national database as pending. The violator will have to pay all pending challans to get a no-objection certificate (NOC) at the time of selling his or her vehicle.Absence of complete information of vehicle owners, including their address and contact number, also acts as a hurdle in reaching out to the violators. “In several cases, address and contact numbers of vehicle owners have changed, which is not updated with the registering authorities. As a result, the TVIS challan does not get delivered at the violator’s address,” said a police official.This year, the police have already issued 48,826 TVIS challans, but only 14,373 people have come forward to pay the fine.The most common violations captured by people on the camera included stopping vehicles on the zebra crossing, helmetless riding and driving on the wrong side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/violators-cock-a-snook-at-tvis-challans-145622
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Student-friendly curriculum at PEC from next session||The Punjab Engineering College (PEC) senate has decided to restructure the curriculum for BTech students by introducing more elective options, friendly choices and open elective credits.Various committees will be formed to further segregate options and for implementation of recommendations. The PEC senate met today to discuss various curriculum-related issues for the benefit of students. The recommendations of New Education Policy (NEP) have also been considered to lay stress on introducing more elective options for students.“It has been decided to introduce more elective choices for students. Senate has kind of agreed to introduce more elective content in BTech. Specifically, the degree requires more than 160 credit system. So, it was discussed to reduce the department’s content and increase the elective content,” said Prof Dheerj Sanghi, Director, PEC.“The elective credits can be gained by various options either in engineering, humanities, social sciences or in another optional field. We have 40 credits for compulsory department courses, 20 credits for elective department courses, 36 credits for common courses all programmes, 24 credits for open elective options, 12 credits for humanities/social sciences and 21 credits for internship and project. This is roughly approved structure in a degree,” Sanghi added.Credit for online coursesTo improve students’ convenience, the PEC senate has decided to allow them to opt various open online courses to develop interest, besides having degree. “We are also saying that, in future, students should be able to do some online courses and get credit for it because we do not have enough capacity to offer various courses,” said Sanghi.“In the past, whenever we have met every five or six years to restructure, people have asked to bring more flexibility or make education student friendly. But, when it comes to implementation, the department concerned says they don’t have faculty. If we have shortage of faculty, we should allow our students to attend online courses so that choice becomes a reality for them,” added Sanghi.Panels to implement restructured courses“The house has approved restructuring of courses. Committees will be formed for finalising its implementation within coming months. There will be five to seven committees working on implementation on today’s approval. The overall structure has been approved and now, departments will form committees for further classifications of courses within a month or so,” added Sanghi.While talking about students’ burden, Sanghi said, “The institution is working to reduce it. On the basis of JEE rank and parents’ suggestion, a student takes admission in mechanical engineering. Later, he/she finds it tough and regrets. So, we are giving more options wherein a student has to do the basic minimum for degree and can take help of elective options to develop skills.”Recommendations for online courseVarious committees will decide on the category of online course. “Committees will find issues and solve it. Quality of courses, credits, process and many other things will be looked after by committees. They will take the final call on the setup, but the senate has agreed to introduce online courses,” confirmed Sanghi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/student-friendly-curriculum-at-pec-from-next-session-145623
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||‘Panjab University ready to follow UGC instructions’||“Panjab University (PU) is ready to abide by the announcement of University Grants Commission (UGC) for opening the new session,” said RK Singla, DUI, PU.On Tuesday, the UGC announced that delayed academic session for freshers in universities and colleges would begin from November 1, and the winter break this year, the summer vacation in 2021 and other holidays would be curtailed to compensate for the time lost.“In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Commission has accepted report of the committee and approved the UGC guidelines on academic calendar for the first year undergraduate and postgraduate students of universities for the session 2020-21,” tweeted Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’.The PU had already announced its calendar keeping in mind the lesser number of days in the session. “We are prepared to follow the UGC instructions. We have already kept our new session setup accordingly to instructions. Affiliated colleges and centres will follow the same. The admission process is already underway and will get over within deadline. Decision to start classes will be taken in a day. Classes will be held online,” added Singla.In April, the UGC had released an alternative academic calendar for colleges to reopen, with guidelines on exams, mode of study and the schedule. At that time, the plan was to reopen colleges from September, but it could not materialise due to surge in coronavirus cases. As per the revised calendar, the admission process for the first year students has to be completed by October 31 and classes for the first semester should commence by November 1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-ready-to-follow-ugc-instructions-145624
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University enquiry window shut||The single window enquiry branch of Panjab University has been shut for a while as one of the employees was found Covid positive here today. Meanwhile, examination branches will also remain closed till September 24 after one of the deputy registrars was detected positive for Covid-19. Buildings will also remain shut for sanitisation process. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-enquiry-window-shut-145625
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University devises method for estimation of age of bloodstain||Dr Vishal Sharma of Institute of Forensic Science and Criminology, Panjab University (PU), has developed a rapid and non-destructive approach to identify human or non-human bloodstains. He has also devised a model for the age estimation of such bloodstains.“This will help investigating agencies in such crimes where blood samples are found. Its detailed investigation is necessary to ascertain the origin of bloodstains (whether originated from animal or human beings), the modus operandi of the suspect and estimation of the approximate period of crime incidence,” said Dr Sharma.“The chemical profiling of bloodstains is essential to link suspect with the crime and his research will give an insight to such problems.I along with my research team, Kajal Sharma and Dr Raj Kumar, are working on this problem in the department for nearly last two years,” Dr Sharma added.“This research has also got a place in Science and Justice journal of Elsevier. The current study proposed a proof-of-concept methodology for the investigation of bloodstains by utilising infrared spectroscopy and statistical methods. Curve estimation, multiple linear regression and partial least squares regressions are developed to determine the best prediction model for aged human bloodstains,” said Dr Sharma.“The results on dating of bloodstains are encouraging and also tested for unknown samples. The maximum dating errors observed in these models are of 3 ± 1 days and 4±1 days in actual and estimated date, respectively, which is the lowest ever reported so far,” Dr Sharma added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-devises-method-for-estimation-of-age-of-bloodstain-145626
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||12 years on , Tata Motors told  to repair car or refund price||Ending the 12-year car repair row between the manufacturing company and a consumer, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC), Delhi, has directed M/s Tata Motors to repair vehicle of the consumer to complete satisfaction of experts. In case the vehicle is not repaired to complete satisfaction of experts, the complainant shall be entitled to refund of the entire amount, which he paid for the vehicle, within three months.The unique order has been passed by the apex panel while disposing of an appeal filed by M/s Tata Motors challenging the order of the Chandigarh State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission directing the company to rectify defects to the satisfaction of the complainant. And in case, if they fail to satisfy the complainant, they are liable to refund the price of the vehicle to the complainant.The company had failed to satisfy the consumer even after repairing the car 24 times while keeping it in the workshop for 103 days.A Chandigarh resident Chetan Gill purchased a Tata Indigo Car from M/s Joshi Auto Zone, an authorised dealer of Tata Motors Ltd, for Rs 4,80,573 in 2008. The car started giving trouble right after it was purchased. Gill approached the Consumer Forum seeking refund and compensation.The District Consumer Forum in its order dated January 17, 2011, directed the company to rectify defects in the vehicle by repairing/replacing parts as per the report of an engineering college. In case they are unable to do so, they may then refund the full value of the vehicle paid after deducting depreciation @ 10% per annum from the date of purchase.Not satisfied with the order, the complainant moved the NCDRC against depreciation deduction. Tata Motors had challenged the decision before the NCDRC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/12-years-on-tata-motors-told-to-repair-car-or-refund-price-145627
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar dwells on how meditation can solve disputes||A webinar on “Mediation before arbitration or litigation?” was organised jointly by Bangladesh International Arbitration Centre (BIAC) and International Centre for Alternative Dispute Resolution (ICADR), India. Experts stressed on advantages of mediation over arbitration and litigation as a dispute resolution tool, especially in the wake of the worldwide Covid-19 pandemic.The webinar focused on how mediation during pandemic can help resolve commercial disputes in a quick and cost effective manner, given the backlog of pending cases in courts of Bangladesh and India.Panellists included Abdul Muyeed Chowdhury, former adviser to the Government of Bangladesh and Mahbubur Rahman, chairman, BIAC.From India, panellists included JLN Murthy, Kiran Bhardwaj and Dr Deepak Jindal, both advocates, among others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-dwells-on-how-meditation-can-solve-disputes-145628
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||District Bar Association Chandigarh submits plan for resumption of physical hearing of cases in courts||Stressing on the need to alleviate hardship and sufferings due to restrictive functioning of the courts the District Bar Association (DBA) Chandigarh, Sector43, has readied to resume physical hearings of the courts in a phased manner. In an action plan submitted before District and Sessions Judge, the DBA president, NK Nanda, demanded that physical hearings should be resumed in a phased manner with all safety measures in place.Measures suggestedThe DBA said, “In times of unprecedented crisis when pandemic has brought the world to a standstill certain measures can be taken by the judicial system to kick-start the process of filing and physical hearing of cases. The legal fraternity is hardest hit and advocates are finding hard to fend for themselves. So, the District Bar Association Chandigarh urges for re-beginning of the physical courts in a phased manner.”The DBA suggested certain measures before starting physical hearings. “Physical appearance of advocates can be started in a staggered manner with two judicial officers on every floor. Standard operating procedures (SOPs) can be adopted while starting physical courts. Strict adherence to Covid protocol can be maintained,” said Nanda.“The workforce can be deployed at entry points of courtrooms well equipped with foot-operated sanitisers, masks, handwash and thermal scanners. Every lawyer gaining entry into court rooms should be hand sanitised, screened and masked,” Nanda added.“Volunteers of the Bar Association can help in every possible manner, which the authorities may deem fit. More than 4,000 advocates are members of the District Bar Association. The association will ensure that none of its member flouts Covid protocol,” said Nanda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/district-bar-association-chandigarh-submits-plan-for-resumption-of-physical-hearing-of-cases-in-courts-145658
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||At 5,498, Chandigarh records highest number of recoveries in September||The month of September has not only witnessed the maximum number of Covid-19 cases, but it has also recorded the maximum number of recoveries.As many as 5,498 patients recovered in September alone, accounting for 68 per cent of total recoveries.When to call rapid response teamWhen you have difficulty in breathing, persistent pain/pressure in chest, headache, severe body aches, mental confusion and inability to arouse, have loose stools and develop bluish discoloration of lips/face and as advised by treating medical officer.Director (Health Services) Dr G Dewan said, “We have divided the UT in four zones wherein teams are working round the clock to lift patients to Covid care centres. The immediate contacts of positive patients are tested on the day the patient is tested positive, while others are tested in four to five days. We are expecting recoveries to shoot up in the coming days.”A total of 7,794 patients have recovered from Covid till now and there are now 2,622 active cases in the city.With 1,471 recoveries and 2,776 confirmed cases on August 22, the recovery rate stood at 52 per cent. A week later, the total recoveries remained low at 56 per cent, while the active infections were 43 per cent.The city’s recovery rate has shot up to 75 per cent. There are now 23 per cent active cases in the city. More than 300 recoveries have been witnessed per day in September.Director (Health Services) Dr G Dewan said, “We have streamlined contact tracing and isolation of Covid patients. The contact tracing of patients is being carried out in a timely manner, so that the cases are detected early.”Dewan said, “We have divided the UT in four zones wherein teams are working round the clock to lift patients to Covid care centres. The immediate contacts of positive patients are tested on the day the patient is tested positive, while others are tested in four to five days. We are expecting recoveries to shoot up in the coming days.”A total of 7,794 patients have recovered from Covid till now and there are now 2,622 active cases in the city.Home isolation patients ending up at emergenciesExperts have warned about the severities developing in Covid-19 cases between the 7th and the 12th day.A doctor from the GMCH-32, requesting anonymity, said, “All our Covid care centres are lying empty as more patients are opting for home isolation. But, there is more to the recoveries than meets the eye. Our emergencies are full as morbidity and severity of cases have increased. Suddenly, people are developing breathlessness and pain in chest. There is an evident rise in moderate to severe cases in the city now.”He said, “Every day, we are admitting four to five patients in emergencies, who were in home isolation. We send our rapid response team immediately after receiving calls from patients. The problem arises between the 7th and 12th day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-5-498-chandigarh-records-highest-number-of-recoveries-in-september-145659
24-09-2020||Panchkula||Recoveries surpass fresh cases for 3rd day in Panchkula||Pachkula recorded more daily recoveries than the number of fresh Covid cases for the third consecutive day.On September 21, 22 and 23, the district witnessed 268 fresh cases and 506 recoveries.The recovery rate was 71.08 per cent till September 20, whereas the overall recovery rate today stood at 77 per cent, registering an improvement of almost 6 per cent in the past three days.A huge variation was witnessed between fresh cases and recoveries on September 21. That day, the district reported 50 fresh cases, lowest in the month of September, and 176 recoveries.Even as the steady rise in Covid cases in Panchkula has kept the district administration on toes, the relatively high recovery rate in the recent days has given a ray of hope.Till August 31, the recovery rate was 64.52 per cent and it is 77 per cent.Of the 5,328 positive cases reported from the district so far, 4,103 have been cured and discharged, which means the district’s current recovery rate (77 per cent) is relatively better than Mohali (68.58 per cent) and Chandigarh (75 per cent) in the tricity, said local health officials.More asymptomatic, patients with mild symptomsWith the high percentage of asymptomatic cases in the district, 70 to 80 per cent patients are under home isolation. To ensure their speedy recovery, the Health Department has formulated 14 health teams to give them regular medical assistance every alternate day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/recoveries-surpass-fresh-cases-for-3rd-day-in-panchkula-145661
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration to convert Cheshire Home into home for mentally challenged||Finally, the UT Administration has decided to convert Cheshire Home in Sector 21 into a group home for mentally challenged.At present, Cheshire Home, which belongs to the Administration, has been encroached upon by 17 persons, mostly handicapped, who were earlier working in the Traffic Police pre-paid booths, which are now lying shut.UT Adviser Manoj Parida, along with Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Social Welfare, Navjot Kaur, Director, Social Welfare, Chief Engineer Mukesh Anand, and Rajiv Tewari, Director, Public Relations, inspected Cheshire Home.Parida said it was decided to accommodate a group home for mentally challenged in the building and also to set up a half-way home in DART Building in Sector 32, Chandigarh.Efforts would be made to engage some dedicated NGO under the supervision of the Social Welfare Department to run these Homes, he said, and added that further action on the issue would be taken in consultation with all departments.Parida also directed the officials to find out alternate jobs for the handicapped persons so that they could be gainfully employed and arrange their own accommodation independently.The Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, mandates the state governments and union territories across the country to set up group home or half-way home for people suffering from mental illnesses.According to a survey conducted in the city, nearly 400 persons with mental illness need the facilities of Group Home which is an assisted-living facility for the mentally ill, much like an old-age home, but with a psycho-social worker, a clinical psychologist and counsellors or therapists.Patients with chronic mental illness can stay for a long period in a group home, whereas half-way homes are meant for people who need to stay in a “transient” place between a home and a hospital for a few months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-convert-cheshire-home-into-home-for-mentally-challenged-145662
24-09-2020||---||Centre reviews progress of scheme in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 23Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla today reviewed the progress of ‘One Nation, One Ration Card’ scheme through a video-conference with senior officials of the UT Administration.The Union Home Secretary appreciated the fact that Chandigarh was the first to introduce the scheme in 2015 and first to prepare all infrastructure arrangements for it. The software for the scheme has been prepared by NIC.Under the scheme, when a migrant worker arrives in Chandigarh and decides to take ration from here, in such cases, his Aadhaar card and biometric will be verified from his home state and his name will be entered in the list of DBT beneficiaries in Chandigarh. The migrant worker will be able to get his ration subsidy without any hitch. His name will be deleted from the DBT list of his native place. Chandigarh has 2.57 lakh BPL families under the DBT scheme.UT Adviser Manoj Parida briefed the Union Home Secretary about the steps taken by the Administration in providing food and facilitating travel of migrant labour during the lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-reviews-progress-of-scheme-in-chandigarh-145663
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Coaches to submit report on championships||The UT Sports Department has asked its coaches to prepare a report to find possibilities for conducting championships.After the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) allowed sports congregations from September 21, the department had decided to prepare a schedule to conduct local-level championships as soon as the situation comes under control.The coaches, who are majorly of non-contact sport disciplines, have been assigned with a job to find out possibilities, planning, timings and others details for conducting championships.“We have to have a plan ready and the non-contact will be the first ones to be organised. A detailed report has been sought from the respective coaches. Let’s see how it goes. Any decision will be taken on the basis of reports and actual situation regarding cases,” said a senior official of the department.The department has not been able to hold any championship since the beginning of the current financial year due to the Covid-19 restrictions. Also, no summer sports wing camps, high-altitude training camps (for state-run academies) or summer tournaments have been organized so far. “The championships are important to organise for the benefits of the players. Also, everything will be organised keeping in mind the budget constraints. It will be important to see how department takes a call on this. The tournaments till March 2021 are likely to be considered for benefits,” said another official.In the new Unlock 4.0 guidelines, the MHA has allowed sports congregations from September 21 with a ceiling of 100 persons under the clause of wearing masks, social distancing, provision of thermal screening and availability of hand sanitisers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coaches-to-submit-report-on-championships-145664
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Geo-technical consultant yet to submit report to Engineering department||The construction of the proposed flyover from the PGIMER to Sarangpur village may be delayed further as the consultant hired to conduct the geo-technical study is yet to submit the report.The Engineering Department, UT, had prepared a plan to construct a 1.75-km-long road with 1.3-km flyover to provide seamless movement of traffic between the PGIMER and Sarangpur after bypassing traffic bottlenecks Khuda Jassu and Khudda Lahora villages in the city. The four-lane elevated road will be nearly 19.1-m wide with the carriageway width of 17.5 metres.For feasibility of the project, the department had appointed General Highways and Infracon Private Limited as consultant to conduct the geo-technical study of the area in the first week of June and asked the firm to submit the report within one month.A senior official of the Engineering Department said due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the firm was asked to submit the report by end of this month. He, however, said the consultant was likely to give the report by the end of next month.The official said after getting the report, the department would require various clearances, including environment, before finalising the design and cost of the project.The proposed road will provide congestion-free movement to people going to New Chandigarh and Baddi in Himachal Pradesh and vice versa. The road will also provide hassle-free movement to the people going to Sarangpur institutional area where a number of projects are coming up, including the extension campus of the PGIMER.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/geo-technical-consultant-yet-to-submit-report-to-engineering-department-145666
24-09-2020||Zirakpur||Man booked on rape charge||A Panchkula resident has been booked for allegedly raping an employee of a private company here.The woman alleged that she had left her office at 6 pm on September 20. On her way, Kamil, who was known to her, offered her a lift to home on his motorcycle. She alleged he took her to a secluded place in Baltana where he beat her up and raped her.The woman later approached the police and got an FIR registered against hime at the Zirakpur police station. The suspect has been booked under Sections 376 and 323 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-on-rape-charge-145667
24-09-2020||Mohali||86 evacuees from Dubai reach Chandigarh||The evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 86 passengers from Dubai landed at the Chandigarh international airport here today.IndiGo air bubble flight arrived at the airport at 2.28 pm. All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines.Processing of passengers went smooth at the airport with joint efforts of all the authorities/agencies which were involved in the processing of passengers which were governments of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, HP, CISF, Immigration, Customs and Punjab Police etc., along with Chandigarh International Airport.A spokesman of the Health Department said during screening, health officials took utmost precautions and the passengers also maintained social distancing. He said no passenger was suffering from fever, cough and cold. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/86-evacuees-from-dubai-reach-chandigarh-145668
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Give nod to stage Ramlila, DC urged||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/give-nod-to-stage-ramlila-dc-urged-145670
24-09-2020||Chandigarh||Civic body inks pact with IOC||Man ends life, had filed for divorceChandigarh: A 33-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in EWS Colony, Dhanas, on Tuesday night. The victim has been identified as Abdul Razak, who was working as a munshi with an advocate at the District Courts, Sector 43. The police were informed, who visited the spot and shifted the victim to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police said the victim had filed a divorce case and the couple was living separately. “No foul play has come to light,” said a police official. Inquest proceedings have been initiated into the matter at the Sarangpur police station. TNSUGC-NET, PU online exam on same dayChandigarh: The office of Controller Examination, Panjab University (PU), has notified that students, particularly those who are appearing for the UGC-NET examinations as well as the PU online examinations on the same day and time, will have to attempt their PU online examination on the same day. They should appear in the examination from 7.30 pm to 9.30 pm as per the revised timings in the date sheets. A soft copy of the same paper is to be uploaded on the same day while the hard copy may be sent on the next working day. TNSSeats vacant in PU coursesChandigarh: As many as 50 seats are vacant in certificate courses of Chinese and 57 of Tibetan languages for the session 2020-21.These seats are open for offline admission. Candidates interested for admission are advised to download the form from the department website and submit it with required documents and fee receipt of Rs3,000 as late charges deposited under the Code T0190. They can submit their duly filled forms with fee receipt either at the office or by sending it to email ID chairperson_ctl@pu.ac.in on or before September 26. The basic qualification for admission to these courses is Class XII. TNSNational Seminar on educationChandigarh: A two-day national seminar on “Transition from school to higher education in context of the National Education Policy 2020” was organised by the Centre for Academic Leadership and Education Management (CALEM). Around 280 participants attended the seminar. On the second day, Prof Pankaj Arora from the Central Institute of Education, University of Delhi, deliberated on “Restructuring school education”. Prof Padma M Sarangapani from Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, discussed the recommendations of NEP 2020 for preparing teachers for school and higher education. Prof MA Sudhir, UGC Emeritus Professor Gandhigram Rural University, deliberated on “Reflections on NEP 2020 in the context of school education”.TNSWebinar dwells on act of kindnessChandigarh: The Panjab University Alumni Association (PUAA) in collaboration with Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Choupal, organised a curtain raiser for the upcoming October conference titled “Act of kindness”, an initiative by UNESCO, which has been planned for furthering the cause of kindness. UNESCO is providing a salutary platform wherein people belonging to the age group of 15-35 years can share their stories of kindness, which will further create a ripple effect, galvanising many others. SDG Choupal is handling this initiative in India. The participants will be awarded a certificate from UNESCO. TNSOrientation programmeMohali: Rayat Bahra University organised an online orientation programme for newly admitted students of various courses. The major objective of the programme was to make students aware of academic aspects of courses, rules and regulations of the university and ensuring parental participation in monitoring the performance and progress of their wards. TNSYouth held for raping sisterChandigarh: A 19-year-old youth has been arrested by the Chandigarh Police for allegedly raping his minor sister. Sources said the victim, aged around 15 years, complained of stomach ache after which she was taken to the GMSH, Sector 16, where doctors discovered that the victim was eight-month pregnant. The police were informed about the incident following which the victim’s statement was recorded who revealed her brother’s name. A case was registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) Act at the Sarangpur police station. TNSThree attacked at DhanasChandigarh: A man and his two sons were assaulted at their house in Dhanas on Wednesday. Sources said one of the victims had an altercation with one of the suspects on Tuesday. The police was informed about the incident following which an investigation has been initiated at the Sarangpur police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-inks-pact-with-ioc-145675
