24-04-2020||Mohali||No new case in Mohali||Mohali has not reported any new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, officials said on Friday.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said some 1,132 samples have been sent for testing so far, of which 1,020 were found negative. Mohali’s case tally currently stands at 63.He said authorities were currently conducting a survey in the densely populated Nayagaon village to identify suspected coronavirus patients.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said that district administration was ensuring that there was no let-up in the drive to conduct sampling after tracing contacts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-new-case-in-mohali-75629
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation extends home delivery timings for essential commodities||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation has extended timings for home delivery of essential commodities in the city amid curfew restrictions.A new order from the Chandigarh Municipal Commissioner says the corporation has extended time for home delivery of essential commodities such as groceries, meat, fish, fruits and vegetables from 9 am to 9 pm, and milk and eggs from 5 am to 9 pm. This relaxation applies to both shopkeepers as well as online delivery companies such Zomato and Swiggy that deliver essential commodities.The development comes days after Chandigarh Administration’s orders to advance curfew relaxation hours to buy essentials by an hour from 10 am to 2 pm instead of 11 am to 3 pm previously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-extends-home-delivery-timings-for-essential-commodities-75627
24-04-2020||ATM van||ATM route plan for today||Location to start: PNB House, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Rajesh KumarContact No. 9815220993Proposed route: Ram Darbar & Industrial Area Phase II (10.30 am to 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, Canara BankLocation to start: Canara Bank, Plot No. 1, Sector 34-A, ChandigarhCoordinator: RS RawatContact No. 9915323484Proposed route: Sector 30 and Sector 46 (10.30 pm – 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, SBILocation to start: LHO, SBI, 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Deepak ChechiContact No. 9478535876Proposed route: Faidan village (10.30 am - 4.30 pm) ChandigarhTime to start: 10.30 amATM van, Andhra BankLocation to start: Andhra Bank, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Satvinder GurnamContact No. 8146903533Proposed route: Khuda Ali Sher(10.30 am to 1.30 pm),Sector 14 ( 2 pm to 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-route-plan-for-today-75317
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||NRI falls from rooftop, injured||239 detained for violating curfewChandigarh: A total of 239 persons were rounded up for violating curfew orders in the city on Thursday. The police said 136 vehicles were detained and 114 impounded in different parts of the city. Cops also made 85 detainees download Aarogya Setu mobile application. Since March 23, 17,361 persons have been rounded up, 9,043 vehicles detained and 5,283 vehicles impounded in the city. A total of 652 persons have been booked for curfew violations. TNSMLA gives water tanker to MCMohali: Former Minister and Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh on Thursday handed over a 40,000-litre water tanker on behalf of Rana Sugar Mill to the Municipal Corporation. Rana handed over the tanker to the MC Commissioner Kamal Garg in the presence of the Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and MLA Dr Raj Kumar Verka. Thanking Rana Gurjit, the Health Minister said once filled to capacity, the tanker could cover a range of 150 km. He further said the tanker would be utilised to carry out sanitisation works in the district in the wake of Covid-19. TNSFace shields given to health workersMohali: The Vigilance Bureau (VB), Punjab, on Thursday distributed face shields among frontline health workers at the Civil Hospital here. The spokesperson of the VB said as per directions of BK Uppal, Chief Director-cum ADGP, VB, teams of flying squad had already been formed to monitor the problems being faced by people and steps had been taken to resolve their grievances. Uppal further said teams of Vigilance Bureau flying squad-1 led by AIG Ashish Kapoor distributed face shields to the frontline employees of the Health Department to protect them from any kind of virus attack. Apart from this, AIG Ashish Kapoor also assured Dr Manjit Singh, Civil Surgeon, to provide more face shields as and when required. TNSDocs seek stipend for internsKharar: The Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) has demanded that the young doctors working as interns at Government Multi-Speciality Hospital, Sector 16, and other hospitals in Chandigarh should be paid stipend or incentive like their counterparts in Punjab and Haryana. TNSWebinar at Tribune Model SchoolChandigarh: A webinar was organised at Tribune Model School, Sector 29, for students of Class XI and X. The webinar focused on guiding students on in-demand career options. The session was executed through video-conferencing. Speaker Dr Shveta Miglani guided students on ways to choose suitable courses. The students asked a plethora of questions and cleared their doubt. TNS7 test negative in KhamanoKhamano: Samples of seven persons, including staff of Nagar Panchayat, SDM office and residents of Maneli and Sanghol village came out negative. The samples were taken as a precautionary measure, said Khamano SMO Harbhajan Ram. Two women (Jamaatis), who had tested negative were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur. Khamano SDM Paramjit Singh said the duo was kept at a mosque in Khamano along with nine other members of their group. He said the entire group will stay in isolation and the Health Department will regularly monitor them. Khamano Deputy Superintendent of Police Dharampal said the administration revoked sealing orders of Sanghol village. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nri-falls-from-rooftop-injured-75311
24-04-2020||Mohali||ISB donates PPE kits, ration packets||CGC distributes free mealsChandigarh: The Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) is distributing 600 meals per day in order to serve the needy in the ongoing crisis. The meals are distributed at Indira Colony, IT Park, and Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, with the support of the UT Administration, said Sandeep Singh Sandhu, president, CGC. The management is also supporting nearly 250 caddies with ration and monetary assistance. TNSRed cross distributes sanitary pads, masksMohali: The District Red Cross Society sent blood donors from Mohali to the PGI to donate blood at the blood bank to save precious human lives. The humanitarian organisation also distributed sanitary pads and masks in various villages of the district. Kamlesh Kaushal, secretary, District Red Cross Society, said we are sending blood donors daily with a team of PGI doctors for blood donation. He said we are getting active assistance of the Punjabi Virsa Sabhyachar Society, Mohali. tnsStrawberry Fields School alumni donate moneyChandigarh: Three members of the Strawberry Fields High School Old Students’ Association, namely Saksham Kackria, Anahita Merchant and Mehtab Teja, contributed Rs 50,000 to the Chandigarh Police Welfare Fund for buying sanitary pads for the underprivileged women of Dhanas Colony. A cheque was handed over to DGP Sanjay Beniwal, today. The association members had also given a cheque of Rs 1 lakh to Nanhi Jaan, an NGO working with the PGI, on Wednesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/isb-donates-ppe-kits-ration-packets-75307
24-04-2020||---||Infant dies of Covid, refractory shock||Chandigarh, April 23A six-month-old girl from Phagwara, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, died at 12:47 pm at the PGI here today.Sigh of reliefSix-month-old patient’s all contacts, family members and health care workers have been reported negative for Covid and all have been quarantined. As many as 54 health care workers at the Advanced Paediatrics Centre — 18 doctors, 15 nursing officers, 13 hospital attendants/sanitation attendants, two physiotherapists and six technicians — were exposed to the virus while treating the baby girl.“The cause of the death was reported to be refractory shock, pulmonary artery hypertension and Covid-19,” read an official statement of the PGI. The baby was admitted to the Advanced Paediatrics Centre of the PGI on April 9 with congenital malformations of atrial septal defect, ventricular septal defect, patent ductus arteriosis and coarctation of aorta.She had remained hospitalised at a corporate hospital in Ludhiana for 36 days and was subsequently referred to the PGI for corrective surgery.The patient was very sick and was not fit for surgical interventions for reported pathologies. She was kept on a ventilator and required medication. Since the patient’s condition deteriorated over the days, she was tested for Covid before performing an open heart surgery on her.On Thursday, the patient’s condition deteriorated further and she expired. The last rituals of the baby were coordinated through the Red Cross, UT. MC Commissioner KK Yadav said the baby was cremated in the electric crematorium in Sector 25.‘Universal screening of patients must’As the baby did not have any suggestive travel history or family contact, she did not fulfil the requirements for pre-emptive screening at the PGI, leading to health workers getting exposed.The Faculty Association of PGI, through the public relations officer of the institute, has highlighted that Covid infection among health care workers ranges from 10 to 20 per cent across the world. The association highlighted that in order to prevent the Covid spread among health care workers, all patients visiting the PGI should be universally screened/tested for the virus with an immediate effect.“We are aware that the PGI administration is putting efforts for provision of mask/PPE kits as per the guidelines but there are still issues related to equitable distribution, which need to be resolved,” stated JS Thakur, president of the association.Sec 18 woman’s contacts test negativeThe samples of a total of 21 contacts of the Sector 18 woman have turned out to be negative for Covid. Meanwhile, the Chandigarh contacts of a positive case of Nayagaon, who was sampled at the GMSH-16 on Wednesday, too turned out to be negative. Nine more city contacts of the same patient were sampled at the GMSH on Thursday||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/infant-dies-of-covid-refractory-shock-75303
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Start hearing cases of extreme exigency: Bar association||The District Bar Association (DBA) has urged the District and Sessions Judge to kick-start filing and hearing cases of extreme exigency. DBA president NK Nanda said the priority of cases post-lockdown period can be restricted to anticipatory bails, regular bails, protection matters and cases in which evidence have been concluded. Routine cases wherein no immediate urgency is involved or in cases wherein evidence has to be led can be deferred till normal court working starts, he said. In terms of civil matters, urgent cases, including injunction, direction or stay is concerned should be heard by the Presiding Officers, he said and added that cases can be filed by way of e-filing by giving compiled matter or applications to official e-mail ID. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/start-hearing-cases-of-extreme-exigency-bar-association-75285
24-04-2020||Manpriya Singh||Gardening, reading are PU VC’s succour||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 23Several appointments were rescheduled before Panjab University’s Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar, who is often attending back-to-back meetings, could spare some time to talk about his life during the lockdown.Sitting in his lawn at the end of a long day, he says: “Unlike other professions, work is even hectic now as everything has to be tracked online. Even meetings are held online. Moreover, online classes, training programmes and seminars are going on.”He says: “This is what I like doing the most — sitting in my lawn and enjoying the beauty of nature.”Gardening is one of his hobbies and he likes to be surrounded by flowers.Even though the first thing that he’ll do once the lockdown ends is “go to my office, take a look at the files that must have been piled up by now and clear off the pending work.”“Whenever I get a chance, I’d like to take a short break in the mountains. Even half a day or a day is more than enough to feel energised.”Currently in the lockdown, at his university residence, along with his wife and two sons, who otherwise live away due to their career and studies, he is savouring the time with everyone. “I don’t recall the last time we all got to be together like this. I am grateful for this time I am spending with family.”“We watch TV together. Lately, shows such as Mahabharata have caught our attention.”Apart from the ongoing research endeavours, he is associated with other works too. Reading takes away quite a bit of his time. “I like to read books on spirituality, religion and biographies of great thinkers.” He mentions Swami Vivekananda, talks about great thinkers and the lessons they left for all of us. From the current situation, he wants all to learn “Jaan hai to Jahaan hai”.“If we don’t realise the importance and value of life, family and health now, we never will. I am following the lockdown religiously and urge everyone to stay at home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gardening-reading-are-pu-vcs-succour-75284
24-04-2020||---||Parts of Sector 27, 30, 19 sealed to prevent Covid spread||Chandigarh, April 23Frontline warriors honouredResidents, along with Congress leader Devinder Babla, honoured frontline warriors, including MC Commissioner, SSP, SDM, DSP and SHO, with siropa and thanked them for their selfless service.In order to prevent the spread of Covid-19, parts of several sectors, including Sector 27, 30 and 19, were sealed today.Councillor and Leader of Opposition in the Municipal Corporation Devinder Singh Babla and local residents sealed Sector 27-C and D adjoining Sector 30-B, which was declared an “affected pocket” yesterday.MC Commissioner KK Yadav, UT SSP Nilambari Jagdale, SDM (East) Sudhanshu Gautam and other officers were also present to support the initiative.“I have been in touch with residents of Sector 27 for the past few days and took their opinion as to how we can seal our sector and many residents and volunteers have been very helpful in supporting this initiative,” said Babla.He said, “The resident sealing initiative will be active from 10 am to 2 pm to keep a check on all outsiders, vendors and delivery boys with proper infrared thermometer screening, masks and gloves during the curfew relaxation hours. After that we have support of the local beat police. If we are able to successfully implement this model here, it will be replicated in Sector 28 also,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/parts-of-sector-27-30-19-sealed-to-prevent-covid-spread-75283
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||‘Tobacco users more vulnerable to Covid’||The Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER, Chandigarh, and Strategic Institute for Public Health Education and Research (SIPHER) hosted a webinar in collaboration with HAELIS Sekhsaria Institute for Public Health, Mumbai, and The Union South-East Asia (The Union).The webinar reviewed various aspects of tobacco/nicotine use and Covid-19 disease and further analysed positions held by global health professional bodies on the issue. Dr PC Gupta, Director, Sekhsaria Institute for Public Health, Mumbai, said Covid-19 and smoking directly and seriously affected lungs.Sharing data from the largest Chinese study, he underscored that among the severe affected patients, 16.9 per cent were current smokers, while 11.8 per cent were among non-severe.“Among those reaching endpoint (defined as needing mechanical ventilation, admission to an ICU or death), 25.5 per cent were current smokers and 7.6% per cent were former smokers,” Dr Gupta said.He said, “Any kind of smoking or vaping will increase chances of Covid-19 infection and progression of this deadly disease.” Dr Amit Yadav suggested banning of pan masala and smokeless tobacco to stop the transmission of Covid-19.Pranay Lal, senior technical adviser, International Union against Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases, opined that there was sufficient data to believe that smoking and vaping do increase the chances of Covid as smokers and vapers were certainly at higher risk than non-smokers and non-users. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tobacco-users-more-vulnerable-to-covid-75282
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Industrialists seek special relief package||Representatives of nearly 15 industrial, trader, automobile, hotels, etc, associations today demanded a special relief package to tide over the present financial crisis. During video-conferencing with UT Adviser Manoj Parida and Finance Secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha, the representatives discussed various issued being faced by them. Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said they had conveyed to the authorities about the inability of small and medium enterprises to pay wages for April due to zero revenue. He said they had requested the Administration to step in for paying wages of the workers and even the government could pay the salary directly into their bank accounts.  He said they had also requested the Administration to waive interest on loan obtained by industrialists from banks and enhancement of limit. They demanded that shopkeepers should be exempted from paying rent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/industrialists-seek-special-relief-package-75281
24-04-2020||---||Chandigarh Adviser rules out any further relaxation in curfew||Chandigarh, April 23‘Publicise stories of covid survivors’UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore said the stories of all Covid survivors should be publicised and society should celebrate their recovery. He, however, advised doctors to be careful in segregating Covid and non-Covid cases during treatment.Taking into account the prevailing situation, the UT Administration has ruled out any further relaxation in the curfew.“The Centre is monitoring the Covid-19 management arrangements in the city and no further relaxation can be given under the present curfew,” said Adviser Manoj Parida. During the daily review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore appealed to the residents to strictly follow the social distancing norm and come out of their houses only if necessary for purchase of essential items from 10 am to 2 pm, which is the new relaxation time from tomorrow onwards.The Administrator directed the heads of all medical institutions to focus on critical non-Covid cases too. He said the stories of all Covid survivors should be publicised and society should celebrate their recovery. He, however, advised doctors to be careful in segregating Covid and non-Covid cases during treatment. Dr G Dewan, Director Health Services, said 9.92 lakh persons had been covered during door-to-door screening and a total of 586 persons having minor symptoms had further been examined.Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, said the Health Department had made necessary preparations as per the Covid-19 management plan to tackle any eventuality. Meanwhile, Badnore appealed to the Muslim community to celebrate Ramadan indoors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-rules-out-any-further-relaxation-in-curfew-75280
24-04-2020||---||Newspaper vendors screened||Mohali, April 23In order to allay the fears in the minds of people about the spread of Covid-19 through newspapers, the district administration today screened hawkers, agents and distributors in various parts of the district.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said a total of 268 hawkers and agents were screened in Mohali, Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru. He said only two vendors were found having mild cold and fever. He said screening would be carried out in Kharar on April 24.He said in Mohali, 183 vendors were screened, while 40 vendors and newspaper agents were screened in Zirakpur and 12 underwent the screening process in Lalru. He said in Dera Bassi, 18 vendors were screened of which 17 were found asymptomatic and one was found suffering from mild cold. Similarly, in Kurali, 15 vendors underwent screening and 14 were found asymptomatic, while one was having mild fever, he added.Dayalan said nobody was found symptomatic. Teams of Multipurpose Health Workers (MPHW), besides screening the vendors, also asked them to follow social distancing norms and use masks and sanitisers.Harpreet Singh, president, Hawkers Association, Phase 2, said, “I am very thankful to the district administration for undertaking such a great initiative as it will allay the fears in the minds of our customers.”“I express my gratitude to the district administration led by DC Girish Dayalan, municipal corporation, Information and Public Relations Department for this drive. Together we can and we will defeat this disease,” said Vijay Pratap Singh, president, Ajit Samachar Vendors Association, Phase 7, Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/newspaper-vendors-screened-75279
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to supervise process of vacating hostels||The Panjab University (PU) has decided to constitute a committee to supervise the process of vacating hostels after the UT Administration had requested to turn girls’ hostel number 8, 9, 10 and International Hostel into Covid- 19 isolation units. A meeting was held under the chairmanship of Prof Shankarji Jha, Dean of University Instructions. It was decided that students can take their belongings by themselves or can take help of their local guardians/ relatives/ friends living in the tricity. The students should inform their respective hostel warden before April 26, said the PU spokesperson.  Meanwhile, the PU has requested the DC to issue curfew passes, which would facilitate residents/ guardians/relatives to visit hostels for collecting belongings of the students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-supervise-process-of-vacating-hostels-75278
24-04-2020||---||Passport official gets bail in graft case||Chandigarh, April 23 The court of Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI, today granted regular bail to an assistant superintendent of Regional Passport Office in a graft case. According to prosecution, Rajiv Khetarpal, who was posted as an assistant superintendent at the Regional Passport Office, Chandigarh, and Balinder Singh, a resident of Nayagaon, were arrested on March 2 for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 30,000 from the complainant. In his complaint, Jagdeep Singh, a resident of Sangrur, had stated that he had filed an online application for passport renewal on January 27. Balinder Singh, who posed as a passport officer, allegedly called Jagdeep and threatened him that his case would be delayed or rejected if money was not paid. Following the complaint, the CBI laid a trap and caught Balinder red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 30,000. The CBI team then made Balinder call Khetarpal to inform him about the collected money. In response to this, Khetarpal directed Balinder to hand over the money in his office around noon the next day. During investigation, the CBI arrested Khetarpal. The two were booked under Section 7 (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. During the hearing on bail application, counsel for the applicant argued that the CBI has falsely implicated the accused and he has not demanded and accepted any bribe money from the complainant. Even the complainant has not met the accused at any point of time. Opposing the bail, KP Singh, Public Prosecutor, contended that there are ample evidence in the form of conversation recorded between co-accused Balinder and accused Khetarpal which clearly established that the Khetarpal had demanded the bribe from the complainant in connivance with Balinder Singh who had accepted the bribe of Rs 30,000 from the complainant on behalf of Khetarpal. “If Khetarpal is granted bail at this stage, he can misuse the concession of bail provided to him as he being influential person can influence the witnesses, can tamper with the evidence and may evade himself from the process of law,” submitted Singh. After hearing the arguments, the court granted bail to the accused on furnishing bail bonds of Rs 50,000 with one surety in the like amount within 14 days from the date of reopening of the court. The order was pronounced through WhatsApp video call.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/passport-official-gets-bail-in-graft-case-75277
24-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Men more prone to Covid infection, finds PU study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 23Women more careful while sneezingIt was found that the adoption of safety behaviour varied significantly across both the genders. The female participants adhered to the safety behaviours rigorously to score 77 points out of 90 points, whereas the male participants lagged behind at 71 points on the checklist.A recent study by two faculty members of Dr SS Bhatnagar University Institute of Chemical Engineering & Technology, Panjab University, stressed that men are more exposed to Covid-19 virus owing go their causal safety behaviour.Assistant professors Nidhi Singhal and Harjit Kaur took samples from the tricity and New Delhi to assess that men are careless, when it comes to take care of personal hygiene, including covering mouth while sneezing, using sanitisers, scrubbing hands for 20 seconds and others.As on April 7, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoFHW) has released a data revealing that 76 per cent of the coronavirus patients in the country are men, while the women ratio was 24 per cent. It was also suggested that approximately 73 per cent deaths have been reported in men, while 27 per cent in women.The study was expanded to 199 participants (87 females and 112 males). It was found that while the fear for Covid-19 is similar in both males and females, the adoption of safety behaviour varied significantly across both the genders.The female participants adhered to the safety behaviours rigorously to score 77 points out of 90 points, whereas the male participants lagged behind at 71 points on the checklist. “Taking measurable steps is the only way to fight with Covid-19. However, during the course of study, it was found that men are more unconnected to follow basic measures,” said Harjit.“The data for the study was collected in last two weeks of March. The study was expanded to these two cities considering the awareness of the masses. We are in the process to submit the research findings in a reputed journal,” added Nidhi.Fear of Covid more than other virusesIt was also found out that fear of Covid-19 is much higher when compared to Ebola and Swine flu (H1N1). Its fear is about 10 per cent higher to Swine Flu and an astronomical 153 per cent higher than Ebola. The scores were taken from previous studies for Ebola (2015) and & Swine Flu (2011).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/men-more-prone-to-covid-infection-finds-pu-study-75276
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||High Court to hear plea on treating masks as medical waste||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today agreed to hear through video-conferencing a petition filed in public interest for treating masks and gloves collected from residents as medical waste.It will now be placed before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli on April 24. In his petition, advocate Abhayjeet Singh also sought directions to the respondents to issue guidelines for use and disposal of masks, gloves and other protective gear as contaminated articles pose “greater risk to environment and health, if not handled properly”.He added that steps were also required to be taken for prohibiting and make spitting in public a punishable offence. “Similarly, the issue of medical waste being generated in bulk due to the pandemic needs to be entertained at the earliest,” he added. Abhayjeet stated that several districts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh have been included in the red zone and declared a hotspot. However, increased public use of masks and gloves during the Covid crisis was leading to an increase in medical waste “contaminated by bodily fluids”.Referring to a WHOreport, he contended that it showed that the virus could survive for days on surfaces. If masks, gloves and other protective gear were not collected and treated according to the guidelines issued for collection and disposal of medical waste, lives and environment would be put to risk. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-to-hear-plea-on-treating-masks-as-medical-waste-75275
24-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Son hires ambulance for Rs 30K to go back to Bihar for man’s dialysis||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 23After facing several problems in arranging dialysis for his father, Dalip Kumar, a resident of Bihar, has decided to go back to his hometown with his family by hiring an ambulance for Rs 30,000.Kumar was putting up in Nayagaon in a rented accommodation for the past four months as his father required dialysis thrice a week. The recent spurt in Covid cases in Nayagaon led to a restriction in the movement of area residents.“Everything was fine until this happened. We had to struggle every day for ambulances in the absence of any transportation facility to reach a private hospital for my father’s dialysis. One ride would cost us Rs 1,500. Availing of the facility of dialysis was getting difficult by the day,” said Kumar. As the UT was declared a containment zone on April 18, the patient’s family was restricted to move across the border. Private hospitals, at a meeting held with the UT Administration, have reportedly expressed unwillingness to check on patients from other states.“A lot of patients come to the city from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and other states for transplant. They usually arrange for temporary accommodation in nearby areas. Dialysis is a life-supporting treatment. The lockdown is pretty long for patients suffering from serious illness,” said a doctor at Dharam Hospital, Sector 15.Recently, private hospitals were advised not to call patients from other states for treatment/check-up. The hospital authorities have been asked to inform the nodal officer immediately if a patient from another state visits.Due to such orders, a man from Baddi, Sajan Sharma, had faced problems after his one-and-a-half-year-old daughter was not admitted to a private hospital. “Whenever there are complications, I visit a private hospital in the city. I had travelled to Chandigarh at 5 am from Baddi by requesting the police at every naka. I was told that the child will not be admitted to the hospital. The girl was referred to the PGI and we have been in the hospital for four days now. I have left my six-year-old daughter at a neighbour’s place.”Sharma adds: “I was uncomfortable going to the PGI as there are higher chances of getting an infection there.”RS Bedi, former president of the Indian Medical Association, said: “All patients requiring dialysis or any other emergency treatment are at the receiving end. No one from outstation is allowed. If you are following up with a doctor for several months and suddenly, you are forced to change the consultant, it will certainly aggravate the suffering of many patients.”Arun Gupta, UT Health Secretary, said: “Hospitals in other states are competent enough to deal with up to secondary-level treatment. Patients who cannot be managed at the district level can be referred to the PGI.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/son-hires-ambulance-for-rs-30k-to-go-back-to-bihar-for-mans-dialysis-75274
24-04-2020||Amit Sharma||Chandigarh cops lend a helping hand to three migrants, honoured||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 23While the medical staff are fighting a battle against Covid-19 in hospitals, the police are contributing their bit on roads – preventing the spread of virus and ensuring that the poor and the needy get food on time.In one such effort, three personnel from the Maloya police station not only provided three migrants, who had arrived on foot from Baddi, with food but also persuaded them to stay in Chandigarh and arranged for their accommodation at the Maloya community centre. ASI Janak Raj and constables Deepak Kumar and Ritu Kumar were on duty at the Badheri barrier on the intervening night of April 21 and 22 when they spotted the migrants.Janak Raj said the migrants had walked down all the way from Baddi and were heading towards their native village in Uttar Pradesh (UP).Instead of denying entry to them, the police first decided to feed them.“We had some home cooked food with us which was offered to the migrants as they had been walking for hours and hadn’t eaten anything in two days. Then they were made to rest for a while,” the ASI said.Constable Deepak said the migrants had no money and wanted to walk till UP. “We could not have let them return to Baddi, neither could we have let them leave for their native village,” Deepak added.The cops also informed Maloya SHO Palak Goel, who asked them to get the medical examination of the migrants conducted.The migrants were counselled and persuaded by the cops to stay in Chandigarh. “It was tough, but we managed to convince them that they would get shelter and food in Chandigarh,” said Deepak.Their medical examination was conducted at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, and they were shifted to a shelter home at the Maloya community centre.Sanjay Baniwal, UT DGP, appreciated the efforts of the police personnel and honoured them with commendation certificates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-lend-a-helping-hand-to-three-migrants-honoured-75273
24-04-2020||Chandigarh||Registered workers get 2nd instalment of Rs3,000 each||The Labour Department, UT, has transferred Rs 3,000 each (second instalment) as financial aid into the accounts of workers registered with the Chandigarh Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board. Mandip Singh Brar, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Labour Commissioner, UT, said over Rs 2 crore had been transferred directly into the bank accounts of 6,670 construction workers through the DBT scheme. He said it was the second instalment given as a special relief keeping in view their present unemployment during the lockdown period. Earlier too, after the lockdown was announced, the department had transferred over Rs 2 crore directly into their accounts in the last week of March. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/registered-workers-get-2nd-instalment-of-rs3-000-each-75272
24-04-2020||---||PGI worker from Nayagaon tests +ve||Mohali, April 23After a three-day hiatus, the district reported another positive case of Covid today. With the new case, the count of Covid cases rose to seven in Nayagaon and 63 in the district. Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the new patient was a 30-year-old man, an employee at the PGI and contact of a Covid positive case.On April 17, a 30-year-old sanitation worker of the PGI and a resident of Nayagaon had tested positive for coronavirus. A day later, four members of his family, including a month-old baby too tested positive.Dayalan said as of now, a total of 1,104 samples had been taken from the district. Of these, 978 were found negative and 63 positive. The result of 45 samples was awaited. The DC said as of today, 2,219 persons had completed their quarantine period and 496 were undergoing it in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-worker-from-nayagaon-tests-ve-75271
24-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh MC chief banks on 17-yr experience to fight pandemic||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 23MC Commissioner KK Yadav is working 24x7 to make sure that every needy person in the city gets help.Besides heading the Municipal Corporation, which is loaded with work, Yadav has been appointed the nodal officer for supplying essentials by the UT Administration.His day starts as early as 3 am and does not end before midnight.“I try to execute all plans every day. My sole motive is to help the UT Administration in helping the needy. I am putting in 17 years of my work experience to fight Covid-19,” said Yadav.Heading a dual responsibility, Yadav said was a lifetime opportunity to serve the nation. “The Municipal Corporation is one of the most active departments in fighting Covid-19. Our sanitation workers are working round the clock, some workers are helping in the distribution of essentials, the clerical staff are keeping all records intact and our officers are guiding different teams,” said Yadav, who is also the Secretary, Sports, UT. “On the personal front, it’s a learning experience for me. After returning home, I can see anxiety in the eyes of my daughters and wife. But, I always tell them that it’s not the time to sit at home and whine about things,” said Yadav.“We have been trained to deal with natural calamities such as earthquake, floods and tsunami, but were never equipped enough for something like this situation. I have headed several important posts in the past, but the current situation is the most challenging. It’s a 24x7 process, where you need to learn, plan, execute, supervise and report. A small mistake may put many lives at risk. We have been doing a fair job under the supervision all senior officials,” Yadav said.He also expressed satisfaction about the change in people’s perception regarding the functioning of the MC. “I have observed a major change in people’s perception towards the MC and its workers. Our work is now being appreciated and people are coming forward to help us fight the pandemic. I just wish that this hour of crisis gets over soon, so that we can all have time to assess our way of living.”Command centre in Sector 17The Municipal Corporation has constituted a central war room-cum-command centre at its Sector 17 office. Officials will now supervise the proceedings regarding tackling Covid-19 from this office. Earlier, the officials were working from various platforms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-chief-banks-on-17-yr-experience-to-fight-pandemic-75270
