24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 2 more COVID-19 deaths, 57 new cases||The death of two more persons due to coronavirus pushed the toll to 216 in Chandigarh, while 57 new cases took the infection tally to 13,977 on Saturday.There are 674 active cases in the city as of now, as per a medical bulletin.It said that a total of 78 patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the number of cured persons to 13,087.A total of 1,00,797 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 86,213 tested negative while reports of 116 samples were awaited, as per the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-2-more-covid-19-deaths-57-new-cases-160553
24-10-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 49 new coronavirus cases, one death||Mohali witnessed one more death and 49 new cases in the last 24 hours, district officials said---a development that takes the district’s cases to 12,024 with 232 deaths.The district now has 525 active cases.Mohali Urban reported 33 of the 49 new cases.Dhakoli (5), Kharar (8) and Lalru (3) made up the rest of the numbers. Sixty people were released from hospitals in Mohali after recovery, officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-49-new-coronavirus-cases-one-death-160533
24-10-2020||Vijay Mohan||As environmental concerns grow, Central Water Commission to study sedimentation in major reservoirs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 24The Central Water Commission (CWC) will undertake sedimentation studies at major reservoirs across the country to assess the change in their storage capacity as well as to determine their life expectancy.According to sources, a list of 32 reservoirs in different states, including those situated in north India, has been drawn up where the level of sedimentation and its effects would be examined. Funding for the project has been received from the World Bank.Sedimentation is the process where loose soil, silt, rock and debris flow in with the water that enters reservoirs and deposit on the bed. The level of sedimentation depends upon the terrain, geology and environmental conditions of the area through which the feeding rivers and tributaries flow.Sedimentation, according to sources, is unavoidable and over a period of time, reduces the storage capacity of the reservoirs. This has detrimental effects on the dam’s intended benefits such are provision of water for drinking and irrigation, flood control and power generation.Large-scale deforestation, unscientific agricultural practices, industrial processes and anthropogenic activities in catchment areas tend to increase silt load in rivers and aggravate sedimentation of reservoirs.Citing the example of the Bhakra Dam on the Sutlej in Himachal, an official said that over the past about 50 years, the designed capacity of the dam’s reservoir may have reduced by almost 25 per cent due to deposit of silt.Sources said that the surveys and studies would be carried out through integrated hydrographic survey systems and integrated bathymetric systems that include the employment of drones and the use of artificial intelligence and powerful software tools. Execution of the project is open to both Indian as well as global firms having the requisite expertise and experience.The project is aimed at assessing and reviewing the life expectancy of reservoirs, particularly in view of reports in certain quarters about increase in the rate of sedimentation in many reservoirs.The study, in which each reservoir would be taken up separately, would also recommend suitable measures for increasing benefits and enhancing the reservoir life specific measures for soil conservation and catchment area treatment.Besides topographical mapping of the reservoir bed and peripheral areas, a database would also be created for developing regional sediment indices and facilitating rational sedimentation planning for future reservoirs, sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/as-environmental-concerns-grow-central-water-commission-to-study-sedimentation-in-major-reservoirs-160500
24-10-2020||Mumbai||'Chandigarh gave me wind beneath my wings,' says Ayushmann Khurrana on shooting in his hometown||Bollywood star Ayushmann Khurrana is shooting his upcoming film in his hometown Chandigarh, and he is very thrilled about it.He says the process is special for him.Ayushmann said: "It is remarkable that this will be the first time I'm shooting in Chandigarh! The process is going to be exceedingly special and I'm going to soak in every second of this experience."He added: "Chandigarh is the city that gave me the wind beneath my wings to chase my passion to be an actor."Ayushmann says Chandigarh and the people of his hometown have given him much love and confidence right from my school days when he started doing theatre."The seed of me becoming an actor was planted here and I couldn't be more excited to shoot my next here," he said."Even when I became an actor, the city has constantly showered me with love. I'm indebted to my hometown and all the people who have always supported me. Actors are nothing without the love of the audience and I can confidently say that people in Chandigarh have always been my biggest supporters," said the actor, who has delivered eight back to back hits."The people of this city stood behind me like a rock and have always been a motivational force. They have cheered the loudest and I can't thank them enough! So, shooting in Chandigarh is like life coming to a full circle," he said.Ayushmann stars in Abhishek Kapoor's romantic film "Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui" opposite Vaani Kapoor. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gave-me-wind-beneath-my-wings-says%C2%A0ayushmann-khurrana-on-shooting-in-his-hometown-160434
24-10-2020||Amit Sharma||Online appointment? So what, stand in a queue||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 23Brace yourself for a tough time if you want to get a driving licence in Mohali as with a single counter to deal with visitors, you can end up in a queue for hours despite an online appointment. More importantly, before you reach the Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Sector 82, make sure your mobile phone’s Internet pack is recharged as you may be asked to lend your mobile data in case the office Internet is not working.No Social distancingThe social distancing norms were openly flouted by visitors with no official keeping a check. There were no arrangements for sanitisation.Poor Net connectivityDue to poor Internet connectivity at the RTA, visitors were asked to lend their mobile data. Several visitors shared their data, which helped in resuming the services."What is the use of giving us an appointment when we have to wait for such a long time. - Sahil Verma, VisitorThe scene was no different there today as despite prior appointments, applicants ended up in queues for hours.Sahil Verma, who was among the visitors, said he had filled a form for a learner’s driving licence and had got an appointment for 11 am. He reached at 10.30 am since it was mentioned that the applicant should reach at least 20 minutes before the appointment. However, he had to wait in a queue for two and a half hours as only one counter was functional where the documents of the applicants were being verified. “What is the use of giving us an appointment when we have to wait for so long,” he said.Another visitor, Anzar, a web technician who had applied for a licence, had a similar story to share about long queues.“I reached the office sharp at 11 am since I had an appointment. However, I had to wait in a queue till 1 pm when my documents got verified before getting a picture clicked for the DL,” he said.Interestingly, the Internet of the office suddenly stopped working following which the person sitting at counter number 2 requested the visitors to share their mobile phone data through hotspot. Surprisingly, there was no separate queue for senior citizens and women.Karnail Singh Chhokar (68), who had arrived to get his driving licence renewed, also had to wait for at least 90 minutes before he could manage to reach the counter.An official present at the office said on condition of anonymity that due to the transfer of a clerk, the burden had increased on the two clerks who were on duty.Sukhwinder Kumar, RTA, Mohali, said today there was some issue with the Internet due to which the process got hampered, which led to long queues. “I was apprised of the problem and we have registered a complaint to ensure that the Internet works smoothly. We will open more counters to deal with long queues”, the RTA said.He said the ATO was recently transferred to Ropar due to which he had decided to remain present in Sector 82, at least twice a week to monitor smooth functioning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-appointment-so-what-stand-in-a-queue-160359
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||No burning of effigies this Dasehra: Ramlila panels||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the UT Administration has given in-principle approval for celebrating Dasehra and organising a ‘rath yatra’ symbolically. However, most Ramlila committees have decided not to burn effigies of demons this year.District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said in-principle approval was given subject to strict observance of all detailed guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.Bhagwati Prasad Gour, president, Chandigarh Kendriya Ramlila Mahasabha, said it was too late for them to prepare effigies. He said they had decided to show the killing of Ravana and his brother and son in their Ramlila scenes on the stage only.As per the guidelines, Dasehra or the ‘rath yatra’ can be symbolically celebrated from 4 pm to 8 pm. The organisers will have to obtain clearance from the MC and the Chief Fire Officer before the start of event. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-burning-of-effigies-this-dasehra-ramlila-panels-160360
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||No door-to-door waste collection from today||Household waste will not be picked up in the city from tomorrow, as door-to-door garbage collectors have decided to join the strike being observed by sanitation workers of the MC.Om Prakash Saini, president, Chandigarh Door-to-Door Garbage Collectors’ Society, said they had decided to completely stop the door-to-door collection of garbage from tomorrow.The waste collectors are up in arms against the MC for taking over the garbage collection. It will collect user charges through water bills. Saini said their main demands were to collect garbage directlyfrom households, collect user fee from residents and sell reuseable waste.Meanwhile, members of the Safai Karamchari Union today went on an indefinite strike and stopped collection of garbage and cleanliness work in markets, roads and residential streets. Union president Krishan Kumar Chadha said there would be a complete shutdown of sanitation work and garbage collection in the city from tomorrow. He said the strike would continue till the MC accepted their demands. Members of the union, along with garbage collectors, today staged a protest in front of the MC office and burnt an effigy of Mayor Raj Bala Malik.The sanitation workers are against wearing GPS-enabled watches. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-door-to-door-waste-collection-from-today-160361
24-10-2020||---||53-year-old ASI found dead at police station||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 23Assistant Sub-Inspector Sukhbir Singh (53) was found dead in the RO room of the Sarangpur police station on the intervening night of October 22 and 23.Sources said he was resting on a cot and when a constable tried to open the door of the RO room, he found it bolted from inside. The ASI was immediately rushed to the GMSH, Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead. Information regarding his demise has been given to his wife. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. He was residing along with his family at New Police Colony, Sector 26. The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/53-year-old-asi-found-dead-at-police-station-160362
24-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Stuck in Thailand, Chahat swims to glory||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 23Stuck in Thailand since March due to the lockdown proved to be a blessing in disguise for local swimmer Chahat Arora, who won the 100m breaststroke event in the Arena Thailand Swimming Championship today.‘7-month lockdown stay worth it’I came to Thailand in March and got stuck due to the lockdown. I had come to attend a one-month training programme unaware of the fact that I would end up here for the next seven months, but it was worth it.- Chahat AroraNot only this, she remained the top Indian performer by winning the event in 1:14.42s. She bettered the previous record of 1:14.46s by any Indian in the championship to claim a new meet record on her name. She had gone to Thailand to attend a one-month training programme.“I came to Thailand in March and got stuck due to the lockdown. I had come to attend a one-month training programme unaware of the fact that I would end up here for the next seven months,” said Chahat. She said, “I started practising here in March. However for two months — June and July, we were asked to stay out of the swimming pool. After July, the government allowed opening of swimming pools and I joined back practice. After having a new meet record in this event, I feel it was worth waiting here for seven months.”Chahat, who represents Mohali and Punjab in state and national championships, had won many international championships. Her last year’s performance in the 13th South Asian Games in Nepal, where she had won two gold medals, a silver and created a new short-pool national record — is still fresh in the minds of swimming lovers.On challenges in this particular championship, Chahat said only swimmers who were staying in Thailand were allowed to compete in the three-day championship. “In my event, another Indian swimmer, Annie Jain, claimed the third position. Swimmers from other countries, who are studying here, also participated in the event.”She said now that the championship was over, she would coming to Chandigarh next week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stuck-in-thailand-chahat-swims-to-glory-160363
24-10-2020||Kritika Kanwar||New Chandigarh-city link road in dire need of repairs||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 23Driving on the Dadu Majra road, a crucial link road that connects New Chandigarh and Chandigarh, is nothing short of a roller-coaster ride for commuters.The road is frequently used by residents of New Chandigarh as well as nearby villages such as Togan, Saini Majra, Rani Majra, etc, to go to Chandigarh. It is also used by people coming from the Kurali side and heading for the UT.‘Driving on road fraught with risk’Driving on the pothole-ridden road is fraught with risk. I have seen many two-wheelers skid due to muck. Ever since a scrap market was shifted here, the road has become even narrower. - Gurmeet Singh, Resident, Omaxe townshipCommuters said sometimes even the Punjab and Himachal Roadways buses take the road to avoid traffic jams near the Kharar flyover. The link road cannot bear more than the stipulated weight yet heavy vehicles carrying cement and building material ply on it, further damaging it.“When the road was metalled two years ago, we knew it won’t last long. The influx of heavy vehicles and unregulated traffic took a toll on the link road, which is a lifeline for villagers. The road is too narrow for two vehicles to cross each other easily. The situation worsens during the peak hours,” said an aggrieved resident of New Chandigarh.“I used to take this route quite frequently but the recent rainfall and unregulated traffic had deepened the potholes. Driving on it is fraught with risk. I have seen many two-wheelers skid due to muck. Ever since a scrap market was shifted here, the road has become even narrower. I have now started taking a longer route to Chandigarh, via Sarangpur,” said Gurmeet Singh, a resident of the Omaxe township.Since half of the road comes under the UT Administration and the other half is managed by the B&R Department of Mohali district, its repair work has always remained a bone of contention. Apart from the traffic mess, it is also the structural errors that plague the road. Lack of adequate drains worsens the situation during monsoon when the low-lying Dadu Majra bridge gets inundated, rendering the link road completely non-motorable.A B&R official said, “The stretch under our jurisdiction is more wide and motorable. It is for the UT Administration to start the road-widening work in the area falling under its jurisdiction. We got it repaired almost two years ago.”A senior UT official said, “Once the Togan road becomes operational, it will directly connect New Chandigarh to Dakshin Marg. This will bring a huge relief to the residents of New Chandigarh and several adjoining villages as half of the traffic will get diverted on this road.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/new-chandigarh-city-link-road-in-dire-need-of-repairs-160364
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||72 fresh cases, 2 deaths in Chandigarh||The city today recorded 72 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths. With this, the case tally has reached 13,920 and the toll to 214.A 76-year-old woman from Sector 41, a case of carcinoma with metastasis, died at the PGI. A 52-year-old woman from Dhanas, a case of SARI, type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, died at the GMCH, Sector 32. The city also saw 85 recoveries. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/72-fresh-cases-2-deaths-in-chandigarh-160365
24-10-2020||Mohali||Two more die  in Mohali district||Two more Covid fatalities were reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the count to 231, while 37 more persons were found infected.Among the fresh cases, 23 were reported from Mohali (urban), one each from Dera Bassi and Lalru, four from Kharar, five from Gharuan and three from Kurali. Meanwhile, 58 more patients have been cured of the disease. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-die-in-mohali-district-160366
24-10-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula sees 15 new infections||The district today reported 15 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the case tally to 6,937. The death toll stands at 109.Among the fresh cases, four are from Kalka, two each from Morni and Pinjore, and one each from the MDC, Sector 4, the MDC, Sector 5, Sector 12, Sector 26, Sector 27, Sector 6 and Sector 9. Panchkula has 205 active cases, while 6,623 patients have been cured of the disease. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-15-new-infections-160367
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Car set on fire in Sector 25||A miscreant set a car on fire after breaking a windowpane in Sector 25 here late on Thursday night.The complainant, Vikas, stated that the incident took place around 12:58 am as a masked miscreant poured petrol on the car and set it afire before escaping. He stated that he came out of house on hearing a loud explosion and saw the car engulfed in flames. Neighbours helped him extinguish the fire.The police reached the spot and checked the CCTV footage. As the miscreant set the car on fire, he too was caught in the flames but managed to escape in a car waiting nearby.Earlier also, two incidents of vandalism of two cars and two motorcycles have been reported from the area. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-set-on-fire-in-sector-25-160368
24-10-2020||---||‘Sood blaming MC officials to hide BJP infighting’||Chandigarh, October 23City Congress leaders have taken a strong exception to the statement of the Chandigarh BJP president accusing the MC Commissioner and other officials of corruption and arrogance. In a joint statement, city Congress president Pardeep Chhabra and councillors Devinder Singh Babla, Sheela Phool Singh, Satish Kainth, Gurbax Rawat and Rupinder Gujral stated that the BJP leaders should look within before levelling allegations against MC officials.Chhabra said city BJP chief Arun Sood should stop passing the buck to MC officials to hide the infighting in the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sood-blaming-mc-officials-to-hide-bjp-infighting-160369
24-10-2020||Naina Mishra||Plasma therapy shouldn’t be taken off Covid protocol: PGI||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 23The Indian Council of Medical Education and Research (ICMR) is contemplating scrapping plasma therapy from the Covid-19 national treatment protocol. However, the PGI is of the opinion that the therapy could still be of use for resolution of Covid symptoms and should not be taken off the protocol completely.Trial findings.The findings of the ICMR’s plasma study in 39 hospitals across 14 states and Union Territories was published on Friday in the British Medical Journal. Dr Pankaj Malhotra from the PGI is one of the authors. The findings revealed that convalescent plasma was not associated with a reduction in progression to severe Covid-19 or all-cause mortality.The study concluded: “Although the use of convalescent plasma seemed to improve the resolution of shortness of breath and fatigue in patients with moderate Covid-19 and led to higher negative conversion of SARS-CoV-2 RNA on day 7 post-enrolment, this did not translate into a reduction in 28-day mortality or progression to severe disease.”Dr Malhotra, who was also an investigator of plasma trial from the PGI, said: “Even though the results are negative, we should not completely remove the therapy from the national protocol. Plasma may be used in very selective patients in whom there is incessant fatigue or fever, or want RT-PCR negative fast. Doctors should not rely on this therapy completely and take plasma from donors who have a good amount of antibodies.”No difference in standard care or plasma: StudyThere was no difference noticed in patients who received convalescent plasma with detectable neutralising antibody titers compared with participants receiving the best standard of care alone.The study says: “Areas of future research could include effectiveness of convalescent plasma among neutralising antibody negative patients and the use of convalescent plasma with high neutralising antibody titers. The challenge will be to find both suitable patients and suitable plasma donors.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/plasma-therapy-shouldnt-be-taken-off-covid-protocol-pgi-160370
24-10-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Making French connection online||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 23On September 1 when 34-year-old Ophélie Belin landed in City Beautiful to assume charge as director of Alliance Francaise, she was armed with the first-hand experience of surviving through adversities. The Nepal earthquake may have ‘shaken’ her, but the pandemic has been somewhat ‘stirring’. While the enrolment figure of the French institute stood at 101 at the start of the pandemic in the city, it has now risen to 388. The challenge at hand is to explore the realms of virtual spaces to connect city folks with French language and culture. The only glitch is the pandemic.Before the pandemic, 500-600 students were enrolled in classes at the institute.At the lawns of the institute, Ophélie shares: “In September session, we have enrolled 388 students for online classes. The numbers are picking up. In March, we had 101 students and 281 in June.” The institute, she says, has been organising online classrooms on Zoom and to keep up with the quality of education, the number of students has been downsized a wee bit. “We would take about 20 or 22 students in physical classrooms, but it is difficult to teach so many students online and so we aren’t taking in more than 17 students. To us, quality of education is paramount,” she says.The cultural events of the institute, too, have shifted online. It had recently organised cooking workshop with Tiline (Tiphaine and Pauline, our native French teachers) on Instagram. The institute will soon be organising an online media art festival called Deconfine, with artistes, curators and researchers from France and South Asia.“It is a frustrating situation, especially when online education is our only survival tool and there’s no physical contact with either students or teachers. I haven’t met most of my staff and know them only through online meetings,” says Ophélie.Though new to the city, Ophélie stands acquainted with its architectural legacy and fondly mentions its French-Swiss architect Le Corbusier. “In fact, Alliance Française’s library was renovated just before the lockdown and it, too, was inspired by Corbusier’s architecture, but we haven’t had a visitor because of the pandemic.”Before joining Alliance Française, Chandigarh, Ophélie served as director of Alliance Française of Nosy Be in Madagascar and director of Alliance française of Kathmandu in Nepal. “I was there from 2013 to 2015 and experienced the earthquake too. I worked with relief volunteers there. It was a shaking experience, now with the pandemic, it’s a stirring one. I hope I’ll survive this too,” she laughs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/making-french-connection-online-160371
24-10-2020||---||Sex-determination racket busted in Patiala, doctor among 4 held||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 23A doctor, an auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) and two touts were arrested by the police here today for allegedly running a sex-determination racket in the city. An ultrasound machine and medicines were also seized by the police.The Patiala Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Vikram Jeet Duggal, said a health centre was being run at a house in Chaura village. It has been learnt that the accused ANM, earlier booked in four similar cases, was posted at the Jalalpur health centre under the National Health Mission (NHM).Explaining the modus operandi, the SSP said the doctor, identified as Anil Kapoor, would refer pregnant women to suspect ANM Meena Rani. The ANM along with her two touts used to arrange an ultrasound machine and carried out sex determination at a house in Chaura village.During investigation, it has come to the fore that the suspect used to charge Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000 for a single test.Shockingly, the suspect used to tout pregnant women for abortion and charge separately.The seized material included an ultrasound machine, 703 tablets, 150 capsules, 19 tube cream, 32 injections, 57 ayurvedic medicines, and 10 pieces of Copper T, the SSP added.The suspects have been booked under Section 3(1), 5(1) A, 6 (A), 18, 24 and 29, PC-PNDT ACT, and Sections 420, 308 and 120- B, IPC.On receiving information from the Patiala Civil Surgeon a team of health officials and the police nabbed the suspects, said the SSP.Meanwhile, the NHM has come under flak for allowing ANM Meena Rani, who had earlier been booked several times, to work in the department.When asked about the same, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Harish Malhotra, said, “We had already informed the NHM Punjab about the ANM.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sex-determination-racket-busted-in-patiala-doctor-among-4-held-160372
24-10-2020||---||Admn to spend Rs 208.33 crore on Patiala's Chhoti Nadi, Badi Nadi revamp||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 23The Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) during a meeting here today with officials of various departments in Patiala discussed revamp of projects of Chhoti Nadi and Badi Nadi along with the development of the heritage street.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh is set to reach the city on Sunday to start the construction of Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University and lay the foundation stones of other projects at Sidhuwal village.The officials said among other matters, the officials discussed the expenditure of Rs 208.33 crore on the revamp of Chhoti Nadi and Badi Nadi today.They said the 4.9-km stretch of Chhoti Nadi and 8.3-km stretch of Badi Nadi would be developed under the project. The government had proposed to set up treatment plants for cleaning of water bodies.MC Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said of the total amount, Rs 85.48 crore would be provided to the Drainage Department, Rs 101.63 crore to the Water Supply and Sewerage Department along with the remaining funds to the PDA and the PSPCL for their respective works as part of the whole project.The state government is also going to name the Urban Estate, Phase 4 project of the PDA, Patiala, as Rajmata Mohinder Kaur, Urban Estate, Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/admn-to-spend-rs-208-33-crore-on-patialas-chhoti-nadi-badi-nadi-revamp-160373
24-10-2020||---||Panchkula MC poll: Draft voter lists on Oct 27||Panchkula, October 23Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said today that the draft voter lists for the upcoming Municipal Corporation elections would be made public on October 27 and citizens could submit their claims and objections until November 3.Officials have already been tasked to record claims and objections from voters, he said.“Anyone can submit his claims on any working day up to 3 pm until November 3 except for public holidays on October 31 and November 1,” Ahuja added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-poll-draft-voter-lists-on-oct-27-160374
24-10-2020||Mohali||Mohali drive against illegal travel agents||Concerned over the duping of people by illegal travel agents in the district, the administration has directed the sub-divisional magistrates and the DSPs to carry out a special drive for identification of unlicensed and illegal travel agents.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said all complaints received against travel consultancies/agencies would be strictly dealt with and any violations of the law would be immediately reported to his office for penal action against the wrongdoers.Dayalan said sub-divisional committees had been constituted. These committees have been directed to deal with the complaints expeditiously and bring about an effective resolution through proper inter-agency coordination.He said wherever deemed appropriate, criminal action as prescribed under the Punjab Travel Professionals Regulation Act and Rules, 2014 would be initiated against the wrongdoers at the instance of the committees. The defined offences and penalties entail imprisonment for a period not less than three years, which may extend to seven years along with a fine which may extend up to Rs 5 lakh as per the provisions of the Act/rules, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-drive-against-illegal-travel-agents-160375
24-10-2020||Mohali||GMADA auctions Phase 8 land||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmada-auctions-phase-8-land-160376
24-10-2020||---||Draw for cracker licence in Mohali on Nov 5||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 23The Mohali administration will hold the draw of lots for issuing temporary licences for sale of crackers in the district on November 5.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said temporary licensees would be allowed to sell firecrackers from November 12 to 14. In order to maintain transparency, the draw would be conducted in the presence of a committee constituted for the same at 2.30 pm. Photography/videography of the entire process would be done to maintain strict vigil.Timings to burst crackersMohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said on Diwali, which would be celebrated on November 14, people would be allowed to burst firecrackers from 8 pm to 10 pm. On Gurpurb, which falls on November 30, timings to burst crackers would be from 4 am to 5 pm and 9 pm to 10 pm. No one would be allowed to use firecrackers before or after these dates and time.The Deputy Commissioner said the interested people could apply for the temporary license to sell firecrackers from October 28 to 30 before 5 pm at any of the sewa kendras in the district. The applicant should download the form from the Punjab Government website www.punjab.gov.in.Dayalan said on Diwali, which would be celebrated on November 14, people would be allowed to burst crackers from 8 pm to 10 pm. On Gurpurb, which falls on November 30, timings to burst crackers would be from 4 am to 5 pm and 9 pm to 10 pm. No one would be allowed to use firecrackers before or after these dates and time.Sale of firecrackers for Diwali would be permitted on November 12, 13 and 14 from 10 am to 7.30 pm and for Gurpurb on November 29 and 30 from 10 am to 7.30 pm in stalls at the designated places.Dayalan reiterated that no person should store firecrackers illegally. No one would sell or use Chinese firecrackers.Anyone can visit the website, www.sasnagar.nic.in, of the office of the Deputy Commissioner for more information on the designated places and conditions for the sale of firecrackers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/draw-for-cracker-licence-in-mohali-on-nov-5-160377
24-10-2020||---||Stone for Rs1.72-crore projects laid in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 23Health and Family Welfare Minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone of projects worth Rs 1.72 crore in Mohali today.Balbir Singh Sidhu said the projects were aimed at giving a facelift to markets and parks of the region. A sum of Rs6 crore would be spent on transforming facilities for public in markets and parks.While markets were being renovated with paved approaches, rainwater discharge provision, installation of sunshades and ramps, water sprinkler system was being installed in parks along with open gyms, he said.He also distributed 1,000 health cards and 700 old-age pension sanction letters among senior citizens.The Minister said a modern and self-sustaining gaushala would come up at Balongi soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stone-for-rs1-72-crore-projects-laid-in-mohali-160378
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bouncer gets bail in assault case||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bouncer-gets-bail-in-assault-case-160379
24-10-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Society plans to move HC over delay in assessing cost of flats||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 23Irked over the delay in the calculation of prices of flats under the UT Employees Self-Financing Housing Scheme-2008, the UT Employees’ CHB Housing Welfare Society has planned to move the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Dr Dharamender, general secretary, UT Employees’ CHB Housing Welfare Society, said a meeting in connection with the calculation of prices of flats was held on August 19, 2020. It was decided by the Union Home Secretary to resolve the issue of cost of land and construction of flats with the consultation of the Chairman, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB).Further, the CHB Chairman will calculate the price of flats, category-wise, floor-wise and formula-wise, along with three representatives of the UT Housing Scheme-2008.Dr Dharamender, one of the representatives, said on August 21, 2020, the CHB Chairman had stated that they would require two-week time to calculate the prices of flats.He said they had decided to file a civil miscellaneous application in the High Court on Monday as they were yet to get a suitable reply from the Administration in this regard even after nearly two months.He said they would also seek directions to fix the responsibility of erring UT officials responsible for the delay in resolving the long-pending issue.A CHB official said they had proposed twin design options - a seven-storey apartment and a 10-storey apartment - for the housing scheme to decrease the cost of the project so it becomes affordable for employees. The options have been submitted to the Urban Planning Department and they would be able to assess the cost of flats only after getting approval to the architectural designs, he said.The scheme was launched in 2008 for employees of the UT Administration, its boards, corporations, High Court, etc., for providing them houses at reasonable rates in the city. Nearly 7,811 applications were received for the allotment of flats. Out of this, applications of 3,930 were accepted after a draw in 2010.A sum of Rs29 crore was deposited by allottees at the rate of 10 per cent of the estimated cost of per apartment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/society-plans-to-move-hc-over-delay-in-assessing-cost-of-flats-160380
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Overhead power cables to go underground in 4 more sectors||After launching the much-delayed project in Sector 8 here last month, the UT Administration has decided to shift overhead electricity cables to an underground system in four more sectors.In a statement, Hartek Power Private Limited, an engineering company, stated that it had bagged an order from the UT Electricity Department for laying underground electricity cables and heavy-duty electricity wiring in Sectors 7, 9, 11 and 26.To be executed at a cost of Rs8.05 crore and scheduled to be completed by December, the project is intended to eliminate the hazard posed by overhead transformers and high-tension wires that hang precariously on the edges of slip roads, road berms and parking lots in these sectors.The Electricity Department has singled out these sectors to begin with as the existing power infrastructure here is more than 50 years old, which leads to frequent breakdowns and disruptions in supply.Besides laying an underground cable system, the firm has been assigned the task of converting overhead transformers into compact underground substations as part of the project.The project to shift the existing overhead cables underground in Sector 8 was conceived in 2017. Finally, the work started last month.The Administration will shift the overhead cables in the remaining areas of the city in a phased manner.An official of the Electricity Department said on completion of the work, there would be uninterrupted power supply in case of thunderstorms or heavy rains. Even distribution losses would be reduced.The Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission had already accorded approval to the project, said the official.Ranjit Singh, Superintending Engineer, Electrical, said they planned to complete the project by December-end this year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/overhead-power-cables-to-go-underground-in-4-more-sectors-160381
24-10-2020||---||Raipur Rani trader duped of Rs 1.26 cr||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, October 23The Panchkula police have filed a cheating case against a Gurugram-based businessman for allegedly duping a Raipur Rani trader of Rs1.26 crore on the pretext of selling a land belonging to his business groups.The complainant, Sanjay Singhal, stated that he came in contact with Manish Jakhar, director of PACL Limited, through an acquaintance.According to the FIR, Jakhar offered to sell 165 acres of land at Raipur Rani belonging to two business groups - PACL Limited and PGF Limited at - reasonable rates.After Singhal agreed to purchase the land, Jakhar showed him the copies of ownership documents, including registry, and his authorisation letter from PGF Limited to execute the deal pertaining to properties belonging to these groups.Singhal, however, realised that the property was under the attachment of the CBI and could only be purchased with consent from the Supreme Court.“Whereas the property was offered to Singhal at Rs11 lakh per acre, Jakhar demanded Rs3 lakh per acre to be transferred to his company, Sovereign Infra Solutions, for putting him in possession right away. Accordingly, Singhal handed over cheques amounting to Rs5 crore in favour of M/s PGF Limited to him and transferred Rs90.50 lakh to his company, Sovereign Infra Solutions. Thereafter, Jakhar handed over the physical possession of the property to Singhal on the spot. After a few days, Jakhar showed Singhal the order of the SC-appointed committee wherein his name had been proposed as a prospective buyer and the valuation report of the property had been called for. On the pretext of expediting the entire process and managing the valuation report favourably in Singhal’s name, Jakhar took Rs36 lakh from the victim on three occasions. When Jakhar did not get the sale deed executed in Singhal’s favour, the complainant pressurised him to return his money. However, Jakhar sought more time from Singhal and assured him that outcome will be in his favour since the matter was pending before the committee appointed by the Apex Court. Singhal subsequently came to know that the said property had been included in the list of properties to be auctioned by the committee appointed by the SC,” according to the FIR. A case under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/raipur-rani-trader-duped-of-rs-1-26-cr-160382
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||Vendors in Chandigarh get notices for pasting stickers on fruits||The Food Safety Department issued 30 notices to fruit vendors for pasting stickers on fruits in Sector 26 here today.A team of the department today inspected the wholesale market to check the use of stickers on fruits and vegetables.During inspection, fruit vendors were made aware of such practices. They were issued notices to stop pasting stickers on fruits. Traders were advised to use functional barrier to avoid direct application of stickers on fruits and vegetables.Use of stickers on fruits and vegetables to make product look premium are common by traders. Most of the times, these stickers are applied directly on food surfaces such as fruits. Adhesives are used on these stickers to paste them effectively. These adhesives may contain harmful chemicals, which may affect human health. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vendors-in-chandigarh-get-notices-for-pasting-stickers-on-fruits-160383
24-10-2020||Ambala||35 fall ill after eating ‘kuttu’ flour in Ambala||Around 35 persons were taken ill after reportedly eating ‘kuttu’ flour in the Baldev Nagar area here last night.They were taken to a hospital with complaints of stomach ache and vomiting. The patients were later discharged from the hospital.Subhash Chander, designated Food Safety Officer, Ambala, said: “People eat ‘kuttu’ flour During Navratras. Some people fell ill after consuming the flour last night. They are fine now. A team of the Food and Drugs Administration, led by district food safety officer Gorav Sharma, seized the samples of ‘savank’ rice, namkeen, chips, ‘kuttu’ flour, rice, singhada flour and sadudana from Ambala City today. The samples will be sent to the Food Laboratory in Karnal for analysis.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/35-fall-ill-after-eating-kuttu-flour-in-ambala-160384
24-10-2020||---||Four held for illegal mining||Mohali, October 23The police today arrested four persons, who were allegedly involved in illegal mining at Abhipur village. The police also seized a crusher, a JCB machine, a tractor, a car and a water tanker from the spot.The arrested suspects have been identified as Surjit Singh and Randhir Singh, both residents of Ferozepur, Raminder Singh, driver, and Balwant Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran.The suspects will be produced before a court tomorrow, said the police. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-held-for-illegal-mining-160385
24-10-2020||Chandigarh||IMA mourns doctor death due to virus||The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Chandigarh chapter, has condoled the demise of Dr Pradeep Tayal, who lost his life to Covid-19. Despite the pandemic, he continued serving patients unmindful of the risk he was taking as a frontline corona warrior. Dr Tayal, MD (Medicine) from the PGI, served the UT Health Department for 29 years before retiring as the Head of the General Medicine Department at the General Hospital. Even after his retirement, he continued treating patients. Dr Vanita Gupta, President, IMA, Chandigarh, said in his death, the city had lost an able, dedicated and selfless medical professional. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ima-mourns-doctor-death-due-to-virus-160386
