24-12-2020||Chandigarh||43 new Covid cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 43 new coronavirus cases taking the infection count to 19,309 while one more death pushed the toll to 314, according to a medical bulletin. There are 361 active cases in the union territory as of now, the bulletin said.A total of 50 patients were discharged after they recovered taking the number of cured people to 18,634, it said. A total of 1,73,459 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,53,276 have tested negative while reports of 127 samples are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/43-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-188899
24-12-2020||New Delhi||Bitter cold persists in north India, light snowfall likely in Kashmir over weekend||Bitter cold conditions persisted in most parts of north India on Thursday as the minimum temperatures hovered well below the normal limits at several places in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan.There was slight improvement in cold conditions in Kashmir as the minimum temperature rose across the valley, even as the Meteorological office forecast the possibility of light snowfall over two days from Saturday.In the national capital, the minimum temperature remained below five degrees Celsius for the second consecutive day, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 4.5 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, and a maximum of 23.1 degrees Celsius. Cold wave conditions are likely in parts of Delhi over the next two days and the mercury is expected to drop to three Celsius on Friday. “Moderate to dense” fog is also expected during the period, the IMD said. Earlier in the day, “dense” fog reduced visibility in parts of the city, affecting traffic movement.        In Haryana and Punjab, the minimum temperatures hovered well below the normal limits.Adampur in Punjab reeled under intense chill recording a low of 1.6 degrees Celsius, while biting cold prevailed in Ludhiana too at 2.1 degrees Celsius.In Haryana, Ambala, Karnal, Narnaul, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Sirsa also registered below normal minimums at 5.7, 2.9, 4.6, 4.6, 5.2 and 6.3 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 4.7 degrees Celsius.Himachal Pradesh’s Keylong, Kalpa and Mandi shivered at sub-zero temperature. The tribal district Lahaul-Spiti’s administrative centre Keylong remained the coldest place in the state at minus 8.4 degrees Celsius, Met centre Shimla director Manmohan Singh said. Kalpa in Kinnaur district and Mandi recorded a low of minus 2.2 and minus 1 degrees Celsius, he added.   Manali, Dalhousie and Kufri recorded a low of zero, 4.3 and 4.5 degrees Celsius respectively.  The minimum temperature in Shimla was recorded at 4.1 degrees Celsius, he added. The Met centre has forecast rain and snowfall in isolated places of the state on December 27 and 28.In Jammu and Kashmir, the night temperature marked an improvement but continued to settle below the freezing point, the Met officials said.The weather has remained dry and cold across Kashmir since the snowfall on December 12, with the night temperature staying several degrees below the freezing point, they said.The officials said Srinagar — the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir — recorded a low of minus 3.8 degrees Celsius –up from the previous night’s minus 5 degrees Celsius.Gulmarg was the coldest recorded place in the valley.Kashmir is currently under the grip of ‘Chillai-Kalan’—the 40-day harshest winter period when the chances of snowfall are most frequent and maximum.‘Chillai-Kalan’, which began on December 21, is considered the harshest winter period in Kashmir as a cold wave grips the region and the temperature drops considerably leading to the freezing of water bodies including the famous Dal Lake here as well as the water supply lines in several parts of the valley.While ‘Chillai-Kalan’ will end on January 31, the cold wave continues even after that in Kashmir with a 20-day-long ‘Chillai-Khurd’ (small cold) and a 10-day-long ‘Chillai-Bachha’ (baby cold).The Met office has said the weather is likely to remain mainly dry till December 25, but there is a possibility of light in the valley for two days from Saturday.There is no forecast of any major snowfall activity till the end of this month, it added.In Uttar Pradesh, a blanket of very dense fog enveloped isolated places.According to the weather office in Lucknow, there was no major change in the night temperatures across the divisions of the state.The night temperature was appreciably below normal in Gorakhpur, Bareilly and Moradabad divisions, below normal in Ayodhya, Lucknow, Prayagraj and Kanpur divisions and normal in the rest, it said.The lowest minimum temperature in the state was recorded in Muzaffarnagar at 2.5 degrees Celsius, while Jhansi, with 26.1 degrees Celsius, recorded the highest temperature.The Met forecast said the weather would most likely remain dry in the state and dense fog was very likely at isolated places on Friday morning.Most parts of Rajasthan too reeled under intense cold conditionsand Churu was the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature of 4.8 degrees Celsius followed by Pilani where the night temperature was 4.9 degrees Celsius.The weather conditions would remain the same during the next 24 hours, the official said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bitter-cold-persists-in-north-india-light-snowfall-likely-in-kashmir-over-weekend-188817
24-12-2020||Mohali||Testing of all international passengers who landed at Chandigarh International Airport since November 25||All international passengers who arrived at the Chandigarh International Airport since November 25 would be traced and tested for the Covid-19.The incoming passengers would be tested and isolated in accordance with the protocol for Covid-19. An SOP has been issued by the government in this regard.A team has been deputed for tracing and testing all international passengers who have landed at airport (IA) since November 25.The nodal officer of the team will procure the passenger manifest list from international airlines and furnish it to tracing and medical teams who will identify cases.AN institutional quarantine facility for suspected patients has been set-up at Gian Sagar Hospital and officers have been deputed to look into places that may be provided as paid institutional quarantine centres for international travellers who wish to isolate in a private establishment.Surveillance and medical teams have been deputed at the airport who would monitor international travellers and conduct testing.To look into all the suspected cases and their contacts, the SARS Cov2 Control Room will be manned by the District Epidemiologist and her team and will be supported by District Program Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/testing-of-all-international-passengers-who-landed-at-chandigarh-international-airport-since-november-25-188816
24-12-2020||Zirakpur||PSPCL's Zirakpur office vacated after cracks appear on wall||Panic gripped the Zirakpur Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) Executive Engineer's office after cracks appeared on the walls of the two-storey building following ''excessive digging'' for a basement in the adjacent plot here on Thursday.PSPCL executive engineer Khushwinder Singh said the premises had to be vacated immediately as a precautionary measure and the official records were shifted to another location for the time being.PSPCL officials confirmed that they wrote twice to the Zirakpur Municipal Council Executive Officer about the potential danger of digging in the adjacent plot. The MC officials, led by engineer Mukesh Rai, visited the spot and inspected the digging being carried out in the adjacent plot. Officials said the digging was being done according to the MC norms, however, the contractor was asked to complete the work immediately so as not the expose the foundation of the building for a longer duration.On December 7, a two-storeyed building collapsed after its base was exposed due to extensive digging of the basement in the adjacent plot. The owners had reportedly got the plan approved by the MC for a residential building but were digging a basement in the vacant plot.As many as four incidents of under-construction buildings collapsing due to various reasons have been reported from the Zirakpur-Dera Bassi real estate hub in the past two years.Zirakpur SHO Rajpal Singh said, ''We have received a complaint from the MC office. The digging work has been stopped for now.''||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pspcls-zirakpur-office-vacated-after-cracks-appear-on-wall-188799
24-12-2020||Panchkula||5 guilty of killing Kalka jeweller’s son||The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Narender Sura today held five persons guilty in a murder and loot case of 2016 wherein a 19-year-old youth was bludgeoned to death and jewellery items worth Rs50 lakh were looted from a shop in Kalka.The victim, Shivam Verma, younger son of jeweller Jagdish Raj Verma, used to sleep inside the shop, which was on the road leading to the famous Kali Mata Temple in Kalka.Punishment todayOn the intervening night of July 4 and July 5, 2016, the accused, Iqbal Ahmed and Mohd Abid, entered the shop after cutting its tin roof. While Abid held Shivam from his throat, Ahmed hit him on the head 11 times with an iron rod. Later, they broke open a chest at the shop and fled with jewellery items. The incident was recorded in CCTV cameras. The footage proved an important evidence in the case.As Shivam was not picking up the phone the next day, his father and brother went to the shop where they found him lying in a pool of blood. He was rushed to the Community Health Centre at Kalka where he was declared brought dead.The police were under pressure to crack the murder case because of the brutality with which the crime was committed. Inspector Arvind of the Crime Investigation Agency was handed over the investigation. He scanned the CCTV footage from the shop to the Chandimandir toll plaza. It came to light that Ahmed and Abid had come in a Toyota Innova. A carrier on the top of the SUV and the words ‘Om Sai Ram’ written on its windscreen helped in its identification. The CCTV footage of the Dappar and Panipat toll plazas was also scanned.The pictures of those sitting inside the SUV were matched with that of the CCTV footage of the shop.Jagdish Ram, who had driven the assailants to the shop, was the first to be arrested in the case. He spilled the beans following which Ahmed and Abid were nabbed. The accused had sold the jewellery items to Ram Gopal Verma, a jeweller. Some of the stolen ornaments were recovered from Abid’s wife Nasim Begum and son Sadiq. They were also arrested.After four years of the trial, Ahmed, Abid, Jagdish Ram, Ram Gopal Verma and Nasim Begum were convicted today. Mohd Sadiq was earlier declared a proclaimed offender. While Jagdish Ram belongs to Delhi, the other convicts are from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. The quantum of the sentence will be pronounced tomorrow.Shubham Verma, the victim’s elder brother, told The Tribune, “I want the strictest punishment for the killers, possibly capital punishment. Shivam’s death left emptiness in our home. My father Jagdish Raj Verma passed away three months ago in grief.”Shubham now runs the jewellery shop.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-guilty-of-killing-kalka-jewellers-son-188539
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two wholesale shops gutted in Sector 41 blaze||Two wholesale shops were gutted in a fire that broke out last night at Garg Complex in Badheri village, Sector 41-D.According to Sector 38 fire station officials, Pawan Com and Stationers on the ground floor and Sanskriti Fancy Dresses were burnt in the fire. The adjoining shops were partially affected.A fire call was received at 9.31 pm following which, six fire engines and boozers were pressed into service. Jagtar Singh, station fire officer, Sector 17, and Jasmeet Singh, sub-fire officer, Sector 38 fire station, along with teams, rushed to the spot.The fire squad, comprising leading fireman Bhupinder Singh, controlled the fire in about four hours. However, the whole operation lasted till 4.30 pm today. A fire official said the cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. However, it is suspected to have been caused by a short circuit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-wholesale-shops-gutted-in-sector-41-blaze-188541
24-12-2020||Mohali||2 cops held, co-accused identified in Mohali||In a swift action, the Mohali police have arrested the two cops, who have now been dismissed from the service, for an attempt to murder and a theft bid at a house in Sector 71.The cops, ASI Rashpreet Singh and Constable Devinder Singh, had struck at the house of the victim, Naresh Kumar, on the night of December 20. The third suspect in the case, the driver of the vehicle in which the cops had fled after the incident, has been identified as Vikas Sharma, a resident of Sambhalki village.According to the police, Vikas was employed as a security guard in Naresh Kumar’s firm, JTPL City, and tipped off the two cops about a large amount of money in the victim’s house.The pistol used in the crime was a licensed weapon and belonged to Vikas. The cops and Vikas knew each other for quite some time. The white car in which the suspects fled belonged to Davinder Singh, the police added. The police said raids were being carried out for his arrest.Investigation revealed that the trio had conspired to commit a theft and decided to share the spoils equally.Davinder Singh had recently joined the Mohali police after getting a job on compassionate grounds after his father’s death.Sources said Vikas and Davinder belonged to same Sambhalki village and knew each other well.On December 20, the disgraced cops, both in their early 30s, allegedly barged into the 54-year-old’s house and tried to rob him at gunpoint. Rashpreet hit the victim several times on the head with the butt of the pistol with the intention of killing him. Later, they fled in a car waiting outside. The duo, in their police uniform, failed in their bid to loot money or gold from the victim’s house, but took away the victim and his son’s mobile phone. The duo was absconding since then and dismissed from service with immediate effect.Mohali SSP Satinder Singh said, “There will be a detailed investigation and the suspects will be questioned about their involvement in such incidents in the past. The two cops have brought a bad name to the entire district police force.”The trio has been booked under Sections 307, 458, 382, 323 and 34 of the IPC and Section 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act at the Mataur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-cops-held-co-accused-identified-in-mohali-188543
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Virus claims one life in Chandigarh, 82 test +ve||Three Covid deaths, 105 cases in Mohali Mohali: Three Covid-19 deaths and 105 new cases cases were reported from the district here on Wednesday. As many as 152 more patients recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. There are now 1,624 active cases in the district. With three deaths on Wednesday, the toll has reached 334 in the district. Meanwhile, Additional District Magistrate Aashika Jain said passengers who arrived from the UK at the Mohali airport after November 25 would be tested for the virus. TNS15 contract infection in Panchkula districtPanchkula: The district on Wednesday reported 15 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 9,792. The toll remained 139. While 9,382 patients have defeated the virus so far, 271 cases are still active. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virus-claims-one-life-in-chandigarh-82-test-ve-188544
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Badminton Association to live-stream state badminton c’ship matches||In a first-of-its kind initiative, the Chandigarh Badminton Association (CBA) has decided to live-stream the Yonex Sunrise Chandigarh State Badminton Championship for the benefit of players and their parents.The association is hosting this championship from December 24 to 27 at the Sector 38 Sports Complex. And it has been decided that main draw matches, starting from December 25, will be live-streamed at videoFLAKES.tv.Due to Covid-19 restrictions, the association has prohibited entry of parents, friends and other players inside the sports complex.“The matches will be live streamed so that parents can easily watch their wards playing from their respective homes or work places,” said Col Raj Parmar (retd), tournament director and senior vice-president, CBA.As per the instructions, the CBA will sanitise playing arena, shuttles, courts and door handles at regular intervals. Only 12 players, who have their match fixed, will be allowed to enter the playing hall. There will be a separate area for warm-up, which can be used only before the match. Only one coach can accompany one player inside the playing hall. He/she will be allowed to coach the player from the designated place.“We have to be extra cautious since we are the first association in the city to conduct a state meet. We have been facing an unprecedented situation and have to act accordingly. In normal times, spectators including parents and other players would come here in large numbers,” said Surinder Mahajan, Secretary, CBA.“However, this time, we have to make sure about minimum presence of people for safeguarding players. So the live streaming of matches has been approved. It will be for the first time that matches will be live streamed by any association in this Covid-19 pandemic,” Mahajan added. “We have doubled the number of officials for supervising matches. We are likely to host good number of matches during this tournament,” said Mahajan.The tournament will be conducted in boys and girls (U-19) and senior (men and women) categories. “There will be singles, doubles and mixed doubles events for every age group. We have received an overwhelming response from players. The last nine months were really hard on us and on players. However, we hope that such championships will boost players’ confidence and make a way for bringing back the normal in world of sport,” Mahajan added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-badminton-association-to-live-stream-state-badminton-cship-matches-188545
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||PGI restarts online registration to book tele-consultation||The PGI’s tele-consultation, an initiative to serve registered outdoor patients at the hospital, that started on May 19, has gone a step further to facilitate patients by restarting the online registration facility to enable patients book their tele-consultation.SOPs for online registrationProf Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said, “In the thick of Covid-19, we had suspended OPDs fearing transmission of the contagious virus to patients considering the huge footfall at our OPDs. However, our initiative of tele-consultation gained popularity over time which has caused the demand to outstrip the provided quantum of service. So, we took this step to broad-base the service to meet increasing demand and cater to health needs of more of our non-Covid patients.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-restarts-online-registration-to-book-tele-consultation-188546
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab Engineering College Director resigns||In a surprising move, Prof Dheeraj Sanghi, Director, Punjab Engineering College (PEC), resigned from his post citing personal reasons.He will be serving till March 31, 2021. Sanghi (54) joined PEC from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Kanpur, in January 2019, and his term was to end in January 2024.“I was not enjoying. The decision was taken after two weeks of discussions with the UT Administrator and the Adviser. My resignation has been accepted,” said Sanghi.Asked about the reason behind the step, Sanghi added, “There are no specific reasons. Let’s not get into this discussion regarding reasons. I will be going back to Kanpur.”He submitted his resignation to Sarpreet Singh Gill, Secretary, Technical Education, UT Administration.Rumours hinted that Sanghi was not happy with the authority’s approach towards uplifting PEC’s status. Reports also suggested that Sanghi and Chairman, Board of Governors (BoG), PEC, were locked in a dispute earlier in July after which he had threatened to resign. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-engineering-college-director-resigns-188547
24-12-2020||Dera Bassi||All crushers sealed in Mubarikpur area, owners cry foul||In a major operation, the mining department today sealed all 80 crushers and screening plants in the Mubarikpur area of Dera Bassi, alleging that these units do not have the required clearances. A team, led by Mining Officer Simranjit Kaur Dhillon and accompanied by a police party, reached the Mubarikpur crusher zone in the morning and sealed 44 crushers and 36 screening plants in the area.The Crushers’ Association, on the other hand, opposed the move, terming it as “bullying”.The association president Amarjit Bansal said, “No crusher or plant owner was given time to show documents during the operation. Instead, direct action was taken today. The officials later said the requisite clearances were not there, whereas crushers and plants come under the MSME industry, which are commissioned after regular licensing.”Bansal rued that thousands of people were employed there. The sealing would result in a huge financial loss to the crusher and plant owners.Mining officials said, “The crusher and plant owners are required to keep the documents, including the records of raw and finished materials, ready on the spot, but they do not comply with it.”Sources said illegal mining activity on the Ghaggar river bed in the Mubarikpur area had come to a halt for some time but had resumed again. Two weeks ago, the Mubarikpur police had seized two poclain machines and booked unidentified persons under the Mining Act.Association vice-president Ravi Teja said, “We have called a meeting of all members tomorrow to decide our next course of action, including moving court. Mining officials have called us to the office with all papers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-crushers-sealed-in-mubarikpur-area-owners-cry-foul-188548
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Mull over quality of legal education, HC tells BCI||In a scathing observation on the quality of legal education in the country, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Bar Council of India (BCI) to mull over the issue as more than a few young lawyers were not up to the mark.Justice Rekha Mittal asserted that she would like to express that the BCI “should seriously dilate on the issue of maintaining the standard of legal education”. “Many new entrants in the legal profession are not up to the mark in drafting of petitions or assisting the court. Some of them are not confident enough to speak court language,” Justice Mittal observed.The observations came on a petition filed against the BCI and other respondents by the Chandigarh Educational Society through counsel HS Brar. The petitioner, among other things, was seeking directions to the BCI and another respondent to grant approval for starting Chandigarh Law College, Jhanjheri, from the academic session 2020-21.Justice Mittal also suggested that the BCI could take steps to ensure practical training to law students in its “real meaning and sense”. “It may also examine creating a portal or/and nodal agency to ensure compliance with BCI instructions, guidelines and 2008 rules by centres of legal education,” Justice Mittal added.Disposing of the matter, Justice Mittal also directed the BCI and another respondent to take a decision in the matter of approval expeditiously, preferably within three months. The direction came after Justice Mittal observed that the society indisputably had submitted an application on December 13, 2019, for grant of approval. “As the resolution passed by the BCI imposing moratorium of three years for approval of new law colleges/institutes has been set aside, the BCI is duty bound to process the application of the society in accordance with the 2008 rules/circulars/guidelines relevant in the context…,” Justice Mittal added.Justice Mittal made it clear that the BCI was to decide whether the society satisfied the requirements for grant of necessary approval after taking into consideration the relevant rules/circulars/guidelines as the court had not gone into the question of eligibility/non-eligibility of the society for grant of approval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mull-over-quality-of-legal-education-hc-tells-bci-188549
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Gangster Malkit Singh brought on production warrant||Gangster Malkit Singh, alias Nawab, has been brought here on production warrant by the Chandigarh police to investigate his role in a real estate businessman’s kidnapping who was released on payment of Rs 40 lakh, reported in 2016. Nawab was lodged in the Ferozepur jail. The police said his name had cropped-up during the interrogation of a suspect.The victim, Harminder Bajaj, a resident of Sector 35, was returning home in his car when the suspects blocked his way with their car near his house. They introduced themselves as CBI sleuths and kidnapped him. The kidnappers had demanded a ransom of Rs10 crore. The victim was made to speak to his business partner for the ransom money. The kidnappers collected Rs40 lakh from outside the house of Bajaj’s business partner at Phase 3B1, Mohali. Bajaj was released near Chappar Chiri and the kidnappers abandoned his car 1 km ahead. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangster-malkit-singh-brought-on-production-warrant-188550
24-12-2020||---||Aryan, Maitreyi win tennis titles||Mohali, December 23Second seed Aryan Thakur and Maitreyi Phogat won the Roots-AITA Challenge Series (CS-III) U-16 National Ranking championship today. Thakur won the boys’ U-16 title by defeating Aryan Arora 7-5, 6-2, whereas Maitreyi defeated Riya Kaushik 6-3, 7-5 to claim the girls’ U-16 title.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aryan-maitreyi-win-tennis-titles-188551
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Minerva Academy clinch 6-0 victory||Minerva Academy Football Club defeated Sher-e-Punjab by six goals in their final qualifying game of the Punjab Super League third division yesterday.Having already qualified for the second division with six points, the side made nine changes to their squad. Skipper Anwar Ali netted the opening goal in the 11th minute by converting a spot-kick. Gurmukh Singh doubled the lead in the 33rd minute.The side successfully sealed the first half with a two goal lead. Rhingam, thereafter, scored two back-to-back goals in the 53rd minute and 58th minute to make it 4-0 for the side.In the 78th minute, Hemant Thakur netted the team’s fifth goal, while Nikhil Mali netted the final goal in the last minute of the match. The side finished the qualifiers with nine points from three matches.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minerva-academy-clinch-6-0-victory-188552
24-12-2020||Panchkula||No action against campaigners flouting Covid norms||Following a letter from the state Election Commission (EC) that stated Covid-19 guidelines were being flouted with impunity by campaigners in Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections, Returning Officer-cum-ADC Mohd Imran Raza today presided over a meeting of mayoral candidates while four assistant returning officers met aspirants for councillors post to remind them of the pandemic norms laid down by the EC.Raza, however, made it clear no action had been taken so far by the administration in this regard.On Monday, the state Election Commission had written to the district administration to ensure that the Covid guidelines were followed by political parties and contesting candidates during campaigning.Meanwhile, in a telephonic conversation, State Election Commissioner Dalip Singh confirmed the development.“Even though we issued Covid-19 guidelines at the time of announcement of election, we wrote a reminder letter to district authorities concerned, including Panchkula, after campaign photographs from several districts came to our notice suggesting non-compliance of the Covid guidelines by parties and candidates,” he added.The state election body in fresh instructions has made it clear that anybody violating Covid-19 guidelines will be liable to proceeded against as per provisions of the Section 51 to 60, Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188, IPC, and other legal provisions of the Centre.Even though the daily Covid numbers in the district are coming down, the news of a more virulent virus strain identified in Britain has sparked fresh fears with the government suspending all flights from the United Kingdom until December 31.The photographs and other visual media shared by political parties of their daily campaigns indicate that they are tired of the pandemic and cocking a snook at the Covid guidelines issued by the state Election Commission.The parties and contesting candidates attract larger crowds in their political congregations with hope to convert their physical presence into votes.The greed to garner more votes makes it irrelevant for campaigners to abide by the Covid guidelines and put their audience in danger.Yesterday, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur canvassed in support of BJP candidates in Khatauli village (Barwala) and hundreds were in attendance with no social distancing and face masks. Even the Congress does not seem to be taking the guidelines seriously during campaigning.The local police said over 17,500 challans had been issued so far to people caught flouting Covid-19 guidelines in the district. Of the total, around 1,300 challans had been issued in December alone when parties began campaigning for polls. On being asked, the police clearly stated they haven’t taken any action or challaned any political party, contesting candidates and even those attending their gatherings for violation of the Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-action-against-campaigners-flouting-covid-norms-188553
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Two-bin vehicles replace rehris in Sec 1-30, finally||Two-bin waste vehicles today replaced rehris in Sector 1-30 with exception in some areas where the existing collectors removed waste through carts.Residents complained that the waste was not lifted from doorstep as per the previous arrangement. At some places, people did not get to know when the MC’s vehicles came playing jingles. Thus, garbage could not be lifted from several houses.Segregate waste yourselfDry waste (blue bin)Plastic (must be rinsed if soiled), paper, metal, rubber, thermocol, old mops, dusters, sponges, cosmetics, ceramics, wooden chips, hair and coconut shells.Wet waste (green bin)Vegetables, fruit peels, cooked food, leftovers, egg shells, chicken/fish bones, rotten fruits, tea bags, coffee grinds and leaf plates.Honey Brar, a resident of Sector 27, said: “The cart system to collect garbage was good as the workers picked it up themselves, but there is no person with the MC trucks to remove waste.”Dr Vinay S Dua, a resident of Sector 27, shared: “I have only senior citizens at home and the collectors come early in morning. I and my wife leave early for work. It will be very difficult for my parents (above 80 years) to take the bins out.”Vinod Vashisht, president, Government Houses RWS, Sector 22, said: “The MC vehicles came in some parts of the sector with a couple of helpers. Helpers picked waste from a few households after their owners requested them for the same. They skipped houses where the occupants were not present.”President of Sector 8 RWA RS Gill said: “Though yesterday a vehicle came and the workers requested occupants to put garbage in the bins, today no MC vehicle turned up.”Meanwhile, SS Lehri, president, Sector 24 RWA, added: “Garbage was picked by the old collectors only, though the MC vehicle came just to make an announcement in their area.”Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla commented: “In places such as EWS colony in Sector 30, people do not hear jingles. And by the time, they come down from the third floor, the vehicles would have left. The MC needs to guide people about timings of vehicles’ arrival and the garbage collection procedure.”Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora said: “It was the first day and there were some teething problems. Day by day, things will improve. Barring two-three sectors, all areas had our vehicles picking waste. About 30-40 per cent waste segregation was done on the first day today.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-bin-vehicles-replace-rehris-in-sec-1-30-finally-188554
24-12-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Amid new strain fears, UT mulls imposing night curfew||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 23Revellers just might have to ring in New Year sitting at home with the UT mulling over the imposition of a night curfew amid fears over the new strain of coronavirus discovered in the UK.The night curfew could be imposed for a week after Christmas from 10 pm to 6 am to prevent and contain the coronavirus strain. Details of UK-Asr flight passengers soughtThe UT Health Department has sought details from the Amritsar airport authority about the Chandigarh residents who may have been co-passengers in the flight that boarded eight residents of Punjab, who were later found Covid positive in Amritsar. The Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme cell is going to trace the Chandigarh residents who boarded the UK-Amritsar flight and will quarantine them for 14 days. Besides, the city residents who had returned from the UK in the past four weeks will also be followed upUT Adviser Manoj Parida said they had decided to wait and watch the situation for a few more days before taking a final call on imposing the night curfew in the city.During a review meeting on the pandemic, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore expressed concern about the new strain of Covid-19 virus.Badnore directed Principal Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Gupta and Director-General of Police Sanjay Kumar Beniwal to keep a track of eight travellers from the UK who tested positive in Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-new-strain-fears-ut-mulls-imposing-night-curfew-188555
24-12-2020||Mohali||GMADA hands over water supply, sewerage to MC||Ending the era of disparity in water and sewerage user charges in different sectors of Mohali, GMADA formally handed over the operation and maintenance of water supply and sewerage to the Municipal Corporation whereby all sectors in the jurisdiction of the corporation will be charged uniform user charges. The formal memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed by the XENs of both departments. This is a huge relief for residents of Sohana, Kumbra and other localities falling in Sector 66 to 69 and Sector 76 to 80, who were paying relatively much higher user charges as levied by GMADA.Sidhu dedicates 8 tankers to publicPunjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu flagged off a tractor and eight water tankers with a capacity of 4,000 litres each from the Municipal Bhawan, Mohali. Dedicating the water tankers, procured at a cost of Rs26 lakh, to the public, he said these would help augment the water supply in case of emergency requirement.GMADA charges an average of Rs10 per 1,000 litres, while the MC charges around Rs1.80 for the same quantity of water. “Hence, this MoU will result in an annual saving of approximately Rs7 to 8 crore for residents of these localities,” said Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu.Over Rs3.5 crore has been spent on internal development of various residential societies. Works worth Rs60 lakh are underway in HOUSEFED apartments, while another Rs40 lakh has been approved for additional works. Similarly, funds for additional works at Joginder Vihar and Guru Teg Complex have also been approved, he said.The state Local Bodies Department has passed instructions to the MC after approving these development works under Section 82 (3) of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976.The minister said open-air gyms would come up in every big park in the city. A resolution had been passed by the MC to start work on setting up open-air gyms in 20 such parks in the city.He flagged off a tractor and eight water tankers with a capacity of 4,000 litres each from the Municipal Bhawan, Mohali. Dedicating the water tankers, procured at a cost of Rs26 lakh, to the public, he said these would help augment the water supply in case of emergency requirement.He said by the first week of January, the MC would press into service a pruning machine worth Rs33 lakh. The machine would help prune trees as tall as 65 ft.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmada-hands-over-water-supply-sewerage-to-mc-188556
24-12-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula MC poll: Teach BJP a lesson, says Selja||Haryana Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja today called upon the Panchkula residents to teach the BJP a lesson for its anti-people and anti-farmer policies by defeating its candidates in the MC poll.She was addressing a public rally in support of Congress mayoral candidate Upinder Ahluwalia at Ramgarh.“It was the BJP’s own anti-people policies that are now paying back to it. The government is not listening to those whom it claimed to be working for after coming to power,” she said. The farmers’ agitation is an eye-opener for the nation and the BJP daily-dallying approach to solve the agitation reflects its agenda to sell the country in the hands of a few select people, she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-mc-poll-teach-bjp-a-lesson-says-selja-188568
24-12-2020||Panchkula||BJP candidate Kulbhushan Goyal to resolve lawyers’ concern||BJP mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal has stated that high turnout at his programmes show that the people have made up their mind to vote for the BJP in the coming Panchkula MC poll.“The Nepali Sabha, Brahmin Samaj, Punjabi Samaj, Agarwal Samaj and the Rajput Samaj have extended support to the BJP,” he said.At the District Bar Association programme, Goyal said he would address lawyers’ concerns, including the issue of parking, on priority. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-candidate-kulbhushan-goyal-to-resolve-lawyers-concern-188577
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Christmas spirit in Covid times: Midnight mass online||Haunted by the ‘ghost of Christmas Covid’, this year’s Xmas celebrations have moved to either virtual spaces or smaller, tight-knit groups of families and friends. While shopkeepers are ruing slow business because of lesser footfall, churches are routing mass services through online platforms to evade the virus. Small-scale Christmas decoration sellers are the worst hit.Services at Church on XmasOutside Christ the King Cathedral in Sector 19, Soni (name changed) is caught between winding up her shop and making the last sale at about 4pm. She says: “The MC officials came here today and have asked us to move to Sector 53. It’s a jungle and no one comes to shop for Christmas ornaments there. This is the only time of the year we can make an extra buck, but the officials are adamant.”Another vendor near the church, Saraswati Devi, shares, last year she made Rs 10,000 by selling these décor items in just three days. “It’s not as if we are setting up stalls here permanently. As it is not many people are visiting the church this year because of the pandemic, but the fact that MC officials have confiscated the Christmas decorations on display,” she adds.Selling Christmas trees and other festive symbols in Sector 20, Naveen Goyal, owner of Vijay Flour Mills, says only 25 per cent of business remains from what it was a year ago. “We are not getting as many visitors as we did last year,” he says. A few shops away, Kunal Jindal, owner of Gupta General Store, shares: “This year, we didn’t even get any wholesale decoration orders from hotels for Christmas celebrations. We are left with only 60 per cent sales and that is basically retail sales.”On celebrating Christmas this year, Shalini Khandelia, a resident of Sector 19, says, “We are restricting the party to close friends and family to keep the virus away.” From Mohali, Harman and Parveen possibly sum up the lesson learnt from the ‘Ghost of Christmas Covid’, “Lockdown has made us realise family’s worth and it has changed the social fabric. We will host a small Christmas party for family to celebrate the occasion.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/christmas-spirit-in-covid-times-midnight-mass-online-188606
24-12-2020||Chandigarh||Four booked for attacking family||Virtual Christmas party heldPatiala: A virtual Christmas Party was organised this week at British Co-Ed High School. Students, usual guests from village, community and deaf and blind schools could not attend the celebrations due to social distancing norm. However, the Christmas party was live-streamed. Students of the British Co-Ed School watched the party online and joined the staff in singing and celebrating from home. TNSResults declaredChandigarh: Panjab University has declared results of BVoc (Banking insurance and retailing) sixth semester; MCom (Accounts and finance) fourth semester; BVoc (Hospitality and tourism management) second semester; MA (Economics) fourth semester; MA (Hindi) fourth semester; PG diploma in marketing management second semester; MA (Political science) fourth semester; MA (English) fourth semester; master of physical education fourth semester; and MBA of executives (Honors school system) second semester. TNSP’kula MC Poll: duty magistrates appointedChandigarh: Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Wednesday appointed 12 duty magistrates for peaceful and fair conduct of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections. Each duty magistrate will be responsible for 10-12 polling booths. At least six supervisors have also been appointed and 12 patrolling parties formed. TNSFile grievances online nowChandigarh: Now, consumers will be able to file their grievances online with the Chandigarh State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission and forums with the launch of e-filing services on the occasion of National Consumer Day on Thursday. With the start of the e-filing system, the complainant can file his complaint online and need not physically visit the consumer court and the service can be availed of on web portal https://edaakhil.nic.in. TNSTwo arrested for bettingZirakpur: The police arrested two brothers on charges of betting, match-fixing and selling narcotics here on Wednesday. The suspects have been identified as Deepak Kingar and Amit Kingar, residents of KSM Road, Rajpura. Zirakpur SHO Rajpal Singh Gill said the police received information that the suspects were betting on cricket matches and selling drugs. They were arrested from a rented flat in Sigma City. The police recovered 11 injections, Rs60,000, an LED, 10 mobile phones and 300 gm of narcotic powder. TNSDiarrhoea cases in Dera BassiDera Bassi: The Health Department has collected five samples of water for testing from a locality near the grain market gurdwara in Ward No. 18 here after a dozen cases of diarrhoea were reported on Tuesday. The department has asked the Dera Bassi Municipal Council to address the problem of contaminated water in the area. Dera Bassi Civil Hospital SMO Sangeeta Jain said, ''A health team visited 90 houses in the area. Residents complained of contaminated water being supplied for the past several days." TNSFoggy weather likely for 4 daysChandigarh: It will be mainly dry weather during the next four days in the tricity. As per a Chandigarh Meteorological Department update, cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely for the next two or three days. Dense to very dense fog is also likely to develop at a few places during this period. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-booked-for-attacking-family-188621
