25-06-2020||---||Covid: 7 more positive cases surface in Mohali||Mohali, June 25Seven new positive coronavirus cases were recorded on Thursday, taking the number of total cases to 236 in the Mohali district, while seven patients have been discharged.The persons affected are: 31-year-old male from Baltana, 51-year-old male and 21-year-old female from Harmilap Nagar, 40-year-old male and 30-year-old female from Zirakpur, 65-year-old male from Dera Bassi and 50-year-old female from Dafarpur.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that male and female from Harmilap Nagar are contacts of positive patients from Bapu Dham Colony in Chandigarh. He said male from Zirakpur is a contact of a positive case, while the 30-year-old female is has returned from Canada. The male from Dera Bassi is a contact of a positive case, while the female from Dafarpur is ILI.Singh said that seven positive patients have been discharged from the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. They are a male and female from Dappar, a male from Baltana, three females and a male from Dera Bassi.Singh said that as of now, 178 have recovered. There are 55 active patients with three deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-7-more-positive-cases-surface-in-mohali-104422
25-06-2020||Mohali||Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini’s anticipatory bail extended till July 6||The interim bail of former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in anticipation of murder charges being added to the fresh FIR in the abduction and murder case of Balwant Singh Multani, was extended till July 6 on Thursday.The special public prosecutor had opposed the bail extension when it came up for hearing in the court of Additional District and Session Judge Monika Goyal here on Thursday.After recording the statement of special public prosecutor, the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Monika Goyal extended the interim bail till July 6.Advocate Sartej Singh Narula and special public persecutor had argued before the court that anticipatory bail granted to DGP Sumedh Singh Saini on murder charges without imposition of Section 302 of the IPC in the FIR is also not maintainable.He said it was said by the court that if Section 302 of the IPC is not added to the FIR by June 8 then the interim bail may be wrested.Narula said they have prayed before the court that it is conditional bail as the court while granting the bail had said that if Section 302 of the IPC is not added to the FIR by June 8 then this interim bail may be wrested.He further said that they have pleaded that Section 302 is still not added and in that case this must be read as infructuous and it cannot be extended.He said the defence itself is seeking adjournment of the case against transfer application and they must not be given the benefit of extension and got this statement brought on record in the court.  When the court of ADJ Monika Goyal questioned prosecution to produce any records if stay has been granted for extending the anticipatory bail period by any of the higher court in this matter, to which prosecution said that no stay has been granted till date after which the court extended the anticipatory bail time period till July 6.Earlier the interim bail was extended till June 25.  It is pertinent to mention here that District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Singh Rai had deferred the hearing on an application filed by Palwinder Singh Multani, brother of Balwant Singh Multani seeking transfer of the case from the court of Additional District and Session Judge till June 29.Till then, the latter’s court had restricted ADJ’s court to pronounce final orders on the case till the session judge decides upon transfer of the case.An FIR was registered afresh against former DGP Saini at Mataur police station accusing him of abduction of Balwant Singh Multani following the complaint of his brother Palwinder Singh Multani under Sections 364, 201, 330, 344, 219 and 120-B of IPC on May 6, at police station Mataur after which the DGP moved court seeking anticipatory bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-dgp-sumedh-singh-sainis-anticipatory-bail-extended-till-july-6-104381
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||No evening water supply today||Loot suspects in police custodyMohali: Three suspects, who had allegedly looted Rs 89,900 from a finance company on the Sohana-Landran road in a populated market of Sohana village, were produced in a local court here today. The court has sent them to two-day police custody. According to the police, Rs 68,000 have been recovered so far from the suspects — Vijay Kumar (24), Aakash Sisodia (25) and Vinod Kumar (24), all employees of the finance company and residents of Malout. The police have sought the remand for suspects to recover the pending amount. The two miscreants had looted Rs 89,900 from a woman employee at the counter. They also took her mobile phone. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera. The third suspect, Vinod, had helped the duo in committing the loot. TNSTwo covid-19 patients curedFatehgarh Sahib: Two women Covid patients, including an expectant mother, from Mandi Gobindgarh, who admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital Banur after they tested positive for Covid, were discharged from the hospital. Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, said the women had a travel history. TNSNIPER launches herbal teaChandigarh: The National Institutes of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Mohali, has developed an immunity booster herbal tea. The tea intends to strengthen body’s immunity so as to fight Covid. The tea is a combination of local herbs — ‘aswagandha’, ‘giloe’, ‘gulethi’, ‘tulsi’ and green tea. It can be taken thrice a day and is safe for the children and elderly. It is effective against seasonal flu as well. It is an in-house preparation of the institute as all herbs have been procured from the NIPER medical plant garden on the campus. Herbs are known to possess immuno-modulatory properties. TNSRoad rage: Two youths attackedZirakpur: In an incident of road rage, two youths riding a motorcycle were allegedly assaulted by a group of men at Zirakpur here on Tuesday. The injured have been identified as Shandeep, a resident of Zirakpur and his friend Pardeep Singh. According to sources, the incident happened when the victims were going towards Dera Bassi side from Zirakpur. When they reached near a dhaba on the highway, around 10-12 youths in two cars first hit their bike from the rear and then attacked them with swords. One of them even threatened to kill them, alleged a victim. The police have started an investigation into the case. TNS3 sand-laden tractors seizedPanchkula: The police claimed to have conducted a raid while acting on complaints of illegal mining in Batod village on the banks of Tangri on the intervening night of June 23-24. According to the police, they have seized three tractors and two trolleys loaded with sand during a raid last night. The confiscated vehicles were later shifted to Barwala police post. They were also challaned for carrying out illegal mining. Officials of the Mining Department said a penalty of Rs2.5 lakh will be imposed on each tractor trolley. Upon repeating the offence, they will have to pay twice penalty, they added. tnsMohali DC visits flood-prone areasZirakpur: Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan, along with officials of the Drainage Department, visited flood-prone areas at Bhankharpur, Tiwana, Jharmari and Nagla near Handesra on Tangri river and inspected the vulnerable spots there. He instructed officials of the Drainage Department to initiate timely action for cleaning the Sukhna choe at Zirakpur with a special emphasis on cleaning weed and other wild growth to save nearby agricultural lands from water overflow in case of downpour. tnsComputers stolen from schoolMohali: Goods worth several lakhs have allegedly been stolen from Government Middle School in Raipur Kalan. Sources said unidentified miscreants entered the school and decamped with three computer systems, an LCD screen, a printer and some other items. When school principal Spinder Kaur and other staff members reached the school, they found the locks of school rooms broken. The school authorities claimed that this was the sixth incident of theft at the school in the recent past. Earlier, goods worth several lakhs had been stolen but no action was taken by the police, said school authorities. Meanwhile, Paramjit Singh, in charge of the Seneta police post, said the police was investigating the matter from various angles. No arrests have been made in the case so far. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-evening-water-supply-today-104244
25-06-2020||---||Pumps to dewater Sector 11/15 underpass||Chandigarh, June 24In order to solve the problem of rainwater stagnation at Sector 11/15 underpass, the Municipal Corporation on Wednesday started the work of installing sump dewatering system here. The system is used to drain out accumulated water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pumps-to-dewater-sector-11-15-underpass-104243
25-06-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Jai Maa Mission head in critical condition||Swami Jyoti Maa Mahadev, head of the Jai Maa Mission of the Usha Mata Ji Trust Bassi, Pathana, has been tested positive for Covid-19.Currently admitted to Apollo Hospital in Ludhiana, his condition is reportedly critical.Spokesman of the trust said Swami Ji had diabetes and heart problem and was on a ventilator. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jai-maa-mission-head-in-critical-condition-104242
25-06-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Rainwater enters shops in Amloh||The rain today exposed the preparations made for the monsoon season by the Amloh Municipal Council.Rainwater entered shops in the main market and SAD (B) workers, led by Raju Khanna, in-charge, Amloh constituency, lodged a protest.Raju Khanna said the Amloh Municipal Council had failed to provide people with basic facilities. He said the MLA and ruling party leaders had been making false claims of development in the constituency, but in reality, no development work had been carried out. Rather, all welfare schemes initiated by the Badal government for the poor had been stopped, he said. He said the SAD (B) will continue to highlight the failures of the state government and their false claims to mislead the people. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rainwater-enters-shops-in-amloh-104241
25-06-2020||---||Kharar murder case cracked, 1 arrested||Our CorrespondentKharar, June 24The Kharar Sadar police have arrested Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Fazilka district, in connection with the murder of Sharanjit Kaur, whose body was found at her office at Gidhe Complex in Desu Majra village near here on December 11, 2019.Addressing the media here today, Ravjot Kaur Grewal, SP (Rural), Kharar DSP Pal Singh and Sadar SHO Sukhbir Singh said the accused had been remanded in five-day police custody by a local court.Grewal said a case of murder against the accused, Gurpreet Singh, was registered on the complaint of the deceased’s husband Paramjit Singh. “After committing the murder, the accused fled the spot. Now, the police have arrested him,” said Grewal.During the interrogation, Gurpreet Singh told the police that he was having a love affair with the deceased for a long time. He said he didn’t know that she was married. Both of them worked as immigration agents. When Gurpreet Singh came to know that the deceased was married and had a son and a daughter, a quarrel broke out between the two in the office. On December 11, Gurpreet Singh strangled her to death, he accepted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-murder-case-cracked-1-arrested-104240
25-06-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Indian Railways to focus on freight loading||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 24With partly operational passenger services during the ongoing lockdown, the Indian Railways is focusing on maximising its freight potential.There has been a 76.91 per cent rise in the division’s freight earnings in April and May.During the lockdown, the railways stepped up to ensure the supply of essential commodities, including food grains, coal to power houses, fertilisers, petroleum and time-tabled parcel services.At the Ambala division, food grains accounted for maximum freight loading. DRM GM Singh said, “The division has recorded a freight loading of food grains in almost 400 wagons daily, mainly of wheat and rice.”On the national front, the Indian Railways saw 94 per cent increase in the loading of food grains, when compared to last year during the lockdown phase of April and May. In the opening up phase, in June, it witnessed a revival of freight loading.B\/Policy interventionsTo improve its freight revenue, the Indian Railways is looking to better transit time by increasing the speed of freight trains from 23kmph to 41kmph. GM Singh said, “We are already running the freight trains at 41 to 43 kmph and will increase it to 50kmph for faster commute.”Previously, the railway sector has introduced several relaxations in its policies, including free transportation of empty containers and empty flat wagons liberal use of railway sheds. The railways also announced a 50 per cent concession on flyash on normal tariff from May 10 onwards and introduced a round trip traffic policy with discounted rates for traffic offering in both directions. It has also introduced eT-RR (Electronic Transmission of Railway Receipts).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/indian-railways-to-focus-on-freight-loading-104239
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||On a mission to alleviate hunger||Under its #Mission30M initiative, Robin Hood Army (RHA) aims to serve staple food to 30 million of the most affected people across rural and urban areas within 45 days.#Mission30M is the largest food relief effort by civic society to fight Covid.As every RHA initiative, each volunteer will offer their service in their free time and there will be no monetary donation involved. The Chandigarh Chapter of the RHA aims to serve the citizens in the urban and rural areas of Panchkula, Zirakpur, Chandigarh, Mohali and Kharar with necessities for 45 continuous days from July 1 to August 15.Anyone can join this global effort by signing up on the website: www.robinhoodarmy.com/mission30M, and can contribute by donating dry ration, freshly prepared food and safety equipment such as masks, gloves, sanitisers, etc. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/on-a-mission-to-alleviate-hunger-104238
25-06-2020||Mohali||Rain disrupts traffic in Mohali||The first monsoon showers heaped misery on commuters as long traffic jams were witnessed on various roads in and around Mohali.One of the longest traffic jams was witnessed on the national highway from Desu Majra village to New Sunny Enclave gate and ahead today morning.Commuters on the road underneath the Kharar flyover were worst-hit due to narrow road. They remained stuck for more than an hour. “We are stuck here for the past one hour. We were going for the repair work of an electricity transformer near Sunny Enclave,” said Tarsem Lal, a lineman. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-disrupts-traffic-in-mohali-104237
25-06-2020||---||Man shot dead over land dispute in Ambala Cantonment||Ambala, June 24A man in his 40s was shot dead over a land dispute case near Manglai village, which falls under the jurisdiction of Mahesh Nagar police station, in Ambala Cantonment here today.The deceased has been identified as Amarjeet, a resident of Fulelmajra village of the Saha block. The murder is the fallout of a clash between two groups that took place in Fulelmajra village yesterday.In his complaint to the police, Sahil Pal, son of the deceased, alleged that around 5 am, when he, along with his father Amarjeet and uncle Jarnail Singh, was going to Manglai village for a walk, three men — Sagar, Lucky and Ravi — came on a motorcycle and stopped his father Amarjeet. Sagar shot him in the head and then they managed to flee. Lucky was riding the motorcycle and Ravi was accompanying them.Sahil alleged that while fleeing, the suspects said they had taken the revenge of the clash that happened yesterday. Amarjeet was taken to the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, where he was declared dead.The police have recovered a pistol from the spot. A case has been registered against Sagar, Lucky, Ravi, Vijay Kumar, Sarpanch, Fulelmajra village, Vinod, Karnial, Rajinder, Binni, Mahinder and others under Sections 302, 120B of the Indian Penal Code and 25 of the Arms Act at the Mahesh Nagar police station.Amarjeet had reportedly suffered injury during a clash on Tuesday too. Meanwhile, to maintain the law and order, a police force has been deployed in Fulelmajra village. The body of the victim has been handed over to the family after the post-mortem examination.Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal visited the hospital to take stock of the situation.Four injured in MohaliMohali: Four members of a family were seriously injured over a land dispute in Bharatpur village. Rajinder Singh, one of the injured, said a quarrel had broken out between him and his relatives over a piece of land a few days ago. Some of his family members were seriously injured in the altercation, he added. The injured were taken to the GMSH-16, Chandigarh. Gurwinder Singh of the opposite party was also undergoing treatment at the Phase 6 Civil Hospital here. The victim’s family alleged that Gurwinder admitted himself to the hospital to gain sympathy. They also alleged that instead of taking action against the attackers, the Sohana police had registered a false case against the injured for molesting a woman of the village. Meanwhile, Satpal Singh, ASI, Sohana police station, said all allegations against the police were baseless and fabricated. He said Gurwinder was beaten up by Rajinder Singh and his accomplices. The ASI said a case has been registered against Rajinder Singh and others. He said the statements of Rajinder Singh have also been recorded but his medical report has not been received by the police yet. Upon receipt of the report, appropriate action will be taken against the other party, he added. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-shot-dead-over-land-dispute-in-ambala-cantonment-104236
25-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Dog sterilisation drive a non-starter in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 24The Municipal Corporation’s (MC) sterilisation drive to control the population of stray dogs has found no takers. The civic body failed to find any agency in several tenders floated in the past 10 months.The contract period of the firm, which was doing the job earlier, had also expired. Following which, the corporation could not engage anyone to do the job.Now, the MC is looking forward at deploying a veterinary doctor for the task. “The MC has engaged two veterinary doctors on contractual basis through outsourcing for animal slaughterhouse. The service of one veterinary doctor can be utilised for sterilising dogs in addition to his current duty. One veterinary pharmacist will assist him,” read an agenda, which will be put up before MC’s Finance and Contract Committee meeting on June 25 for the approval.Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, Federation of Sectors Welfare Associations of Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said, “It is shocking to know that the MC has failed to do anything regarding stray dog menace. Residents, especially senior citizens, avoid visiting parks in some areas fearing dog bite.”The two dedicated dispensaries in Sector 19 and 38 receive about 300 cases of dog bites per month. Patients from other states also come here for treatment. Many other patients receive treatment at other government and private hospitals in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dog-sterilisation-drive-a-non-starter-in-chandigarh-104235
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets notice over plea on DEO’s appointment||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued notice to the UT Administration on an application challenging the appointment of Harbir Singh as the UT DEO.The notice for August 17 by the Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I Mehta came on the application filed by former DEO Anujit Kaur through senior advocate DS Patwalia and Gaurav Rana. Harbir Singh is slated to replace present incumbent Alka Mehta.In her plea, Anujit Kaur submitted that she should have been allowed to continue on the post, being the senior-most in the department. Patwalia, on her behalf, has sought directions to the Education Department to conduct a regular departmental promotion committee (DPC).The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that Mehta was appointed the DEO in November 2019, replacing Anujit.Following the Education Department’s decision, Anujit challenged the orders before the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), which stayed Mehta’s appointment. As a consequence, Mehta moved the HC challenging the CAT orders.The court on January 6 stayed the CAT order and allowed Mehta to continue. The Bench observed that Mehta had joined on the DEO’s post on November 27, 2019, and had continued to work till the passing of the impugned order dated December 24, 2019, by the CAT. The tribunal, the Bench observed, had stayed the initial transfer of Anujit from the post. Anujit added the department, instead of resolving the issue, had passed a fresh order, which would further complicate the matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gets-notice-over-plea-on-deos-appointment-104234
25-06-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Attachment notices for top defaulter guests of CITCO||Tribune news serviceChandigarh, June 24The court of TPS Randhawa, Civil Judge (Senior Division), today issued notices to the biggest defaulter guests of CITCO for the attachment of their Audi and Chevrolet Cruze for the recovery of pending bills of nearly Rs19 lakh plus interest.CITCO filed the execution appeal for the implementation of the court order passed on its civil suit filed for the recovery of the amount.TPS Randhawa, in the order dated March 7, 2020, said the defendants (defaulters) were liable to pay the principal amount of Rs18,96,076 to the CITCO hotel jointly and severally.In its order, the judge said the evidence of CITCO had remained unrebutted and unchallenged. Accordingly, the suit of the plaintiff (CITCO) deserved to be decreed in its favour and it was held entitled to 9 per cent per annum interest on principal amount of Rs18,96,076 with effect from October 15, 2018, till the decree of the suit and 6 per cent future interest till the realisation of the amount.Ashwani Kumar Chopra and Ramnik Bansal had stayed in Hotel Shivalikview for months without paying bills in 2018. When the guests did not pay the bills, CITCO authorities lodged a DDR against both guests for non-payment of outstanding dues against them and seized their Audi and Chevrolet Cruze cars.The authorities tried their best to recover the arrears through talks, but when all efforts failed, they filed a case in the court.CITCO filed two cases. One criminal case was filed after cheques given by the accused were dishonoured. Another civil case was filed to recover the pending amount.The high-end cars, Audi and Chevrolet Cruze, of the defaulters had been lying parked in front of Hotel Shivalikview for around two years. Umang Bansal, law officer, CITCO, said CITCO was already in a hurry to get the vehicles auctioned so that the principal amount, along with interest, be recovered. The case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/attachment-notices-for-top-defaulter-guests-of-citco-104233
25-06-2020||---||100 cadets part of inter-state webinar||Chandigarh, June 24As many as 100 NCC cadets from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh Directorate interacted with their counterparts from the Karnataka and Goa NCC Directorate, during the ongoing webinar series on “Ek Bharat Shreshta Bharat”.“The cadets are participating from their respective houses and learning about varied traditions and culture and also picking up basics of languages of other regions,” said Gp Capt MR Pandeya, Commanding Officer of No.1 Chandigarh NCC Squadron.“I am excited about this new experience and interaction with cadets from other parts of the country. This is a unique opportunity since we cannot travel to other regions,” said Cadet Shakti Raj from Karnataka.“Besides learning language, customs and practices of people in the Southern parts of India, we are also exchanging details of important historical places in each other’s states,” Cadet Aishpreet Matharu from Chandigarh said..This is a mutual learning experience, besides developing the bond of brotherhood and the sense of belongingness to each other,” said Brigadier Harsh Chhibber, NCC Group Commander, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/100-cadets-part-of-inter-state-webinar-104232
25-06-2020||---||2 schools inaugurated in Panchkula||Panchkula, June 24Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar and Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today inaugurated two schools — Government Senior Secondary School in Sector 26 and an English-medium primary school in Sector 31.According to officials, the Sector 26 school was built on 4.98 acre for Rs7.86 crore. The Sector 31 school was constructed on 1.10 acre for Rs1.9 crore.Gujjar said the government pledged to make Panchkula an education hub in the state.He said the state would have 1,405 English-medium primary schools of which 418 had already been inaugurated and 987 would be opened soon.“The Khattar government is constantly working to ensure quality education in government schools. As many as 98 model Sanskriti schools will come up in each block for the underprivileged children,” he added.Haryana Speaker Gupta said: “Our government has brought many development projects to trans-Ghaggar sectors unlike previous governments which neglected these. The National Institute of Fashion Design is a testament to what we say. The building of the institute was being constructed for Rs150 crore.” Similarly, a polytechnic-cum-multiskill centre was also coming up for Rs20 crore, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-schools-inaugurated-in-panchkula-104231
25-06-2020||---||Panic grips Panjab University as employee tests positive||Chandigarh, June 24Panic gripped Panjab University (PU) as one of its employees tested positive for Covid today.The employee (37) stays with her in-laws in Sector 29, but was in regular contact with her family members who stay on the PU campus. The employee was posted at the Re-evaluation Branch of the Administration Block and has been coming to work as per the instructions. Her brother works as an assistant programmer and her sister is posted at the DSW office, say sources.Reportedly, the woman contracted infection from one of her relatives undergoing treatment at the PGI. “One of her relatives from Himachal Pradesh was at the PGI. The contact was scheduled to undergo a surgery. As a precaution, all family members of the PU employee have been asked to quarantine themselves and contact tracing has started,” said the source.“The employee has four direct contacts at the PU. Her parents, brother and sister stay on the campus, while she stays in Sector 29. All this while, she was in regular contact with her family. She had visited the Establishment Branch, Accounts Branch and Audit Branch. It is being alleged that her brother recently visited Uttar Pradesh,” said another source.In a message to the fraternity, the PU Registrar said: “Taking cognizance of the fact that an employee posted in the Re-evaluation Branch is Covid positive and that her family members may have been in contact with employees of other branches, the matter was discussed with the authorities. After getting the consent of the PU Vice-Chancellor, it has been decided that as a matter of caution, the Administration Block and the Aruna Ranjit Chandra Hall shall remain closed for sanitisation today. Meanwhile, all officers (Deputy Registrars and Assistant Registrars) posted in these blocks shall seek information from officials under their charge as to whether they had any contact with the employee who tested positive.”Building to remain closedAs a precautionary measure, the Administrative Block and the Aruna Ranjit Chandra Hall will remain closed till June 26. Prof Karamjeet Singh, Registrar, said if there was any scheduled meeting or the last date for the submission of document during these days, the same stand postponed to the next working day. “The situation will be reviewed on June 26 for further course of action,” said the Registrar. The authorities have also started seeking details from the campus residents asking them to share details of any visitors or their travel history.Meanwhile, a PU Syndicate meeting, which was schedule to be held on June 25, has been postponed till July 14.30 contacts tracedThe PU authorities confirmed that around 30 contacts of the employee have been identified and asked to quarantine themselves as a precautionary measure. A few of the identified contacts stay on the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panic-grips-panjab-university-as-employee-tests-positive-104230
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||BCom student found hanging from tree||A 26-year-old youth, who was pursuing BCom from Delhi, reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree in a forest area near Colony No. 4, Industrial Area, Phase I, last night.The victim has been identified as Gaurav, a resident of Colony No. 4. The police said they received information about the incident around 7.30 am.The police said according to a statement of the victim’s father, Naresh, his son had “gone to the washroom around 2 am and didn’t return”. He had come to stay with his parents following the lockdown due to Covid-19. No suicide note was found from the spot. The police have ruled out any foul play behind the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bcom-student-found-hanging-from-tree-104226
25-06-2020||---||Staff nurse among 2 infected in Panchkula||Panchkula, June 24Health official +ve, to count in AmbalaThe Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “One more health official deployed at the Sector 6 hospital was found positive on Wednesday, but would be added to the Ambala tally.”A 25-year-old staff nurse deployed at the Sector 6 Civil Hospital was among two persons found positive for Covid-19 today. She is believed to have contracted the virus from her infected brother when he visited her house at Majri village from Kaithal.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “She was deployed in the isolation ward at the Civil Hospital, but caught the virus during a break from duty. We have begun a contact-tracing exercise to isolate her contacts, including staff members of the Civil Hospital.”The second patient is a 40-year-old man from Sector 2. He was found negative for Covid a month ago.He was planning to leave the district for work and decided to get himself tested before leaving and found himself positive. He has been admitted to the PGI.According to an official, the Health Department is sampling around 50 persons visiting the district each day.Health officials are also focusing on testing street vendors. Yesterday, street vendors in Sector 20 were sampled randomly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/staff-nurse-among-2-infected-in-panchkula-104225
25-06-2020||---||PU staffer, Khuda Lahora woman +ve||Chandigarh, June 24A 37-year-old employee of Panjab University is among two Covid cases reported from the city today.The woman, a resident of Sector 29-B, is posted in the re-evaluation branch. She had attended the office till Friday. After the case surfaced in the university today, two buildings were partially sealed and sanitised.The employee’s three family contacts, who live on the campus, have been quarantined. The UT Health Department has identified her 10 workplace contacts. Six of them are from the city, three from Punjab and one from Panchkula. They have been put under home quarantine.As per officials, the PU employee is a family contact of a Covid patient from Himachal Pradesh, who is admitted to the PGI.A 38-year-old woman from Khuda Lahora also tested positive for the virus today. She is a family contact of a Covid patient from Sector 24.With the two fresh cases reported today, the infection tally of the city has risen to 420.Baltana woman contracts virusMohali: A 25-year-old woman from Baltana was diagnosed with Covid on Wednesday. She is a contact of a Covid patient. So far, Mohali district has recorded 227 infections. While 171 patients have defeated the virus, three succumbed to it. There are 53 active cases in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-staffer-khuda-lahora-woman-ve-104208
25-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cop dragged on jeep, injured||A head constable was injured after a man dragged him for several metres on his jeep at Sector 48 after the cop asked its driver to show the documents of the vehicle.According to the police, Head Constable Varinder Singh (40), who is posted at the Sector 49 police station, along with Constable Narinder Kumar, was on duty at a naka near the motor market in Sector 48 last evening.The cop reported that he saw a jeep (PB11CB6830) coming from the motor market side in which loud music was being played. He claimed that the front number plate of the vehicle was broken.The jeep driver was signalled to stop and was asked to show the documents of the vehicle. The cop alleged that instead of showing the documents, the jeep driver accelerated the vehicle following which the cop’s hand got stuck in a window of the vehicle and he was dragged for several metres before he fell on the road.The jeep driver sped away from the spot. The cop received injuries on a shoulder, a leg and an arm. He was taken to the GMCH-32. A case has been registered at the Sector 49 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cop-dragged-on-jeep-injured-104200
25-06-2020||Naina Mishra||At 606/L, Chandigarh TB notification rate country’s highest||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 24For every one lakh persons in the city, 606 were notified for tuberculosis (TB) in 2019, the highest notification rate in the country.According to the annual “India TB-2020 Report” released by the Centre today, the city has been providing diagnostic care for population beyond its boundaries.Dr Ashok Bhardwaj, member, Zonal Task Force on National TB Elimination Programme (Northern Region), said, “Chandigarh is the feeder for Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Any institute that diagnoses a patient has to notify the case. Thus, Chandigarh has the highest notification rate.”Also read: India missed 2.9L TB cases in 2019, down from 10L previouslyAfter taking into account patient movement post-diagnosis, the TB notification rate of Chandigarh is 306 per lakh, which is the second highest in the country. At 520 per lakh, Delhi has the highest notification rate.The total number of notified TB cases in the city is 7,026, of which around 56 per cent (3,975) are males and around 43 per cent (3,036) females. At least 7 per cent (527) of the notified cases are paediatric.Of the notified cases, 3,557 were enrolled in health care facilities. These were calculated after taking into consideration patients who have moved out and those who have come in from other states. As many as 3,828 patients moved to other states while 359 came in from other states.8 per cent infected with HIV tooApproximately 8 per cent of patients had HIV and TB.Dr Sonu Goel of the School of Community Medicine, PGI, said, “TB patients are more vulnerable to HIV as they are immune-compromised. These are ‘cross-programmes’ of both HIV and TB as there is always a chance of a TB patient getting infected with HIV and vice versa. A TB patient should be tested for HIV and diabetes.”Cure rate improvesAt health facilities in the public sector, the cure rate has increased to 67 per cent from 54 per cent a year before. The death rate has slipped from 3.4 per cent to 3 per cent in the public sector, whereas for the private sector the death rate inflated to 6 per cent from 1 per cent a year before.Chandigarh has reported 30,157 presumptive TB cases, which refers to a patient who shows symptoms or signs suggestive of TB.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-606-l-chandigarh-tb-notification-rate-countrys-highest-104199
25-06-2020||Saurabh Malik||Promotion necessary ingredient of service: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 24Promotion is a necessary ingredient of any service, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled. It has made it clear that prospects of promotion were a motivating force for an employee and capable of bringing about greater efficiency in his functioning.Justice Arun Monga of the HC has also ruled that an employee was entitled to know about his future prospects while accepting a job offer. “An employee must know what is in store for him in future if he performs. Accordingly, he can then take a conscious call to accept or not the employment terms offered to him at the time of joining itself,” Justice Monga asserted.In his detailed order, Justice Monga added that the prospects of promotion gave an employee a sense of security and boosted his morale, apart from inculcating the motivation of “inter se outperformance”.“It promotes efficiency, healthy competition and provides wind beneath the wings of a outperformer to fly higher in pursuit of his laurels,” Justice Monga added. The assertion by Justice Monga came in a case revolving around the issue of framing a promotion policy.Justice Monga has already observed in the matter that it was but natural that denial of promotion to the petitioners in the absence of promotion avenues would cause heartburn, especially when others were being given the benefit.Justice Monga was hearing an application filed in the case of Mili Bansal nee Gupta and other petitioners against Panjab University and other respondents for framing a policy for the faculty of Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital.The Bench had in May last year directed Panjab University to take up the matter with the authorities concerned before taking a final decision on framing the policy. For the purpose, the Bench had set a four-month deadline from the date of receiving a certified copy of the order.In its application, the university had subsequently sought extension to implement the High Court’s May 2019 orders. Taking up the matter, Justice Monga asserted that the university was under a moral and legal obligation to finalise the existing promotion policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/promotion-necessary-ingredient-of-service-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-104197
25-06-2020||Recovery of disembodied feet||Chandigarh Police add murder charge to FIR, continue search||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 24A day after disembodied feet and a foetus were found in Sector 17, the UT police continued their search in the area today.The police had registered a case under Section 318 of the IPC yesterday. The police added Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the IPC to the case today.A SBI manager, who was having a walk, had seen a disembodied foot wrapped in a newspaper on the rear side of the SBI building following which he had informed the police. During search, another disembodied foot and a female foetus were found.Cops today searched the nearby areas, including Sector 17, 18, 8 and 9. A drone was also used to carry out the search. “We conducted an extensive search to check if any other body part was dumped in the area, including the backyard of houses and offices,” said a police official.The search was also carried out on the road separating Sector 8 and 9.“We are working on various theories and seeking assistance of doctors as well as CFSL experts,” said a police official. Meanwhile, cops are also investigating whether any woman had recently gone missing from the city or nearby areas. The autopsy of the foetus was conducted at the GMSH, Sector 16, today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-add-murder-charge-to-fir-continue-search-104190
25-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh may go the Punjab way with weekend curbs||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 24Concerned over the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the city may also go the Punjab way in imposing a lockdown on weekends.“If there is a drastic rise in the number of cases or if residents continue to violate social distancing norms, Chandigarh could opt for weekend closure of markets or curfew on weekends as has been done in Punjab and other states,” said an official, adding that this was the view that emerged during the daily war room meeting presided over by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today.The city has already seen 420 positive cases. The authorities are also worried because earlier a majority of the cases were being reported from Bapu Dham Colony only, but now cases are surfacing from various sectors. It has been noticed that a number of cases are of outsiders.In Punjab, only shops dealing with essential commodities/services remain open on all days, while other shops, whether standalone or in shopping malls, remain closed on Sundays. On Saturdays, these are open till 5 pm. Restaurants – for takeaway/home delivery only – and liquor shops continue to be open till 8 pm on all days. Besides, the inter-district movement is barred except for e-pass holders during the weekends and holidays. Similar restrictions may be applied to the UT as well.Jail for violating home quarantine normsThe Administrator directed the Director General of Police to ensure that vehicles bearing registration numbers of other areas and bringing visitors from outside are checked at the borders and their details obtained for subsequent monitoring.Badnore asked officials to enhance vigil and ensure that those who violate social distancing and other guidelines are penalised through a special drive.The Administrator directed the DC to ensure that all visitors from outside the tricity are monitored for symptoms. They should not be allowed to violate the quarantine stipulations. The authorities have already stated that visitors from outside the tricity who do not isolating themselves at home for 14 days will be fined Rs2,000 and may have to spend six months in jail or pay another fine of up to Rs1,000. Home quarantine is mandatory for all those staying in city for more than three days. He ordered that all pregnant women admitted to hospitals must be mandatorily tested for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-may-go-the-punjab-way-with-weekend-curbs-104186
25-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Monsoon hits Chandigarh 4 days in advance||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 24The monsoon hit the City Beautiful today, four days ahead of its normal onset.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, the monsoon normally reaches the city on June 28 and lasts till September 25. It is predicted that the monsoon will withdraw on its normal date.As per records of five years available with the department, it is the earliest monsoon onset in the city. In 2015, the monsoon had arrived on June 25.This year, the city is expected to witness normal rainfall of 840 mm. “This year, the monsoon will be good for agriculture. There will be low chances of monsoon-related diseases. Groundwater situation will improve too,” Met Director Surender Paul told Chandigarh Tribune.On the first day of the monsoon, the city recorded 23.8 mm of rainfall. For the next two days, there is a forecast of generally cloudy conditions. Thundery development/light rain is likely too. The city today recorded the maximum temperature of 33.3°C, which is four degrees less than normal, and the minimum 29.4°C, which is five degrees more than normal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/monsoon-hits-chandigarh-4-days-in-advance-104150
