25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 29 COVID-19 fresh cases; UT's tally at 852||Chandigarh reports 29 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the Union Territory's total to 852.The city's death toll stands at 13.Out of the 29 infections, a 29-year-old man, who works at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh, tested COVID-19 positive.Over 54 samples of COVID-19 results are awaited.The city reports 284 active cases, and 555 recovered from the deadly disease.Earlier, the city reported 23 cases on Friday.A 52-year-old woman from Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh was admitted to the Emergency of the PGI for the treatment of Parkinson’s on June 27.Later, she was shifted to the ICU and then the neurology ward on July 3. She was accompanied by her son and a daughter.Her son developed COVID symptoms and was advised to go for a test. His reports came out positive on July 23.Samples of eight patients admitted to the same ward were taken for testing.They wouldn't be added to the UT's tally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-29-covid-19-fresh-cases-uts-tally-at-852-117842
25-07-2020||New Delhi||2021 edition of Khelo India Youth Games to be held in Panchkula||The 2021 edition of the Khelo India Youth Games will be held after the Tokyo Olympics in Panchkula, Haryana, Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju announced on Saturday.In a video conference in which he was also joined by Haryana Chief Minister Manohal Lal Khattar and state Sports Minister Sandeep Singh, Rijiju said that an official announcement of the dates will be made only after the postponed Tokyo Games. Furthermore, he also said that the government had planned to hold the fourth edition of the Khelo India Youth Games later in the year but it won't be possible now due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "We had planned to hold an edition of the Khelo India games in November-December this year but that will not be happening now because of the pandemic. So the edition of Khelo India that has been awarded to Haryana is the 2021 Khelo India," said Rijiju. "After the Olympics, I will speak to the Chief Minister and Sports Minister Sandeep Singh and will decide upon a date for the Games. Preparations for the Games will start as soon as the Tokyo Olympics end and the work on infrastructure can start right now." The Tokyo Olympics is scheduled to be held from July 23 to August 8 next year."Haryana is a centre for sports," said Khattar."In Khelo India itself Haryana took the top spot in 2018 and in 2020, we were second and won 200 medals. Our sports administration is the best in the country and the government gives more prize money for medal winners than anywhere in the country. We also give a lot of job opportunities to our athletes. Sports is a very important part of the lives of the people in our state. "Panchkula is part of a tricity with Mohali and Chandigarh and there are lots of facilities for accommodating athletes. For tourists, Panchkula is a gateway to Himachal Pradesh and people will fall in love with the natural beauty of the place. There are all sorts of facilities for sports in the city and in case the need arises, facilities in the vicinity of the city can also be used to stage a few events." IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2021-edition-of-khelo-india-youth-games-to-be-held-in-panchkula-117839
25-07-2020||---||Former Manimajra SHO sent to four-day police remand in graft case||Chandigarh, July 25A special CBI court on Saturday sent former Manimajra SHO Jaswinder Kaur to four-day police remand in a graft case.The court of Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI, in its order observed: “In order to unearth the larger conspiracy entered into between accused Jaswinder Kaur, Bhagwan Singh and other accused, police remand of accused Jaswinder Kaur is required to be granted.”Jaswinder Kaur, along with an alleged conduit, Bhagwan Singh, was booked by the CBI under Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1998, and Sections 120-B and 467 of the IPC on June 29 on charges of seeking Rs 5 lakh bribe from Manimajra resident Gurdeep Singh.“Further, police remand is also required, as there is recorded conversation and its transcriptions between accused Jaswinder Kaur and Bhagwan Singh. Accordingly, police remand of accused is granted to the CBI for four days up to July 29, 2020,” ordered the court.Gurdeep had told the CBI that he had already paid Rs 2 lakh to Jaswinder Kaur for not lodging a cheating case against him and was to pay Rs 3 lakh more.Jaswinder was informed by the CBI to join investigation on June 30, but she deliberately and intentionally absconded and did not join investigation. Finally, she surrendered before the CBI court on Saturday.The CBI in its petition submitted that police remand of the accused was required to unearth the larger conspiracy.The investigative agency further submitted that subsequent conduct of the accused was highly deplorable and against the spirit of rule of law and prayed to grant five days police remand of the accused.On the other hand, counsel for accused submitted that she had been falsely implicated in the present case.The prosecution submitted that Jaswinder had demanded and received a bribe through accused Bhagwan Singh, who is already in judicial custody.Meanwhile, on an application moved by the accused, the court allowed one of her counsels to meet the accused for one hour daily during her police custody from 5 pm to 6 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-manimajra-sho-sent-to-four-day-police-remand-in-graft-case-117838
25-07-2020||---||Encounter leaves society residents panicky||Mohali, July 24Terror gripped Aman Homes near Sunny Enclave in Kharar after a brief encounter between the police and gangsters here today.The Organised Crime Control Unit of the Punjab Police, in a joint operation with the Mohali and Jagraon police, arrested five gangsters during the encounter at Aman Homes. A gangster suffered injuries in the incident.The police recovered six weapons from the gangsters. Around 10 gunshots were fired during the encounter, which lasted over 20 minutes.Amarjit Singh, a guard at the society, said: “I was at the gate when the police reached and asked me to take them to the flat on the first floor where the suspects were living. When the firing started, I was standing behind the cops and was traumatised.”Bhupinder Singh, a resident of the society, said: “I received a call from my neighbour that a large number of cops had reached a flat. He asked me to lock all doors and windows of the house. We kept all doors shut for around an hour and a half. When I switched on the TV, I was shocked to see the footage of my society on news channels about the encounter. We were afraid after hearing the gunshots.”Harcharan Singh, owner of the flat where the suspects were living since July 10, said he had completed all formalities regarding the police verification of tenants.Inspector Sukhveer Singh, SHO, said: “We have registered a case against the suspects under Sections 307, 353, 186 and 120-B of the IPC and under the Arms Act. Police verification of the suspects was not completed as it was still under process with their broker.”According to the police, the gangsters had taken a flat on rent in Aman Homes through a broker, Mani, 10 days ago. A girl, Priyanka, also a broker, brought the gangsters to Mani. Flat owner Harcharan Singh did not complete the police verification before renting out his flat. Mani said he had asked the tenants to give their photographs to be affixed on the police verification form, but he did not get these. However, their police verification forms were filled. The police will also include brokers Mani and Priyanka in the probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/encounter-leaves-society-residents-panicky-117526
25-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali sees 19 fresh cases, 22 recoveries||As many as 19 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 here today, taking the district tally to 662.The affected persons include a 57-year-old man from Phase X, a 50-year-old woman from Mauli Baidwan, a 65-year-old woman from Sohana village and a 63-year-old man from Sunny Enclave, Kharar.Three men, aged 24, 39 and 38, from Dhakoli, two men, aged 32 and 38, from Dera Bassi, a 41-year-old woman from Saidpura, a 56-year-old woman from Sector 78 and a 23-year-old woman from Mullanpur also contractedthe infection.A 46-year-old woman from Sector 170, a four-year-old boy, two men, aged 38 and 62, and a 57-year-old woman from Mundi Kharar, a 35-year-old woman from Banur village and a 35-year-old woman from Park View Street, Kharar, were also found suffering fromthe contagion.The Mohali Deputy Commissioner, Girish Dayalan, said 22 patients were discharged from the hospital after defeating the virus.Four men, aged 42, 58, 67 and 32, a six-year-old girl and a 52-year-old woman from Kharar, three women, aged 23, 64 and 28 and two men, aged 50 and 34, from Dera Bassi, two men, aged 52 and 49, from Nayagaon, a 63-year-old man from Sector 65, a 58-year-old woman from Shivalik City, Kharar, two men, aged 34 and 37, from Sector 80, a 29-year-old man from Phase I, three boys, aged 4, 1 and 3, from Phase IX and a 53-year-old man from Jawaharpur were discharged from the hospital.Dayalan said health teams had been deputed to collect samples of the patients’ family members and trace their contacts. The patients had been admitted to the hospital.As of now, there were 662 cases in the district. While 421 patients have been cured and discharged, there are 228 active cases. Thirteen persons have died of the disease in the district. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-19-fresh-cases-22-recoveries-117527
25-07-2020||---||Officials directed to clear dues of sportspersons||Chandigarh, July 24The Standing Committee of the Administrator’s Advisory Council of the Sports Department, UT, conducted its second meeting here today. The meeting was chaired by senior BJP leader Sanjay Tandon.Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, UT, said as the lockdown period ended, the Sports Department had opened sports complexes and started the practice of games that fall under least physical contact category such as archery, badminton, athletics, lawn tennis, table tennis, weightlifting, cycling, fencing, golf, keeping in mind the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).The games that come under medium physical contact category such as hockey, football, cricket, volleyball, basketball, squash and skating will also be started very soon as the approval for the same has been received from the Centre, but the games under maximum physical contact category such as wrestling,judo, boxing, wushu, karate, taekwando and rowing will not be started as of now.He said officials had been directed to clear pending scholarship/cash awards to be paid to the players of the city for excelling in different sports within 30 days.App for sports loversSaini said an app of the Sports Department with details of location of sports complexes, upcoming tournaments, prizes/scholarships would be launched. He said the Chandigarh Administration was in the process of drafting a sports policy, which would be ready in three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/officials-directed-to-clear-dues-of-sportspersons-117528
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police suspend three traffic cops||The UT police have suspended three traffic cops, including a Sub Inspector (SI), following a complaint of corruption against them.Sources said a complaint was received that a cop had allegedly taken Rs1,000 bribe from a woman doctor. It was alleged that the woman was on her way to Panchkula when a cop stopped her at the traffic light point near Mauli Jagran and claimed that she was not wearing a seat belt.In the complaint filed by the woman’s father, it was alleged that she was allowed to leave only after she gave Rs1,000 to the cop. Acting on the complaint, DIG (Traffic) Shashank Anand marked an inquiry during which it was found that a recovery van was stationed at the spot on the day of the incident and three cops – an SI and two constables — were present there on duty.Sources said though the woman did not identify the cop, who had allegedly taken bribe, the Police Department suspended all three cops on the basis of a preliminary inquiry. The cops have denied the allegations. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-suspend-three-traffic-cops-117529
25-07-2020||Amit Bathla||Suicide note names Punjab Police, UT Admn officials||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 24Even 48 hours after a 75-year-old Mohali-based businessman Gurkirpal Singh reportedly committed suicide due to alleged harassment at the hands of HPCL officials, the UT Administration, the Punjab Police, the Panchkula Police said they were yet to scrutinise the identity of the six accused mentioned in the FIR as they did not have just one thing to focus on.Inspector Lalit Kumar, SHO at the Sector 5 police station, said, “We are yet to scrutinise the identity of the accused. We will interrogate the family members of the victim for their identification as the suicide note mentioned very limited information about them.”He said, “We don’t know whether all of them are HPCL officials.FIR mentions 6 namesThe FIR mentioned six persons — Shalabh Raj Gupta, Rajeev Bansal, Vijay Kumar Kamra, Rakesh Kamra, Ishan Kamra, Nikhil Sood — as accused and the complaint was submitted by the victim’s son, Harmeet Singh.The suicide notice assessed by the Chandigarh Tribune also accused Punjab Police and UT Administration officials of harassment. However, the police are yet to clarify whether they have booked anyone from these two departments.What the suicide note saysThe suicide note, carried in the FIR, read, “I have committed suicide due to harassment by HPCL officials Shalabh Raj, Rajiv Bansal and Nikhil Sood, Vijay Kumar Kamra, Rakesh Kumar and Ishan. By way of cheating, they snatched my property, which was in the name of my wife Jagjeet Kaur Chawla, at Daun on the Chandigarh-Kharar road with the help of the Punjab Police. I had gone bankrupt due to the lowering of VAT by the Chandigarh Administration at the behest of Amanpreet Singh Oberoi and other IOC dealers by bribing Chd ETC Mr Choudhary and Finance Secy Sinha.”“Police officials, by registering a false case against my family, asked for a huge bribe for which the CBI laid a trap and arrested four persons on August 13, 2015…… I have been a simple businessman who could not fight corrupt HPCL officials, Kamras, Chd adm…..” the note added.FIR yet to be uploaded onlineA copy of the FIR is yet to be uploaded on the official website of the Haryana Police, Har Samay, which is a clear violation of the Supreme Court 2016 order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suicide-note-names-punjab-police-ut-admn-officials-117530
25-07-2020||---||Chandigarh mulls helpline for Covid test at government hospitals||Chandigarh, July 24Symptomatic persons may soon be able to book an appointment for Covid-19 test at governmenthospitals.During a review meeting today, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), to explore the possibility of opening a helpline, wherein residents having symptoms or suspicion can book an appointment for Covid test at the GMSH, Sector 16, the GMCH, Sector 32, and the PGIMER, at the government’s cost.The Administrator said there should be second screening at the Bapu Dham Colony and Raipur Kalan areas and all new cases should be properly mapped, so that their sources and contacts were properly traced.Need for more vigourous testing, says BadnoreBadnore said there was a need for more vigorous testing, particularly among persons, who were coming to OPDs for treatment. He said more activities should be organised to make people aware of the need to follow hygiene practices and wear masks at all times.He also directed KK Yadav, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, to explore ways and means to restrict the number of people gathering in public places such as parks, markets and Sukhna Lake.Dr G Dewan, Director (Health Services), stated that they had completed a door-to-door survey of the entire Mani Majra, covering a total of 2,725 houses and 10,038 people. He said 14,937 people had been covered during a total screening of Sector 45.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mulls-helpline-for-covid-test-at-government-hospitals-117531
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar on GIS technology||A webinar on Geographic Information System (GIS) was conducted by the Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC) under the aegis of the Department of Information Technology for senior officials of the UT.The webinar was organised for UT officials to give an overview of the GIS technology which is extensively being used in Smart City projects. The idea was to make officials understand the concept of the GIS and its application in different organisations.The participants were briefed about the types of analysis that can be done with the GIS map. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-on-gis-technology-117532
25-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||7 new cases surface in Fatehgarh Sahib||Seven new Covid cases surfaced in various parts of the Fatehgarh Sahib today, taking the district tally to 262Those infected are a 26-year-old from the Brahman Majra area of Sirhind, a 49-year-old from Fatehgarh Sahib, a 23-year-old woman from Boran village, a 30-year-old woman from Randhawa village, a 19-year-old from Ajnali village, a 32-year-old from Gandhi Nagar and a 35-year-old from the Prem Nagar area of Mandi Gobindgarh.The Civil Surgeon, Dr NK Aggarwal, said all patients had been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital. He said the samples of all contacts of positive patients would be taken.He said till today, 16,047 samples had been collected, of which 14,980 were negative and 262 positive. As 186 patients had cured, there were now 74 active cases in the district. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-new-cases-surface-in-fatehgarh-sahib-117533
25-07-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration to challenge High Court order||Chandigarh, July 24Less than a fortnight after the Punjab and Haryana High Court (HC) ruled that a vehicle’s registration could not be denied because of the artwork on its body, the UT Administration has decided to challenge the judgment before a Division Bench. The Administration is expected to request the High Court for urgent hearing in the matter.It is believed that the UT is challenging the order on the ground that allowing the registration had the potential of causing a serious law enforcement problem as a motor vehicle was identified by its registration number and colour. The colour takes precedence, being the most recognisable and distinguishable feature of a vehicle. Earlier, a single Judge of the High Court had made it clear that, “I love New York”, “Horn Please”, “Ok Tata” and other stickers on cars and trucks could not push vehicles off road.Such stickers and other artwork did not imply alteration or change in the vehicle’s basic colour. As such, there was no roadblock in vehicle’s registration. The single Judge had added denying registration because of artwork on the vehicle’s body without changing its base defied logic. The issue was raised after an inspector refused to pass a vehicle for the registration as its original colour had been changed from white to multi-colour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-challenge-high-court-order-117534
25-07-2020||---||Teams monitoring sale of masks, sanitisers: Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana to HC||Chandigarh, July 24The Punjab and Haryana High Court (HC) was today told that the States of Punjab and Haryana, along with UT Chandigarh, had constituted teams, which were continuously monitoring the sale of masks and sanitisers. They were also ensuring compliance of the MHA guidelines.The submission to this effect by the two states and the UT came during the hearing of a suo motu case on the quality and pricing of masks and sanitisers. Appearing before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain, Haryana Additional Advocate-General Deepak Balyan and Punjab senior Deputy Advocate-General Monica Chibbar Sharma submitted that they were strictly complying with the MHA guidelines relating to the standard prescribed for masks and sanitisers and the price of the same etc.They further submitted that raids were conducted and action taken against those overpricing masks and sanitisers or selling substandard products, following the orders of a Single Bench. “All the counsel submit that they shall continue to ensure that the requisite quality of masks sold by chemists are not over-priced. In view of the statement of all the counsel appearing for the respondents, nothing further is required to be done in the present matter, which is accordingly disposed of,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teams-monitoring-sale-of-masks-sanitisers-chandigarh-punjab-haryana-to-hc-117535
25-07-2020||---||5,500-litre illicit spirit seized in Devinagar village||Mohali, July 24The Excise Department got a major breakthrough when its officials seized the biggest ever cache of 5,500 litres of illicit spirit during a raid on Thursday evening.A spokesperson of the Excise and Taxation Department said a special team from Mohali seized 5,500 litres of spirit stored in 26 drums of 200 litres capacity each and six drums of 50 litres capacity each. The spirit was seized during raid at godown of M/s Binni Chemicals in Devinagar village in Dera Bassi tehsil, the spokesperson added. A Mahindra Bolero Jeep was also impounded, the spokesperson said.Godown owner Rajesh Kumar, alias Bobby, of Sector 2, Panchkula, was neither able to produce any document regarding spirit nor did he possess licence for its storage and sale, the spokesperson added.“The Dera Bassi SDM has been asked to initiate necessary action in this regard,” the spokesperson said.The owner and two labourers identifed as Mahesh Kumar of Pokhroha and Ajay Kumar of Chakaiyya village in Bihar were arrested from the spot, the spokesperson added. A case under Section 61, 1 and 14 of the Punjab Excise Act was registered against the suspects at the Dera Bassi police station, the spokesperson said.During interrogation, Rajesh confessed that he started sale of spirit during the lockdown period, the spokesperson added. The suspect was also selling spirit to manufacturers of sanitiser, the spokesperson said. Probe was on to trace links of the suspects, the spokesperson added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-500-litre-illicit-spirit-seized-in-devinagar-village-117536
25-07-2020||Ambala||Gender test racket busted in Ambala||A tout was arrested for allegedly running a sex determination racket and an ultrasound machine was sealed at a private ultrasound centre during a joint raid conducted by teams of the Health departments of Ambala and Yamunanagar here today. The tout has been identified as Neeraj of Duliyani village in Ambala district. A deal was struck for Rs30,000 to carry out a test. Of this, a sum of Rs10,000 was given in advance.Deputy Civil Surgeon Balwinder Kaur said a decoy customer was sent. The tout was contacted and the teams of Ambala and Yamunanagar met to conduct the raid today. After the test, the balance amount was handed over to the tout. He got suspicious and managed to flee from the spot on a motorcycle. However, he was nabbed soon and the money was recovered from his possession.The doctor, who was present at the centre, claimed that no such activity was performed and he had no link with the tout. Only simple ultrasound was carried out, he added.“During an inspection, it was observed that the form F, which is mandatory before performing the ultrasound, was incomplete. The machine has been sealed and the case will be put before the District Advisory Committee. The tout has been handed over to the police and further investigation is on. Action will be taken against the doctor, if his role is established in the ultrasound,” said Balwinder Kaur.A case has been registered at the Mahesh Nagar police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gender-test-racket-busted-in-ambala-117537
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Club distributes masks at Sukhna Lake||Awareness poster on Covid-19Chandigarh: Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Nilambari Jagdale on Friday released an awareness poster ‘Mask Majboori Nahi Jaruri Hai’ (Must Wear Mask for Your Safety), prepared by the Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17. The association president, Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, said, “Masks should now be treated as a daily life essential in today’s situation.” TNSPlantation driveChandigarh: A plantation programme was organised at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 20. School Principal Avtar Singh said they had taken utmost care of organic plants in the school. One can save oneself by practicising organic methods during these trying times, he added. TNSSocial distancing goes for a tossChandigarh: A candidate appearing for counselling from Gurugram, Dr Rachit Singhania, took to the social media about social distancing norms going for a toss during the counselling of MD/MS seats at the PGI. Singhania said they had given several representations for conducting counselling through the online mode, but to no avail. PGI spokesperson, Prof Ashok Kumar, said, “The arrangements for offline counselling were in place. The names of the candidates were announced from the stage in a staggered manner to avoid accumulation at one place. The onus to follow the norms also lies on the candidates and their families as well.” TNSOne hurt as Auto, truck collideZirakpur: Commuters were stuck in a traffic jam after an auto-rickshaw and a truck collided on the Zirakpur-Chandigarh highway here on Friday. The auto driver, who suffered serious injuries in the mishap, was shifted to a hospital. The Zirakpur traffic police were caught napping as the mangled remains of the auto-rickshaw were not removed from the road for over an hour. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/club-distributes-masks-at-sukhna-lake-117538
25-07-2020||---||23 more contract virus in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 24Twenty-three fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the city today, taking the tally to 823. Now, there are 275 active cases in the UT.Four of a family — three men, aged 75, 39 and 11, and a 60-year-old woman — from Sector 30 contracted the infection. Four of a Sector 19 family — two men, aged 25 and 28, and two women, aged 38 and 62, — tested positive for the virus. A 25-year-old woman and a 10-year-old boy from Sector 42 were also found infected. They are the contacts of already diagnosed patients.Also read:With around 49,000 fresh cases, national coronavirus tally reaches 13.36 lakhIndia adds nearly one lakh more cases within 48 hoursUP: 228 people test positive for coronavirus in Ballia district jailA 52-year-old man from Sector 19 was diagnosed with Covid. He contracted the infection from a positive case of Amritsar. A 54-year-old woman from Sector 45 was also found infected. She is the family contact of an already diagnosed case. A 30-year-old man from Sector 24, a 50-year-old man from Sector 22, a 52-year-old man from Mani Majra, a 23-year-old man from Behalna, a 25-year-old man from Sector 48, a 47-year-old man from Sector 45, a 24-year-old man from Sector 41, a 28-year-old man from Sector 22 and a 54-year-old man from Sector 43 were found positive. A 42-year-old woman from Sector 38 (West) and a 26-year-old woman from Sector 45 were diagnosed with Covid-19. Meanwhile, four patients were discharged from the hospital.2 others not in ut tallyTwo patients admitted to the PGI’s neurology ward tested positive for Covid. A 52-year-old woman from Hamirpur in HP was admitted to the the Emergency of the PGI for the treatment of Parkinson’s on June 27. Later, she was shifted to the ICU and then the neurology ward on July 3. She was accompanied by her son and a daughter. Her son developed Covid symptoms and was advised to go for a test. His reports came out positive on July 23. Samples of eight patients admitted to the same ward were taken for testing. Of them, two, including the 52-year-old woman, were diagnosed with Covid. They won’t be added to the UT tally. TNS21 fresh cases, P’kula tally 390 Panchkula: As many as 21 more persons were found positive for Covid on Friday, taking the district tally to 390. Seven ITBP personnel, aged between 28 and 35, were among those who contracted the virus. The others infected are a 54-year-old woman from Sector 19, a 29-year-old woman from Sector 25, a 25-year-old man from Sector 10, a 32-year-old man from Sector 19, a 37-year-old woman from Raipur Rani, a 39-year-old man from Sector 10, a 76-year-old man from Sector 12, a 76-year woman from Sector 12, a 22-year-old woman from Sector 12, a 23-year-old woman from Sector 16, an 18-year-old youth from Sector 16, a 43-year-old man from Sector 4, a 17-year-old boy from Sector 4 and a 21-year-old youth from Pinjore. So far, 155 patients have been cured of the disease and discharged in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-more-contract-virus-in-chandigarh-117544
25-07-2020||---||Panchkula  gets plasma bank in battle against contagion||Panchkula, July 24To combat the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Haryana Government today launched the state’s fifth plasma bank at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here. It was inaugurated by Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta.A 45-year-old shopkeeper from Rajiv Colony became the first recovered patient to donate his plasma at this facility for the treatment of patients.He said, “If my plasma can help Covid patients recover, I will consider this a service to humanity.”The Haryana Speaker, while speaking to reporters on the occasion, said, “The inauguration of the plasma bank at the Civil Hospital will benefit Panchkula as well as adjoining districts. Plasma therapy has shown encouraging results on Covid patients and will be crucial in saving precious lives.”For this, he expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. He urged other recovered patients to come forward to donate plasma.Plasma therapy has shown promiseAccording to health officials, plasma therapy has emerged as the most effective system for the treatment of Covid patients. Doctors and experts have found tentative evidence that seriously ill coronavirus patients can benefit from infusions of blood plasma, collected from people. Medical researchers have found that when any person gets the infection, the body automatically makes some disease-resistant elements.They mainly contain anti-bodies called Immunoglobulin G (IgG), which fights Covid.These anti-bodies are present in convalescent plasmas collected from previously infected individuals.According to Dr Saroj Aggarwal of the Civil Hospital, “Plasma is kept in the plasma centre at a temperature of minus 40 degrees and it can be used up to one year.”Shopkeeper first to donate plasmaA 45-year-old shopkeeper from Rajiv Colony became the first recovered patient to donate his plasma at the facility for the treatment of patients. He said, “If my plasma can help Covid patients recover, I will consider this a service to humanity.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-gets-plasma-bank-in-battle-against-contagion-117546
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||GST racket unearthed||The UT Excise and Taxation Department today unearthed a racket of state GST evasion on Rs 61 crore turnover by six firms.Acting on specific intelligence, six teams were constituted for conducting searches on business premises of the six firms on the directions of UT Excise and Taxation Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar, said RK Chaudhary, Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner (AETC). This was the biggest search ever conducted by the Excise and Taxation Department, he said.Chaudhary said the department conducted searches at the Mani Majra-based M/s SR Agencies, M/s Global Home Solutions, M/s Polytech, M/s Euro Sales and M/s Amba Agencies, all in Gobindpura, and Rajat Enterprises, Thakur Dwara.He said all firms dealt in items such as pipes and tiles and partners and owners of the firms were relatives or connected with each other.All six firms carried out sales of Rs61 crore during the GST period, but did not pay tax to the government and adjusted it against manipulated input tax credits. “All firms have not been filing their GSTR-3B monthly tax returns from February 2020 onwards,” he said.The business premises of five firms — M/s Rajat Enterprises, M/s Polytech, M/s Euro Sales, M/s Amba Agencies and M/s Global Home Solutions — were found closed and after an inquiry, it came to light that no such firms existed at the given addresses and only M/s SR Agencies business premises was found. The other firms were being run from the business premises of M/s SR Agencies, said Chaudhary.After preliminary investigations, officials found that firms generated e-way bills using motorcycles, three-wheelers and even ambulance for showing transportation of goods. Incriminating documents of the firms have been taken into possession from the business premises of M/s SR Agencies. “The investigation is still in progress as a few more firms are involved in this racket,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gst-racket-unearthed-117551
25-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two bikers snatch chain||Two motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly snatched a gold chain from a 31-year-old woman, who was having a morning walk at Sector 42 today. The woman fell during the incident and sustained injuries. The incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed outside a house.The victim, Jasbir Kaur, was having a morning walk when the two miscreants, riding a black motorcycle, arrived there. On finding the victim alone, the pillion rider got down from the motorcycle and snatched her gold chain. The victim tried to run after the suspect, but fell. Both miscreants escaped from the spot.The police were informed, who visited the spot. A case has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-bikers-snatch-chain-117553
25-07-2020||---||Gangster Buttar among five held after brief encounter||Mohali, July 24In a major breakthrough, the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of the Punjab Police, led by AIG Gurmeet Singh Chauhan, along with the Mohali police, arrested five hardcore gangsters, including Johan Buttar, after a brief encounter at Aman Homes, Kharar, on Friday.The accused have been identified as Navdeep Singh, alias Johan Buttar, Kulwinder, alias Kinda, and Palwinder Singh, alias Pinda, all residents of Buttar Kalan, Moga; Amritpal Singh, a resident of Manupur, Samrala; and Amrik Singh, alias Angrez Singh, a resident of Lopon, Samrala.The police also recovered six weapons, including two 9-mm pistols, a .30 bore pistol, a .32 bore pistol, two .315 bore pistols and 20 cartridges from them.The operation started around 3 pm today when a team of police officials reached the society following a tip-off that some gangsters were hiding in the area. It continued for about 25 to 30 minutes.During the encounter, Buttar got injured as two bullets fired by the cops hit him on his legs. He was shifted to the Civil Hospital, Kharar, from where he was taken to the PGI, Chandigarh, for further treatment, sources said.AIG Chauhan said when they reached the flat, the door was locked from inside. When they tried to break it, the accused started firing at the police team. The police also fired some shots in defence, which injured Buttar.The AIG said Buttar was the main accused in the firing incident on the associates of Shinder Singh, an ex-sarpanch. He was wanted in over 18 criminal cases of murder, attempt to murder, dacoity and extortion and was a proclaimed offender in a case registered against him in 2012. Palwinder Singh was also a proclaimed offender in the murder case of gangster Kuldeep Singh. Amrik Singh had narcotics and liquor smuggling cases registered against him. Similarly, Amritpal Singh had been booked in liquor smuggling cases, the AIG said.An FIR has been registered under Sections 307, 353, 186 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act against the five criminals.Lawrence Bishnoi’s brother in police remand||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangster-buttar-among-five-held-after-brief-encounter-117576
