25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 36 new COVID-19 cases; tally 19,345||Chandigarh recorded 36 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the infection count to 19,345, a medical bulletin issued here said.There are 345 active cases currently, it said.No death was reported on Friday. The death toll stands at 314.A total of 52 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the overall recoveries to 18,686, the bulletin said.A total of 1,74,395 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 1,54,176 have tested negative while reports of 97 samples are awaited, as per bulletin. —PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-36-new-covid-19-cases-tally-19-345-189297
25-12-2020||New Delhi||IMD predicts rain and snow followed by cold wave, cold winds, ground frost from December 28 for India’s northwest||A fresh Western Disturbance will affect Western Himalayan Region and adjoining plains of northwest India from December 27 due to which scattered to fairly widespread rainfall/snowfall is expected over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, the Indian Meteorological Department said on Friday.Isolated to scattered rainfall/snowfall is likely over Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and isolated rain/thundershowers over Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh on December 27 and 28. There will be a gradual rise by 2-3°C in minimum temperatures over next 3 days (December 25 to 27) followed by a  fall of 3-5°C in minimum temperatures over northwest in subsequent three days ( December 28 to 30), the weather office said. While no significant change in maximum temperatures during next the three days, there will be a fall of 3-5°C in maximum temperatures over Northwest India between December 28 -30.After the passage of the WD, under the influence of strengthening of cold and dry northwesterly/northerly winds from night of December 28, cold wave to severe cold wave conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi.Cold wave conditions are also expected in isolated pockets over Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh on December 28 and 29.Ground frost conditions are likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and north Rajasthan also from December 28 and 29.Fresh spell of dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets very likely over Punjab and isolated dense fog over Haryana and Delhi in the morning hours from December 29, the IMD said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/imd-predicts-rain-and-snow-followed-by-cold-wave-cold-winds-ground-frost-from-december-28-for-indias-northwest-189293
25-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||Move to scrap door-to-door waste collection rehris under HC lens||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24The move of the UT Administration to scrap “manual dumping carts” or rehris involved in door-to-door garbage collection today came under the judicial scanner with the vacation Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court putting the Administration on notice on a petition questioning the new “motorised” system.Seeking directions for junking the system that “illegally” prevented the garbage collectors in the city from earning their daily livelihood, the petitioners claimed hundreds of garbage collectors in the city would be rendered jobless and left in the lurch.The petition, filed by Shamsher Singh and 28 other petitioners through counsel APS Shergill and HS Seth, was placed before Justice Lisa Gill’s Bench. Issuing a notice of motion for January 6, Justice Gill asserted: “The question of maintainability of the writ petition, needless to say, shall remain open. It is open to the petitioners to agitate the question of interim relief on the next date of hearing”.The petitioners urged the court to issue directions, calling upon the UT and other respondents to show cause how and why the policy mandating the replacement of rehris with motorised door-to-door garbage collection vehicles was set to be enforced without hearing/involving the stakeholders or without even conducting a public hearing necessary under Article 14.Claiming that the move was in complete defiance of their basic fundamental rights, the petitioners also prayed for a stay and directions for restraining the respondents on the ground that door-to-door garbage collection was their only means of employment and source of income in the economically challenging times of corona and otherwise.“The respondents recently swung into action restraining the petitioners from pursuing their day-to-day business through coercive tactics to snatch the livelihood of poor collectors engaged in this business for generations…,” the petitioners stated.Their counsel added that the petitioners were mostly members of the Scheduled Castes/Backward Classes engaged in this activity since birth and had no other source of livelihood. The work was being given to the MC, which was “infamous for its incompetence”.‘Collectors will be rendered jobless’Seeking directions for junking the system that “illegally” prevented the garbage collectors in the city from earning their daily livelihood, the petitioners claimed hundreds of garbage collectors in the city would be rendered jobless and left in the lurch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/move-to-scrap-door-to-door-waste-collection-rehris-under-hc-lens-188900
25-12-2020||---||Crackdown on illegal mining, 16 arrested||Mohali, December 24In a major crackdown, the Mohali police have arrested 16 persons for illegal mining and have seized arms and machinery used in the mining.Those arrested are Rinku, a resident of Khojapur in UP, Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Kamali village in Fathegarh Sahib, Amarveer Singh, a resident of Morinda, Hukam Mandle, a resident of Khatra village in Bihar, Raman Kumar, a resident of Kotalpur in Pathankot, Sukhwinder Singh, a resident of Kheri Purkhali village in Ropar, Harwinder Singh, a resident of Bindrakh village in Ropar, Tejinder Singh, a resident of Sursingh village in Tarn Taran, Sandeep, a resident of Dumriabande village in UP, Kamal Babu, a resident of Simra village in UP, and Gurjant Singh, Gurnam Singh, Gurcharan Singh, Mohit Sharma, Parminder Singh and Mustak Mohamad, all residents of Mohali district.The police seized a pistol, five loaded tippers, a poclain machine and Scorpio and Safari jeeps from their possession. The police said raids were conducted by a police team of Mullanpur (Kharar 2 subdivision) in three villages — Abhipur, Kubhaheri and Miyapur Changer — falling under the Majri police station in Mohali district.SSP Satinder Singh said during preliminary investigations, they confessed that three stone crushers — Chardi Kala Crusher, Captain Crusher and Baba Sher Singh Crusher — were indulging in illegal mining.He said the modus operandi of this group was that it used to deploy its associates at certain locations to keep a watch on the movement of the police and Mining Department officials.The SSP said a heavy fine (nearly Rs3.5 lakh per tipper or poclain machine) would be imposed on the owners for the impounded vehicles. The SSP said five cases under Sections 4(1) and 21(1) of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development Act, 1957) and 379 of the IPC had been registered at the Majri police station.Meanwhile, the Mining Department has sealed 70 stone crushers and screening plants in the Mubarikpur area of Zirakpur in Mohali district.Agitated over this, members of the Mubarikpur Stone Crushers Association (MSCA) alleged that the Mining Department was exerting pressure on them to pay “goonda tax” under the influence of the mining mafia. They said no notice had been served on them before sealing the stone crushers.Amarjeet Bansal, president, MSCA, said even though they had proper documents of their units, mining officer Simarpreet Kaur Dhillon sealed their units. He said the officer did not have any written order. He said they would move court by Tuesday if their units were not unsealed.Despite attempts, the mining officer could not be contacted.However, mining inspector Narinder Kumar said the department had started sealing stone crushers and screening plants which did not have proper documentation. He said they had sealed 30 stone crushers at Handesra village in the Lalru area on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crackdown-on-illegal-mining-16-arrested-188901
25-12-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court: No dearth of water in lake despite adjoining structures||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24In a significant observation liable to change the views on constructions around Sukhna Lake hampering the flow, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that water was not in short supply despite the structures. It was evident from the breach in the lake area and flooding of nearby places, following the opening of floodgates during the monsoon this year.“This court also takes judicial notice of the fact that in the monsoon in August 2020 itself, there was a breach in the Sukhna Lake area and owing to opening of the floodgates of Sukhna Lake, there was flooding in the Baltana and Zirakpur areas…. Sukhna Lake being a rain-fed artificial lake, there is no scarcity of water, causing problem towards its protection and preservation in the prevailing circumstances, in spite of the offending constructions being raised in the area, which is disputed as being in or outside the catchment area,” the Bench asserted.The observations by the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu came on a plea seeking a review of March 2 orders of the High Court. The Bench had then ordered demolition of constructions in the catchment area, declared Sukhna Lake a legal entity and imposed unprecedented costs of Rs200 crore on Punjab and Haryana, relying primarily on the 2004 map of the Survey of India.The Bench also made it clear that the right to shelter of adjoining Nayagaon residents was imbibed in their right to life enshrined under Article 21. It could not be ignored on slightest doubt being established on the 2004 map of the lake, “which was made the sole basis and criteria for deprivation of such right”.The Bench noticed that the inhabitants had raised constructions based on approved plans within the duly notified master plan area in accordance with the norms and regulations after payment of dues and charges. Their shelters were never the subject matter of the Tata Camelot case. Their right to shelter adhering to development norms could not be denied without thoroughly thrashing each issue formulated and addressed by each party to the controversy.It also took notice of additional documents placed on record, wherein reliance was placed on the Survey of India map printed in 1980 to show that the water between Khuda Ali Sher and Kansal villages flowed through north of the Secretariat and joined the Leisure Valley water course or the N-choe. It was not a part of the catchment area of the lake. It also demonstrated that the depiction of the catchment area in the 2004 map was incorrect.The Bench added that it was primarily concerned with adjudication of the correct and accurate determination of the catchment area. The court took the entire exercise of lake preservation from 2009. The catchment area was the core issue. It was argued and demonstrated by applicants that such core issues regarding the catchment area remained unanswered in the judgment and resulted in “an error apparent on the face of record”.‘Errors apparent on record’The Bench asserted that it was prima facie of the view that there existed errors apparent on record. Looking at the magnitude and import of the directions, there were sufficient reasons to grant an opportunity to all parties and stakeholders in the lake case to address the court on the grounds of review.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-no-dearth-of-water-in-lake-despite-adjoining-structures-188902
25-12-2020||---||Fraud suspect dies in custody at Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi, December 24A 67-year-old Delhi resident, Paramjit Singh, died under mysterious circumstances at a police station here early this morning.According to the police, a case of fraud was registered against him at the Zirakpur police station on the basis of a report of the EO wing. The police had arrested him and produced him before a court, which remanded him in one-day police custody.The police had taken him to the Dera Bassi police station instead of the Zirakpur police station. Suddenly, he complained of a breathing problem and was taken to the Civil Hospital at Dera Bassi around 11.45 pm. Around 12.30 am, he was discharged as his condition improved. He was taken to the police station. However, he was again rushed to the hospital at 8 am today where doctors declared him brought dead.A post-mortem was conducted by a board of three doctors under the judicial supervision of Dera Bassi Judge Gaurav Dutta.The whole process was videographed. Zirakpur SHO Rajpal Singh Gill said the Delhi resident already had health issues.Civil Hospital SMO Dr Sangeeta Jain said the man was brought to the hospital late on Wednesday night and was taken back to the police station after his health improved.She said when he was brought to hospital this morning, he had already died. She said his Covid test was also conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fraud-suspect-dies-in-custody-at-dera-bassi-188903
25-12-2020||Sandeep Rana||UT owes Rs 48.33 cr, MC Rs 3 crore||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24The local Municipal Corporation (MC) orders to seal the property or remove its water connection in case someone from public fails to deposit property tax. However, the civic body itself has about Rs3 crore pending tax, besides the UT Administration, which owes the levy to the tune of a whopping Rs48.33 crore.The amount is pending for the period between 2004 (since the MC started levying commercial tax) and December 2020.The UT Secretariat, which has the offices of the Adviser, the Finance Secretary, the Home Secretary and other top officials of the Administration, owes the highest amount of Rs2.16 crore. The Haryana Raj Bhawan has a pending tax of Rs3.18 lakh and the Punjab Raj Bhawan Rs2.70 lakh. The UT Guest house has Rs32 lakh dues and the ISBT Rs2.63 lakh.Likewise, several police posts, hospitals, colleges, hospitals, crèches and other buildings under the UT Administration owe property tax to the corporation.As far as the own wings of the civic body are concerned, its four public health divisions and three road divisions have property tax dues. Road Division No. 3 has the highest dues of Rs1.33 crore. Officials said earlier, the pending amount of different wings of the MC was Rs11 crore and it was Rs54 crore for the UT. “After they could show property tax payment slips of some of the buildings to us, the amount of dues came down. Even after the recent reconciliation, they owe us a huge amount. We have now sent them the latest dues details and asked them to submit payment slips, if any,” said a property tax branch official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-owes-rs-48-33-cr-mc-rs-3-crore-188904
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||43 new cases in city||The city on Thursday reported 43 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally to 19,309. The UT also witnessed one death. A 45-year-old man from Sector 49, who was suffering from bilateral lower respiratory tract infection with hypertension, died at Indus Hospital, Dera Bassi. A total of 50 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS34 infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported 34 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 9,826. It also witnessed one Covid death. A 70-year-old woman from Sector 20, who was also suffering from coronary artery disease and diabetes mellitus, succumbed to the infectious disease. TNS75 +ve in mohaliMohali: One more fatality due to Covid-19 was reported from the district during the past 24 hours, taking the death count to 335. Besides, 75 fresh cases came to the fore and 149 patients got better of the virus till Thursday evening. As of now, there are 17,801 positive cases in the district. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/43-new-cases-in-city-188905
25-12-2020||---||Civic body to seek support from RWAs||Chandigarh, December 24To make waste segregation and collection through its two-bin vehicles a success, the local MC has started reaching out to residents’ welfare associations (RWAs).The corporation, though late, has started distributing pamphlets for creating awareness among residents. It is also making efforts to enrol more collectors into the project, who are presently lifting mixed garbage through ‘rehris’ in Sectors 1 to 30, where the MC has already introduced the two-bin vehicles in the first phase.“We have asked Sanitary Inspectors to hold meeting with RWAs and involve them in the process to create the initiative a success. We have enrolled more number of collectors. Gradually, the new system will come on track,” said MC’s Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora.In institutions such as the PU and the PGI, ‘rehris’ are picking up waste. “We will focus on the places later as these are managed by their own administrations,” said an official.Baljinder Singh Bittu, FOSWAC Chairman, said: “The actual feedback of the system will come in 10-15 days. We need to wait. But I think the civic body needs to have more vehicles.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-to-seek-support-from-rwas-188906
25-12-2020||---||Kharga Corps receives victory flame||Ambala, December 24Lt Gen SS Mahal, General Officer Commanding (GOC) Kharga Corps, today received one of the victory flames at an event organised at the Kharga stadium in Ambala Cantonment as part of the Swarnim Vijay Varsh celebrations to commemorate 50 years of the 1971 war.The victory flame was received by the Deep Strikers Division of the Indian Army at Shaheedi Chowk in Ambala Cantonment.During the event, a ‘Guard of Honour’ was given to the ‘victory flame’ and a fly-past was also conducted by the Indian Air force. The ‘veer naris’ and veterans were felicitated for their valuable sacrifices in achieving the glorious victory. GOC Kharga Corps highlighted the role of Kharga Corps in the liberation of Bangladesh and exhorted the present generation of soldiers to emulate the highest standards of professional excellence.The Indian Army is celebrating the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ from December 2020 to December 2021.The celebrations commenced with lighting of four ‘victory flames’ by PM Narendra Modi at the National War Memorial at Delhi on December 16. These are being taken to various parts of the country by Army personnel to highlight the sacrifices made by the Indian Armed Forces to achieve this historical victory against Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharga-corps-receives-victory-flame-188908
25-12-2020||Deepankar Sharda||PU yet to take call on  mode of conducting semester exams||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24Panjab University is expected to conduct the odd-semester examinations in February or March next year. However, the mode for conducting the exams will be decided in the meeting scheduled for the next week.Earlier in September, the institution had conducted the final semester exams of postgraduate (PG) and undergraduate (UG) courses in a blended (online/offline) mode.“We are yet to decide on the mode of conducting the exams. Unfortunately, we have a few holidays lined up after which we will meet to decide on the issue. The examinations are likely to be held in February or March,” said Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examinations, PU.Sources said the institution was unlikely to call the students to the campus and may go for conducting examinations in a blended mode. “The committee members are exploring both (offline or online) options. The number of students, manpower needed for conducting the exams, contribution by colleges and several other issues were discussed. The institution had recently conducted examinations in a blended mode and continuing with the setup will be more convenient,” said an official.Schools get consentMeanwhile, the Independent Schools’ Association (ISA), Chandigarh, confirmed that students, having practical examinations and pre-board examinations, have given their consent for attending schools from the next month. “We have received the consent from a majority of the students interested in attending the physical classes. Those having practical and pre-board exams will start coming to schools in small batches. Right now, we only have a handful of students coming to schools. However, things are expected to become normal from the next month after the winter break,” said HS Mamik, president, ISA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-yet-to-take-call-on-mode-of-conducting-semester-exams-188909
25-12-2020||---||Veterans join protest at Singhu border||Chandigarh, December 24A group of local veterans, under the banner of the Mohali-based Ex-Servicemen Grievances Cell, joined the Kisan Morcha at the Singhu border today for extending support to the farmers protesting against the new farm laws recently introduced by the Centre.The cell’s president, Ly Col SS Sohi (retd), said though farmers and rural populace comprise about 80 per cent of India’s population, most MPs and MLAs did not oppose the bills.He said the morale of the protesters was high and the camps were well-organised and operating systematically.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/veterans-join-protest-at-singhu-border-188910
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Book on new consumer Act||To mark National Consumer Rights Day, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore released a book, ‘CP Act 2019 and Rules and Regulations 2020’, authored by Ajay Jagga, Additional Standing Counsel, UT, and Aishwarya Jagga.Satya Pal Jain, Additional Solicitor General of India, gave the opening remarks about the book. — TNSMediation Cell in UT soon Chandigarh: The National Consumer Rights Day was today observed by the Department of Food and Supplies and Consumer Affairs.Justice Raj Shekhar Attri explained that a chapter of mediation had been added to the consumers’ Act, which will be a disputes redressal mechanism. A mediation cell has been notified and will be started on a priority. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/book-on-new-consumer-act-188912
25-12-2020||---||Snatchers target spl executive magistrate||Chandigarh, December 24Two motorcycle-borne miscreants targeted a special executive magistrate and made off with his mobile phone at Dadu Majra Colony. They also took away a challan book, while he was issuing challans for not wearing face masks.According to the police, the complainant, Inderjit Singh, Special Executive Magistrate, was holding a challan book and listening to a call near a private clinic at the colony when the miscreants riding a Splendor motorcycle arrived from the rear and snatched his phone and challan book.The police were informed about the incident following which cops reached the spot and initiated an investigation.A case has been registered at the Maloya police station and an investigation has been initiated into it. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras in the area was being scrutinised to identity the miscreants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatchers-target-spl-executive-magistrate-188913
25-12-2020||---||Top seed Garima sails into semifinals||Chandigarh, December 24Top seed Garima outplayed Navdeep 21-5, 21-5 in a women’s quarterfinal match on the opening day of the Chandigarh State Badminton Championships at the Sector 38 Sports Complex here today.In another quarterfinal tie, second seed Ishita outplayed Arushi Jain 21-3, 21-6. Rijul Saini also won her match against Samreen 21-15, 21-16, while Shagunpreet moved into the semifinals by defeating Tanya 21-15, 21-12.Meanwhile in the girls’ U-19 pre-quarterfinals, Arpita logged an easy win over Navdeep 21-5, 21-6, while Shagunpreet defeated Tanya 21-16, 21-17. Tanisha Giri had to struggle hard before logging a victory over Aashna Jagdev 21-15, 8-21, 21-13, while Tanvi Gupta easily defeated Sehar 21-11, 21-7. Jasmeet recorded a comeback victory over Jasmine 9-21, 21-17, 21-19 and Rijul Saini defeated Tisha Giri 21-6 21-9. In the last two matches, Vrinda defeated Khwaish Mannotra 21-7, 21-5 and Samreen blanked Naina Goyat 21-8, 21-14.Anushrav in pre-quartersTop seed Anushrav recorded a win over Ehsas Abrol 21-8, 21-6 to reach into the boys’ U-19 pre-quarterfinals. Ashwin defeated Lincon Bishnoi in a tough outing 15-21, 21-17, 21-18, while Swapnil easily recorded a victory over Piyush Chauhan 21-18, 21-5. Samarveer defeated Prince Sheroan 21-9, 21-8, while Himanshu Kahsyap ousted Suransh Baliyan 21-13, 16-21, 21-10. Sanyam also moved into the next round by defeating Lovepreet Singh 21-11, 21-11.Akash-Mayank in doubles quartersAkash Sethi/Mayank Gupta defeated Lincon Bishnoi/Sidharth 21-15, 21-7 to sail into the men’s doubles quarterfinals. Kewin Wong/Talwinder defeated Anish Malik/Ashish Sharma 21-13, 21-9, while Gurbkash/Sanyam outplayed Ankush Dogra/Anuj Talwar 21-19, 15-21, 21-13. Abhishek Saini/Rajat Saini thrashed Manish Pandey/Pushpinder 21-11, 21-7, Abhijot/Divesh defeated Ram Monga/ Shaurya Diwedi 17-21, 21-18, 21-14 and Sahil Katlaria/Varun defeated Akarsh/Lalit 21-12, 21-12.Earlier, Director Sports (UT) Tejdeep Singh Saini inaugurated the championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seed-garima-sails-into-semifinals-188914
25-12-2020||---||Jolt to Cong as Ranjeeta Mehta joins saffron party||Panchkula, December 24Haryana Congress spokesperson and national coordinator for the All-India Mahila Congress Ranjeeta Mehta, who was denied mayoral ticket by the party, today switched over to the BJP in the presence of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, at her house in Sector 16 here today.Khattar welcomed her in the party fold by offering her BJP’s “patka”.Mehta’s decision to join the BJP has come as a jolt to the Congress a few days ahead of voting for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections. She comes from the Punjabi community.Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja met the disgruntled leader yesterday to persuade her to not to leave the party.Mehta had lambasted the ruling BJP for poor facilities at the Sector 6 Civil Hospital when she was admitted to the infirmary for Covid-19 treatment in August this year.Sharing pictures of bees flying in the hospital ward on her Twitter account, Mehta had said that “substandard” way of treating Covid patients by the Health Department forced Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Speaker Gian Chand Gupta to get themselves admitted to a premium private hospital in Gurugram. Subsequently, Mehta was shifted to a city-based private hospital.At the time of discharge, she had accused the hospital of overcharging and questioned the government for taking no step to stop loot from Covid patients.Soon after joining the BJP, Mehta said: “The Congress doesn’t give its leaders the respect they deserve. The party takes all of its decisions in the drawing room which every leader has to abide by”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jolt-to-cong-as-ranjeeta-mehta-joins-saffron-party-188915
25-12-2020||---||Ahluwalia will take city to new heights, says Chander Mohan||Panchkula, December 24Chander Mohan, former Haryana Deputy Chief Minister, while campaigning in support of the Congress mayoral candidate here today, said Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia had done a lot of work for Panchkula in the past years and her vision for the city would take it to new heights.Ram Kishan Gurjar, political adviser to Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, also canvassed in support of Congress candidates today.He said: “Ahluwalia comes from a political family and her husband, Dhanendra Ahluwalia, has remained as a sarpanch, chairman of the block committee and a member of the zila parishad. People only choose those who work for development.”Left parties, trade union back CongLeft parties - CPI and CPI (M) - and a trade union, CITU, on Thursday announced their support to Congress mayoral candidate Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia for the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections.In a joint statement, the local unit of the two parties lambasted the BJP government for its anti-farmer and anti-labour policies. “The party that cannot protect the rights of farmers and labourers needs to be defeated. So, in order to show a mirror to the BJP for its wrongdoings, we are supporting Ahluwalia and the Congress in the Panchkula MC elections,” Left leaders said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ahluwalia-will-take-city-to-new-heights-says-chander-mohan-188916
25-12-2020||Kaveesha Kohli||Convert Indira Home into group facility for mentally ill, says assn||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 24Citizens for Inclusive Living, a city-based association, today urged the UT Administration to convert Indira Holiday Home in Sector 24 into a group home for persons with mental disabilities.UT Adviser Manoj Parida, however, said the Home would remain an old-age home as the elderly and persons with mental disabilities “have conflicting needs”. He said facilities for people with mental illnesses would be set up at Cheshire Home in Sector 21 and the GMCH-32.In its statement, the association of mental health activists and parents of people with mental illnesses said the Home - spread over nearly 4 acres - could house both groups. It also emphasised that there was a significant overlap between the care and support facilities for the elderly and those with mental illnesses.“At present, the Home hosts around 10 people. It can house almost 100 people through its two dormitories and 15 rooms,” said mental health advocate Aditya Rametra.The association said “Chandigarh is, unfortunately, lacking in decent assisted living facilities for persons with mental disabilities. Persons with mental disabilities feel excluded from the mainstream, and good living options within the city are virtually non-existent.”DR Paul, father to a 29-year-old with mental illness, said Indira Holiday Home provided the perfect place for community living as it was centrally located, safe and surrounded by boundary wall. It had space for vocational and recreational activities.Paul said places such as Cheshire Home would be unable to house enough people and did not provide the needed therapeutic and occupational facilities.The association said: “The Home was directly under the UT Administration, we are requesting the Governor and the Adviser to designate it as an inclusive community living space.”Parida maintained that the ultimate call in the matter lay with the Governor. Paul said the parents had not been able to get an appointment with the Governor despite “over 20 phone calls and several e-mails.”Ageing parents stress that in the absence of community living facilities, they wonder what would happen to their children after they were no longer able to care for them.“My child needs monitoring and support. I don’t believe it is fair to burden siblings with caregiving responsibilities. I fear what will happen to him after me,” said 58-year-old educator Damanjeet Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/convert-indira-home-into-group-facility-for-mentally-ill-says-assn-188917
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||92 travelled to city from UK since Nov 25||To prevent the spread of new strain of coronavirus, the UT Health Department has started contacting all passengers who have travelled from the United Kingdom (UK). An official spokesperson said 92 passengers travelled to Chandigarh from the UK between November 25 and December 23.The Central Surveillance Unit of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) shared the details of the passengers with the IDSP unit of the UT Health Department.The Administration had asked the Centre to provide a list of passengers who have recently arrived from the UK so that their testing or quarantine could be arranged.The helpdesk of the UT Health Department was providing necessary advice to the passengers after initial verification of date of arrival in India.“Their addresses and details are also being verified. They are being monitored for symptoms suggestive of Covid-19 and contact history since their arrival,” stated the spokesperson.The passengers have been advised to home isolate, self-monitor their health, wear masks and adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly.None of the travellers have reported any symptoms. Their further testing and institutional isolation would be done as per the SOPs, added the spokesperson. The UT police sent teams to the addresses provided in the list and started physical verification of the travellers. As per the list submitted by the Centre, 52 passengers had travelled to Chandigarh from the UK between December 9 and 21. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/92-travelled-to-city-from-uk-since-nov-25-188918
25-12-2020||---||Rs 10L fine on city club for violation of Excise Act||Chandigarh, December 24The UT Excise and Taxation Department has imposed a fine of Rs10 lakh on M/s Tricity Hospitality running Playboy Club and Lounge in the Industrial Area, Phase I, for doing business beyond 1 am.An order issued by Rakesh Kumar Popli, Additional Excise and Taxation Commissioner, today stated that the bar was opened on its premises beyond 1 am and liquor was being consumed by guests. From the report of the police, it was established that the bar was opened beyond 1 am on November 27.The order stated that the licensee had issued a bill for a sum of Rs19.84 lakh at 2.06 am in violation of the Excise Act.L-4 and L-5 licence of M/s Tricity Hospitality (Playboy Club and Lounge) was suspended for the excise violation committed by the licensee.However, on the request of the licensee, the suspension of the L-4 and L-5 licence of M/s Tricity Hospitality was revoked by imposing a penalty of Rs10 lakh in lieu of suspension. The penalty has to be deposited within 15 days from the receipt of the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-10l-fine-on-city-club-for-violation-of-excise-act-188919
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||File nominations byJanuary 4: UT Deputy Commissioner||The UT Deputy Commissioner has declared that nominations for the Mayoral poll can be filed by January 4.The elections, which will be conducted on January 8, will to be held for the post of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor. Nominated councillor Ajay Dutta will preside over the process.This time, the post is open for the general category. It will be the last Mayor of the current MC House as the next civic body elections are scheduled in the end of 2021. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/file-nominations-byjanuary-4-ut-deputy-commissioner-188920
25-12-2020||Chandigarh||Man loses Rs 24K in online fraud||Theft reported from houseChandigarh: Gold jewellery and cash were stolen from a house in Khuda Ali Sher. According to the police, complainant Amandeep Singh reported that the incident took place between December 21 and 23. TNSElante offers shopping bonanzaChandigarh: Elante Mall has given the patrons a whole lot to cheer about. It is giving people from the tricity another reason to end 2020 with smiles by announcing a three-day flat 50% off on over 200 brands from December 25. The participating categories include fashion, footwear, F&B, beauty and many more. The three-day extravaganza will also give the highest shopper a chance to win a brand new Benelli Bike. Some of the participating brands include Lifestyle, Shoppers Stop, Max, Aldo, Steve Madden, Only, Jack n Jones, Da Milano among others. Elante Mall is also hosting the tricity’s tallest Polar Bear as part of its Christmas festivities. TNSCalendar dedicated to Covid warriorsChandigarh: Acting on the directions of the Centre, UT Adviser Manoj Parida on Thursday digitally released the New Year Calendar-2021 of the Chandigarh Administration dedicated to all corona warriors. The Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, has recently directed all departments to stop printing of wall calendars, desktop calendars, diaries, festival greeting cards and similar material. TNSNo winter break at univeristyChandigarh: Panjab University has announced no winter break for all teaching departments and regional centres for the academic session 2020-21. Prof VR Sinha, Dean, Research, said a circular in this regard has already been issued and forwarded to the chairpersons/directors/coordinators concerned. TNSCCPCR saves minor girlChandigarh: Timely intervention by the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) saved the life of a 14-year-old girl, who was reportedly being married forcibly to an adult by her family members. The wedding was scheduled for the weekend. Harjinder Kaur, Chairperson, CCPCR, said the girl was getting married to a resident of Nayagaon, falling under the jurisdiction of the SAS Nagar (Mohali). A case has been registered at the Sector 11 police station here. TNSBook release at collegeChandigarh: The Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36, organised an event to release a book, ‘A Teacher Speaks: An interview with life’, an autobiography of Dr S Kumar, at its college auditorium. Kumar is an eminent educationist of the region and has retired as the director of the Bharat Scouts & Guides. The book was released by Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director, School and Higher Education, UT. TNSExpert talk at GGSCW-26Chandigarh: The Department of Computer Science and Applications of Guru Gobind Singh College for Women (GGSCW), Sector 26, organised an online expert talk on ‘Understanding the Cloud presence through Amazon web services’. The talk was delivered by Dr Rohini Arora, Professor, Faculty of Applied Science & Technology, Sheridan College, Oakville, Ontario, Canada. TNSDoc welcomed at hospitalChandigarh: Dr Manuj Wadhwa of Elite Group and his team will now be serving at Shalby Hospital in Mohali. Founder of the Shalby Group, Dr Vikram I Shah, welcomed Wadhwa and his team. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-loses-rs-24k-in-online-fraud-188921
25-12-2020||Panchkula||Woodlands House, Panchkula||KBDAV SchoolChandigarh: As many as 600 tiny tots of KB DAV Senior Secondary School, Sector 7, virtually celebrated Christmas with enthusiasm. The virtual classrooms were beautifully decorated with bells, stars, streamers, and everybody was dressed in red and white attire. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woodlands-house-panchkula-188926
25-12-2020||---||Will make Panchkula a smart city: Khattar||Panchkula, December 24Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today campaigned for his party’s mayoral and councillor candidates in the Panchkula Municipal Corporation elections.Seeking votes for the party candidates, he addressed public gatherings at Sector 16, Sector 5, Sector 15, Sector 4 and Sector 26 and the Industrial Area, apart from flagging off a cycle rally at Geeta Chowk.At a gathering, Khattar said if voted to power, his party would ensure holistic development of the city by improving the civic amenities such as water supply, cleanliness, sewerage and infrastructure. “Panchkula will have more facilities and opportunities than Mohali. The city will be made slum-free. Our government will endeavour to make Panchkula a smart city,” he added. He also spoke on the issue of shifting the dumping site from Sector 23 to a non-residential area.Khattar also called for coordination between Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula authorities, saying there should be a common platform for the tricity.On the issue of corruption, he said the BJP-JJP candidates pledged to ensure no illegal practice, bribery took place once they become elected representatives. He was accompanied by Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta and BJP mayoral candidate Kulbhushan Goyal during his programmes in the city.Goyal, on the occasion, said he would leave no stone unturned to fulfil promises made in his manifesto for the Panchkula MC poll.Farmers DetainedTo prevent an Ambala-like incident when Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar was shown black flags, farmers from various parts of the district were allegedly taken into police custody before the CM’s visit to Panchkula for campaigning. They were reportedly kept at several police stations in the city till Khattar left for Chandigarh in the evening. In protest against the contentious farm laws, farmers were allegedly planning to show black flags to the CM during his stay in Panchkula. A police spokesperson said no FIR was filed against farmers in this regard. Karam Singh, a local BKU leader, said the police picked him up on Wednesday evening and kept him at the CIA, Sector 26, adding that he was released on Thursday evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-make-panchkula-a-smart-city-khattar-188928
