26-07-2020||Don’t give money to beggars||Don’t give money to beggars, they could be ‘corona spreaders’: UT Adviser||Chandigarh, July 26The Adviser to the Chandigarh Administrator on Sunday appealed to city residents not to give money to beggars, saying they could be “corona spreaders”.Adviser Manoj Parida said beggars could not be jailed as begging is not a crime.“Appeal to Chandigarh residents not to give money to beggars who rush to you at traffic points. They could be corona spreaders.... We can’t jail them since beggary is not a crime. When put in shelter homes they run away to make money from streets. So simply say NO,” Parida tweeted.The Union Territory of Chandigarh has witnessed a surge in coronavirus infections. It has so far reported 887 COVID-19 cases with 13 deaths. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-give-money-to-beggars-they-could-be-corona-spreaders-ut-adviser-118269
26-07-2020||---||Zirakpur hospital sealed after nine employees test positive for Covid||Chandigarh, July 26A private hospital, AMCARE, on VIP Road in Zirakpur has been sealed for public after nine of its employees, including the head of the ICU and nursing staff, returned Covid-19 positive on Sunday.As a precautionary measure, the health department has sealed the premises. The patients who were admitted to the hospital have been discharged.The head of the ICU, a resident of Silver City, is still admitted to the hospital while the other employees are under home isolation.The health department is also investigating the death of a hospital employee — suspected to be a Covid-19 positive case.Dhakoli Community Health Centre CMO Pommy Chatrath said, “The OPD has been closed for the patients. The process of contact tracing will start shortly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-hospital-sealed-after-nine-employees-test-positive-for-covid-118268
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||35 new coronavirus cases take Chandigarh’s tally to 887||Chandigarh reported 35 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the union territory’s tally to 887.More than a quarter of that ---302 ---are still active cases.Among Sunday’s cases were a 69-year-old man from Sector 42 and a 6-year-old girl from Sector 48.Of the rest, Sectors 15, 23 , 24, 30, 32, 35, Maloya, PGI Campus and Raipur Khurd had a case each; Sector 19, 37, Dhanas, Ramdarbar, Mauli Jagran and Manimajra had two cases each; and Sectors 21, 40, 41 and 47 had three cases each.The UT has recorded 13 deaths from COVID-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/35-new-coronavirus-cases-take-chandigarhs-tally-to-887-118252
26-07-2020|| ||Cop suspended in Zirakpur after video of truck driver assault goes viral||Zirakpur, July 26A traffic policeman posted at Baltana beat box was suspended after a video of him holding money and assaulting a truck driver near the highway went viral on social media here on Sunday. The suspended cop, Mahinder Singh, is seen counting currency notes and putting them in his pocket. The truck driver and his helper are seen arguing with him, claiming that he has all the requisite papers and his documents be returned after verification.As per the video, the cop replies that they need to be further checked by a senior officer. The arguments turn violent as the cop thrashes him with a stick twice and threatens him.The truck driver also alleged that his business has suffered for six months due to the lockdown and the cops here have made “accepting bribe a routine affair”. No written or verbal complaint has been made in this regard at the Baltana police post. SP (Traffic) Kesar Singh said, “The cop has been suspended with immediate effect. Further investigation about the currency notes in his hand and the assault on the driver is on.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-suspended%C2%A0in-zirakpur-after-video-of-truck-driver-assault-goes-viral-118231
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports 25 new coronavirus cases||Mohali reported twenty-five new coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the district’s numbers past 700, officials said.Sixteen people were released from hospitals in the district on Monday. District officials put the COVID-19 numbers in Mohali at 715, with 250 of those still active.  The district has seen 13 fatalities from the infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-25-new-coronavirus-cases-118230
26-07-2020||Vijay Mohan||Army officers have higher stress but lower quality of life than other ranks: DRDO study||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26While the Indian Army personnel have moderate levels of occupational stress, the levels of psychological well-being and quality of life amongst the rank and file is good, a new study undertaken by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has revealed.In the occupational hierarchy, officers were found to have highest stress levels but lowest levels of psychological well-being and quality of life, whereas junior commissioned officers (JCOs) reported the highest level of psychological well-being and quality of life followed by other non-commissioned personnel.Moderate stress levels can be due to the strenuous nature of work, role ambiguity, frequent postings, separation from families and danger/threat amongst various other reasons. The usual demands of multiple deployments exposing the personnel to regular stressful conditions have shown enormous deterioration in psychological and physical health conditions including, lower morale, more mental health problems, and more stress-related work problems, according to the researchers.“The Indian Army’s role is to protect the whole nation and not an individual or a group, by ensuring national security and national unity, by defending the nation from external aggression and internal threats, and maintaining peace and security within its borders. The great importance of this duty puts tremendous stress on army personnel. Recent media reports indicate over four times more soldiers die battling stress rather than fighting militants in North-East or Kashmir,” the study says.Undertaken by four scientists at the DRDO’s Defence Institute of Psychological Research (DIPR), New Delhi, the study was published on July 22. DIPR’s core work area is personnel selection research, organisational behaviour, stress and combat stress management, soft-skill development and the human factor in man-machine interface.The respondents for the study were 150 male personnel aged between 25 to 45 years who were posted in one of the largest training centres of the Army and have had experiences in field and counter-insurgency areas. These included 50 officers, 50 junior commissioned officers (JCO) and 50 non-commissioned ranks.Researchers found occupational stress to be negatively correlated with psychological well-being as well as with the quality of life, whereas psychological well-being and quality of life were found to be positively correlated.Analysis of descriptive statistics by researchers has shown that, in the Occupational Stress Index, the total mean is high on all three occupations (hierarchical) levels. Among all three levels, officers have reported the highest level of occupational stress, followed by JCOs. Non-commissioned personnel reported a slightly lower level of occupational stress than JCOs.“One of the reasons of the above findings might be an officer holds a position of authority and therefore has more work responsibility and management responsibility as compared to JCOs and non-commissioned personnel, leading to higher levels of stress,” the study states. “Moreover, officers are responsible for decision making, planning, and execution of various activities. In the Indian Army, JCOs have longer years of service than officers, due to which officers accord JCO’s great respect and have a great amount of influence in their welfare and morale. Hence JCO’s have lower occupational stress level than officers,” the study adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/army-officers-have-higher-stress-but-lower-quality-of-life-than-other-ranks-drdo-study-118184
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two minors die at Chandigarh's PGIMER, but save lives of five other patients||Two children aged 10 and 11 may have lost their respective battles for life at the PGIMER here but even in death they, and their considerate parents, ensured that five organ-failure patients got fresh leases of life through organ donations, doctors said on Sunday.One heart and four kidneys from the deceased children were harvested and transplanted to the seriously ill patients last week amid the coronavirus pandemic, the doctors said. It was the sixth heart transplant at operation at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) till now.PGIMER Director Jagat Ram said: "With an increase in corona cases, we are overwhelmed by the rush of patients. So, keeping patients waiting for organ transplant operations in this environment as well as conducting transplants is ridden with multiple challenges.""This goes to the credit of each and every member of the PGIMER team involved in the process that their untiring efforts enabled the saving of five other lives through organ donations while grappling with the unprecedented corona crisis." Expressing gratitude to the bereaved families for agreeing to organs' donation, Dr Ram said: "As life ends for one person, it is a beginning for someone else. That is the bitter-sweet reality of organ donation. It is an extremely hard decision for the donor family, but families of these two donor children from the adjoining districts of Mohali and Ropar in Punjab definitely instil a sense of confidence and bring in a ray of hope." Dr Ashish Sharma, Head of Department of Renal Transplant Surgery, who led the back-to-back procedures to transplant four kidneys, said: "There were challenges involved in doing transplants in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. Special precautions were taken to proceed with the transplant surgeries."The deceased donors as well as recipients were tested and confirmed to be negative for Covid-19. Fortunately, all four kidneys after transplants in recipient patients have started to function well. The recipients were grateful to the donor families as all four were on dialysis for more than three years." Vipin Koushal, Nodal Officer at the Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation, said the selfless act of organ donation during these difficult times showed the magnanimity of the donor families who had suffered the loss of young children."It's an extremely tough call but the 'spirit of giving' overcomes all obstacles," he remarked."Nothing can console a parent over the death of his or her child, but knowing that my 10-year-old daughter's organs gave a second lease of life to three others made us feel that she did not die in vain," said her grieving father living in Kharar town. He said his daughter was grievously injured after falling from a height on July 14 at her home. After battling for life for over a week at the hospital, she succumbed to her injuries and was declared brain dead on July 24.Later, the consent for organ donation by her family saved three patients' lives after the transplant of one heart and two kidneys. The child's identity was kept confidential on the request of the parents.In the second case, 11-year-old Amandeep from village Chikha in Ropar district was admitted to the PGIMER on July 16 with intracranial bleed. His condition kept worsening and he was declared brain dead on July 22.Sharing his feelings after consenting for organ donation, the child's grief-stricken father Partap Singh said his son was haemophilic and could survive all these years because of blood donations by generous strangers."So, my decision to donate his organs was, in a way, expression of gratitude to all those donors who enabled us to spent precious time with our adorable son," he said.Singh's decision helped save two seriously ill kidney patients. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-minors-die-at-chandigarhs-pgimer-but-save-lives-of-five-other-patients-118159
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Suspended Mani Majra SHO surrenders in CBI court||Former Mani Majra SHO Jaswinder Kaur, an accused in a graft case, today surrendered before the court of Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI. The court sent her to a four-day police remand.The caseSuspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, along with an alleged conduit, Bhagwan Singh, was booked by the CBI under Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1998, and Sections 120-B and 467 of the IPC on June 29 this year for allegedly seeking Rs5-lakh bribe from a Mani Majra resident, Gurdeep Singh. Gurdeep had told the CBI that he had already paid Rs2 lakh to Jaswinder Kaur for not lodging a cheating case against him and was to pay Rs3 lakh more.Suspended Inspector Jaswinder Kaur, along with an alleged conduit, Bhagwan Singh, was booked by the CBI under Sections 7 and 7A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1998, and Sections 120-B and 467 of the IPC on June 29 this year for allegedly seeking Rs5-lakh bribe from a Mani Majra resident, Gurdeep Singh.Gurdeep had told the CBI that he had already paid Rs2 lakh to Jaswinder Kaur for not lodging a cheating case against him and was to pay Rs3 lakh more.The investigation agency informed her to join the probe on June 30. However, she intentionally absconded and did not join the investigation. Her application for anticipatory bail was dismissed by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on July 21. Finally, she surrendered before the CBI court today.KP Singh, Public Prosecutor for the CBI, submitted that the police remand of the accused cop was required to unearth a larger conspiracy between Jaswinder Kaur, Bhagwan Singh and other accused.The prosecution submitted that Jaswinder Kaur had allegedly demanded and received a bribe through Bhagwan Singh, who was already in judicial custody. Accordingly, KP Singh prayed for grant of a five-day police remand of the accused.On the other hand, the counsel for the cop submitted that she had been falsely implicated in the case.“In order to unearth a larger conspiracy between Jaswinder Kaur, Bhagwan Singh and other accused, the police remand of the cop was required to be granted. The remand is also required as there is a recorded conversation between her and Bhagwan Singh. Accordingly, the police remand of the accused is granted to the CBI for four days, up to July 29,” ordered the court. On an application moved by the counsels for the accused, the court allowed one of them to meet the accused for one hour daily (from 5 pm to 6 pm) while she is in police custody||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspended-mani-majra-sho-surrenders-in-cbi-court-118041
26-07-2020||Mohali||Four gangsters sent to 5-day police remand||A day after four hardcore gangsters were arrested following a brief encounter at Kharar, a local court today sent them to police remand for five days.In a joint operation, the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of the Punjab Police, along with the Mohali and Jagraon police, had nabbed Navdeep Singh, alias Johan Buttar, Kulwinder, alias Kinda, Palwinder Singh, alias Pinda, Amritpal Singh and Amrik Singh, alias Angrez Singh from Aman Homes in Kharar on Friday.Johan Buttar is undergoing treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh, as he had got injured during the encounter.All gangsters, excluding Johan Buttar, were produced before the court via video-conferencing. The police sought their remand for an investigation on various aspects, including information about their gang members who are still at large and the purpose of hiding in Kharar.Mohali SP (Investigation) Harmandeep Hans said, “Through their interrogation, we got some information about the hideouts of their accomplices, and we are working on it to nab them soon.”The police are also conducting a probe into the criminal cases registered against the gangsters. Johan Buttar was wanted in over 18 criminal cases of murder, attempt to murder, dacoity and extortion and was declared a proclaimed offender (PO) in a case registered against him in 2012.Palwinder Singh was also declared a PO in the murder case of gangster Kuldeep Singh. Amrik Singh had narcotics and liquor smuggling cases registered against him. Similarly, Amritpal Singh had been booked in liquor smuggling cases.The police had recovered two 9-mm pistols, a .30 bore pistol, a .32 bore pistol, two .315 bore pistols and 20 cartridges from the gangsters. A case was registered against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-gangsters-sent-to-5-day-police-remand-118045
26-07-2020||Mohali||Fighting depression, 78-year-old woman immolates herself in Mohali||A 78-year-old woman allegedly committed self-immolation in a washroom of her house in Phase 3B2 here in the wee hours of Saturday.The victim has been identified as Amarjit Kaur, a native of Karnal in Haryana. She had three daughters. She was living with her youngest daughter, who is married here, since January this year. The victim’s husband, Avtar Singh, had already died.According to the police, Amarjit Kaur was a patient of depression since long and was getting treatment from a doctor at Phase IV. The police said she could have taken the extreme step due to depression.The victim went to a washroom and set herself afire. The incident occurred around 3 am. At the time of incident, the victim’s daughter Kanwaljit Kaur and son-in-law Ratan Singh were asleep.On getting information, Inspector Rajiv Kumar, SHO, Mataur police station, along with other cops, rushed to the spot and recovered the burnt body from the washroom.Inspector Rajiv Kumar said, “The victim took a chair inside the washroom and sat on it before pouring some liquid on her body and setting herself ablaze using a matchstick. The liquid used in the self-immolation is not confirmed yet. Her daughter stated that the victim was suffering from depression and they did not suspect anyone else was behind the incident.”Sources said the victim sprayed ‘Hit’, an insect repellent, on her clothes and used a matchstick to burn herself.DSP (City-1) Gursher Singh said, “The use of any chemical or liquid will only be confirmed after the post-mortem report is received. We have checked her medical reports and it has been learnt that depression was the main reason for her taking the extreme step. Further investigation into the incident is on.”The victim’s post-mortem examination was conducted at the Civil Hospital in Phase VI here today.Meanwhile, the Mataur police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC on the statement of the victim’s daughter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fighting-depression-78-year-old-woman-immolates-herself-in-mohali-118046
26-07-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Petrol, diesel smuggling from UT  a big worry for dealers in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 25After a septuagenarian businessman committed suicide, there is fear and apprehension about occurring of similar incidents as petroleum sales has gone down by 60 to 80 per cent in the district as compared to Chandigarh in the past three years.According to sources, petroleum products are smuggled from Chandigarh to Mohali and other areas of Punjab, causing huge losses to the owners of petrol stations located in the vicinity of the UT.Ashwinder Singh Mongia, president of Punjab Petroleum Dealers Association, claimed that Chandigarh showed a considerable jump of 200 per cent in the sales of petrol and diesel in the past three years as per the figures released by the Union petroleum ministry against the national average of 3 per cent. He said 90 per cent of the petroleum products in Mohali district were bought by farmers and industries while 10 per cent were sold in retail. In Chandigarh, 10 per cent sales were to industries and 90 per cent of petroleum products were sold in retail. He said with the increase in VAT by the Punjab Government, the situation became totally different as farmers, who took their produce to the 26 grain market in Chandigarh for selling it, brought back diesel in drums. Even Mohali industries were purchasing petroleum products from UT. Diesel was cheaper in UT by Rs3 per litre.Mongia said Gurkirat Singh Chawla, the owner of three petrol pumps who committed suicide at a hotel in Panchkula, had been waging a lonely battle to convince the state government over this issue. He said in 2017, Chawla sold 14 lakh litres of petroleum products per month at his Phase 7 petrol pump, which came down to 2 lakh litres per month. He said instead of purchasing petrol or diesel from his pump, people got it at a cheaper rate from the Sector 52 pump in Chandigarh, which was hardly a km away.Mongia said the state government should bring the fuel prices on a par with the UT, the way it did in case of liquor. He said bringing VAT on fuel on a par with Chandigarh would put an end to its smuggling, besides preventing loss to the exchequer. He said if immediate steps were not taken, there was every possibility that anyone among the sufferers could take the extreme step.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/petrol-diesel-smuggling-from-ut-a-big-worry-for-dealers-in-mohali-118047
26-07-2020||Panchkula||Punjab  fuel stations to remain shut on July 29||The Petrol Pump Dealers Association, Punjab, today gave a statewide call to shut petrol pumps on July 29, demanding justice for one of its members, Gurkirpal Singh Chawla, who ended his life at a hotel here. Chawla allegedly succumbed to the pressure of loss of volume due to disparity in fuel prices in Punjab and its neighbouring states and huge revenue loss by low sales due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“The onus of his death primarily lies with the HPCL and then the VAT policies of the Government of Punjab and the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, who failed to address the issues of the petrol pump dealers seeking price correction and increased margins to cover up for the losses due to the pandemic,” said Paramjit Singh Doaba, president of the association.“This is just the beginning of a dark chapter of suicides by petro dealers. More such incidents are waiting to happen if the HPCL and the other three oil marketing companies, the Punjab Government and the MoPNG did not consider the plight of the petroleum dealers’ fraternity and give justice to Chawla,” said Manjeet Singh, general secretary of the association.“We have planned to keep the petrol pumps in Punjab shut on July 29 to demand justice for Gurkirpal Singh Chawla,” read a press release of the association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-fuel-stations-to-remain-shut-on-july-29-118048
26-07-2020||Panchkula||75-yr-old woman loses battle to virus in Panchkula||A 75-year-old woman became the first Covid-19 fatality in the district today.The woman, a resident of Shahpur, died at Ojas Hospital here this evening. Earlier, she was undergoing treatment at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 for the past three days.Officials claimed that the patient’s family insisted on shifting the woman to a private hospital.Sources said her lungs were severely affected. She was critically ill when she was admitted to the Civil Hospital. She was also suffering from hypertension and diabetes. The woman tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday.Earlier, the death of a 76-year-old woman from Sector 12 was being considered as a Covid fatality. However, officials later clarified that the woman died due to chronic renal disease (Stage 5) and she was declared Covid negative before death. The woman had died on July 2.Meanwhile, 23 fresh cases were reported from the district today, taking the tally to 413.The MRI and CT Scan Centre at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, here, was sealed after a security guard deployed there tested positive for Covid-19. The 45-year-old man belongs to Surajpur. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said: “The centre is being disinfected. Contacts of the security guard are being traced.”A 34-year-old doctor from the PGI, who lives in Sector 9, here, was also found infected with the virus.A 28-year-old woman from Ramgarh, a 36-year-old man from Sector 25, a 23-year-old man from Sector 12-A, a 23-year-old man from Sector 10, a 29-year-old man from Sector 8, a 65-year-old woman from Sector 25, a 68-year-old man from Sector 21, a 27-year-old man from Surajpur, a 19-year-old woman from Raipur Rani and a 39-year-old man from Sector 25 were among those infected.Six patients, aged between 22 and 38, from Kalka also contracted the infection. A 52-year-old man, a 34-year-old woman and a 42-year-old woman from Pinjore were diagnosed for Covid-19. Two men, aged 75 and 45, from Nanakpur were fund suffering from the contagion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/75-yr-old-woman-loses-battle-to-virus-in-panchkula-118049
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGI doctor, Chandigarh BJP chief’s wife +ve||A 29-year-old resident doctor of the PGI and the city BJP president’s wife (44) from Sector 37 tested positive for Covid-19 here today. Besides, 27 more persons were found suffering from the contagion, taking the tally to 852.Four of a family - three women, aged 35, 32 and 41, and a 40-year-old man - from Mauli Jagran contracted the infection. They are the contacts of an infected person from the family.Two men, aged 62 and 66, from a Sector 37 family were diagnosed with Covid-19. They are the family contact of an already diagnosed case. A 30-year-old man from Mani Majra also tested positive. He also contracted the virus from an infected family member.A 48-year-old woman from Sector 32, a 35-year-old man from Dhanas and a 48-year-old woman from Sector 18 were found suffering from the contagion. They are also family contacts of already diagnosed patients from their houses.A 26-year-old man from Sector 3, who is working as a cook, was diagnosed with Covid-19.A 55-year-old man from Sector 23, a 39-year-old man from Mani Majra, a 54-year-old man from Sector 28 and a 70-year-old man from Sector 32 also contracted the infection. Their source of infection is not yet known.A 48-year-old man from Sector 43, a 39-year-old man from Sector 44, a 48-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony, a 39-year-old woman from Sector 24, a 50-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran and a two-year-old girl from Sector 45 were found infected. Their source of infection is also not known.A 44-year-old man from Sector 49 tested positive for Covid-19. He is the contact of an already positive case of Punjab. A 33-year-old man from Mani Majra also contracted the infection. He had visited a Panchkula hospital.A six-year-old boy from Sector 30 was also found infected. A 36-year-old man from Ram Darbar, a 61-year-old man from Sector 7 and a 52-year-old man from Dhanas also contracted the virus.As many as 20 patients were discharged from hospitals after defeating the virus on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-doctor-chandigarh-bjp-chiefs-wife-ve-118050
26-07-2020||Mohali||62-year-old man Mohali’s 14th fatality; 28 fresh cases in district||A 62-year-old man from Kharar died of Covid-19 here today, taking the district toll to 14.The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the 62-year-old Covid patient had comorbidities. Meanwhile, 28 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 today, taking the tally to 690.14 dischargedAs many as 14 patients were discharged from the hospital after defeating the virus on Saturday. They are three women, aged 51, 25 and 70, and a 16-year-old boy from Kharar, a 25-year-old woman from Zirakpur, and two men, aged 26 and 22, and seven women, aged 27, 26, 29, 25, 27, 22 and 23, from Sohana.Two men, aged 24 and 67, and a 65-year-old woman from Phase X, a 29-year-old woman from Sunny Enclave, Kharar, a 62-year-old woman from Swaraj Nagar, Kharar, and a 30-year-old woman from Sector 123, Kharar, contracted the infection.A 38-year-old man from Mubarikpur, a 31-year-old man from New Chandigarh, a 14-year-old boy from Shivalik City, Kharar, a 35-year-old woman from Phase VII, a 45-year-old man and a 23-year-old woman from Phase II, a 32-year-old woman from Acme Heights, Kharar, a 70-year-old man from Phase V, a 46-year-old man and an eight-year-old boy from Dhakoli, a 42-year-old woman and a 32-year-old man from Dera Bassi and two women, aged 59 and 34, from Golf Medows, Dera Bassi, were found suffering from the virus.Two women, aged 57 and 48, from Mohali, a 52-year-old woman from Basoli, a 62-year-old man from Kharar, a 35-year-old man and a four-year-old boy from Omaxe Green, Lalru, a 34-year-old woman from Dappar and a 76-year-old man from Zirakpur also tested positive.As of now, there are 690 positive cases in the district. While 435 patients have been cured and discharged, there are 241 active cases. Fourteen persons have died of the disease in the district.Civil Surgeon, officials visit govt hospitalsMeanwhile, Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh, accompanied by Deputy Medical Commissioner Dr Daljit Singh and Health Inspector Bhupinder Singh Dahri, visited government hospitals in Dhakoli, Dera Bassi, Lalru, Banur and Kharar. They inspected collection of samples from suspected patients by doctors and paramedical staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/62-year-old-man-mohalis-14th-fatality-28-fresh-cases-in-district-118058
26-07-2020||Panchkula||Containment zones rise in Panchkula||Containment zones in Panchkula rose to 89 on July 22 from 12 on July 1, compounding the challenges of the district health authorities in tackling the Covid-19 outbreak.The Panchkula CivilSurgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said they would ramp up testing with special focus on containment zones to prevent further spread of the virus.Testing of patients’ contactsAccording to official figures, as many as 328 patients had tested positive for Covid-19 in the district till July 22. The Health Department had traced their 1,548 contacts for testing. The overall figure of samples collected from the district has already been discontinued in the daily Covid-19 bulletin for unknown reasons.‘No part untouched by virus’The Civil Surgeon said no part of Panchkula district had been left untouched by coronavirus. Cases had been reported from several villages of Pinjore and Kalka.Even cases have been reported from state and Central government offices located in Panchkula. The offices from where employees tested positive are the Department of Medical Education and Research, Sector 16, Haryana Public Service Commission, Sector 4, Directorate of Urban Local Bodies, Sector 4, Haryana Police Headquarters, Sector 6, DG Health Office, Sector 6, Central Board of Secondary Education Regional Office, Sector 5, and Shiksha Sadan, Sector 5.“We know that the rise in case load is inevitable. So, we are putting in all our efforts to prevent fatalities,” she said.Cases and recoveries so farSo far, 413 persons have tested positive for Covid-19 from the district, with one fatality. As many as 180 patients have been recovered and discharged from hospitals so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/containment-zones-rise-in-panchkula-118069
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Admissions to Chandigarh govt schools from July 31||Candidates seeking admission to various classes — pre-nursery to Class VIII — in government schools of the UT can apply online for the same. The online applications can be submitted from July 31 to August 14.The details regarding the list of clusters, the schools under each cluster and tentative vacant seats shall be made available on the website of the Education Department (www.chdeducation.gov.in) from July 27.In compliance with the RTE Act norms, the admission to government schools is done as per the “neighborhood concept” (school nearest to the residence). The detailed information regarding the schools under each sector (according to the RTE Act) has been uploaded on the website. Only those candidates who are presently not studying in any of the government schools are eligible to apply for admissions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/admissions-to-chandigarh-govt-schools-from-july-31-118070
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Nod to online admissions for UG courses||The Directorate of Higher Education has announced conducting joint online admissions for undergraduate course in local colleges to avoid any kind of gathering in view of Covid-19.It is for the first time that admission to all courses in local colleges will be conducted through an online mode. If successful, the practice would be adopted in future too, said sources. Candidates can apply on www.dhe.chd.gov.in.The online centralised admission schedule (session 2020-2021) for various courses, including BBA(I)/BCA(I)/BCom (I)/BSc (non-medical and medical – all courses)(I)/ BSc Biotechnology (Hons)/ BSc Bioinformatics (Hons) (I). The online application of admission form will start from July 27 (Monday).The last date for submission of form for all courses is August 3 (Monday). Display of list of all applicants will take place on August 5 by 4 pm, while submission of discrepancies by applicants will be allowed till August 7 by 1pm. The list of eligible applicants will be displayed on August 8 by 4 pm. The list of colleges allotted to applicants will be displayed on August 13 by 5 pm.Postgraduate coursesAs per details of the Academic Calendar issued by Panjab University, the admission schedule with respect to PG classes will be decided as and whenever released.Online BA admissionsApplicants seeking admission to BA in local private-aided colleges will refer to the prospectus/ website of the respective college, whereas all government colleges have a common schedule for online BA admission. The online application of admission form will start from July 27 and the last date for online submission of application form will be August 3.The list of applicants will be displayed on August 4 by 4 pm, while the provisional merit list will be out on August 6 by 4 pm. The final merit will be displayed on August 9. There are 2,150 seats in government colleges and 5,600 in private.Meanwhile, students welcomed the decision. “It’s a good step to avoid physical gathering of students. This is most popular course among a majority of the students and this facility will surely help a large number of them,” said Dalip Kapoor, a student.“We have started preparing for providing students with a hassle-free platform. With the addition of BA course, we are expecting a huge rush at the online platforms for admission. Private colleges will manage the admissions at their own level,” said one of the sources in the Education Department.“We have been managing admissions through physical counselling so far. Since this time all admissions will be online, we have started preparing for it. Teachers will be appointed for the scrutinising process,” said Dr Sutapa Saryal, Dean Admissions, DAV College, Sector 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nod-to-online-admissions-for-ug-courses-118071
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mock test for Bar Association elections today||The Bar Council of Punjab and Chandigarh will hold a mock test on July 26 for online elections of the Bar Associations across Punjab and Haryana and Chandigarh.Besides, an online opinion poll will also be held to ascertain if an ad hoc committee should be appointed to look into the affairs of the Bar Associations or online elections be held.Karanjit Singh, Chairman of the Bar Council, said this would be a unique system to be adopted by the Bar Council of Punjab and Haryana by seeking opinion of all advocates enrolled with the council in Punjab and Haryana on all important issues. This would be the first online poll for office-bearers of the Bar Council.The opinion poll and the mock test will be held from 10 am to 12 pm. The opinion will also be sought regarding the working of an app for online elections.Karanjit Singh said they had received an updated list of the voters from the Bar Association in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. He said if the results of the mock exercise were encouraging, elections would be held online. The elections are held on the first Friday of April every year, but have been postponed due to the pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mock-test-for-bar-association-elections-today-118072
26-07-2020||Zirakpur||Mubarakpur underpass shut for repairs till August 8||Residents here will have to take a detour as the Mirpur-Mubarakpur railway underpass will remain closed for the next 15 days due to some repair work.Residents of Trivedi Camp, Mubarakpur, Mirpur and Bhankharpur will have to bear the inconvenience for the next fortnight in the rainy season. They say the underpass was completed after more than one year of ending of the deadline and was again becoming an inconvenience for them.“The concrete road surface of Mubarakpur underpass needs rectifications/repairs for which the Mirpur-Mubarakpur road needs to be blocked for traffic till August 8,” reads the railways advisory.“The authorities have chosen the monsoon for the repair work without thinking that about how much inconvenience it causes to residents of nearby villages,” said Davinderpal Singh, a resident of Mubarakpur village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mubarakpur-underpass-shut-for-repairs-till-august-8-118073
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||NSUI members protest, say MP missing||Members of the NSUI, Panjab University, staged a protest at Matka Chowk here today.The members held this symbolic protest claiming that city MP Kirron Kher has gone missing ever since she was re-elected to the post.The NSUI activists protested with ‘Missing MP’ posters in their hand.The activists alleged that their MP had been missing from public view and even announced a reward of Rs2,100 to anyone who can tell her whereabouts. “The people’s representative should come forward and address the issues in the city during such distressing times,” said Manoj Lubana, NSUI representative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nsui-members-protest-say-mp-missing-118074
26-07-2020||Dera Bassi||Webinar on e-learning||Sri Sukhmani Institute of Engineering and Technology (SSIET), Dera Bassi, organised a webinar on empowering e-learning on Saturday. Lectures by experts from NITTTR, Chandigarh, were attended by 100 participants in the morning and evening sessions. The faculty of the SSIET and other institutes from various regions of the country participated in this webinar. After welcoming the experts, Prof Gurpreet Kaur, Director Technical, SSIET, laid emphasis on the importance and challenging aspect of empowering faculty members with various e-learning tools and modes of communication. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-on-e-learning-118075
26-07-2020||Zirakpur||Rainwater harvesting boon for Zirakpur societies||Rainwater harvesting is the buzzword among RWAs here these days. Besides ecological benefit, the rainwater harvesting system is proving out to be an effective solution for waterlogging, a bane of all housing societies here.System Costs Rs70KDaman Davinder Singh, SDO, said: "The cost of structure varies according to the flow of water and water table. On an average, each structure costs around Rs70,000 to Rs1.5 lakh."As many as 22 structures have been put in place by the Zirakpur Municipal Council and a plenty of them are soon to be installed in various parts of the town.“The problem of waterlogging has subsided considerably this season after the structure was put in place,” Shyam Bhaker, a resident of Golden Estate Colony in Baltana. The structure has checked the perennial problem of Ward No.6, which is a low-lying area.The rainy season has put a spanner in the work, but the Municipal Council plans to install more such structures in areas where waterlogging problem is severe.Daman Davinder Singh , SDO, said: “The cost of structure varies according to the flow of water and water table. On an average, each structure costs around Rs70,000 to Rs1.5 lakh.”The rainwater harvesting system has been successful in Wadhwa Nagar where shops are usually flooded with rainwater in the monsoon. “We have installed five structures in the area and residents are very satisfied,” he added.Savitri Enclave, Lohgarh, Jarnail Enclave Phase 2 and Dhakoli park are likely to be benefitted by the structures in the coming months.Rainwater harvesting system is a technology that collects and stores rainwater for use. The structure is installed with the help of barrels, pumps, storage tanks and even purification system. The stored water can be used for landscaping, toilets and car washing among other uses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rainwater-harvesting-boon-for-zirakpur-societies-118076
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration to plant 1.5 lakh saplings||VP Singh Badnore, UT Administrator, recently released 'Greening Chandigarh Action Plan 2020-21'.It involves plantation targets for various departments/ agencies. During this year, 1,50,000 saplings will be planted in a phased manner on government and available private land and 70,000 saplings are being distributed by Forest Department among residents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-to-plant-1-5-lakh-saplings-118077
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Count of cyclists dying on Chandigarh roads drops in 5 yrs||The number of cyclists killed in road accidents has witnessed a slight fall over the past five years.According to a report of the Road Crash Analysis Cell, cyclist fatalities on Chandigarh roads have reduced from 17 in 2015 to 10 in 2019.In 2015, 13.17 per cent of people, who died in road accidents, were cyclists, whereas 9.61 per cent cyclist deaths were witnessed in 2019.The report revealed that while 17 cyclists died in road accidents in 2015, the casualties were 28, 13, 11 and 10 in the following years.The Chandigarh Traffic Police have also contributed towards bringing down the casualties through various awareness campaigns. The cycle brigade constituted by the Traffic Police to check vehicles plying on cycle tracks has deterred the motorists. It has further resulted in making cycling safer. Cops on bicycle pedal across the city to educate cyclists and issue challans to motorists for driving on cycle tracks.The statistics further revealed that the number of pedestrians killed in road crashes had also reduced over five years. Forty-seven cyclist deaths (36.43 per cent) were witnessed in 2015, whereas the number was 36 (34.61 per) in 2019.Meanwhile, a youth was injured after falling from a cycle at a cycle track from Sector 7 to 8 on Thursday morning. He was provided first-aid by constable Pawan Kumar of the Traffic Police’s cycle brigade. Pawan was sensitising cyclists and rickshaw pullers to use cycle track when the incident took place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/count-of-cyclists-dying-on-chandigarh-roads-drops-in-5-yrs-118078
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGI plans antibody tests to identify plasma donors||The PGI is planning to carry out antibody tests on recovered Covid-19 patients to evaluate them for plasma therapy, which can be used to help critical patients fight the virus better.Prof Ratti Ram Sharma of the PGI said, “First, the eligibility of donors will be determined and their sample will be collected. A batch of 40-50 samples will be used in the antibody kit for the detection of antibody levels.”He said, “According to recent studies, antibody disappears quickly among asymptomatic cases as compared with symptomatic patients. We will follow the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines and stick to symptomatic cases for plasma donation. The only difference will be that the antibody test will give us confidence that there is antibody in the recovered patient and can be fit for plasma donation.”It has been clarified that this kind of testing will not be used for the detection of the infection as the UT Administration is using only RT-PCR testing for the same despite the ICMR’s advisory.As many as nine Covid patients recovered with the help of convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) at the PGI.The institute is one of the centres of the ICMR national trial on convalescent plasma therapy for Covid patients. The PGI successfully enrolled nine patients, of whom five received plasma treatment and the remaining were on the control arm.Dr Pankaj Malhotra, Department of Internal Medicine, PGI, said the five patients, who were administered plasma, have showed no side-effects and complications during treatment. The results of the trial have been positive and encouraging, said Dr Malhotra.It has been observed that in some cases, the patient was taken off the oxygen therapy in just three days and gradually his condition improved over time with the help of supportive care.The patients, whose P/F ratio was between 200 and 300, were included in the CPT trial. The P/F ratio is a defining criterion for acute respiratory failure.The trial took place across 50 sites in India. The sample size for the trial was 425 patients and the results were likely to be announced soon, sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-plans-antibody-tests-to-identify-plasma-donors-118079
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rise in number of passport applications in Chandigarh||Passport applications have started picking up at the regional passport office (RPO) in Chandigarh, rising from zero in April, when the Covid-19 lockdown was in full force, to 17,021 in June and 16,225 applications till July 23.However, the situation is far from normal, as the figure for June is just 29 per cent of the number of applications submitted in the same month last year. In June 2019, the RPO received 58,068 applications. The RPO was not processing applications in April, but these could be submitted online, confirmed an official.Regional Passport Officer Sibash Kabiraj said, “During the lockdown, all appointments were suspended. Though people could apply, appointments reopened in May-end.” The RPO is still functioning with 50 per cent staff. Earlier, during the lockdown period, passport applications had fallen drastically. The lockdown came into force on March 22 this year and it had impacted application submissions, as the RPO announced a suspension of appointments. In March, applications fell from 57,503 in 2019 to 33,938 this year. The figure was 59,149 in 2018.The RPO did not receive any application in April this year, while the figure was 60,159 in the same month last year and 59,983 in 2018.The RPO resumed operations on May 26. In May, 3,001 people applied for passports. The figure was 66,815 in May 2018 and 68,353 in 2019.There had been a rise in applications after Seva Kendras resumed services, said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rise-in-number-of-passport-applications-in-chandigarh-118080
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Women lawyers seek financial aid for colleagues||Deeply affected by the financial stress that the lawyer's community is facing since March this year due to the restricted (near closure) functioning of courts, women advocates have decided to speak out for the entire legal fraternity to seek help in the form of loan on reasonable terms and conditions.The lawyers requested the Home Minister to provide financial assistance to the advocates under the Disaster Management Act, 2015, and to improve infrastructural facilities of the virtual courts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/women-lawyers-seek-financial-aid-for-colleagues-118082
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||PGI conducts 6th heart transplant||The sixth heart transplant was conducted on a 13-year-old boy at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, today.The selfless gesture of the family of the heart donor, a 10-year-old brain-dead girl from Kharar, Mohali, gave a new lease of life to a total of three persons as her kidneys were also donated to two patients. The donor had a fatal fall from a height at her home on July 14 and was rushed to the PGI on the same day.Another 11-year-old brain-dead patient gave the gift of life to two kidney-failure patients on July 22. Amandeep from Chikha village, Rupnagar district, was admitted to the PGI with intracranial bleed on July 16. His condition kept worsening and finally he was declared brain dead.The PGI Director, Prof Jagat Ram, said, “Despite the surge in Covid-19 cases, the PGI team was successful in saving five lives.”Prof Ashish Sharma, Head, Department of Renal Transplant Surgery, PGI, who led the procedure for the transplant of four kidneys, said, “There were challenges during kidney transplant in view of the Covid pandemic. Special precautions were taken to proceed with the transplant. The donor and the recipients were tested and confirmed to be negative for Covid-19. Fortunately, all kidney recipients are stated to be doing fine. The recipients are grateful to the donor families as all were on dialysis for more than three years.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-conducts-6th-heart-transplant-118083
26-07-2020||---||Chandigarh MC reinvites bid  for 5-year contract||Chandigarh, July 25Having failed to earn even a single penny from advertisements on 55 public convenience blocks for more than five years, the cash-starved Municipal Corporation (MC) has now reinvited bid for a five-year contract for interested parties.The civic body can roughly earn about Rs3-4 crore per annum from these ads. The corporation has floated a tender and invited interest from agencies till August 6. After this, the document approval payment date will be till August 13 and the auction will be held on the same day.“We have floated the tender and the project will begin soon,” said MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora, who heads this wing.The sites will be allotted through an e-auction on the payment licence and advertisement fee. The advertisements will only be displayed in illuminted LED backlight by the successful bidder at his own expense.The total block area of 55 public toilets will be 11,301.45 sq ft and Rs20,94,590 will be the earnest money. This is the 2 per cent of the total of annual licence and advertisement fee for five years.In March, no agency had shown interest in the tender as bidders did not find several conditions such as contract period for “one year plus one year” viable.The corporation had run the project from 2003 to 2014 on a “build-operate-maintain” basis in the city. However, following a toilet scam in which irregularities were found in the maintenance of toilets and advertising, ads on toilets were stopped. The CBI had registered a case against officials of the MC and an advertising company due to which the civic body failed to earn any revenue from the ads on toilet blocks.The MC then got its build-operate-maintain policy changed. It took a long time to modify the policy for offering space in lieu of licence and ad fee on a “as-is-where-is” basis.Even after that, it failed to find any takers in two tenders floated recently. While the MC failed to earn any revenue from its asset, Chandigarh Smart City Limited is going to spend crores for renovation of 38 toilets. The amount could have come from ads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-reinvites-bid-for-5-year-contract-118084
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||District Bar Association slams accused cop’s entry to court||The District Bar Association (DBA) strongly condemned the act of the police who have facilitated the entry of their own officer Jaswinder Kaur before the court of CBI Special Judge today especially when the entry of clerks and outsiders are strictly prohibited.“No preferential or special treatment shall be given to anyone in these trying times,” said NK Nanda, president, DBA.Meanwhile, lawyers also protested against the action of the police.Ravinder Singh Bassi, former president, DBA, Vinod Verma, former vice-president, DBA, Karandeep Singh Khullar, vice-president, DBA, and advocate Shiv Murti Yadav said when clients and even munshis were not allowed to enter the court premises by the police then how an accused, Jaswinder Kaur, had been allowed to enter the court premises without any permission from the authorities.They alleged that the police personnel had illegally helped the accused in entering the court premises by misusing their official powers to save an accused.They said they would file a complaint against this illegal activity of the police officials who were deputed at the main gate of the District Courts. Meanwhile, advocate Terminder Singh, counsel for the accused, said no proceeding took place in the courtroom. The application was filed online only and the proceedings took place in the remand room only, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/district-bar-association-slams-accused-cops-entry-to-court-118085
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Contactless railway ticket checking||In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and to ensure the safety of passengers and staff, the Ambala Division of the Northern Railways has decided in favour of contactless ticket checking at the station as well as on board, said DRM Gurinder Mohan Singh. For contactless ticket checking of reserved tickets, the Centre for Railway Information Systems has rolled out an application covering all zonal railways to display passenger reservation system (PRS) ticket details as QR code. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contactless-railway-ticket-checking-118087
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Virus scare at city BJP office, Elante store shut||Three Covid-19 cases have spread fear in Elante Mall, Sector-33 BJP office and UT’s Estate Office. The BJP office has been closed since July 22.The Estate Office staff was taken aback after a woman senior assistant’s husband was found Covid positive. Official sources said her husband was ill for the last few days and she was taking him to hospital. He tested positive yesterday. The woman employee is a resident of Sector 23.Around five staff members, who used to work with her, have been home quarantined. This includes clerks and assistants. Some staff members are from Punjab and some from Chandigarh.Meanwhile, the Estate Office was sanitised today. However, scared staff members said the office should be closed for a few days. “Sanitation is not a solution. We should close the office for a few days so that employees stay home. If they have any symptoms, there will be no chance of further transmission of infection,” said an official.“Many employees work in the Estate Office, which also has the office of Deputy Commissioner Mandip Brar. Meanwhile, Assistant Estate Officer Manish Lohan did not respond to repeated phone calls.An official said there was no need to close the Estate Office because as per the new guidelines it was closed for 48 hours. Besides, the office remained closed on Saturday and Sunday too, he added.A 23-year-old worker of a popular store in Elante Mall has also tested positive for the disease. The Behlana resident was into preparing credit cards and managing other bank-related services. His contacts in Behlana have already been home quarantined.According to official statement from Elante Mall, “A third party employee manning a kiosk at the store has tested positive today. He last visited the mall on July 19 when his Aarogya Setu app was checked and his body temperature was normal.”Senior UT officials, who visited the store, are doing the needful.“We saw UT officials at the store. We are scared as we visited the store for shopping,” said a shopper over phone.“Acting on the instructions from the authorities, we have asked all the staff manning the store to self quarantine immediately and get themselves tested at hospital. All these staff members will have to provide a medical certificate before resuming duty. The premises of the store concerned will be thoroughly sanitised and disinfected before it reopens,” added officials at Elante Mall.BJP members worriedMembers of the BJP are also worried after local unit president Arun Sood’s wife tested Covid positive yesterday.Sood, who has been in the field since March when lockdown was imposed, told Chandigarh Tribune, “I believe that I am the carrier. She got infected from me. I had the symptoms. I tested negative due to immunity, but she tested positive. She was not able to feel the taste of jaggery and gulab jal before test.”Since, Sood was actively involved in party activities as there were few virtual rallies at the Sector-33 BJP office and other people centric events, he met several leaders and people.One of the partymen said he also felt symptoms for a few days, but was fine now. All, who met Sood, have been advised home quarantine and to undergo test.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virus-scare-at-city-bjp-office-elante-store-shut-118088
26-07-2020||Zirakpur||6 booked in dowry case||Rajiv appointed RTI Appellate officerChandigarh: The Rowing Federation of India (RFI) appointed Rajiv Sharma, a former rowing coach of the UT Sports Department, as the RTI Appellate Officer for 2020-2024. Sharma is the Associate Joint Secretary (RFI) and the Honorary Secretary of the Chandigarh Rowing Association. TNSVirtual show at schoolChandigarh: Tribune Model School organised its first virtual, ‘Show and Tell’, on July 24 and 25 for LKG and UKG, respectively. The virtual celebration, inaugurated by Vandana Saxena, Principal, encouraged the little stars of kindergarten to speak confidently about their choice of fruits. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-booked-in-dowry-case-118089
