26-05-2020||---||After three deadlines, Chandigarh Edu Department serves show-cause to 51 schools||Chandigarh, May 26Acting tough on private schools for defying the act, the UT Education Department, on Tuesday, served show-cause to 51 private schools for not uploading balance sheets on its official website. This has been confirmed by Director School Education Rubinderjit Brar.The schools have been asked to explain why balance sheets were not uploaded on the official website and show compliance with the act in seven days.The private schools, who had been served show-cause, had missed three deadlines given by the Education Department for uploading balance sheets.The first letter seeking details of the balance sheets was sent on April 24 and schools were asked to submit the details by April 30. On May 1, another letter was posted to schools, the deadline for which was extended to May 8. The third letter was sent to schools on May 13.In 2018, the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, had extended the application of The Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, to the Union Territory of Chandigarh with certain modifications.One of the provisions of Section 5 of the Act required that “all private unaided schools to upload their balance sheets and income-expenditure accounts on their respective websites”.It has been found that many schools uploaded their complete balance sheets and income-expenditure accounts on their official websites. However, very few schools have partially complied but uploaded incomplete documents.Parents protest demand of fee for lockdown periodThe AAP Chandigarh youth wing, along with parents and the Chandigarh Parents’ Association, on Tuesday, protested outside St Soldier International School against the school forcing the parents to deposit fees for the lockdown period.Lalit Mohan, president (Youth Wing), and joint secretary, AAP, said: “Instead of helping the parents, private schools of Chandigarh are putting a mental and financial burden on them by asking for fees. The schools’ management must understand that it is the same parents, who have always deposited the fees of their wards in time and have always given into all justified or unjustified demands from schools, be it uniforms, books or other charges.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-three-deadlines-chandigarh-edu-department-serves-show-cause-to-51-schools-90258
26-05-2020||---||8 seafarers, including Mohali-based Captain, back home from Jakarta||Chandigarh, May 26India may have resumed crew changes for its seafarers, who are caught in the pandemic-related restrictions, but many countries are still refusing clearance, causing stress and confusion.Amid this grim scenario, the homecoming of eight seafarers, thanks to the efforts of owners of the companies, has come as a huge relief for families and colleagues.PT Selebes Sarana, vessel owner, and Asia World Shipping Pte Ltd, a technical management company, along with its crewing agent, Crew Sarge Maritime Pvt Ltd, succeeded in repatriating the seafarers, who were stranded on MT Roil Orchid ever since their contract ended on May 1, from Jakarta to Delhi with “fully paid wages”.“During this difficult time, it is a challenge for all ship owners to repatriate seafarers whose contract has ended, with many countries imposing travel bans and restrictions. The emotional well-being of the crew should not be overlooked. It was an obligation for me to bring them home safely,” said JS Gill, Director, Asia World Shipping Pte Ltd.“Our success would not have been possible without the support of the Jakarta consulate and the Government of India,” Gill added. “All quarantine costs were covered by the owners.”Mohali-based Captain Vikram Sudarshanlal Sharma, Master, MT Roil Orchid, who was one of the repatriated seafarers, said, “When all big shipping companies are looking for a way out, our employers soldiered on to find ways and means to get us home safely. We were overwhelmed by their support and care.”The Jakarta consulate went out of the way to help, he added. “It’s a lesson for many shipping giants, who are not working towards repatriating their seafarers citing restrictions on permissions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-seafarers-including-mohali-based-captain-%C2%A0back-home-from-jakarta-90214
26-05-2020||Panchkula||Maha Anand Senior Secondary School in Raipur Rani gutted||The school bus parked near the main gate also caught fire and was badly damaged.Three fire tenders from Alipur, Panchkula and Dera Bassi were pressed into service. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maha-anand-senior-secondary-school-in-raipur-rani-gutted-90172
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh's Bapu Dham Colony reports four new cases; UT tally 279||Four more people---a one-and-a-half-year-old boy among them---tested positive for the coronavirus in Chandigarh, taking the number of cases in the union territory to 279 on Tuesday.Besides the toddler, three men ages 61, 60 and 22 tested positive.All four of Tuesday's cases were from Bapu Dham, a COVID-19 hotspot that accounts for 73 per cent of Chandigarh's cases. The union territory now has 88 total active cases in the city---84 of these from Bapu Dham alone.On Monday, 10 new COVID-19 cases were reported from Bapu Dham colony, which is the worst-affected area of the city.Four people have died due to the pandemic in the Union territory. Meanwhile, family members of the three-day-baby who died in PGI and had tested positive for COVID-19 have tested negative. The family is residing in Dadu Majra Colony. Some family contacts were residing in Sector 38. Total 12 were traced and sampled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-bapu-dham-colony-reports-four-new-cases-ut-tally-279-90127
26-05-2020||Mohali||7 flights land with 505 passengers in Chandigarh||Two months after the lockdown in view of Covid was enforced, the Chandigarh international airport became operational again with various flights arriving from and departing to the metro cities of Mumbai, Bengaluru and Delhi today.A total of 505 passengers arrived on seven flights while 279 passengers boarded the return flights. Air India’s Dharamsala flight was cancelled due to operational reasons. The passengers who arrived today belonged to Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. They were screened for Covid by health teams, led by Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh.A Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) spokesman said three flights of IndiGo arrived from Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru while a flight each of Air Asia and Vistara arrived from Bengaluru and Delhi, respectively. Two flights of Air India from Delhi also landed here today. Mukesh Kumar of Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh, who arrived along with his wife and son, said the Covid situation was very bad in Mumbai. He works in a private company there while his wife is doing her PhD. He said till yesterday evening, it was not clear whether the flights would run or not. He added that later, they received a message that they had to reach the Mumbai airport in the morning.Deepak Kapoor, an actor and a resident of Bathinda, said they had been at their apartment for the past two months and wished to return to their parents, even if they had to be home-quarantined. He said they had been advised to remain in home quarantine for 14 days after reaching Punjab. He said they were screened thrice before boarding the flight.Another passenger Priya, also a resident of Bathinda, said the airline employees were wearing masks and gloves. She said though social distancing was maintained by keeping a seat in a row of three seats vacant, in some rows three passengers were seated. They belonged to one family and had requested the airline staff to let them sit together.She said after arriving at the Chandigarh airport, they had to undergo screening for Covid again.Ajay Bhardwaj, CEO, CHIAL, said the number of passengers arriving from the metro cities was large as the people from the region were struck there due to the lockdown.(The report has been updated to correct the figure for passengers).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-flights-land-with-505-passengers-in-chandigarh-89872
26-05-2020||Mohali||Fortnight on, Mohali sees  a fresh case||After a two-week lull, a new Covid case surfaced in the district today, raising the tally to 106. According to reports, a 29-year-old woman of Adarsh Nagar in Nayagaon village was found infected with the virus. She had given birth to a child at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16 on May 23. She is the lone active Covid case in the district.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said they took the woman’s sample post-delivery and the test report was received today in which she was found positive for Covid. He said health teams had traced all her contacts, whose samples would be taken tomorrow.The Civil Surgeon said they had sealed the Adarsh Nagar area after shifting the woman to the PGI.Earlier, eight persons from Nayagaon had tested positive for the deadly virus. Of the 106 patients found infected in the district so far, 102 have defeated the virus while three patients succumbed to it.Meanwhile, Jawaharpur village, which had remained sealed for 51 days, is no more a containment zone.The village became a corona hotspot after 46 positive cases were reported from the village. On April 4, the district administration had declared the village as hotspot and containment zone besides sealing the village.Malkit Singh, the first person to test positive from the village, and his cousin, who is the village sarpanch and was also found infected, had defied curfew norms to organise community meals and interact with locals. Due to this, 44 other village residents contracted the infection too.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the village was no more a containment zone as 14 days were over since the last person from the village tested positive.For the past 51 days, the police had set up barricades at all entry and exit points of the village with a population of 3,000. Covid Commandos, assisted by health officials and police force, had been continuously taking samples for testing in the village, which is located on the Ambala-Chandigarh highway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fortnight-on-mohali-sees-a-fresh-case-89885
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||13 more from Bapu Dham +ve||The city today reported 13 more cases, all from Bapu Dham Colony, taking the tally to 276. Now, there are 85 active cases in the UT.Three men, aged 37, 40 and 45, two women, aged 25 and 35, and two girls, aged one and five, were among those found infected today. A 37-year-old man, who was arrested on May 22 for assaulting cops posted at the colony, also tested positive for the virus. Meanwhile, six persons from Bapu Dham Colony tested positive for the virus in the evening. With the number of cases rising, the UT Administration is in no hurry to convert the city from red zone to orange zone even as it fares well in the parameters fixed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “We will not be shifting to the orange zone soon as there is a spike in the cases lately. Moreover, a majority of the restrictions are the same in both zones.”Earlier, when only 62 active cases were left in the city, as a large number of patients were discharged owing to the new discharge policy, there were deliberations that the UT will be shifted to orange zone.Meanwhile, a 34-year-old woman and her three-year-old son were discharged from the PGI today. They are residents of Sector 30. The boy was admitted to the Nehru Hospital Extension on May 1 and his mother was allowed to stay with him as his attendant. After 18 days, the woman too tested positive for the deadly disease.The woman tested negative for the virus on May 24. As the child continued to be indeterminate (considered positive), both of them stayed together in the Covid ward. The duo was discharged today. They have been advised home-quarantine for seven days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-more-from-bapu-dham-ve-89890
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Balbir Singh Sr cremated with state honours||Hockey legend and three-time Olympics gold medallist Balbir Singh Sr was cremated with full state honours by the Punjab Police at the Sector 25 electric crematorium here today.The cremation was attended by Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, former hockey Olympian Pargat Singh, former Punjab minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa, Chandigarh Sports Secretary KK Yadav, UT Director (Sports) Tejdeep Singh Saini, Hockey Chandigarh President Chander Shekhar and Secretary Anil Vohra among others.‘Was Punjab’s pride, nation’s treasure’Punjab Sports Minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi announced that the state government would forward Balbir’s name for the Bharat Ratna and name the Mohali hockey stadium after the legendary figure. “On behalf of the state government, the Punjab Sports Department will name our Mohali-based international hockey stadium after Balbir Singh Sr. Our government will also recommend his name for the Bharat Ratna. He was not only Punjab’s pride but also a great treasure of the nation. The countrymen will remember him always for his immense contribution to hockey,” said Sodhi.The 96-year-old had been battling several age-related problems for over two weeks and breathed his last at a private hospital in Mohali. He was on ventilator support since May 12 and had tested negative for Covid-19.Balbir Sr, largely considered as the second best in the sport only after Dhyan Chand, was living with his daughter Sushbir Bhomia and grandson Kabir Singh Bhomia at his Sector 36 residence in Chandigarh. The centre forward was the only Indian among 16 legends chosen by the International Olympic Committee across modern Olympics history. His record for scoring the most goals by an individual in the men’s hockey final of the Olympics stands unbeaten till date — Balbir Sr had scored five of India’s goals in the 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Games. He was conferred with the Padma Shri in 1957 and had managed India’s World Cup-winning team in 1975. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/balbir-singh-sr-cremated-with-state-honours-89903
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Hockey stick & love for nation — two things he never parted with||For a legend as tall as Balbir Singh Sr, memories of his career were part and parcel of his everyday life. There was not a single day when he would not reminisce the good old times of his golden years as a hockey player and would love to talk about it whenever he had a chance.“You are very young, I could make you sit on the same sofa for three days and talk about my achievements and what all my team has done,” Balbir was quoted as having said to a reporter during an interview on his 91st birthday in 2015.A favourite of the media fraternity in the city, the hockey veteran never failed to amaze them with his sharp memory. He used to share numerous moments of his life — starting from his young school days to the journey of grabbing three Olympics gold medals. The cheery legend never did part with two things until the end of his garlanded journey — the hockey stick and his love for the nation. The other fascinating thing about him that everyone was fond of was his admiration for his team. “I am nothing without my team and country,” Balbir used to reiterate frequently. His love for the country largely descended from his father (Dalip Singh Dosanjh), who was a freedom fighter.On an odd day, he would not hesitate in criticising the authorities for losing the memorabilia he had handed over to the Sports Authority of India (SAI) in 1985 for a museum.That included his captain’s blazer from the Melbourne Olympics, 36 medals and over 100 rare photographs.Striker who wanted to be a goalkeeper“I wanted to be a goalkeeper. But as destiny wanted, I got an amazing coach who forced me to play as a striker. I was poor in studies and my father decided to send me to Lahore. But the problem with my academics remained,” he had revealed during an interview. Perhaps, he was the only hockey player whose well-wishers approached the then Indian High Commissioner in London, VK Krishna Menon, after he was not selected for the 39-member probables squad during the 1950s.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hockey-stick-love-for-nation-%E2%80%94-two-things-he-never-parted-with-89920
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Indian sports has lost a gem, I a good friend, says Milkha||“I’ve personally lost a good friend, the gem of Indian sports,” said legendary sprinter Milkha Singh after hearing of the death of three-time Olympics gold medallist Balbir Singh Sr this morning.“It’s very sad. We joined the Punjab Sports Department together in 1960 and even my wife (Nirmal Milkha Singh) had worked under him,” Milkha said. “As far as my memory goes, we were part of the Indian contingent during the 1956 Melbourne, 1960 Rome and 1964 Tokyo Olympic Games. Apart from these major events, we were part of the Indian contingent in many Asian Games and other international tournaments.”However, Balbir was not part of the team in the 1960 and 1964 Olympics, though he may have travelled there on his own.“Balbir was one of the finest hockey players of India after Major Dhyan Chand,” Milkha said. “His contribution cannot be forgotten in decades to come. It’s so disheartening that his death came when the world is under a lockdown. He deserved a huge farewell. I just wish everyone in this country pays a tribute to the departed soul.”Balbir Singh Sr and Milkha Singh, two of the greatest sportspersons of India, enjoyed such popularity during their heyday that it is said they did not require an appointment to meet Jawaharlal Nehru, the then Indian Prime Minister. “It is true. We could meet him at a short notice. He loved hockey,” Balbir had once said.Hockey Chandigarh pays tributes to the legendMeanwhile, Hockey Chandigarh secretary Anil Vohra expressed grief on the death of the hockey icon. “He was the lifetime president of Rock Rovers Hockey Club, one of the oldest clubs in Indian hockey. He will remain in our memories and his achievements will be an example to live up to for the coming generations,” said Vohra.The UT Sports Department and the Panjab University Sports Department also paid tributes to Balbir Singh Sr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/indian-sports-has-lost-a-gem-i-a-good-friend-says-milkha-89921
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Bapu Dham man held for assault on cops tests +ve||A 37-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony (BDC), Phase II, who was arrested for assaulting a constable on duty on May 22, has turned out to be positive for Covid. The Burail jail authorities had refused to lodge him on May 23 and asked cops to first get him tested for Covid. The decision of the authorities saved other jail inmates from getting infected.Sanjay Mishra was arrested on the complaint of Constable Sansar, who reported that Sanjay had assaulted and deterred him while he was on duty at the colony.The police claimed that Sanjay was a painter by profession and had been staying at Daria since the lockdown was imposed in the UT. He was planning to leave for Uttar Pradesh, where he had taken some contract, following which he had come to visit his family when he assaulted the cop, who stopped him from entering the colony.The police said the suspect was produced before a court on May 23, which sent him to judicial custody.However, the jail authorities refused him the entry since he was a resident of containment zone.The police then got him shifted to the Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) Sector 16, and a guard was deployed there. He was tested for Covid on May 23. The police said he was reported positive for the virus, following which a list of six cops who came in contact with him was prepared. All of them reported themselves to the contact tracing officer. They were screened at the GMSH.“The six cops were observing social distancing and were in proper protective gear while on duty,” said a police official. The police said none of the six cops were quarantined as of now and doctors had advised them to be cautious of Covid symptoms.Meanwhile, the Sector 26 police station, the lock-up, all equipment, the police post and all police vehicles which came in contact with the man have been sanitised.Covid report must for entry in jailThe jail authorities issued an order on Monday that any resident of a containment zone, if arrested for some crime, will be incarcerated only after undergoing Covid test and on being found negative for the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bapu-dham-man-held-for-assault-on-cops-tests-ve-89922
26-05-2020||Panchkula||No new case  in Panchkula||No new Covid-19 case was reported from Panchkula today. As of now, there is only one active case in the district. Reports of 78 samples are yet to come. The Health Department has conducted a door-to-door survey of 1,09,617 people in the district till date. ASHA workers have screened 1,54,515 people in the third round.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-new-case-in-panchkula-89923
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Advocate seeks probe into auction of PEC furniture||In a complaint to the Director, Punjab Engineering College (PEC), city-based advocate Nitin Sarin stated that M/s Saffron Art, an auction house of the country, will be auctioning various pieces of furniture from Chandigarh, including one from PEC, in a sale titled “The Collector’s Eye” on May 27 and 28.“One such piece is a ‘cross slated bench’ reportedly made of teak. The item is being advertised for Rs 2.25 lakh to Rs 2.75 lakh,” he said, and added that on May 19, when he visited the website of the auction house, he took screenshots of the item being sold which shows the markings “PEC/R/Hos-71”.On May 21, when he revisited the website, they had removed the markings on the bench and all reference to PEC, however, the references to Jeanerette and Corbusier remain.“Despite pointing this out to the auction house via email as well as Twitter, no action seems to have been taken,” he said.He requested the authorities to look into the matter and take necessary action and that investigation be initiated as to how item “PEC/R/Hos-71” was being sold in the open market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/advocate-seeks-probe-into-auction-of-pec-furniture-89924
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||24K rounded up, 915 booked for violating lockdown orders in Chandigarh||Since the lockdown was clamped on the city on March 23, 24,261 people have been rounded up and 915 booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC.Police record from March 23 to May 24Persons rounded up: 24,261Persons booked for not wearing masks: 275Morning and evening walkers booked: 218Persons booked for other violations under Section 188 of the IPC: 422Vehicles impounded: 10,730The police have also impounded 10,730 vehicles between March 23 and May 24.The UT police’s action taken report has revealed that 24,261 people who were found roaming in the city in violation of the lockdown orders were rounded up for several hours and kept at temporary jails, including the Sector 16 cricket stadium and sports complex, Mani Majra.Besides, the police have also booked several for violating the lockdown orders, including morning and evening walkers and those who were not wearing face masks.Of the 915 persons booked, 275 were found without a face mask, 218 were morning and evening walkers and 422 had violated other orders.Meanwhile, 46 persons were also booked under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC. The police have also booked eight persons under the National Disaster Management (NDM) Act.The police figures also reveal that 10,730 vehicles were impounded of which 9,052 were two-wheelers, 1,473 were four-wheelers and 205 were auto-rickshaws.The police detained 13,705 vehicles at nakas in the past two months.Police officials said action against violators would continue as per the lockdown orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24k-rounded-up-915-booked-for-violating-lockdown-orders-in-chandigarh-89925
26-05-2020||---||Show-cause notice served on distillery in Chandigarh, illegal liquor seized||Chandigarh, May 25The Excise and Taxation Department has issued a show-cause notice to M/s NV Distilleries and Breweries, Industrial Area, Phase 1.A team of the Excise Department today conducted an inspection of the company and found 65 boxes of 180-ml ‘Crazy Romeo’ brand without holograms.A team of the Crime Branch of the police had yesterday seized 440 boxes of illegal liquor containing 21,120 quarters of whisky of ‘Crazy Romeo’ brand manufactured by the company loaded in a milk tanker. After getting a tip-off, the police laid a naka near the Poultry Farm chowk and stopped the vehicle. During checking, the police found 440 boxes of illegal liquor. Tanker driver, Gaurav Khatri (36), a resident of Phase V, Mohali, disclosed that the liquor was being supplied to Gujarat.The bootleggers had written ‘milk not for sale’ on the vehicle to avoid any suspicion.Taking cognizance of the matter, the Excise and Taxation Department today issued a show-cause notice to the owner of the distillery as to why the licence should not be cancelled or suspended for violations of Section 18 of the Punjab Excise Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/show-cause-notice-served-on-distillery-in-chandigarh-illegal-liquor-seized-89926
26-05-2020||---||Low-key Eid celebrations||Chandigarh, May 25Due to restrictions on gatherings and mass prayers following the spread of Covid-19, the Eid celebrations in the city were a low-key affair. Eid-ul-Fitr marks the end of the fasting month of Ramzan.The excitement, which is usually witnessed during the festival every year, was missing this time due to the pandemic.Mosques in Sector 20 and other parts of the city wore a deserted look as these remained closed for devotees due to lockdown orders. Prayers were, however, offered in mosques by Imams.The decision to celebrate the festival at home was taken by heads of various city mosques and conveyed to devotees. People offered Eid namaz at home without going out and celebrating with friends. “We stayed at home and preferred to celebrate with family members only,” said Akil, a city resident.Making festival special for migrant labourers‘I Am Still Human’, an NGO, today celebrated Eid with migrant labourers.Vivek Mehra, president of the NOG, said: “While distributing food among migrant labourers, we met a group of Muslim labourers who requested our team that they wanted to celebrate Eid. They said if the situation was normal, they would have done that with ease. So, our team cooked ‘meethi sewaiyaan’ for them and distributed them among 500 people.”He said they had distributed free dry ration among more than 2,000 needy families and free sanitisers and masks among 50,000 people since March 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/low-key-eid-celebrations-89927
26-05-2020||---||Woman held with 260 gm  of heroin in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 25A 50-year-old woman from Delhi was nabbed by the Crime Branch with 260-gm heroin. The accused had arrived in the city to deliver the consignment worth several lakhs.The Crime Branch team, led by SI Satvinder Singh, was on the patrolling duty in Mauli Jagran, when the accused, Geeta, was apprehended yesterday.The police said the woman was carrying heroin in a polythene. A a case under the NDPS Act was registered against the accused.During the investigation, Geeta disclosed that she resided in Delhi and has four children.She was produced in a local court and a day’s remand was granted.Youth heldIn another case, Crime Branch sleuths nabbed 26-year-old Neeraj Bhatt, a resident of Nayagaon, with 30-gm heroin. He was arrested near Motor Market in Sector 48 today.A case against him has been registered at the Sector 49 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-held-with-260-gm-of-heroin-in-chandigarh-89932
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||1.35L ferried in 105 Shramik  trains||The Ambala division of the Northern Railway ran more than 100 Shramik special trains since May 6 ferrying over 1.35 lakh passengers so far. Nearly 50 per cent trains originated from Punjab, while 20 per cent from Chandigarh.A majority of these trains left for Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Bihar comprising 95 per cent of the total Shramik special trains. Out of 105 trains, 50 left for UP and 49 for Bihar. The rest were destined to Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, Durgapur in West Bengal, New Jalpaigudi in Assam, Jirbam in Manipur and Daltonganj and Dhanbad in Jharkhand.Though a meal is provided by state governments to passengers at the originating station, IRCTC and the Railways also mobilised resources to ensure regular supply of meals and water to the passengers travelling for more than 12-hour train journey.The Ambala division, in association with the IRCTC, Chandigarh, has served 1,17,546 meals in 94 trains until now.11 more trains from todayDRM Gurinder Mohan Singh said from Tuesday, the division would be running 11 more Shramik special trains, bringing the tally to 116.Campaign highlights role of RailwaysA campaign, #ThankYouIndianRailways, has been created by WolfzHowl and Mavcomm, strategy and communication firms. The aim is to highlight the stellar role of the Indian Railways during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-35l-ferried-in-105-shramik-trains-89975
26-05-2020||Mohali||Mohali for cancellation of scheduled trains||Keeping in view the extremely low turnout in four trains that left the Mohali railway station for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh today, the administration has requested for the cancellation of any other scheduled trains from Mohali.The first train that left the Mohali railway station at 10 am for Araria in Bihar carried only 553 migrant workers. As many as 3,506 migrants were contacted for the train. The turnout remained at 16 per cent. Another train that left the station at 1 pm for Bettiah in Bihar carried a total of 485 migrants. As many as 4,047 migrants were contacted for this train. In this, the turnout was 19 per cent.As many as 2,405 migrants were contacted for the third train that left the station at 4 pm for Maharajganj in Uttar Pradesh. However, only 1,238 migrant workers boarded the train with a turnout of 51 per cent. For the fourth train that left for Balia in Uttar Pradesh, a total of 5,975 migrants were contacted. Only 1,600 migrants preferred to travel with a turnout of 26 per cent. With the relaxations announced in the lockdown, the drop rate of 30-35 per cent was witnessed. In view of the relaxations in the lockdown, it was earlier intimated that running several trains may not be required. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-for-cancellation-of-scheduled-trains-89976
26-05-2020||---||Panjab University to open campus grounds next week||Chandigarh, May 25The Directorate of Sports, PU, has finalised the plan on opening campus grounds from the next week after taking consent from the higher authorities.In the first phase, the grounds will be opened for faculty members and gradually, they will be thrown open to players. The swimming pool and gymnasium hall, which were scheduled to be open in March, are likely to remain close.“We are waiting for the final approval of the higher authorities before opening the grounds. The main ground (athletics) will be opened first for faculty members and for professionals thereafter. We have come up with a standard operating procedure (SOP) based on the guidelines by the Sports Authority of India (SAI) and our ground staff will make sure that SOP is implemented,” said Dr Parminder Singh, Director Sports, PU. On thermal screening and other facilities, he added: “All measures will be taken before allowing entry to the ground. The entry will be also based on a time-slot system. We have asked the coaches to submit a detailed training programme so that we can work on creating small batches. We may allow training of athletes in the first week of the next month.”However, sources said it might be difficult for the ground staff to ensure implementation of the SOP amid hot weather. “The department has to finalise the timings for the usage of ground. Thermal screening under hot conditions in the evening will be a tough task. There is no indoor facility except for shooting,” said a ground staff. He added: “We have to really work hard and remain vigil if the grounds are open for a longer period of time. Also, the authorities should allot limited duration to faculty members on the grounds.”The operating procedure will include downloading Arogya Setu app, face mask and gloves and own drinking water and towel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-open-campus-grounds-next-week-89977
26-05-2020||Satinder Pal Singh||Pre-monsoon cleaning of drains begins in Zirakpur||Zirakpur, May 25As monsoon season draws nearer, GMR Ambala-Chandigarh Expressway Private Limited has started pre-monsoon cleaning of drains along highways on a war footing in Zirakpur.The cleaning work has already started on the Zirakpur-Panchkula highway near the K area and on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway.The GMR authorities claimed that more than 60 per cent of the cleaning work was completed.Clogged drains are one of the major reasons of overflowing sewage and waterlogging during rains in various parts of the city. Waterlogging near the Singhpura-Nagla intersection on the national highway gets worse in monsoon. “Even with slightest of showers, the entire portion of the road is blocked,” said commuters.Iqbal Singh, an official of the GMR Ambala-Chandigarh Expressway Private Limited said, “We have deployed machines on the highway and divided our team, which has started cleaning of drains in the city to tackle waterlogging along highways in the monsoon season.”“The work will continue so that local people do not face any problems during the rain,” he added.“People should not dump plastic and waste material in drains,” he said. Residents as well as commuters want regular cleaning of drains so that stagnation of sewage does not create sanitation issues along national highways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pre-monsoon-cleaning-of-drains-begins-in-zirakpur-89978
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Four arrested for attempt to murder in Chandigarh||Four persons have been arrested for allegedly attacking a man with baseball bats and an axe at New Indira Colony (NIC), Mani Majra.According to the police, Vishal of NIC reported that Vijay, alias Labhu, Sunil, alias Shanga, Naveen and Abhimanyu, alias Manni, attacked him at his house with an axe and baseball bats on May 21.The victim was seriously injured and was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.The police said the victim and the accused had an argument on some issues a few days ago. A case of attempt to murder has been registered against the accused at the IT Park police station. All accused have been arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-arrested-for-attempt-to-murder-in-chandigarh-89982
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Barring Bapu Dham Colony, tepid testing in containment zones||The city’s six containment zones account for 85 per cent of the total Covid-19 positive cases, but 36 per cent of the total testing has been conducted in these zones.The UT has conducted 4,089 tests so far, out of which only 1,458 samples have been collected from the six containment zones.Maximum samples (907) have been taken in Bapu Dham and the least samples (59) have been tested in Sector 38, where three cases have been reported to date.In Kachi Colony, Dhanas, four cases have been reported and 192 samples taken, which is in contrast with Sector 30-B where 22 cases have been reported, but only 113 samples taken.UT Health Secretary Arun Gupta, said, “Samples in containment zones are be taken as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) protocol (symptomatic patients have to be tested). Such patients were found less in Sector-30 containment zone than Bapu Dham Colony. As a result, less sampling has been conducted in Sector 30-B pocket. The strategy of testing is largely similar in all the containment zones. However, minor variation in strategy is done by medical experts and the IDSP cell.”Positivity rate of Bapu Dham Colony and Sector 30-B differs only by 3 per cent. For every 100 samples tested in Bapu Dham, 21 persons tested positive while in Sector 30-B, 19 persons have tested positive.At present, there are 85 active cases in the city, out of which, 79 active cases are from Bapu Dham Colony alone and one from Sector 30-B.Four zones are Covid-freeFour containment zones have no active case and if the trend continues, their containment tag will be removed. As per the Central Government, no case should be reported for 28 days, since the last case was reported.The first zone to lose the tag will be Sector 38 where the last case was reported on April 29, followed by Sector 52 where the last case came on April 30. Sector 30-B reported its last case on May 7 and Mani Majra on May 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/barring-bapu-dham-colony-tepid-testing-in-containment-zones-89984
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sans isolation ward in Bapu Dham, people being sent home after testing||The UT Health Department is testing suspected persons of Bapu Dham Colony at an adjoining government school and sending them back home instead of keeping them in isolation.Earlier, suspected patients were kept in isolation till their reports came out. As doctors from the GMCH-32 and the GMSH-16 have started testing people at the government school in the Bapu Dham Colony, this practice has been stopped.“Nowadays, after testing they are sending people home. Later, some are found Covid-19 positive. By the time a patient is taken to the hospital, he/she has already infected others. This can be a reason behind the rising number of cases, especially among same families,”said an official concerned on condition of anonymity.A health official said, “If a patient is tested in the morning, his status is known by evening. As a result, the damage is already done.”Local residents said it even takes over 24 hours for the positive patient to know his result.“They pick up suspected patients in an ambulance from their houses. After testing them, they are dropped back at their respective places. Yesterday, my friend was taken to the hospital after 24 hours of being tested,” said a local resident.A health expert said ideally suspected cases should be kept in isolation till their test reports come out.Around 100 tests are done daily in the colony.Arun Gupta, Health Secretary, said, “There is no facility of isolation at the school. Basic purpose is to do maximum testing and minimise the time involved in picking and dropping people at hospitals.”Interestingly, a Sector-56 resident, who was tested at the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, Mohali, travelled to Uttar Pradesh on his motorcycle. Later, when his report came out positive, the UT Administration took up the matter with their counterparts in Mohali and asked why the suspected patient was not kept in isolation till his report came out.Rising graphBapu Dham Colony accounts for around 72 per cent of the total cases in the city. Out of 266 cases in the city, 194 have been reported from Bapu Dham.High dramaA high drama prevailed in the colony after three members of a family, who tested neagtive, refused to go to a quarantine facility.They were tested at the school and were dropped far away from their house. After their reports came out negative, health teams went to pick them, but they refused to go accompany them and asked why were they left earlier? Later, the police was called to assist the health teams.“It’s a major lapse on part of the police and health officials. They were dropped one-km away from their house. Today, cops came to take them to a quarantine centre set up at the PU hostel. They created ruckus closed doors from inside. It seems there is no coordination among agencies concerned,” said a neighbour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sans-isolation-ward-in-bapu-dham-people-being-sent-home-after-testing-89985
26-05-2020||---||Two held for not wearing mask in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 25A resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, one of the containment areas, was arrested for not wearing a face mask. Another person was held for a similar offence at Kishangarh village.The police said Mahesh, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Phase III, was roaming near his house without a face mask on May 24. He was arrested and a case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC was registered against him at the Sector 26 police station. He was later released on bail.In another case, Deepak Kumar, a resident of Dadu Majra Colony, Sector 38 (West), was found roaming without a face mask near Kishangarh Chowk. A case against him was registered at the IT Park police station. He was arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-not-wearing-mask-in-chandigarh-89986
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Salons, gyms may open in Chandigarh soon||The UT Administration may allow salons, barber shops, beauty parlours and gyms to open soon.The Mohali and Panchkula Administrations have already allowed the opening of salons with a set of guidelines to take safety measures against coronavirus.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said standard operating procedures (SOPs) for opening of salons, gyms, etc., were under examination and these could be issued around Friday.Sources said the Administration would allow these outlets to open with complete safety measures. Disinfection and sanitisation after each service could be made mandatory. Clients and staff would be asked to wear masks.The sources said these shops would be allowed to open only outside the containment zones. Hand sanitisers would be made available at the entry. Apart from face mask, employees would be required to wear hand gloves and apron.The sources said prior appointment or token system could be adopted to stagger client entry. Persons with symptoms of fever and cough would not be allowed to enter the shop, said the sources.Meanwhile, the Tricity Gym Owners’ Association (TGOA) has demanded reopening of gyms as the industry was ‘near collapse’ due to the lockdown for the past over two months.In a letter to the UT Adviser and Deputy Commissioners of Mohali and Panchkula, Sanjeev Kumar, president, TGOA, said: “We were hoping for some relaxations under the lockdown 4.0 as the same has been extended to other industries such as salons, which are also ‘client interaction’-based industries like fitness centres. However, the government has still not called for reopening our industry, which has not only created an uncertain future for the centres but also for about 3,000 employees and their families. There has been no income of employees (trainers, sales staff, spotters, housekeeping, etc.) for the past about 2 months of lockdown.”The negative fallout of the lockdown on gyms has been colossal. The industry is dying and if it keeps going like this for another fortnight, many centres will not be in a position to reopen due to heavy financial liabilities. The main component of expenses is the astronomical rental amounts. Gyms need much more area than other businesses and this makes rentals go through the roof, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/salons-gyms-may-open-in-chandigarh-soon-89988
26-05-2020||---||Three violate lockdown norms, held||Chandigarh, May 25Three local residents were held for roaming in the city in violation of the lockdown orders. According to the police, Rajat Bansal, a resident of Sector 37, Karanbir Singh, a resident of Sector 32, and Shubneet Grover, a resident of Sector 24, were stopped at a naka in Sector 37 during restricted hours on May 24. They could not produce any document regarding permission for movement. A case against them was registered under Section 188 of the IPC at the Sector 39 police station. They were arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-violate-lockdown-norms-held-89989
26-05-2020||Mohali||52K families benefited under PMGKY in Mohali||In all, 52,000 families have benefited in the district under the ‘Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana’ (PMGKY) by getting 5 kg of wheat per member per month (for three months) and 1 kg of ‘dal’ (pulses) per family per month (three months lump sum) absolutely free of cost.The Deputy Commissioner (DC), Mohali, Girish Dayalan, said, “Food and Civil Supplies Department is providing benefits entailed to beneficiaries registered under the National Food Security Act, 2013.”Today, distribution work was undertaken at Gulabgarh, Issapur, Mubarakpur, Mirpur and Dandrala, among others. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/52k-families-benefited-under-pmgky-in-mohali-89991
26-05-2020||Chandigarh||Beggar crushed under bus in Sector 46||1,300 leave for BiharPanchkula: As many as 1,300 labourers left by a special train to their home districts in Bihar from the Kalka railway station. They were picked up from the Kalka bus stand and dropped at the railway station. The travellers were screened and given refreshments before they boarded the train. TNS109 trafficslips issuedPanchkula: As many as 109 traffic slips were issued for various offences in the district on Monday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/beggar-crushed-under-bus-in-sector-46-89994
