26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 73-year-old man dies of COVID-19; death toll 41||A 73-year-old man who had tested COVID-19 positive yesterday, died at GMCH-32 on Wednesday taking the death toll in the city to 41.A resident of Ramdarbar, he was suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, acute kidney injury and respiratory failure with septic shock.A total of 167 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in the city on Wednesday taking the total tally to 3,376.Of the 3,376 cases, 1,537 are active cases while 1,796 patients have been cured till date.As many as 83 patients were discharged after recovery from the virus on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-73-year-old-man-dies-of-covid-19-death-toll-41-131787
26-08-2020||---||Mohali reports 3 Covid deaths, 86 new cases, 43 recoveries||Mohali, August 26Three Covid-19 deaths, 86 positive cases and 43 recoveries were reported from Mohali district on Wednesday. A 58-year-old male from Kharar died in Ivy Hospital, Mohali. He was also suffering from diabetes.A 43-year-old male from Lalru died in Civil Hospital, Ambala, and a 62-year-old female from Nayagaon died in PGI, Chandigarh.Most of the cases reported were from Mohali (33), followed by Zirakpur (19), Gharuan (17), Kharar (12), Derabassi (4) and Banur (1).As of now, the total cases in the district are 3,037. As many as 1,329 are active cases while 1,641 patients have been discharged from the hospitals. The death toll has mounted to 67. Yesterday, seven deaths, 132 fresh cases and 83 recoveries were reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-3-covid-deaths-86-new-cases-43-recoveries-131776
26-08-2020||---||Panchkula sees biggest single-day spike of 172 Covid cases||Panchkula, August 26In the biggest single-day spike, 172 cases of coronavirus were recorded here on Wednesday, taking the district count to 1,829.At least eight “missing” patients, who were found positive yesterday, were traced and added to the overall count.The fresh cases include 71 from Kalka, 21 from Nanakpur, 15 from Pinjore, 14 from Surajpur, 7 from Sector 6, five from Sector 16, four each from Sector 10, Sector 15, Sector 25 and Sector 17, three each from Old Panchkula, Sector 12A and Sector 12, two each from Raipur Rani, Sector 4, Sector 26, Sector 31, Sector 7 and MDC Sector 5, one each from Sector 11 and Sector 20.While 658 cases are still active, 1,158 have been cured and discharged. To date, Panchkula has conducted 30,689 COVID tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-of-172-covid-cases-131738
26-08-2020||Chandigarh/Haryana||Sonu Sood, Chandigarh businessman become real-life heroes for underprivileged students; distribute smartphones||Post pursuing many noble gestures along with Sonu Sood, Karan Gilhotra, a young entrepreneur and philanthropist based in Chandigarh, both initiated a selfless drive with the help of friends to facilitate the online education of the underprivileged students struggling to study due to economic constraints.  Sonu and Karan kick-started a campaign on Wednesday in Morni—a remote town in Haryana. Karan provided smartphones to the students of a Government school in the area after coming to know about the heart-wrenching story of the students’ plight. Both Karan and Sonu addressed the students in a virtual event after delivering the smartphones. Karan, who is a close friend of Sonu, is also the Chairman of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Punjab. During the COVID crisis, Karan has come forward to help Sonu in facilitating many such noble causes.Few such initiatives include sending a tractor to the Andhra farmer and extending support in adopting the four children who lost their parents in the Punjab hooch tragedy.As par, a recent survey conducted by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), around 27 per cent of students do not have smartphones and laptops to access the online classes and almost 84 per cent of students use smartphones for online classes. Post the nationwide lockdown, the majority of the schools across the country are conducting online classes and expect students to attend classes via video conferencing.Addressing the students of the school in a virtual event, Karan said: “I am highly inspired by my dear friend Sonu Sood who has set an example for the mankind by going above and beyond in his efforts of kindness and generosity. When we came to know about the students in Morni (Haryana) travelling miles to access a smartphone, we were taken aback and could not wait to help these kids. We hope that this minuscule endeavour of ours will go a long way in enabling the students and schools to continue uninterrupted learning. We will try our best to target more such children across cities.”Lauding Karan for this selfless gesture, Sonu said: “Educating the youth and preparing them for the future is our primary responsibility. I am happy that we could do our bit to help these students. I truly value Karan’s contribution in coming forward to support and encourage these children in pursuing their online education. He has been a great pillar of strength for me and needs a special mention for his selfless contribution during the crisis.”The principal of the Government Senior Secondary School, Pawan Jain, Koti (Morni), mentioned: “There are about 190 students in the school and close to 20 per cent do not have a smartphone. In these trying times, parents have no funds to purchase a smartphone for the children. It is heartening to see how Sonu Sood and Karan Gilhotra have come forward to support these students. We sincerely thank both Sonu Sood and Karan Gilhotra on behalf of the school, parents and the Department of School Education (Haryana).” An integral part of Sonu’s heroic journey, Karan joined hands with Sonu during the COVID crisis to help mankind in these testing times. Recently, Karan helped Sonu in pursuing the noble gesture of sending a tractor to the Andhra Pradesh farmer to plough the fields. He also extended his support to Sonu Sood in offering support to the four orphans of Punjab who lost their father and mother in the Punjab hooch tragedy. Along with these, there are multiple such initiatives taken by Karan and Sonu in helping the poor and needy. The list is endless.Karan was also awarded state honours as a Corona warrior by the Governor of Punjab and Chandigarh Administration for his contribution to humanity during COVID.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sonu-sood-chandigarh-businessman-become-real-life-heroes-for-underprivileged-students-distribute-smartphones-131710
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||24-year-old man commits suicide after argument with family in Hallo Majra||A 24-year-old man allegedly committed suicide at Hallo Majra on Tuesday night.The victim has been identified as Mohit Kumar, who had recently gotten married. Sources said that he had an argument at home after which he went to his room and started playing loud music.Sometime later he was found hanging following which police was informed and the victim was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.An investigation has been initiated at Sector 31 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24-year-old-man-commits-suicide-after-argument-with-family-in-hallo-majra-131669
26-08-2020||---||Chandigarh Administration awaits Advisory Council’s decision||Chandigarh, August 25The much-hyped city’s first flyover proposed at the Tribune Chowk continues to hang fire with the UT Administration still waiting for a decision of the UT Administrator’s Advisory Council on the project.The Advisory Council was to examine the report prepared by the Technical Committee of the UT Administration on the proposed flyover before a final decision was taken on the project. The committee was formed to look for alternatives to the flyover on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the Administration would take the final decision on the project after getting valuable suggestions from the Advisory Council.Sources said a meeting of the council could be held through video-conferencing in view of the Covid-19 pandemic soon.On a petition filed by the Run Club against the cutting and uprooting of trees for the flyover, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had stayed the construction of the flyover in November 2019 and had asked for public opinion to find an alternative to the flyover at the Tribune Chowk.A majority of the residents, professionals and architects opposed the flyover at a public hearing held last year.Seven models were submitted to the committee following the public hearing. According to information, the technical committee had rejected all seven alternatives to the flyover.After getting suggestions from the Advisory Council, the UT?Administration will submit its decision on the construction of the Tribune flyover before the High Court. The next date of hearing is October 9.Initially, the Administration had planned a 7-km-long flyover, but the Union Government reduced the length to 3.5 km. Later, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways further reduced the length of the flyover to 1.2 km.If the UT Administration gets approval from the High Court, the flyover could be constructed in three phases as a permanent solution to the traffic problem, the sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-awaits-advisory-councils-decision-131516
26-08-2020||---||Panjab University student parties call off stir||Chandigarh, August 25Panjab University (PU) student parties, which have been demanding a complete fee waiver for every student, have now settled their demands on two things — extension of fee submission deadline and a friendly performa to give financial help to the needy students.“The protest has temporarily been called off. The authorities have agreed to release an official proposal regarding their pro forma for what they consider needy students. We understand that every student, who has been physically, mentally or financially affected by Covid, is a needy student. Our demand for a complete fee waiver remains intact,” said a joint statement by various student parties.The authorities said they had received a new set of demands by the protesting students. However, no decision had been taken so far. Student parties had been demanding a complete fee waiver, which was already denied by the authorities. The last date for payment of fee was extended earlier also from August 10 to August 31.“We have already provided full support to the needy students. No decision was taken on Tuesday. The authorities will soon meet to discuss the issues,” said DSW (W) Sukhbir Kaur.Students misbehave, ask DSWs to ‘leave’Earlier, a meeting between both DSWs and protesting students saw a heated exchange of words. “Students should act like students. There’s no need to use unparliamentary language with anyone. They have said so many things to us (DSWs), which cannot be quoted anywhere. We went to listen to their problems and not personal comments on our jobs or lives. This was really shocking,” said Sukhbir. The protesting students were also seen asking the DSWs to “leave”. ‘Demand for complete fee waiver intact’A joint statement by various student parties at the PU said, “The protest has temporarily been called off. The authorities have agreed to release an official proposal regarding their pro forma for what they consider needy students. Our demand for a complete fee waiver remains intact.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-student-parties-call-off-stir-131517
26-08-2020||---||Day after, operation clean-up||Chandigarh, August 25A day after Chandigarh Tribune highlighted the plight of patients living in unhygienic conditions at Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, UT authorities sprung into action and got the toilets and floors cleaned and sanitised.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “We have ordered redressal of grievances of patients. The officials concerned have also been asked to carry out an inspection.”A patient (30), who has been at the centre for the past four days, said, “On Tuesday morning, toilets and floors were cleaned. Huge garbage bags were lifted from the quarantine centre. This did not happen in the past four days. Even the day meal tasted better, but our joy lasted only for some time as patients started complaining of bad quality food during dinner.”A woman from Sector 47-A, who was discharged today, said, “I haven’t seen any sanitation worker cleaning floors or bathrooms during my 10-day stay at the quarantine centre. We used to clean our rooms and bathrooms ourselves.”Even after the cleanliness drive today, some patients were left disappointed as their toilets remained clogged. “The situation here can never improve. The sanitation didn’t even last for 24 hours,” said a woman in his mid 30s.In the videos, which were sent to Chandigarh Tribune, many bathrooms and roofs of various rooms had seepage and in some rooms, water was dripping on beds.According to a source in the Health Department, toilets need repair and work will start soon. There are other maintenance issues as well.On Monday, Chandigarh Tribune reported ‘Poor hygeine irks coronavirus patients at Sood Dharamshala’.The patients cried foul over toilets that had not been cleaned and stinking for many days and overflowing garbage. A patient has also written an email to the UT Administration and the Prime Minister’s Office regarding the pitiable condition of the centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-operation-clean-up-131519
26-08-2020||---||Suspended inspector’s judicial custody extended||Chandigarh, August 25The CBI court today extended the judicial custody of suspended UT Inspector Jaswinder Kaur by 14 days. Jaswinder Kaur was produced in the court via video-conferencing.An application seeking extension in the judicial custody of the suspended cop was moved by KP Singh, the Public Prosecutor.The CBI had booked Jaswinder Kaur for allegedly demanding a bribe of Rs5 lakh from Gurdeep Singh, a resident of Mani Majra, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him.On Gurdeep Singh’s complaint, an FIR under various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, was registered against Jaswinder Kaur, who is a former Station House Officer of the Mani Majra police station, and Bhagwan Singh.Later, the CBI laid a trap and allegedly caught Bhagwan Singh red-handed while allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs1 lakh on behalf of the former Station House Officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspended-inspectors-judicial-custody-extended-131520
26-08-2020||
||Bajwa granted bail||Mohali, August 25 Jarnail Singh Bajwa, MD of Bajwa Developers and promoter of Sunny Enclave, was granted bail by a Kharar court here today.  At present, he is in isolation ward at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, and would be released tomorrow.  Bajwa was arrested by the Kharar Sadar police under Sections 420 and 120 of the IPC on August 5. He is bound to settle all cases in six months and has to deposit Rs1 crore monthly in the court for aggrieved consumers. He will also be required to be physically present in the court once a month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bajwa-granted-bail-131521
26-08-2020||---||Chandigarh cops register rape case, begin investigation||Chandigarh, August 25The UT police have registered a rape case following a zero FIR registered in Delhi, which was transferred to Chandigarh.A 27-year-old woman, a resident of Delhi, in her complaint alleged that in 2018 she was taking coaching for UPSC in Chandigarh. During her stay, she had met a person named Sarbjeet through Facebook.The victim stated that she was in need of money following which the suspect assured to help her. He took her to a hotel in Sector 17 on the pretext of giving her money and raped her. It is alleged that the suspect also clicked her objectionable pictures.The victim alleged that the suspect started threatening her. He called her at a hotel in Mani Majra where she was again raped. The victim was later raped at a hotel in Amritsar.The woman alleged that she moved back to Delhi and changed her mobile number. The suspect, however, managed to get the number of the victim’s fiance and told him that he had her objectionable pictures.In July this year, the suspect sent the pictures to the victim’s fiance following which he broke up with the woman.The victim then approached the Delhi Police, which registered a zero FIR and transferred it to Chandigarh. A case has been registered at the Sector 17 police station and an investigation has been initiated into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cops-register-rape-case-begin-investigation-131522
26-08-2020||---||Open auction of booths at AC Fish, Meat Market today||Chandigarh, August 25The Municipal Corporation Chandigarh will conduct open auction of booths at the AC Fish and Meat Market in Sector 41 here tomorrow at 11 am.Interested participants, who will pay earnest money deposit (EMD) of Rs50,000 before the start of the auction at the site, will be eligible for participation. A total of 24 booths having an area of 21.21 sq metre at Rs12,000 minimum reserved monthly licence fee are available for auction.Five booths having an area of 19.02 sq metre at Rs10,000 minimum reserved monthly licence fee, two booths for wholesale with 39.51 sq metre at Rs15,000 minimum reserved monthly licence fee and one chill room with 35.31 sq metre at Rs10,000 minimum reserved monthly licence fee will be auctioned.These booths will initially be given for a period of five years, extendable up to another five years.In addition to this, eating joints at Shanti Kunj, Sector 16, at Rs30,000 plus GST monthly licence fee and four shops at the Terraced Garden, Sector 33, at minimum reserved monthly license fee of Rs3,500 plus GST will be auctioned through open auction in the conference room, MC Building, Sector 17, on August 27. 24 booths availableInterested participants, who will pay earnest money deposit (EMD) of Rs 50,000 before the start of the auction at the site, will be eligible for participation. A total of 24 booths having an area of 21.21 square metre at Rs 12,000 minimum reserved monthly licence fee are available for auction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-auction-of-booths-at-ac-fish-meat-market-today-131523
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Woman hangs self to death in Dhanas||A 35-year-old woman reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself at her house in Ambedkar Colony, Dhanas, today. The victim has been identified as Neelam. The police said a team reached the spot after getting information. However, the victim’s neighbours had already rushed her to the PGI. The police got the photography of the spot done. In his statement, the victim’s neighbour, Vineet, stated that he went to drop Neelam’s daughter at her house. However, the victim didn’t open the door despite repeated knocks. Later, Vineet, along with other neighbours, broke open the door and found the woman hanging. The police have ruled out any foul play. Meanwhile, an inquest proceeding has been initiated into the matter at the Sarangpur police station. 88 suicides reported from city this year so far The city has already witnessed 88 suicide cases this year, which is more than the incidents reported last year during the corresponding period. Around 65 incidents were reported after March 22, when the country went under lockdown due to Covid pandemic. Last year, 63 suicide incidents were reported from the city. While depression was the reason behind a large number of suicide cases, domestic disputes and loss of jobs during this pandemic also contributed to the stress. A police official said although no suicide note was found in a majority of the cases, the reason in a large number of cases was depression due to various reasons. Meanwhile, domestic quarrel also led to several suicides during the lockdown, said a police official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-hangs-self-to-death-in-dhanas-131524
26-08-2020||Gaurav Kanthwal||Rain forecast worries Baltana||Tribune News ServiceZirakpur, August 25With weather forecast predicting more rain in the next few days in Chandigarh and its periphery, there is a growing concern among Baltana residents regarding flooding.Officials of the district administration and the Municipal Council have allayed their concerns saying they are prepared for any such contingency.The Dera Bassi SDM today said they had stationed poclain machines in the area to clear the flow of excess water from the Sukhna choe.“Carcasses of stray animals were seen floating near the choe here. Most of the residential societies were flooded with rainwater. Almost all parking lots in the basement of societies were full of water. Two days after, we are still coming to terms with loss. The entire area is in a mess with silt, cave-ins and damaged electricity poles,” said Navdeep Parihar, a resident.Heavy rain in uphill, 145mm in less than six hours, virtually non-existent drainage system, and no timely alert beforehand from the authorities concerned created havoc in the area with Baltana being the worst sufferer. Nature Park, Municipal Park, Baltana police post and a crematorium were submerged in the deluge.“Residents are still in fear as more rain is predicted in the coming days,” said Baltej Saini, a resident.Baltana police post in-charge Kulwant Singh said an additional drainage pipe was put in place today to clear the rainwater into the choe.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan yesterday said: “To prevent the overflow of water, relief cuts were made at two places and water was diverted into the airport drain”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-forecast-worries-baltana-131525
26-08-2020||---||Chandigarh Deputy Commissioner tests positive, Adviser negative||Chandigarh, August 25Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar has tested positive for Covid. The report of UT Adviser Manoj Parida has, however, come negative.After UT Finance Secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha, Brar is the second senior official of the UT Administration to test positive for the virus. Both officials have put themselves under home isolation.A superintendent in the DC office had also tested positive yesterday. Last week, a few employees of the DC office were also found infected and the office was sealed for two days for sanitisation.In Brar’s absence, MC Commissioner KK Yadav will look after the day-to-day work allocated to the DC. During the leave period of the Finance Secretary, Home Secretary Arun Kumar Gupta will look after his work.Sinha was asymptomatic and had tested positive on Sunday following which other senior UT officials underwent the Covid test.Earlier, MC Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora and three councillors had tested positive. UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore was tested and his report came negative. His Principal Secretary JM Balamurugan and four others were, however, found positive after a two-day exercise of rapid antigen testing carried out at the Raj Bhawan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-deputy-commissioner-tests-positive-adviser-negative-131529
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Three more lose battle to virus, 174 infected in Chandigarh||Three persons died of Covid in the city today, taking the toll to 40. Besides, 174 new cases, the biggest single-day rise in the UT, were reported, taking the tally to 3,209.A 51-year-old woman from Sector 44 died at the GMCH-32. She had pre-existing heart problems. A 70-year-old woman from Palsora died at the PGI. She too had heart problems and was diabetic. The third fatality was of an 80-year-old man from Sector 33, who was diabetic, had hypertension, hypothyroidism and CNS lymphoma. He died at the Sohana Hospital in Mohali.The UT has been reporting significantly high number of cases this month. Since August 17,the city began reporting infections in three digits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-more-lose-battle-to-virus-174-infected-in-chandigarh-131530
26-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali worry grows, 7 dead||Seven persons died of Covid in the district today, taking the toll to 64. The district also saw 132 fresh cases and 83 recoveries.A 50-year-old woman from Dhandrala, Dera Bassi, who was a patient of diabetes, fell prey to Covid-19. A 60-year-old man from Mohali city became the second fatality. A 42-year-old man from Baltana also lost his life due to the infection. He was suffering from a kidney disease.Two fatalities were reported from Zirakpur — a 72-year-old man and a 55-year-old woman. They had co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension. A 58-year-old man from Baironpur, Bhago Majra, who was hypertensive, died of Covid. A 63-year-old man from Khlaur had co-morbidities such as cancer and diabetes. Meanwhile, new cases were reported from Mohali (48), Kharar (22), Zirakpur 20, Boothgarh block (6), Banur (2) and Gharuan (34). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-worry-grows-7-dead-131532
26-08-2020||---||1 death, 20 new cases in Panchkula||Panchkula, August 25The district today reported 20 new Covid-19 cases, taking the caseload to 1,657. It also witnessed one death due to the disease. A 73-year-old man from Sector 20 succumbed to the disease at a private hospital. He had comorbidities such as hypertension, chronic kidney disease and carcinoma prostrate.The fresh cases include eight from Kot, three from Sector 10, two from Sector 12 and one each from Morni, Barwala, Raipur Rani, Sector 20, Sector 15, Sector 11 and Sector 12-A.While 508 cases are still active, 1,136 patients have been cured and discharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-death-20-new-cases-in-panchkula-131534
26-08-2020||---||Boy stabs 14-year-old to death while playing at Hallo Majra||Chandigarh, August 25A 14-year-old boy died after he was allegedly attacked with a knife by another minor following an altercation while playing at Deep Complex, Hallo Majra, today. The minor has been apprehended by the police.The victim has been identified as Naitik. Both Naitik and the suspect, who is also 14 years old, are residents of Deep Complex.The police said Naitik and the suspect were playing near the house when they entered into an altercation after which they had a scuffle.The victim was escaping from the spot following which the suspect pulled out a kitchen knife and attacked him. The victim received an injury near his waist.The footage of a CCTV camera installed near the spot shows the victim fighting, while two other kids were standing nearby.The footage then shows Naitik running from the spot followed by the suspect. "The victim then got unconscious and fell at some distance," said a police official. The suspect, meanwhile, managed to escape from the spot.The police were informed and the victim was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead.The police said the suspect fled to a nearby forest area in Ram Darbar. Police teams, along with local residents, started searching the forest. The suspect then entered Hallo Majra, where a local resident informed the police and cops reached the spot and apprehended him.Inspector Paramjit Kaur, SHO of the Sector 31 police station, said since the suspect was a minor, they had to ensure that he did not take some extreme step in fear after the incident. "We swiftly carried out the search and apprehended him," the SHO said.Investigation revealed that the victim and the suspect had a fight on Monday, following which the suspect was carrying a knife with him today.The police have registered a murder case at the Sector 31 police station. The knife was recovered from the forest area of Ram Darbar. The suspect has been sent to a juvenile home.The police have shifted the body to a mortuary. The autopsy will be conducted tomorrow.How it happened||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-stabs-14-year-old-to-death-while-playing-at-hallo-majra-131536
26-08-2020||---||Mobile store directed to refund money for misleading resident||Chandigarh, August 25The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a mobile store to return Rs13,999, the amount of a cellphone, to a city resident.Besides, the court also directed the mobile store to pay Rs2,500 as compensation for causing harassment and Rs5,000 as litigation expenses to the customer.Vijay Pal, a resident of Raipur Khurd, filed a complaint stating that he purchased a Redmi Note 7 Pro mobile phone vide invoice dated July 6, 2019 for Rs13,999 having a one-year warranty from M/s AD’s Mobile Arcade, Sector 22-B, Chandigarh.He alleged that the store sold the handset with an assurance that it was a 4G-enabled mobile phone with dual SIM card facility. When the complainant inserted a JIO SIM card in the cellphone, he found that it was not working.He alleged that the opposite parties misled him by selling the handset with an assurance that it was a 4G-enabled cellphone. However, 4G SIM was not working in it.The complainant sought relief alleging that the aforesaid acts of omission and commission on part of the opposite parties amount to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.The court, in its order, said despite notices, representatives from M/s AD’s Mobile, Sector22-B, Chandigarh, and M/s Xiaomi TechnologyIndia Private Limited failed to appear before the court. Therefore, the opposite parties were directed to return the cost of the mobile phone and pay compensation for harassment to the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mobile-store-directed-to-refund-money-for-misleading-resident-131540
26-08-2020||---||Out for a jog, man stabbed at park||Chandigarh, August 25A 27-year-old man was allegedly attacked by two persons while he had gone for running at the cactus garden in Ram Darbar this morning. While running, his shoulder touched one of the suspects, who then entered into an altercation and attacked him.The victim, Sohan Lal, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase II, said as usual, he had gone for running at the park when by mistake his shoulder touched a person, who was walking on the track along with another person.The victim said he apologised to the person. However, both persons started abusing him.One of the suspects was carrying a stick, with which the victim was hit on the head.Another suspect then allegedly pulled out a knife and stabbed the victim near the right armpit.The victim then rushed towards the police beat box. The suspects followed him. However, later they escaped from the spot.The police were informed and the victim taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. He was later discharged from the hospital.The police have initiated an investigation into the matter at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/out-for-a-jog-man-stabbed-at-park-131541
26-08-2020||Chandigarh||Girl goes missing from Sector 21 PG||Body found in choe identifiedChandigarh: The body of a youth found in the Sukhna choe in Baltana on Monday has been identified. The victim was a resident of Daria village, Chandigarh. The UT police on Tuesday brought the body and shifted it to a mortuary at the GMCH-32. The police said the victim had been identified as Mukesh (22). His body was found in the Sukhna choe near the Baltana police post. The police said the victim slipped into a choe near Daria and was swept away by the gushing water. “Two persons saw the victim slipping into the Sukhna choe,” said a police official. Meanwhile, the police have initiated investigations into the matter at the Industrial Area police station. TNSLast date for PG courses extendedChandigarh: Panjab University (PU) has extended last dates for online admission to postgraduate courses in the university’s teaching departments/institutes /regional centres up to September 30, said Prof RK Singla, Dean of University Instructions. The decision regarding examinations and results of undergraduate courses is still awaited and the last date for admission to PGCET is also extended up to September 17. The online forms for admission to various PG courses are available ononlineadmissions.puchd.ac.in, an official said. TNSHandball referees’ refresher courseChandigarh: Four handball national referees from Chandigarh, Narinder Singh, Sukhbir Singh, Mahesh Hooda and Sachin Choudhary, along with the general secretary of the Chandigarh Handball Association, Dr Sunil Kumar, attended the Asian Handball Federation Referee refresher course. The course was organised by the Asian Handball Federation. As many as 75 referees from across the country attended the online event held from August 18 to 20. TNSFour held on assault chargeChandigarh: Four persons have been arrested for allegedly assaulting a Mani Majra resident. According to the police, complainant Mustaq, a resident of Mari Wala Town, reported that Talib, Tokir, Kuldeep and Pinku, all residents of Govindpura in Mani Majra, thrashed him near his residence. He was injured and admitted to the Civil Hospital, Mani Majra. The police were informed and a case registered at the Mani Majra police station. TNSWebinar on career goalsFatehgarh Sahib: The Department of Computer Science of Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University, Fatehgarh Sahib, organised an online event titled, ‘Your Next Step – Career Goals in Covid times’. More than 3,000 viewers participated in the programme on various digital platforms and focused on changing career goals. Vice-Chancellor Dr Prit Pal Singh congratulated the department. OC14-day course ends at varsityPatiala: A 14-day refresher course for regular faculty members concluded at Punjabi University on Tuesday. The course was held for faculty of universities and colleges and was held through an online platform in which faculty members from various states participated. University officials said their centre would be the first one among 66 centres set up by the Ministry of Education, Government of India, to run an official Youtube channel. They said 40 teachers from various universities and colleges of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka and West Bengal participated in the course. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girl-goes-missing-from-sector-21-pg-131542
26-08-2020||Mohali||Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini gets protection from arrest for two  more days||Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini got a two-day relief from a Mohali court as it extended the period of protection from his arrest to another two days in the alleged kidnapping and murder of Balwant Singh Multani.The Duty Magistrate said the anticipatory bail application be put up before the court on August 27 so that it could be decided on merit. Saini’s counsel APS Deol and Harneet Singh Oberoi had filed an anticipatory bail plea on Monday to avoid his arrest after a local court allowed the Punjab Police to add murder charge against him to the FIR on August 21.Special public prosecutor Sartej Singh Narula resisted the request, saying two officials had turned approver in the case on the basis of which Section 302 had been added. The period of three days as directed by the court had expired, so question of further protection does not arise. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-gets-protection-from-arrest-for-two-more-days-131400
