26-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGI-Chandigarh’s youngest COVID-19 patient cured||With the discharge of an 11-month-old girl, the youngest COVID-19 patient of Chandigarh, and her mother, here on Sunday, the number of patients declared cured and discharged from the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research’s (PGIMER) Covid hospital rose to nine.Holding her daughter in her arms, the Sector 30 resident got emotional at the discharge.“No words are enough to convey my thanks to the entire PGIMER team. It’s just because of them that my daughter and I are healthy today,” she said.Read: Mw not a vaccine for COVID-19, too early to declare its efficacy: PGIMERCoronavirus: Chandigarh reports six more cases“There were phases of hopelessness and despair and I thought I have lost the battle. But the PGIMER team, with their constant medical and psychological support, made me sail through. I stand indebted to each and every one of them for their care, concern and compassion,” she said.Her advice to everyone fighting the COVID-19 battle: Don’t lose faith in the Almighty and follow your doctors’ instructions without any dilution.The mother-daughter duo was given a warm send off with showering of flower petals and gifts, symbolically wishing them good health and happiness for all times to come.PGIMER Director Jagat Ram was present on the occasion to compliment the mother-daughter duo on their successful recovery.He was accompanied by Additional Medical Superintendent Vipin Koushal, Shefali Sharma of the Department of Internal Medicine, Naveen Pandey of the Department of Hospital Administration, Swapanjit Sahu of the Department of Psychiatry and many more members of the PGIMER COVID-19 team.“There is always a silver lining in the dark clouds. In these extremely challenging times, this moment, when any patient gets discharged after declared cured from COVID-19, is a moment of triumph and jubilation not only for the patient and his family, but for the entire medical team,” the PGIMER director said.“Today, it’s all the more special because the recovery of the baby of COVID-19 was a huge challenge for the medical team due to her tender age,” he said.He said the untiring efforts of the PGIMER COVID-19 team had paid off and the mother-daughter due was reunited with their family.“These are the moments that keep healthcare workers going strong even at the risk of their lives and reiterate their faith in this noble profession,” he said.All the four family members of the child had tested COVID-19 positive and were admitted to the PGI on April 3. Her father was discharged a week earlier. Only her grandmother is still admitted to the PGI. She is stable and recovering. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chandigarhs-youngest-covid-19-patient-cured-76621
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Coronavirus: Chandigarh reports six more cases||Chandigarh reported six more coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the city’s tally to 36.Four of the six who tested positive for Covid-19 are contacts of a ward attendant from GMCH-32 who recently tested positive, officials said.Read: PGI-Chandigarh’s youngest COVID-19 patient cured Mw not a vaccine for COVID-19, too early to declare its efficacy: PGIMERThey are his mother, two sisters and a child. All four live in Bapu Dham Colony, same as the ward attendant.The fifth case is a sanitation worker from GMCH-32 and the sixth is a 26-year-old nursing officer from Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research who lives in a hostel at Sector 12.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-chandigarh-reports-six-more-cases-76616
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Mw not a vaccine for COVID-19, too early to declare its efficacy: PGIMER||PGIMER assessed the safety of Mycobacterium w (Mw) in four hospitalized patients with COVID-19 and found no short-term adverse effects of the drug in the pre-study phase.A prospective randomized trial has been planned by PGIMER in Chandigarh along with AIIMS-Delhi and AIIMS-Bhopal to study the effectiveness of Mw in hospitalized patients of COVID-19. Mw will be used as an adjunct to the treatment of critically ill COVID-19 patients.Read: Coronavirus: Chandigarh reports six more casesPGI-Chandigarh’s youngest COVID-19 patient cured"The impact of Mw use on long-term safety and efficacy will only be known after the conclusion of this CSIR-supported clinical trial, which will be initiated soon at all three centres," a PGIMER statement read on Sunday.Mw—heat-killed Mycobacterium indicus pranii—was reportedly earlier touted as a vaccine for the deadly disease. However, doctors in PGIMER clarified that it was not a vaccine."The Mw is not a vaccine for COVID-19. It is an adjunctive immunomodulatory treatment (in addition to standard care) for patients with sepsis. Mw is one of the drugs that is going to be evaluated in COVID-19 patients, like many other treatments (remdesivir, tocilizumab, and others) that are being tried in this disease," said Dr GD Puri of PGIMER.In its statement, PGIMER said: "In a recently-concluded multi-centre trial, PGIMER found that Mw reduces mortality in ICU patients with severe sepsis."PGI spokesperson, Dr Ashok said, "It is very early to comment on the outcome of the results and its use."Mw, originally developed as an immunomodulator for leprosy, acts through the toll-like receptor pathway and enhances host-T cell responses. Mw can potentially decrease the cytokine storm seen in patients with COVID-19, and may thus be of potential benefit in managing these patients and decreasing mortality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mw-not-a-vaccine-for-covid-19-too-early-to-declare-its-efficacy-pgimer-76595
26-04-2020||Mohali||Punjab Police arrest four gangsters in Panchkula; cop wounded in shootout||Mohali Police arrested four suspected gangsters after a brief shootout at Panchkula’s Billa village on Sunday morning, officials said. They also impounded a country-made pistol and some live cartridges.Police have identified the suspects as Harsimran alias Simu, a resident of Ambala, Dhruv Mohan Garg, a resident of Ghaziabad, Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Derbassi and Gurcharan Singh, a resident of Raipur Rani (Panchkula), officials said.A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 186, 188, 332, 353, 307, 34 IPC and 25, 54, 59 of Arms Act at the Chandimandir police station.The shootout occurred around 6 am when a team of 10 policemen from Mohali’s Phase 8 police station was tipped off about the four suspects who face an attempted murder charge hiding in a house in Ramgarh village.Surrounded, the suspects began to shoot at police. A suspect shot Head Constable Raspreet Singh in the leg when he made to arrest him. Despite the injury, Singh gave the suspect a brief chase and arrested him, police said.Singh was first taken to Panchkula Civil Hospital before being referred to GMCH-32, sources said.He would need to undergo surgery, sources said.“It took us around 25 minutes for us to nab all four gangsters. They fired a total two rounds at us. A bullet hit my left leg,” Raspreet Singh said.Deputy Superintendent of Police Ramandeep said the suspects were believed to have tried to kill a man at Mohali in March this year.In March, 23-year-old milkman Kamalpreet Singh was wounded when three unidentified people attacked him with a sword and shot him while he was doing his rounds of milk delivery in Phase 9’s HIG flats.The four suspects, who already face an attempted murder charge, now face another criminal case of shooting a policeman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-police-arrest-four-gangsters-in-panchkula-cop-wounded-in-shootout-76594
26-04-2020||Mohali||Coronavirus: Eight cured in Mohali district, total recoveries rise to 22||Eight people, from Jagatpura village in Mohali district, were cured of coronavirus and discharged on Sunday.They were discharged after testing negative for the deadly disease in two consecutive tests.The district has reported a total of 63 cases, out of which 22 have been cured, 39 are active and two died.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that all the recovered patients hail from Jawaharpur village near Dera Bassi, which has witnessed the highest number of infections in the district so far. The total number of patients who have recovered in the district so far has reached 22, whereas a total of 13 patients belonging to Jawaharpur alone have recovered.Singh said that eight patients who recovered on Sunday are Manish (32), Gurjeet Singh (42), Jaspreet Singh (23), Reena (30), Taranpreet Singh (7), Sharanpreet Singh (14), Gurfateh Singh (one-and-a-half years-old) and Pritam Singh (80).He said that all the patients would not be sent home as of now and instead would be quarantined for 14 days as a precautionary measure at a quarantine centre in sector 70 in Mohali. Singh said that patients belonging to Jawaharpur were cured on April 21 and are currently staying at the above centre and added that all these persons will be sent home only after the quarantine period of 14 days is completed successfully. He said all the remaining patients are undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital and their condition is stable.Lauding the health teams treating patients at Gyan Sagar Hospital, Singh said all the doctors, nurses, paramedical staff at the center are the real warriors who are performing their duty with hard work and dedication while risking their lives. He asked the people to maintain social-distancing, wash their hands frequently, eat good food and most importantly stay at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coronavirus-eight-cured-in-mohali-district-total-recoveries-rise-to-22-76562
26-04-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Watch: Chandigarh Police develop device to keep lockdown violators at bay||Chandigarh Police has found an interesting way to catch coronavirus lockdown violators while maintaining social distancing.   The cops have developed an instrument that comprises a five-feet-long metal rod fitted, which can be strapped to a policeman's arms, with a tong-like structure at one. The other end attaches around the waist of the violators so that they can be led to the police vehicle, without coming in contact with them.Sanjay Baniwal, director-general of Chandigarh Police, shared a post on Twitter where a policeman can be seen demonstrating how the device functions.“VIP Security wing of Chandigarh Police has devised this unique way of tackling non-cooperating corona suspects and curfew breakers. Great equipment, great drill !!! Way to go @ssptfcchd and Insp Manjit, HCt Gurdeep, HCt Pawan and Ct Usha,” Baniwal tweeted.VIP Security wing of Chandigarh Police has devised this unique way of tackling non-cooperating corona suspects and curfew breakers.Great equipment, great drill !!!Way to go @ssptfcchd and Insp Manjit, HCt Gurdeep, HCt Pawan and Ct Usha pic.twitter.com/oTLsGoe6yt  The Administration has declared Chandigarh a containment zone and curfew has also been imposed in the city.Despite the country-wide lockdown, which has been extended till May 3, many have violated the rules and ventured out on the roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/watch-chandigarh-police-develop-device-to-keep-lockdown-violators-at-bay-76558
26-04-2020||Mohali||Mohali dist sees no new case in 2 days||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-dist-sees-no-new-case-in-2-days-76370
26-04-2020||---||No relaxation in Mohali too||Mohali, April 25Even as the Central Government has allowed opening of shops on certain conditions, the district administration today declared that no shop, except provision and medical store, will be allowed to open.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said he had been getting a lot of queries since this morning regarding opening of shops and other establishments. He said as stated earlier, no relaxation in curfew in Mohali district would be given.It is pertinent to mention here that in view of a large number of Covid-19 cases, the district had been put in the red zone category. The administration had, on April 18, announced not to relax the curfew restriction in the district from April 20.The DC said since the district did not reach the stage of ‘no new case in 14 days’, the curfew would continue as a precautionary measure against the spread of Covid.Pertinently, 63 cases of Covid positive cases have been reported in the district with Jawaharpur village having the highest 38 cases.Dayalan said opening shops would imply that a large number of people, who work and reside in the tricity, would be moving to and fro in the surrounding areas. He said giving relaxation in the curfew would defeat the efforts made to contain the disease.What to openProvision storesChemists shopsTo be closedStationery | General stores | Eating houses | Cloth shops | Meat shops | Sanitary stores | Vehicle spare parts shops||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-relaxation-in-mohali-too-76369
26-04-2020||Amarjot Kaur||Passport office may start public appointments from May 5||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25While most central offices are shut during the lockdown, the Regional Passport Office, Sector 34-A, has opened its doors for emergency situations and for the law enforcement agencies who have been visiting the office for tracking the details of foreign-returned people.The passport office is all set to open its doors for public appointments from May 5, said Sibash Kabiraj, regional passport chief. In case, there is a change in date, the passport office will intimate the public, he said.Even though the office is not engaging in general services in view of the lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a couple of officials are tending to emergency situations at the office, he said. Around 1,500 passports of those who had applied before the lockdown announcement have been dispatched by the passport office through post so far.Talking to The Tribune over phone, Kabiraj said, “We are running the office for emergency situations like if a person is surrendering old passports on acquiring foreign nationality and is going back to the country through a special flight. In this case, we have to issue a passport.”The office also tends to law enforcement agencies from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. “The law enforcement agencies are visiting us so that they can track down foreign-returned people who haven’t given complete details. To access those details, the office system has to be used, so we open the office for two to three hours. All officers are home and a couple of them visit the office to access the main system. We are closed for general purposes,” he said.Kabiraj said, “Around 1,500 passports were sent through post. These include the ones that came before March 24 and the ones where the police verification reached us later on; their passports had to be printed here too.” ‘Will begin with minimum cases’Even though all appointments have been cancelled and the new appointments will start on May 5, the passport office will not be the same, especially when it comes to public dealing. "Earlier, on a daily basis, we would attend to around 1,400 people in Chandigarh alone, along with 800 from Ludhiana and 700 from Ambala. This will not be possible now. We will start with minimum appointments so that we can practice social distancing," Kabiraj said. The Passport Seva Kendra too will reopen on May 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/passport-office-may-start-public-appointments-from-may-5-76365
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||IGNOU conducts online sessions||Webinar at PU History DepartmentChandigarh:As many as 600 participants took part in a webinar on ‘Epidemics across the ages’ wherein historical, socio-cultural and medical ramifications of epidemics were discussed at the Department of History, Panjab University. PU Vice-Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar directed the attention of the participants towards the need to learn from lessons of the past while facing challenges posed by present crisis. TNS55 units of blood collectedKhamano: A blood donation camp was organised at Khamano in which donors belonging to Bharat Vikas Parishad, Baldev Sports and Welfare Club and others donated blood. A team of doctors from the PGIMER, Chandigarh, collected blood in their sanitised bus at the office of Khamano SDM. Only two donors at a time were allowed inside the bus. All precautions were taken and social distancing norm was observed at the camp, which was inaugurated by Gurpreet Singh GP, MLA, Bassi Pathana, and Baba Sarabjit Singh Bhalla Barwaliwale, a social activist. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ignou-conducts-online-sessions-76364
26-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||24x7 job with no weekly off for this Covid nodal officer in chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25It is a 24X7 job with no weekly off for Anil Kumar Garg, who is the nodal officer of the Covid-19 contact tracing and quarantine force.“Last evening, we had left for home after a day-long work. At 10 pm, we came to know that a resident of Bapu Dham Colony has tested positive for Covid. We all had to rush to the spot to trace the patient’s first contacts. We finished primary contact tracing at 1 am,” says Garg, who is also MC Additional Commissioner.For him, it is a challenging job, which involves meeting Covid patients, finding out their travel history and tracing their close contacts so as to home-quarantine them. He also keeps his team members, who visit door to door for tracing contacts, motivated. “Initially, a few were forthcoming for the work. We formed teams. Despite being aware of the risk involved in the job, they work form the core of their heart. They all realise it is their moral and social responsibility in this crisis. I keep visiting spots with them so that they stay motivated. Along with monitoring their work in the field, I ensure they have PPE kits, gloves, masks and sanitiser,” shares Garg.Many people they meet during contact tracing get irritated. Some do not cooperate with the teams. “I would only advise people to stay home and stay safe. They should cooperate and not any hide any information, otherwise it will affect the whole society. Till now, out of the 28 total positive patients, 13 are those who were identified through contact tracing and were quarantined,” he says.On personal front too, he had to first convince his family about the job. “My family members used to say why you. I told them someone has to do it; why not me? I told them we will do the work taking all precautions. With the passage of time, they have come to terms,” added the nodal officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/24x7-job-with-no-weekly-off-for-this-covid-nodal-officer-in-chandigarh-76357
26-04-2020||Saurabh Malik||Masks, protective gear to be treated as domestic hazardous waste||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25Waste face masks and other protective gear from non-quarantined households have been directed to be treated as domestic hazardous waste. It will be wrapped in a separate covering and collected and transported separately without mixing it with normal household waste.Guidelines on Covid-19 waste disposal also provide for adoption of measures to protect sanitary workers engaged in collection and transportation of litter. This, and much more, was told to the Punjab and Haryana High Court during the hearing of a petition filed in public interest on waste management during the Covid outbreak.Taking up the matter through video-conferencing, the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli asserted a perusal of the guidelines made it clear that the manner of disposal of face masks and other protective gear being used by quarantined and non-quarantined households had been prescribed.Referring to the disposal of such waste from quarantined households, the Bench observed it was directed to be placed in yellow garbage bags and thereafter disposed of by treating the same as bio-medical waste in the manner prescribed under the Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules - 2016.The Bench also observed pursuant to the guidelines issued by the Central Pollution Control Board, the UT of Chandigarh, along with Punjab and Haryana, had issued similar guidelines. Directions for strict compliance had also been issued.Appearing before the Bench, Haryana Additional Advocate-General Deepak Balyan, Punjab Additional Advocate-General PS Bajwa and UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain stated they were strictly complying with the guidelines.They added the petition was not being treated as adversarial litigation and they were willing to take further steps necessary for implementing the guidelines and for addressing aberrations or violations of the same. They also stated necessary steps would immediately be taken to ensure compliance of the guidelines in case of complaint regarding violation.Responding to the submissions, petitioner-advocate Abhayjeet Singh submitted the guidelines were probably not known to the general public and wide publicity was required to be made.“In view of the statement of the learned counsel appearing for all respondents and in view of the undertaking given by them regarding not just implementation of the guidelines and addressing violation thereof but also regarding giving immediate and adequate publicity to the guidelines so that they are made known to the general public, we do not find any reason to issue any further direction in the matter,” the Bench added.In his petition, Abhayjeet Singh had sought directions to the respondents to issue proper guidelines for usage and disposal of face masks, hand gloves and other protective gear as contaminated articles pose “greater risk to environment and health, if not handled properly”. Abhayjeet had added that steps were also required to be taken for prohibiting and making spitting in public a punishable offence. “Similarly, the issue of medical waste being generated in bulk due to the pandemic needs to be entertained at the earliest,” he has added.‘2,058 essential service providers screened’The UT Administration has told the Punjab and Haryana High Court that it has issued instructions for screening of all essential service providers and as on date, 2,058 have been screened.Appearing before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli during the hearing of a PIL by advocate Kamal Deep Sehra, UT senior standing counsel Pankaj Jain stated that 11 teams of doctors and six other dedicated teams were already undertaking active screening of those involved in food distribution and other essential commodities. He submitted the UT, in fact, had decided to screen all citizens, pursuant to which more than 8,13,349 persons had already been screened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/masks-protective-gear-to-be-treated-as-domestic-hazardous-waste-76356
26-04-2020||---||Non-essential shops to stay shut in Chandigarh till May 3||Chandigarh, April 25The UT Administration has ruled out opening of any non-essential shop in the city.The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has allowed all shops registered under the Shops and Establishment Act to open. The relaxation, however, does not apply to the city since it has been declared a containment zone to prevent the spread of Covid-19.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “The Central Government has decided that non-essential shops and commercial establishments will not be allowed to open in the containment zones. Since the entire city has been declared a containment zone, the exemptions available to other states could not be given to the UT residents.”He stated that the Centre had instructed banks and financial institutions to provide certain relief to industries, who have taken loans from them. Parida stated that factories, plants etc could not be permitted to operate in the containment zone as per the Central Government guidelines. He said the Centre would review the situation on May 3 and convey appropriate directions regarding relaxations, if any, to the UT.UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, along with the Adviser and the Director General of Police, will attend video-conference by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. The Centre is likely to make major announcements after the video-conference.What to openShops selling groceries | Milk and bread | Fruits and vegetables | Egg, meat and fish | Chemists | Flour millsTo be closedDhabas, restaurants and fast food outlets | Liquor vends | Mobile repair shops | Hair salons and parlours | Shops selling clothes, shoes, cosmetics, electrical items, hardware and sanitary | Sweets shops | Auto mechanics, automobile showrooms | Property dealers | Malls, cinema halls | Photo studios||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/non-essential-shops-to-stay-shut-in-chandigarh-till-may-3-76355
26-04-2020||Sandeep Rana||Covid patient booked for violating curfew||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25In a first, a Covid-19 positive person was today booked for allegedly violating curfew orders and social distancing norms in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, here.A case under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) has been registered at the Sector 26 police station. Cases under some of these sections have been registered earlier as well, but this is for the first time that a Covid-19 positive patient has been booked.“Criminal proceedings will be initiated against the Bapu Dham patient, who organised his wedding anniversary party in the colony a few days ago violating the social distancing norms and curfew orders. God knows how many persons he had infected. He celebrated his wedding anniversary with a large number of neighbours from the colony. As per initial reports, over 60 guests attended the party,” UT Adviser Manoj Parida tweeted earlier in the day today.Official sources told Chandigarh Tribune that, “The patient had celebrated his wedding anniversary on April 17. Apart from 17 members of his joint family in a three-storeyed house, people from the neighbourhood also took part in the celebrations. We are trying to ascertain the exact number of guests.”As many as 130 persons were home-quarantined following contact tracing of the patient. It includes a private doctor in the colony, whom he had visited after he did not feel well. Besides, people living in his neighborhood were also quarantined.His niece, along with her family, residing in the colony was also quarantined. His relative in Sector 52 whom he met earlier has also been quarantined. His another relative in Mauli Jagran, whom he had visited a few days ago, has been quarantined.The patient had also visited a grocery shop in the colony. Its owner, along with his family, has been quarantined. Sample of his colleague, a ward boy in the GMCH-32, has been collected and his two family members in Mauli Jagran have been quarantined.“It is a thickly populated colony. We started contact tracing last night, which was completed today. There are 12-15 members in one house,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-patient-booked-for-violating-curfew-76353
26-04-2020||---||Only neighbourhood markets open in Panchkula||Panchkula, April 25A month after the nationwide lockdown, Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Saturday allowed most shops in residential areas to open.Shops like provision stores, motor mechanics, electrical goods and mobile repairs and garment shops in the neighbourhood markets will be allowed to open. He, however, made it clear that all shops in commercial market complexes of the district will remain shut.He said malls, restaurants, liquor shops, gyms and hair salons would not be operational till May 3. Though e-commerce platforms can only supply essential items, he said.The owners of shops in the neighbourhood markets can apply for permission to open their establishment on the Haryana Saral portal. The process will be completed within 24 hours."The shopkeepers can only function with a strength of 50 per cent workers. Masks, gloves and adherence to social distancing norms are compulsory,” the DC said on conditions as per the MHA order.He said all shops in rural areas were allowed to open. No shops in containment zones including Sector 15 and some villages of the district, would remain shut, the official added.What is openProvision stores, motor mechanic, electrical goods, mobile repair shops, garment storesWhat is shutMalls, gyms, shops in market complexes, hair salons, restaurants, liquor shops||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-neighbourhood-markets-open-in-panchkula-76352
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Part of Bapu Dham Colony declared ‘affected pocket’||The UT Administration has declared a part of Bapu Dham Colony as ‘affected pocket’ to prevent the spread of Covid to the adjoining areas. A resident of the colony, who works as a ward boy at the GMCH-32, was tested positive for Covid.As per the order of District Magistrate Mandip Singh Brar, the movement of the inhabitants of the ‘affected pocket’ will now be absolutely restricted and the entire pocket will be sealed with the deployment of police force.Now, there will be single entry/exit. There will be a total ban on non-essential visitors in the ‘affected pocket’. Only duly authorised essential item and service providers will be allowed to enter the ‘affected pocket’. Teams of the Health Department will conduct door-to-door screening of each person living in the households in the area and the entire ‘affected pocket’ will be sanitised. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/part-of-bapu-dham-colony-declared-affected-pocket-76350
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Covid command & control centre opens at MC office||The Covid command and control centre was inaugurated by Mayor Raj Bala Malik at the Municipal Corporation (MC) office in Sector 17 today.“The project will help the city in studying and preparing in case of larger Covid-19 outbreak. Accordingly, the UT Administration can plan resources ahead of the crisis,” the Mayor said.KK Yadav, Commissioner, MC, said, “The command centre will monitor quarantined people and positive cases through their movement using Geo fencing services. It will also monitor sanitation services of the city, including sabzi mandi, Sector 26, using cameras installed at the periphery, compliance with Covid guidelines and workers using wrist-watch watches.”“An analytics and GIS platform has been installed to analyse data coming from all relevant stakeholders, including health and municipal services, police and daily essentials providers. This will help in efficient planning of resources to be deployed in the field,” he added.“Besides, other SCADA services like water, street lights and legacy waste bio-mining will also be monitored at the centre,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-command-control-centre-opens-at-mc-office-76348
26-04-2020||Manpriya Singh||‘Contagion has reinforced our bond with nature’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25Who would’ve imagined that Nature’s way of reprimanding the mankind could be so sudden and forceful. Even though the Covid-19 crisis has sunk in deep into our psychology, it still doesn’t seem real. Atul Khanna, director, Durga Das Foundation and Strawberry Fields Schools, likens the situation to “nothing short of being in the middle of a science fiction futuristic film.” Only the film usually lasts a runtime of 120-odd minutes. He adds, “Clearly, this is here to stay and in the process alter our worldview completely. Frankly, no one had thought they would be part of such a situation.”Clearly, the crisis is here to stay and in the process, our worldview will be altered completely. Frankly, no one had thought they would be part of such a situation.Atul Khanna, Director, Durga Das FoundationEven though, admittedly, not much for him has changed save for the fact that instead of going to both the schools, he now finds himself conducting online meetings and working from home. “Rest of the day remains the same. I do my prayer in the morning followed by some reading and catching up on calls. Then I try and spend some time with my parents.”Though he definitely misses the walks by the Leisure Valley with his wife Sonali, but clearly it’s time to stay indoors and reflect on the inside. “We are managing to do our exercise within the house. Evening is time for my 14-year-old twins, Rushil and Aarush and we hit the makeshift badminton court in our backyard. I also potter around in the garden trying to see how we can grow more plants. We try and have an early dinner together along with our pet dog following which we watch some news and Netflix and retire to bed by 10.30 pm -11 pm.”While his routine may have remained largely unaffected, there’s no denying the lessons we all carry home as individuals, citizens and most importantly as human beings. “There are a lot of lessons to be learnt. The most significant being that a lot of things that we think matter actually don’t. It’s really a back-to-basics approach. You take only what you need and you give a lot of what you don’t need away.” Hopefully, we all emerge not just well-adapted but much wiser. “I definitely am a lot more appreciative of the effort that goes into running a home and in parenting and I hope I can contribute more on this front, he adds.“I have also realised that apart from what the governments are doing, the real good work is coming out of communities, how people are coming together to donate, to help others, to provide platforms and opportunities for sharing and caring. It’s quite overwhelming to see that kind of outpouring and compassion,” shares Khanna. He doesn’t see any reason as to why we will all collectively not carry forward some of the vital lessons learnt during the lockdown. “This has been like a course correction, making us value our relationships and all other things that we need to be grateful for. Our connection with Mother Earth and nature has been reinforced,” says Khanna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contagion-has-reinforced-our-bond-with-nature-76347
26-04-2020||Mohali||Subdivisional hospitals in Mohali to set up flu corners||The Mohali administration today directed all sub-divisional hospitals to set up flu corners for sample collection on their premises as RT-PCR testing strategy for Covid-19. District Magistrate Girish Dayalan said sample collection should begin at flu corners of all sub-divisional hospitals by tomorrow in addition to the district hospital. He said the Civil Surgeon of the district would identify community health centres/primary health centres with high OPD footfall to screen patients for influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms and depute RT-PCR teams for sample collection. Dayalan said rapid response teams would conduct surveillance of ILI cases and take samples for RT-PCR from hotspots, slums and brick kilns. He further said portable closed chambers (kiosks) could be used for sample collection and the screening of migrant labourers should be done. ‘Pregnant nearing due date should undergo testing’ Dayalan said even pregnant women, who were in labour and living in clusters/containment or in large migration gatherings or evacuee centres in hotspot districts, or were likely to deliver in the next five days, should be tested even if asymptomatic. He further said they should be tested in health facilities where they were expected to deliver. Besides, random sampling should be conducted to check the possibility of community transmission, he added.  Dayalan said samples collected were to be sent to the designated labs on the same day and no delays should occur in transport of these samples at any cost. All private hospitals of the district were to inform the District Epidemiologist about the same, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/subdivisional-hospitals-in-mohali-to-set-up-flu-corners-76346
26-04-2020||Naina Mishra||PGI uses postural therapy for early patient recovery||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 25The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has started using the age-old technique of postural therapy (also known as postural drainage) for early recovery of Covid hypoxemia (a condition where the blood oxygen level is low).This therapy is being performed right from the beginning when the patient is admitted so that his/her condition does not worsen during illness. It involves changing the position of the patient from time to time to drain mucus from the lungs.Most people infected with the SARS virus develop pneumonia, which causes one or both lungs to fill with pus and fluids, making breathing difficult. Prof GD Puri, Head, Department of Anaesthesia & Intensive Care & Dean (Academics), explains, “For patients with hypoxemia, there are many physiologic benefits of postural therapy. The timely change of position results in a more homogenous distribution of stress in lungs. Thus, it may prevent them from developing frank respiratory failure.”“For this reason, patients admitted with hypoxemia should be encouraged to adopt different defined positions. Changing patient position changes may be used as rescue therapy in those with escalating oxygen requirement,” said Dr Puri.Whenever a positive patient is admitted with moderate symptoms, the PGI’s Covid hospital’s main focus is to try that patients do not come on a ventilator. Dr Puri said, “Once a patient gets on a ventilator, things get more complicated as the patient gets bedridden. The treatment gets labour-intensive as more nursing staff have to be deployed and there are more chances of infection.”The benefits of postural therapy include better matching of pulmonary perfusion to ventilation, better recruitment of dependent areas of the lung and improved arterial oxygenation.‘Multiple tests being run on patients’The primary focus of the institute to uphold the medical condition of patients from worsening by detecting the signs of deterioration early and thus the staff are actively involved in running a series of tests and monitoring vital signs of the patient.Dr Puri explains, “There are methods devised wherein we can diagnose sick patients much earlier before their condition starts deteriorating.”“We are remotely monitoring the condition of patients via a CCTV control room. A number of blood tests are also being run on patients to find out whether their condition will deteriorate,” he added.‘Ensure prior screening before sending patients’Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, brought to the knowledge of the UT Administrator that non-critical patients were being sent to the institute without prior checking for Covid. The Administrator directed the Principal Secretary, Health, to take up the matter with the neighbouring states and to ensure that necessary screening was done before such patients were treated in our hospitals. He expressed apprehension that if major hospitals of Chandigarh became a hub for infection, then the entire health management system would get crippled.Preparedness to check pandemic||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-uses-postural-therapy-for-early-patient-recovery-76344
26-04-2020||Mohali||Provide info of students studying abroad: Mohali DC to residents||After the Punjab Government announced to facilitate return of workers and students studying abroad, the administration has asked residents to get in touch with them.Also Read: Punjab to help students stuck abroad, DCs to give info Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the government today sought information as to whether residents of the district working overseas or students pursuing higher studies abroad wish to return to India. He said people need to upload their details on google at the link https://forms.gle/LwRaHE8BN6tk972b6 or can email the details, including name, mobile number, current address, where they live abroad, passport number, email-ID, how many people want to return to India (family members) and information about the airport nearest to them in Punjab at dwosas@gmail.comHe said people can also contact on telephone number 0172-2219505, 2219506 and details should be forwarded by April 29.Fare of ambulances fixedMohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan today fixed fare of ambulances (private) in order to ensure prompt medical assistance to the needy during the nation-wide lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The fare of BLS ambulance (up to 2000 cc) has been fixed at Rs 2,500 for 24 hours while per-km fare has been fixed at Rs 10. The BLS ambulance (2000 cc and above) can be requisitioned at Rs 3,000 per day and at Rs 12 per km. Similarly, price of ACLS ambulance has been fixed at Rs 4,500 for 24 hours while per-km rate has been fixed at Rs 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/provide-info-of-students-studying-abroad-mohali-dc-to-residents-76340
26-04-2020||Mohali||We will win this war too, says octogenarian||Though the age is not on her side, the dedication of octogenarian woman from Mohali is nothing less than a gritty warrior, who is on a mission to serve the poor in this hour of crisis by stitching masks for them. Bhupinder Kaur Bedi (88), a resident of Phase 1, Mohali, was quite worried to know that doctors and healthcare workers were facing shortage of masks after panic buying.  Once Bhupinder saw a sample of mask, she realised that it was a simple task for her to stitch it. Bhupinder found some pieces of cotton and started stitching masks at her home.  Bhupinder is wife of Army personnel. She is mother of three doctors. Her grandchild is also a doctor. She was unable to buy new cloth as shops are closed. She used some old cloth pieces and some of her children’s cotton clothes to stitch masks. Still very good in sewing at this age, Bhupinder uses an old sewing machine that she got as a gift at the time of her marriage. After attending to her morning chores, she along with her daughter-in-law, who is a senior paediatric surgeon, stitches around 100 masks’ in a day. Initially, she gave masks to her son Dr HS Bedi, who is a senior cardiac surgeon, for distribution at Ivy Hospital. Later, when the district administration met the mask shortage out the government stock, she started giving masks to the poor people, who come at nearby gurdwara for langar, local needy residents, safai workers, drivers of vans carrying LPG cylinders, vegetable and milk vendors. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/we-will-win-this-war-too-says-octogenarian-76339
26-04-2020||---||Admn to take over 1 PU hostel||Chandigarh, April 25The Chandigarh Administration has decided to take over International Students Hostel of Panjab University for now. However, other three hostels will not be vacated immediately and will be used as a last resort in the extreme case of widespread Covid-19 infection.We will take over only one hostel (International Hostel) for now. The other three hostels will not be vacated immediately. These hostels will be used only if there is a huge outbreak. No student needs to travel now to pick up his/her stuff.Manoj Parida, Chandigarh AdviserArun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Health, clarified that Vice-Chancellor and Registrar of Panjab University have been personally requested to ensure that students are not put to any difficulty. “No student will be required to come to pick up their belongings during the curfew period. Their belongings will be stored safely in the store room by the university authorities,” he added.UT Adviser Manoj Parida tweeted: “We will take over only one hostel (International Hostel) for now. The other three hostels will not be vacated immediately. These hostels will be used only if there is a huge outbreak. No student needs to travel now to pick up his/her stuff.”Earlier, inmates were asked to take all their important belongings from Girls’ Hostel No. 8, 9, 10 and International Hostel till April 26. Later, it was decided to extend the date till April 27 for the convenience of outstation students.Now, in a major relief to students, the authorities announced that students can collect their belongings from hostels till these are handed over to the UT Administration. Around 350 students have already taken their belongings from hostels.On April 23, the PU had constituted a committee to supervise the process of vacating hostels after the UT Administration requested to convert these students’ facilities into Covid-19 isolation wards.A meeting was held under the chairmanship of Prof Shankarji Jha, Dean, university instructions, in which it was decided that students can take their belongings by themselves or can take help of their local guardians/ relatives/friends in the tricity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/admn-to-take-over-1-pu-hostel-76338
26-04-2020||Chandigarh||Two more from city  test positive, tally 30||Two more persons from the city tested positive for Covid late on Saturday evening, taking the tally to 30.Those found positive are a male resident of Vikas Nagar (Mauli Jagran), who is an OT attendant at the GMCH-32, and the father of the GMCH ward boy from Bapu Dham Colony, who tested positive on Friday.Earlier in the day, over seven household contacts, one family contact and 20 workplace contacts of the GMCH-32 ward boy, who tested Covid positive on Friday, were sampled. People living in 14 houses have been home-quarantined. Of these, 12 houses are in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, and one each in Mauli Jagran and Sector 52, Chandigarh. A total of 130 community contacts have been quarantined so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-from-city-test-positive-tally-30-76337
