26-06-2020||Naina Mishra||PGIMER experts call for pulse oximeter test in COVID Care Centres||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26Experts have suggested the use of “pulse oximeter” in COVID Care Centres or home isolation for detection of blood oxygen saturation as an early warning sign in COVID-19 patients, the same technique which used in the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to continuously monitor patients.Recently with the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the use of oxygen as a monitor to not only diagnose the lung damage but also monitor the treatment with various modalities has brought forth the use of this technology.The Kejriwal-led government, recently, announced that the state was going to issue pulse oximeters to all COVID-19 patients in the capital, who were under home isolation.The device usually costing Rs 1,500 rupee can be “advanced warning device” in COVID-19 patients.Pulse oximetry is a non-invasive method for monitoring a person’s oxygen saturation in the blood.A team of experts from the PGIMER had also suggested the UT administration to carry out regular check oxygen saturation check of vulnerable people in the peripheral areas such as Bapu Dham Colony.Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics) and head, Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, PGIMER, says: “Pulse Oximeter can be used as complete remote monitoring in community care. Unfortunately, a number of COVID Care Centre do not use it in routine practice and some do not have it in their armamentarium. In PGIMER, a pulse oximeter is used to remotely monitor the patients.”Prof Puri explains: “COVID-19 patients may have ‘happy hypoxia’ (a term used as these patients may not feel breathless at rest especially while their oxygen tension in blood or pulse oximetry values may be low). If such patients can be detected early and the management started quickly then the associated complications can be minimized and the long-term outcome can be improved.”“Though the COVID infection apparently involves lungs but the pathology it creates can affect brain, heart and other organs also through either involvement of blood vessels or through excessive coagulation,” said Prof Puri.He added: “While 80 per cent of COVID-19 patients may be asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic but some sub-clinical pathology may be going on in these. Though fever may make a person suspicious of some infection, simple monitors as pulse oximeters can not only detect the lung involvement but also hint about the early clinical deterioration.”How walkers can test?Prof Puri explains that normally oxygenation of blood was maintained even if a person did mild exercise or walks for five to six minutes. But in COVID-19 patients, with the tendency to deteriorate, this saturation could drop on exercise or walking briskly for five minutes.“Individuals can carry their own simple test after a brisk walk or sit-ups for a short duration. If the saturations drop more than three to four per cent, one needs to be careful,” added Prof Puri.Normal oxygen saturation in blood as measured by finger plethysmography sensors is 96 to 100 per cent depending upon the age and any chronic lung disease. Anything less than 96 in an otherwise healthy adult should raise a suspicion of some underlying lung pathology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgimer-experts-call-for-pulse-oximeter-test-in-covid-care-centres-104903
26-06-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports six new coronavirus cases||Mohali reported six new coronavirus cases, taking the district tally to 242, district officials said on Friday.A 29-year-old woman from Baltana who is a research scholar at Chandigarh’ s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research tested positive, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said. Apart from her five migrant women from Uttar Pradesh who lived in Behda and worked at a meat factory there also tested positive.The Baltana resident has been admitted to PGI, but the others are at a Covid Care centre in Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital.Seven people were cured and released from the hospital in Banur, the doctor said.  Mohali has 54 active cases, the doctor said.The district has reported three deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-six-new-coronavirus-cases-104885
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Seven-month-old baby boy, woman test COVID-19 positive; count reaches 425||A seven-month-old baby boy and a 25-year-old woman tested COVID-19 positive on Friday, taking the city count to 425.The 25-year-old woman from Bapudham Colony is Chandigarh’s second positive case on Friday. Four of her family members are all asymptomatic. The total cases in the city reached 425 of which 84 are active cases.The baby was a close contact of Sector 22 resident who had tested positive on Thursday.Similarly, 21 contacts of a Sector 22 positive case have been home-quarantined.His five family members have been tested for the virus.However, seven patients — five from Sector 25 and one each from Sector 26 and Ram Darbar — were discharged on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-seven-month-old-baby-boy-woman-test-covid-19-positive-count-reaches-425-104839
26-06-2020||Sandeep Rana||Dogged, Chandigarh MC set to tackle menace||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25The local Municipal Corporation will restart the stray dog sterilisation drive in the city next week on its own after a gap of 10 months.“We will start sterilisation of stray dogs next week, most likely on Monday. One of our veterinary doctors, who is working at an animal slaughterhouse, will be asked to work here too,” said Dr Amrit Warring, Medical Officer of Health, MC.At a meeting here today, MC’s Finance and Contract Committee members decided that the work should be started by the corporation.Children have been bitten several timesWe are tired of complaining about the menace to the MC. Children have been bitten by stray dogs several times. The lives of motorists are also at a risk as stray dogs often chase their vehicles on roads.— Ashok Sharma, President, RWACouncillor Dalip Sharma said they also contemplated that one more attempt should be made to hire an agency. Till then, the corporation should start sterilisation of stray dogs. The civic body had floated tenders thrice to hire an agency for the job in the past 10 months. However, it failed to find any takers.“Since a large number of dogs have already been sterilised in the city, agencies are not too keen on taking up the job.2018 survey had found 12,000 stray dogs in cityA lot of labour goes into catching and identifying dogs and the per dog sterilisation cost does not suit them,” said an official. After being caught, dogs are taken to the animal birth control (ABC) centre in Sector 38 for sterilisation. After the operation, a cut is made in the dog’s ear to mark that it has been sterilised.According to the MC, 14,500 dogs have been sterilised in the city since 2015 when the drive was first started. As per a survey of the UT Animal Husbandry Department in 2018, there are 12,000 stray dogs in the city.“Their population increases at a fast pace. A bitch can give birth to puppies twice a year. It can give birth to two to eight puppies at a time. So after 2018, when we started the survey, their population must have increased,” said Dr Kanwarjit, Joint Director, Animal Husbandry.Residents have been complaining of the stray dog menace in the city. Now, they can expect some respite as the sterilisation is aimed at checking the rising number of dogs.Ashok Sharma, president, Residents Welfare Association, Sector 45-C, said: “We are tired of complaining about the menace to the MC. Children have been bitten by stray dogs several times. The lives of motorists are also at a risk as stray dogs often chase their vehicles on roads.” FOSWAC chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said: “Senior citizens and children avoid visiting parks due to the fear of dogs. The MC must identify ferocious dogs and take them to the dog pound.”MC to run multi-level parkingThe MC will run the multi-level parking lot in Sector 17 on its own. It will entail an annual cost of over Rs56 lakh. Earlier, a private contractor used to operate the parking lot. The agenda was cleared at a meeting held on Thursday.Water bill waiver soughtArea councillor Dalip Sharma sought a three-month water bill waiver for Bapu Dham Colony residents. “Residents of the area remained under containment restrictions and could not go to work. They do not have enough to eat. Their water bills should be waived for three months,” he said. Officials of the Municipal Corporation are contemplating over the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dogged-chandigarh-mc-set-to-tackle-menace-104612
26-06-2020||---||3 fresh cases take Chandigarh count to 423||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25Three new Covid-19 cases were reported from Ram Darbar today, taking the city count to 423. The number of active cases is 88.The three — a 32-year-old woman, a seven-year-old boy and a four-year-old girl — are family contacts of an already positive person.Besides, six community contacts of a Sector 29 positive patient have been home-quarantined in Chandigarh. Officials said her PU contacts were asymptomatic and they were not “in her direct contact”.Similarly, 21 contacts of a Sector 22 positive person have been home-quarantined. His five family members have been tested for the virus.Seven cured, dischargedSeven patients — five from Sector 25 and one each from Sector 26 and Ram Darbar — were discharged on Thursday.Four new cases surface in PanchkulaPanchkula: Four new Covid cases were reported from Panchkula on Thursday. Those infected are a 30-year-old woman and her 10-year-old daughter from Chandimandir, a 29-year-old man from a residential society in Sector 20 and a 30-year-old man from Kot village in Barwala block. “The mother-daughter duo had a travel history to Delhi,” said the Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur. She said the infected person from Barwala had a travel history to Gorakhpur in UP. The Sector 20 resident is a contact of an already infected person in Mohali, where he works. Except the Barwala patient, who was shifted to BRS Dental College, the other three patients are receiving treatment at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-fresh-cases-take-chandigarh-count-to-423-104613
26-06-2020||Mohali||7 more contract virus in Mohali||Seven more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district today, taking the tally to 236. The infected persons are a 31-year-old man from Baltana, a 51-year-old man and a 21-year-old woman from Harmilap Nagar, a 40-year-old man and a 30-year-old woman from Zirakpur, a 65-year-old man from Dera Bassi and a 50-year-old woman from Dafarpur.Divulging details, the Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the man and woman from Harmilap Nagar, a micro-containment zone, in Baltana were the contacts of already positive patients from Bapu Dham Colony in Chandigarh. The 40-year-old man from Zirakpur was the contact of an already positive case, while the 30-year-old woman was an NRI, who had returned from Canada. The Dera Bassi man was the contact of an already positive case, while the woman from Dafarpur was an influenza-like illness case. As of now, there were 55 active cases in the district, while 178 patients had been cured and three died of Covid.Seven patients dischargedDr Manjit Singh said seven patients were discharged from the Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. They are a man and a woman from Dappar, a man from Baltana and three women and a man from Dera Bassi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-more-contract-virus-in-mohali-104614
26-06-2020||---||Bid to break open ATM in Sector 44||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25Unidentified persons made an attempt to break open an SBI ATM at the Sector 44 market on the intervening night of June 24 and 25.The incident came to light in the morning when the ATM security guard arrived around 8 am.No security guard at nightThere is no security guard at the ATM at night. Earlier, there used to be a guard round the clock. Now, a guard is present at the ATM only from 9 am to 5 pm.The guard, Pritam Singh Dogra, said his eight-hour shift started at 9 am, but he reached early and found the front part of the ATM lying broken. “A safai karamchari working in the market had earlier come to withdraw money, who also saw the broken ATM,” he said.On checking, he found that someone had also tried to break the machine from the rear side. The guard informed bank officials, who visited the spot. The police were also informed about the incident. Investigation revealed that the miscreants sprayed paint on the CCTV camera installed inside the ATM booth and cut the alarm wire. The police said they, however, failed to break open the ATM.The police said they were scrutinising the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the market to identify the miscreants. Sources said the suspects arrived between 12.30 am and 1 am.A case has been registered in this connection at the Sector 34 police station.This is the second such incident in the city in a week. Earlier, an unknown person had stolen Rs7.65 lakh from an ATM of the Union Bank of India at Kishangarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bid-to-break-open-atm-in-sector-44-104615
26-06-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Govt school admissions likely to start in mid-July||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25As the Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE) decided to cancel remaining board (Class X and XII) exams, the UT Education Department is now expecting to start the admission process for government schools in mid-July, subject to the declaration of the results.The local government schools are likely to receive a good response as parents are interested in moving their children from private schools after facing financial crunch due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“Subject to the declaration of results by the CBSE, we will start the admission process. We are expecting it begin somewhere in mid-July,” said Rubinderjit Brar, Director School Education.The exams were scheduled to be conducted between July 1 and July 15. However, now they stand cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Parents happyAfter the CBSE confirmed the cancellation of the remaining board examinations, parents had a sigh of relief.“The decision has come as a big relief for the students and their parents. It’s a good step to avoid any kind of hassle during the pandemic,” said Piyush Mehta, a parent.Students raise concern over gradingAs per the reports, a CBSE notification will be released tomorrow with the details on the internal assessment scheme and a timeline for declaring results. It was also reported that the Class X board exam results are expected by July 15. While the students will be assessed only on the basis of internal assessment marks, the Class XII students will be assessed on the basis of the last three examinations or they can opt for examinations to be conducted later. “The grading should be done conclusively so that all students get awarded with deserving marks. A lot depends upon the grading system. I am eagerly waiting for a clear picture,” said Suchetna, a Class XII student. The CBSE academic calendar has been shifted and all entrance examination dates have been accordingly adjusted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/govt-school-admissions-likely-to-start-in-mid-july-104617
26-06-2020||---||Students get reminder for submission of school fee||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, June 25Days after the Haryana Government revoked ‘no struck-off provision due to the non-payment of fee’, students in Panchkula schools are getting reminders for fee payment.However, the Panchkula Public Schools’ Association (PPSA) maintained that there was no pressure on “genuine cases”.On June 14, The Tribune had reported that the government has done away with the provision for not allowing schools to strike-off students’ name due to the non-payment of fee. “We have started receiving messages from schools for fee payment. We have been also asked to clear all dues. We have been facing financial issues due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The schools should have not asked us any fee for this period. The government should have come to our rescue,” said a parent.The PPSA cleared that they were just following the government notification. “There is no question of putting pressure on parents who cannot pay the fee. But there are several cases where parents are intentionally not paying the expenses. In our school, there are over 150 students who have requested late fee submission and it has been accepted considering their background and on a surety that all expenses will be paid as soon they gain financial stability. But there are many parents, who work in government offices, banks, have lavish businesses and others. They have not approached us for any rebate. So, in those cases, the school has the authority to take harsh steps,” said Vebhu Bhatnagar, Director, Blue Bird School.As per the government’s notification, students have been asked to pay the tuition fee from June onwards and for April and May and if any parent requested the school for relaxations, the request should be accepted. In that case, the pending amount should be paid in installments in three months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/students-get-reminder-for-submission-of-school-fee-104618
26-06-2020||---||Focus on social schemes, Mohali admn tells banks||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 25Mohali Assistant Commissioner Yashpal Sharma today set a target of 10 Mudra loans and 15 self-employment loans for all bank branches operating in the district.He laid emphasis on the Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP).Yashpal Sharma was chairing the District Consultative Committee meeting convened by the Lead Bank Office, Punjab National Bank, at the Lead District Manager (LDM) office here to review the progress of banks for the quarter ending March 31. The meeting was attended by district coordinators of all banks and it was co-chaired by Sunil Bratt, AGM, PNB Circle Head, Mohali. The annual credit plan (ACP) targets and achievements were also discussed.Sharma further pressed upon sanction of standup India loans to at least two cases per branch by banks to increase the credit flow/loans in the district. The Chief LDM said the district had surpassed the priority sector target at 49.99 per cent against the national goal of 40 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/focus-on-social-schemes-mohali-admn-tells-banks-104619
26-06-2020||---||Telemedicine facility to continue||Chandigarh, June 25For now, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, is unlikely to start OPD services, but will continue to assist people with the telemedicine facility.The hospital authorities stated: “Although, it is impractical to start the routine OPD services due to the pandemic, but keeping in mind the patients’ needs, the GMCH is committed to providing them with the consultation by telemedicine facility.”Doctors given training: GMCH authorities"The telemedicine facility is a wise step to avoid congregation of patients at the hospital and ensures social distancing," said the hospital authorities. Doctors have been provided with advanced training for operating this facility from the Centre for Development Computing (CDAC).The service was started on March 4, 2020. Daily consultation through telemedicine facility is given to approximately 200 patients from 9.30 am to 1 pm every day except for Sunday and gazetted holidays.According to the authorities, doctors had been provided with advanced training for operating this facility from the Centre for Development Computing (CDAC). Patients call the dedicated telephone/mobile numbers of respective OPD centres. The patients can also make video calls and share their medical reports for consultation.With effect from April 28, 2020, computerised record of patients taking consultation is being maintained by the Medical Registration Department of the GMCH. Since then, more than 2,300 patients have availed of the service — 30.2% are new patients and 69.7% are old patients. Out of total of 2,300 patients, 1,090 (47.3%) are from Chandigarh followed by Punjab (30.0%) and Haryana (17.2%). Patients from places such as Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Orissa and Madhya Pradesh have also availed of these services.“The functioning of telemedicine facility is a wise step to avoid congregation of patients at the hospital and ensures social distancing,” said the hospital authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/telemedicine-facility-to-continue-104620
26-06-2020|| Deepankar Sharda||Sports Dept sans Joint Director for eight months||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25The UT Sports Department, which has been functioning without a Joint Director Sports (JDS) for eight months now, has to apparently wait a little more as the appointment rules have been sought from the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC).Unfortunately, the UT Administration has not framed its own rules for appointing a regular JDS. The problem started back in 2014 when the then JDS, who was appointed on an ad-hoc basis and remained in-charge for 17 years, made no provision for promoting the coaches.After 2014, the post was being looked after on the same pattern. Now, since November 2019, it has been lying vacant. For approximate three decades, the post was looked after by a rank of associate professor appointed from outside the Sports Department. During this duration, only once a District Sports Officer (DSO) was promoted to the post of the JDS for a stipulated time.Eligibility criteriaNo criteria or re-drafting has been framed to promote coaches even after an initiative of the Ministry of Home Affairs in 1997. The UT follows Rule 8 (i) of the Punjab State Sports Rules, 1993. As per the clause, the post of the JDS should be filled by a Class-I officer of the state or the Centre having an experience and background of sports or sports administration.Coaches’ grudgeMany coaches are lined-up to retire this year. However, despite having a field experience of more than 20 to 25 years, they will be retiring on the same post amid no specific rules for promotions. “What is the use of appointing an outsider in the department? The coaches should have been promoted. Putting the post for ad-hoc appointment is not only an insult to the chair but also raises question on the Administration’s faith on its coaches,” said a former coach.Another former coach said: “The former JDS served for 17 years and failed to frame a sports policy. Despite every help, the department failed to make promotion rules for coaches. We wanted coaches to be elevated on the basis of seniority. However, till date, there have been no rules. Candidates were shortlisted on a pick-and-choose basis.”“We have sought details and appointment will be made accordingly,” Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-dept-sans-joint-director-for-eight-months-104621
26-06-2020||Mohali||2 held for theft at village school||The police have arrested two suspects in connection with a burglary that took place on Tuesday night at Government Middle School in Raipur Kalan in the district.The arrested suspects are Parvinder Singh and Jatinder Singh, both residents of Raipur Kalan.The duo was produced in a local court today which remanded them in one-day police custody.Sub-Inspector Paramjit Singh, in charge of the Saneta police post, said two LCDs, three CPUs and a printer stolen from the school were also recovered from the suspects. He said investigation had begun as a case was registered against them at the Sohana police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-held-for-theft-at-village-school-104622
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||Disposable ‘Rumalas’ at Chandigarh gurdwara||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/disposable-rumalas-at-chandigarh-gurdwara-104623
26-06-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Poor response to dine-in at restaurants in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 25Witnessing a poor response to the dine-in facility allowed by the Punjab Government after three months of the lockdown, the restaurant and hotel industry in the district is hoping for a better response from city residents.At present, restaurants are witnessing only 10 per cent clientele causing anxiety among owners of famous eateries in the city. Many restaurants in the city have yet to start the facility keeping in view the expenditure on running the dine-in area, which will add to their financial stress.Harvinder Singh of Katani Vaishno Dhaba in Phase 3B2 said, “Only 10 per cent people visit our dhaba after the dine-in facility started on Wednesday. We are properly sanitising restaurant and also providing sanitizer to our customers at the entry point.”“The expenditure on running air-conditioners and paying salary of employees serving food to customers is much more than the amount earned by selling food items,” he added.“People still fear moving out for dining. We hope that more and more people will visit our restaurant after watching other residents going out to have food,” he said.The owner of Ocean View Restaurant, Gurjot Singh, said, “Most restaurants in the city have suffered losses running into several lakhs on account of stored raw material. Around 15 days stock is kept in store. Due to the lockdown raw material got spoilt and had to be thrown out.”“Hardly 10 to 12 per cent people visit our restaurant since the dine-in facility was allowed by the government. As per my information, restaurants in Chandigarh are receiving good response as compared to Mohali,” he added.A hotelier on the condition of anonymity said, “The timing of the dine-in facility should be increased till 10 pm as people like to have food only after 8 pm. Most restaurants have not started the dine-in facility as they are not hoping to receive customers as before the lockdown.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poor-response-to-dine-in-at-restaurants-in-mohali-104624
26-06-2020||---||Allottees no longer to pay processing fee with application||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25The Chandigarh Housing Board CHB) has decided to do away with fee in advance for need-based changes.Now, allottees will not have to deposit the processing fee along with the application for need-based changes.Architect to check application firstA CHB official said now the application would be first checked by the architect. If the application was found to be in order, then only the allottee would be asked to deposit the fee. The allottee would be given 15 days to submit the processing fee.A CHB official said now the application would be first checked by the architect. If the application was found to be in order, then only the allottee would be asked to deposit the fee. The allottee would be given 15 days to submit the processing fee.The board has fixed a processing fee of Rs 500 plus GST (non-refundable/adjustable) with the application for the need-based change.Earlier, the processing fee was to be deposited with the submission of the application. When the application was not found correct, the allottees used to face hurdles in getting their refund. So, the CHB has now decided to first check the application and then ask the allottees to deposit the fee.After getting approval from the UT Administration in February 2019, the CHB had allowed several relaxations in need-based changes.Allottees had been approaching the CHB for regularisation of additional constructions made in dwelling units. Considering their demands, the Board had allowed certain changes, including balconies projecting 3ft along the entire width of the courtyard on the front and rear side, provision of grill/glazing in verandah/balcony, temporary car shed with steel pipe frame and polycarbonate sheet/fibre glass cover, covering balconies with light material, internal change in dwelling unit/flat, etc....||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/allottees-no-longer-to-pay-processing-fee-with-application-104626
26-06-2020||---||CHB first to implement e-Office||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25In a first, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to immediately switch over to e-Office to avoid physical movement of files. Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CHB, said e-Office module would be implemented in the administrative and legal branch and computer section from this week itself.“Remaining wings/branches/sections will complete the required preparations and be ready for the implementation in next few days. Thereafter, except some avoidable reasons, no physical files will be moved,” said Garg.Training to the first batch to implement e-Office was given by the NIC, Chandigarh, during last week, Garg added. Training for next batch was scheduled for June 30, Garg said.Different departments of the Central and state governments had already implemented the e-Office module developed by the NIC successfully, Garg added.“In fact the computer and legal ssection of the CHB have already started sending their e-Files. These files have successfully crossed many channels before approval by the competent authority concerned and reached its original places,” Garg said.With the implementation of e-Office module, ‘Dak’ receipts at the reception will be scanned for converting it into ‘e-Dak’. The reception will forward ‘e-Dak’ to official concerned through e-Office module.An automatic diary number will be generated at the time of forwarding the ‘e- Dak’, which needs to be indicated on the physical ‘Dak’. Thereafter, the physical ‘Dak’ will be sent to official concerned as per present process against proper receipt. The official concerned and his/her personal branch will ensure that the ‘e-Dak’ and the physical ‘Dak’ move in same direction.“Any new proposal to be processed on newly created e-File and scanned copy of the particular proposal will be provided in correspondence section of the said e-File. Further scanned copy of related previous note-sheets or other documents may also be attached with the e-File with suitable references on the noting portion,” Garg added.“On creation of e-file, an automatic file number will be generated by the module. Such file number will be indicated on the existing physical file prominently by the dealing assistant concerned,” Garg said.“Presently, we do not have any file numbering system. This way all existing files will be numbered over a period of time,” Garg added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-first-to-implement-e-office-104627
26-06-2020||---||e-bids invited for allotment of 16 liquor vends||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 25The Excise and Taxation Department has started the process for the allotment of 16 liquor vends.On June 23, the department had successfully allotted 78 out of 94 vends under the new excise policy for the remaining period of the current financial year from July 1 to March 31.For the remaining 16 vends, the department has invited e-bids, which will close down on June 29 at 2 pm. The financial bids will open the same day at 4.30 pm. On June 23, the department had fetched a revenue of Rs265.32 crore from the e-auction of 78 liquor vends. An additional amount of Rs5.49 crore was received as participation fee. It received 157 bids electronically. The reserve price of the vends was Rs216.33 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/e-bids-invited-for-allotment-of-16-liquor-vends-104628
26-06-2020||---||Kingpin of fake petrol pump dealership gang  granted bail||Tribune News ServiceMohali, June 25A court granted bail to the kingpin of the fake petrol pump dealership gang, Mahinder Singh (25), after furnishing bail bonds worth Rs1 lakh.Advocate Damandeep Singh, counsel for Mahinder, said the bail was granted to his client after the police submitted before the court that they had nothing more to interrogate him.Mohinder was arrested on the disclosure statement of Asif Khan (38), a native of Jhansi. The cyber crime cell of the Mohali police had arrested Asif Khan, along with Braham Prakash (41) and Jatinder Singh (29), all residents of Gwalior, and Akash Singh (25), a resident of Hamirpur in Uttar Pradesh, for duping people on the pretext of offering them petrol pump dealership.Counsel Damandeep Singh said Mohinder was arrested on May 23.Since then, he was in judicial custody.Cyber crime cell Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Rupinderdeep Kaur Sohi said after the arrest of five gangsters, the police had recovered Rs4.9 lakh, a Scorpio SUV, two laptops, mobile phones and SIM cards from them. The suspects had 21 bank accounts. Their bank accounts having an amount of Rs2.5 lakh were also freezed.DSP Rupinderdeep Kaur Sohi said their modus operandi was to float a fake website and lure people to invest in petrol pump dealerships. The suspects used to ask people to transfer money online into their bank accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kingpin-of-fake-petrol-pump-dealership-gang-granted-bail-104629
26-06-2020||---||Three booked on charge of  thrashing journalist||Our CorrespondentZirakpur, June 25Acting on a complaint of a local scribe, the police have registered a case against three persons under Sections 34, 506, 341, 323 of the Indian Penal Code at the Zirakpur police station.In his complaint to the police authorities, the victim, Sajjan Dev Sharma, a resident of Dhakoli, alleged that on June 24 he left home for some work in his car. While he was passing through a street, the suspect, Yashpal Sharma, had parked his car with doors open in middle of the road. The complainant stated that when he blew horn, Sharma started hurling abuses at him and called his son and another person, who allegedly thrashed him with a rod, the victim added.The victim was taken to the Community Health Centre, Dhakoli, for treatment. He was referred to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, as his injuries were serious. Further probe is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-booked-on-charge-of-thrashing-journalist-104630
26-06-2020||Chandigarh||High Court appoints Justice Bahri arbitrator in waste plant dispute||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today appointed its former Judge, Justice AL Bahri, as an arbitrator to resolve issues between the Municipal Corporation (MC), Chandigarh, and Jaypee Associates regarding the functioning and taking over of the solid waste management garbage plant.The order by Justice BS Walia of the High Court came on a petition filed by the MC. Disposing of the plea, the Bench is believed to have directed the maintenance of status quo regarding possession. Detailed orders were not yet available.The matter was placed before Justice Walia’s Bench after the corporation approached the High Court against an order passed by a UT Court. Taking up the matter, the court stayed the corporation’s decision to take over the possession of the plant. Available information suggests the MC had taken possession of the garbage processing plant on Friday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-appoints-justice-bahri-arbitrator-in-waste-plant-dispute-104631
