26-10-2020||---||PGI to resume OPD services from November 2||Chandigarh, October 26The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has finally decided to resume physical OPDs in a limited format from November 2.With a view to ensure adequate physical distancing, a fixed number of 50 patients will be seen in each OPD, the institute said here on Monday. However, the number of patients visiting OPDs will be suitably increased/decreased as the COVID-19 situation unfolds, it added.The institute has also decided that all walk-in patients who come to OPDs without prior appointment would be dealt through tele-consultation only, during this phase.The departments, which are running special clinics and general OPDs, will decide on the number of patients to be seen, said one of the premier health institutions of the country.The registration for tele-consultation will be done between 8 am and 9.30 am.Departments of General Surgery, Internal Medicine, Paediatric Medicine, Obstetrics and Gynaecology, and Ophthalmology will conduct daily OPDs, it said.The OPD will function as per the existing schedule and the focus will be on limiting the number of patients in the OPD and crowd control.It was further decided that tele-consultation services would continue and it would also act as the point of setting up physical appointments in the OPDs, the institute said, adding, the patients evaluated through tele consultation and requiring physical examination would be called to the PGIMER by appointment system.All departments providing tele-consultation will write date of appointment on the tele-consultation OPD cards of the patients to be called in physically.The appointments will be scheduled as per recommendations of the department in hourly slots and intimation about the same will be sent automatically as SMS on the registered mobile number of the patient, the institute informed.A decision was also taken to provide suitable PPE kits to various cadres of healthcare workers in the OPDs for the second phase.The Department of Community Medicine has been entrusted with the responsibility to initiate a screening system for patients who would be called physically to the OPDs, it said.Meanwhile, the engineering section has been requested to complete any pending work in the newly-prepared holding area for patients and all the departments were requested to flag to the concerned if any infrastructural modifications are required in their particular OPD areas.A meeting with the security wing of the PGI would be arranged to consider crowd control.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-to-resume-opd-services-from-november-2-161471
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||47 new COVID-19 cases take Chandigarh’s tally to 14,085; death toll 222||The COVID-19 death toll in Chandigarh rose to 222 on Monday with four more fatalities, while 47 new cases took the infection tally to 14,085, a health bulletin issued here said.There are 633 active cases in the city currently, the bulletin said.Sixty-three patients were discharged after they recovered from infection, taking the overall recoveries to 13,230, as per bulletin.A total of 1,01,778 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 87,074 tested negative while reports of 121 samples were awaited, as per bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/47-new-covid-19-cases-take-chandigarhs-tally-to-14-085-death-toll-222-161467
26-10-2020||Mohali||Punjab ex-DGP Sumedh Saini appears before SIT at Mohali in Multani case||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Saini appeared before a special investigation team (SIT) at the Mataur police station in Mohali around 10 am on Monday.The SIT had earlier gave notice to Saini, asking him to appear in Mataur police station on October 26.A hearing on Saini’s plea seeking quashing of FIR is scheduled for October 27.He reached the police station at around 10 am to appear before the Special Investigation Team and came out at around 1:30 pm.To queries by media persons after he came out after being questioned, Saini said, “I will speak at length some other time".  The former Director-General of Police had last appeared before the SIT on September 28.However, on September 30, he had failed to appear before the police.Saini was booked in May in connection with the disappearance of Multani in 1991 when he was working as a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation.The Supreme Court had granted him interim protection from arrest in this matter.The police had added murder charge under section 302 of the IPC in the FIR in the Multani disappearance case after two former Chandigarh police personnel--former UT police Inspector Jagir Singh and former ASI Kuldeep Singh, who is also co-accused, turned approver.Saini, a 1982-batch IPS officer, was the youngest DGP in the country when he was appointed the state police chief in 2012. He was removed from the DGP's post in 2015 after protests erupted following sacrilege incidents. Saini retired in 2018.Multani, who was a resident of Mohali, was picked up by the police after the terrorist attack on Saini, who was then the senior superintendent of police in Chandigarh, in 1991.However, the police had later claimed that Multani, son of a former IAS officer, had escaped from police custody of Qadian police in Gurdaspur.Saini and six others were booked on the complaint of Balwant Multani's brother, Palwinder Singh Multani, who is a resident of Jalandhar.The case was registered against them under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causes hurt) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Mataur police station in Mohali. with PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-appears-before-sit-at-mohali-in-multani-case-161362
26-10-2020||---||Another suspect in Gurlal Brar murder case nabbed||Chandigarh, October 25Another suspect, Gurmeet Singh, alias Geeta, a member of the Davinder Bambiha gang, who, along with Gurwinder Singh, had provided the motorcycle to the shooters who gunned down Gurlal Brar, has been arrested by the UT police. Geeta, a drug addict, was promised 20 gm of heroin for providing the motorcycle to the shooters.This is the second arrest in the case. Earlier, Gurwinder was arrested.Geeta (25) is a resident of Gharuan in Mohali district. He was arrested from near the ISBT, Sector 43, from where he had plans to go to Delhi and further to Hazur Sahib, Nanded, Maharashtra.During his interrogation, Geeta revealed that he came in contact with Sukhpreet, alias Budha, and Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, both key members of the Davinder Bambiha group, while he was lodged in Nabha jail in a case of attempt to murder.Geeta used to cook food and wash utensils and clothes for Budha and Lucky in the jail.Geeta revealed that Lucky had asked him to provide a bike to the shooters following which he, along with Gurwinder, arranged the bike and handed it over to Neeraj Chaska and Maan at Sunny Enclave, Kharar.The police said Geeta was a drug addict and also used to sell drugs. “Geeta was assured that he would get 20 gm of heroin in lieu of providing the bike. Lucky had also told Geeta to flee to Nanded in Maharashtra, where he was supposed to get some help from Lucky’s accomplices,” the police said. Geeta will be produced in the court tomorrow.The police are conducting raids to nab shooters Neeraj Chaska and Maan, both residents of Kotkapura in Faridkot district.A history-sheeter, Had 4 cases against himGeeta had four cases registered against him in the past — two of assault and rioting, a case under the NDPS Act in Kharar and a case of attempt to murder at the Kurali police station.Got money to purchase drugsGeeta was in touch with Lucky through Internet calling. Lucky also used to provide money to Geeta to purchase drugs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-suspect-in-gurlal-brar-murder-case-nabbed-161141
26-10-2020||Roopinder Singh||Karuna Goswamy: Her gentle touch enriched lives||A wry sense of humour, a hearty laugh, and a gentle presence — Karuna Goswamy, who passed away on Sunday after a prolonged illness, had it all. She was a scholar, teacher and philanthropist. She was born and raised in Amritsar, but Chandigarh would eventually lay a claim on her — it was in this city that she studied art, became a member of the Faculty of Arts at Panjab University, married art historian BN Goswamy, raised two children, Apurva and Malavika, and looked after her grandchildren, Damini and Madhav.Karuna’s father, Dr Shiv Kumar, was a distinguished physician at a medical college and she was the eldest of four sisters and a brother. Theatre personality Neelam Mansingh Chowdhary, whose father Dr Man Singh was also in the same institution, has many memories of Karuna, who studied at Sacred Heart School in Amritsar.The pursuit of higher education brought Karuna to Chandigarh. She earned her MA degree in history. It was here that she was to marry the love of her life, Prof BN Goswamy, in 1964 and settle down. They had children, who were to choose their own paths, and excel in them.Karuna Goswamy’s 1968 PhD thesis: “Vaishnavism in the Punjab Hills and Pahari Painting” at Panjab University laid the foundation of her academic credentials, and more books followed, including ‘The Glory of the Great Goddess: An Illustrated Manuscript from Kashmir in the Alice Boner Collection’; ‘Kashmiri Paintings: Assimilation and Diffusion; Production and Patronage’, and ‘Sacred Tree and Indian Life’. Here she provided the text to pictures taken by her friend Susanne Hawkes.‘The Dussehra of Kulu: History and Analysis of a Cultural Phenomenon’ was another significant work of hers. She also collaborated with her husband to write ‘Wondrous Images: Krishna seen as Shrinath-ji (Pichhwais of the Vallabha Sampradaya)’.Prem Bhatia, a former Editor-in-Chief of The Tribune, invited Karuna to do a crossword column, which continued till recently. She started the Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music and Culture Amongst Youth (SPIC MACAY) chapter in Chandigarh and built it up.Sanjiv Tiwari, who had a long association with her, says Karuna was the right name for her as empathy was her defining trait. She contributed, both monetarily and with her time, to various causes, in a self-effacing manner. Karuna Goswamy was, indeed, a scholar who had the rare ability to reach out and touch the lives of people across various classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/karuna-goswamy-her-gentle-touch-enriched-lives-161142
26-10-2020||---||Man shot at in Sector 22||Chandigarh, October 25A 50-year-old man was shot at by an unidentified assailant while he was returning after paying obeisance at a gurdwara in Sector 22 this morning.The victim has been identified as Amrik Singh, a resident of Sector 22, who works as a lab technician in the Health Department, Kharar.The assailant was waiting for Amrik Singh near a narrow passage from the gurdwara towards his (the victim’s) house. As the victim passed by, the suspect shot at him and the bullet hit the victim on the right hip. “One shot was misfired as a live cartridge was recovered from the spot. An empty shell was also recovered from there,” said a police official.The attacker, who was wearing a pair of capri pants and a hood, escaped from the spot on foot. His face was covered with a mask. Local residents gathered at the spot on hearing the sound of gunshots. The police were informed around 6.20 am following which they reached the spot. However, the injured was already rushed to the PGI, where he is under treatment.The police said as per the victim’s family, he did not have enmity with anyone.The victim goes to the gurdwara in the morning and evening. The assailant knew about this following which he arrived early morning.A case of attempt to murder and under the Arms Act has been registered at the Sector 17 police station and an investigation has been initiated into it.No stopping shooting incidents||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-shot-at-in-sector-22-161144
26-10-2020||---||3 held for hitting ASI, hooliganism||Mohali, October 25Three persons have been remanded in judicial custody for allegedly creating hooliganism and injuring an ASI on duty while trying to flee from the spot in the Phase 3B2 market. The suspects have been identified as Anmol of Zirakpur, Abhay Singh of Sector 45 and Akashdeep Singh of Patiala.ASI Charan Singh was injured when he tried to catch hold of the fleeing miscreants last night. He has been admitted to the Phase VI hospital.A case has been registered under Sections 186, 323 and 307 of the IPC at the Mataur police station. A BMW car and another car belonging to the suspects have been seized. All suspects were produced in a court of the Duty Magistrate and sent to judicial remand today.DSP (City I) Gursher Singh Sandhu said, “The three suspects were creating hooliganism and arguing among themselves. When the ASI reached the spot, the trio tried to flee by breaking the barricades and hitting the cop with the car.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-held-for-hitting-asi-hooliganism-161145
26-10-2020||---||Strike leaves Chandigarh in deep mess||Chandigarh, October 25The ongoing strike by the door-to-door garbage collectors and sanitation workers has left some of the city’s Sehaj Safai Kendras (SSKs) and public areas full of garbage.Residents said protesters were not allowing them to throw garbage in SSKs. The waste is lifted from the kendras in MC vehicles and transported to the waste processing plant. Garbage was also found strewn in parking lots, cycle tracks and open areas in Sector 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 37 and other places.“The MC failed to resolve the crises. We got many complaints from different RWAs about the waste not being collected from houses. People have started dumping garbage in nearby areas,” lamented Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED).Safai Karamchari Union president Krishan Chadha, said, “Till our demand of stopping the practice of making us wear smart watches is accepted, we will continue the work strike.”OP Saini, chairman, Door-To-Door Garbage Collectors Society, added, “We had asked the MC Commissioner if he agreed to our demands, he should come to the protest site and declare it before the protesters.”In a letter to Mayor Raj Bala Malik, Congress councillor Satish Kainth stated, “Cleanliness of markets, roads and streets is affected. An urgent physical House meeting should be called.”Sources said a meeting was likely to be held between the MC Commissioner and the protesters on Monday. Councillor Rajesh Kalia may broker a deal between them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/strike-leaves-chandigarh-in-deep-mess-161146
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh heritage items to go under hammer in Paris||Pierre Jeanneret-designed Chandigarh Heritage — ranging from Rs 64 lakh to Rs 1.05 crore — will be auctioned in Paris on October 27.Four items will be auctioned by Cornette De Saint-Cyr, Paris. The items are a pair of easy armchairs in teak and wicker, a set of six office armchairs in teak and wicker, a daybed in teak, all by Pierre Jeanneret, and cowhide and a pair of advocate armchairs.Earlier, heritage furniture from the city was sold for Rs 2.11 crore in an auction conducted by Bonham in London. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-heritage-items-to-go-under-hammer-in-paris-161148
26-10-2020||Sandeep Rana||Housing societies, RWA-21 show the way by manage garbage collection on their own||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 25At a time when most households of the city are hit by door-to-door garbage collectors’ strike, Sector 21 and some housing societies in the southern sectors are unaffected as the system is well-managed by resident themselves.In Sector 21, the Resident Welfare Association (RWA) has been operating the system on its own for about 20 years without any hindrance.“We have bought 12 ‘rehris’ and 12 collectors operate them and collect waste in our sector. We also look after the maintenance of the ‘rehris’. We pay Rs 8,500 a month to each one of them for four-hour part-time work. Nominal charges are collected from houses for the service,” shared Baljinder Singh Bittu, president of the RWA, Sector 21.“As the MC is going to buy vehicles for collecting waste, we believe our system will be taken over by the corporation. Vehicles may not be of much use as they will just blow horn outside the houses and not lift the garbage. Senior citizens may be troubled,” added Bittu.Similarly, most housing societies situated in southern sectors are also managing the collection of waste on their own.“Strikes are never an issue here. Societies manage waste collectors on their own. The waste is collected and subsequently lifted from the Sehaj Safai Kendra (SSK). Even the Sector 48 SSK does not overflow with waste like other sectors,” said JJ Singh, president of the Sector 48 RWA.Meanwhile, MC officials said they were getting two-bin vehicles to implement the waste segregation policy as mandated under the solid waste management rules. Strike by the collectors was a temporary issue and would be resolved, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/housing-societies-rwa-21-show-the-way-by-manage-garbage-collection-on-their-own-161149
26-10-2020||---||Civic body begins registering vendors||Chandigarh, October 25What comes as good news for vendors, who were identified in the 2016 Municipal Corporation’s survey, but were not get registered, the civic body has started the second phase of registration.Over 21,000 vendors were identified in the 2016 survey, but only 9,356 were registered. The reason was that many of them did not turn up at the time of the registration and others did not reside in the city. Vendors, who have been operating for as long as 20 years in the city, had submitted many representations in this regard to the Municipal Corporation.“We have been taking up the issue with the authorities time and again. Now, we are in the process of getting them registered,” said Ram Milan Gaur, president of the Chandigarh Street Vendors’ Association.However, many residents are finding the move strange. “Were the rules right earlier or are they right now? What has made the Municipal Corporation to change its stance?” said a resident.At present, there are 9,356 street, essentials and moving vendors in the city. Licences of some of them were cancelled earlier over monthly payment default. After the Vendors’ Act was passed, Sectors 1 to 6, 17 were made no-vending zone while other sectors have fixed the number of vendors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/civic-body-begins-registering-vendors-161150
26-10-2020||---||Dasehra celebrations a low-key affair||Chandigarh, October 25Dasehra celebrations remained a low-key affair in the city this year amid the pandemic. Keeping social distancing in mind, city folks gave large-scale celebrations a miss and made small effigies of Ravana at their homes, streets and societies. Most of them made the effigies around 15 days before the festival.Karishma Malhotra, a city-based homemaker, said: “We have children at home and they wanted to see Ravana’s effigy burning. To keep up with the traditional celebrations, I made a Ravana effigy at home and we set it on fire in the evening.” She said: “We didn’t use firecrackers, but just set cardboard, which we used in making the effigy, on fire.”In Sector 46, Yash Gulati and around 12 children the neighbourhood made a 10-foot-tall effigy of Ravana. For this, they collected donations from society members.“We knew that large-scale celebrations won’t happen this year, but we decided to celebrate the festival. The police reached there, but the area councillor helped us celebrate the festival,” he said.Yash said Dasehra celebrations had been an annual affair for them. “This year, we didn’t use many crackers and took precautions too. We had our volunteers at the entrance, who ensured that everyone sanitises their hands. Social distancing measures were also followed,” he said.Children of Highland Cooperative Society in Baltana, Zirakpur, also made a 10-foot-tall effigy of Ravana. They made the effigy by collecting money from society members.Prince, a resident of the society, said: “We have been making the effigy for the past 10 days. All children spared sometime in the afternoon to make the effigy.”Shubham, another boy, said: “While making the effigy, followed all guidelines related to Covid. We were happy that all residents supported us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dasehra-celebrations-a-low-key-affair-161151
26-10-2020||Zirakpur||Bhabat village leads the way in festivities||Bhabat village here saw one of the tallest effigies of Ravana (25-foot) being consigned to flames in the tricity. A considerable crowd of over 500 people gathered to witness the festivities.People were seen enjoying food items and a stage show before the main event. Toy and balloon sellers did a brisk business in the evening hours. Fireworks lit up the sky after the effigy of Ravana was set on fire.A fire tender was stationed at the spot. There was considerable police presence, but the Covid guidelines were flagrantly violated as only a handful of people were seen wearing masks and maintaining social distancing.“It is sad to see women and children without mask and everyone standing closely. People should behave responsibly,” said a fireman at the spot.Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma too visited the spot, but he left the venue before the main event. The Dera Bassi Dasehra ground also witnessed festivities. — TNS Covid guidelines violated at venueThere was considerable police presence, but the Covid guidelines were flagrantly violated as only a handful of people were seen wearing masks and maintaining social distancing at the venue. No ‘Ravana Dahan’ event in P’kulaPanchkula: Unlike previous years, small ceremonies marked the Dasehra celebrations in Panchkula district on Sunday. No ‘Ravana Dahan’ event was organised in the district. A 16-year-old boy, Harshit Saini, from Sector 25 prepared effigies of Ravana and Meghnad with financial support of residents to keep alive the festival spirit. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhabat-village-leads-the-way-in-festivities-161152
26-10-2020||Ambala||Man arrested for raping minor cousin in Ambala||The Ambala police today arrested a 26-year-old man for allegedly raping his nine-year-old minor cousin in Naraingarh here.The suspect has been identified as Pradyuman, who works as a labourer in a factory. He belongs to Bihar and has been living with his family in a rented accommodation in Naraingarh here.The girl was raped at her home at a colony in the Kala Amb area of the Naraingarh block in Ambala on Thursday afternoon. She lives with her parents at a rented accommodation after migrating from Bihar. Her parents work as labourers in the Industrial Area of Kala Amb.The family members initially cooked up a story that the girl had suffered injuries from an iron rod. Later, they claimed that an unknown man, who had his face covered, had raped the girl while she was alone at home. However, the police were not satisfied with the details shared by the family. A case against an unknown person was registered at the Naraingarh police station on Friday.Usha Rani, SHO of the Naraingarh women police station, said: “Name of Pradyuman cropped up during investigation, following which he was arrested. During questioning, the suspect confessed to having committed the crime. The family members claimed that Pradyuman had threatened them of dire consequences if they disclosed his name.”Gurmail Singh, SHO of the Naraingarh police station, said Pradyuman would be produced before a court on Monday.On Friday, the police informed that the girl was taken to the Civil Hospital in Naraingarh around 9 pm on Thursday. As she was scared, she didn’t disclose the reason behind her injuries in her private parts. She was referred to the Civil Hospital, Ambala City on Friday. During her counselling by the Child Welfare Committee, she disclosed that an unknown man had sexually assaulted her. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-raping-minor-cousin-in-ambala-161153
26-10-2020||What measures can prevent another covid surge in Chandigarh? ||Provide care, scale up testing & contact tracing to flatten curve||Volunteers can create awarenessChandigarh has thousands of students enrolled in NCC and NSS. Their services can be taken for creating awareness on pandemic. Let every volunteer pass on a message in his/her surroundings with a target of 50 people. Flashcards can be used to convey messages for no complacency and total fight against Covid during festive celebrations.Rajpartap Singh, Zirakpur-----------------------------------------------------------Don’t celebrate ostentatiouslyAlthough, millions of distressed Indian manufacturers and traders are counting on the eagerly-awaited October-December festive season to rescue them from losses incurred during Covid catastrophe, Centre’s advice to people to stay away from large congregations and diligently follow guidelines has to be followed. No religion or God asks people to celebrate ostentatiously also seems logical in the present circumstances and in the interests of public health. Economy of the country is also important, but not more than health of its citizens. If one is healthy, then only he or she can contribute towards building nation’s economy.Sanjay Chopra, Mohali---------------------------------------------Life precious than gatheringsLooking at people thronging religious places in Navratri one can make out that they are not going to stop rituals during pandemic. The Administration should strictly prohibit crowding. If people continue to mingle then the situation will turn ugly. Life is precious than social gatherings.Opinder Kaur Sekhon, Chandigarh----------------------------------------------------------------------------Duty of all to stop virus spreadDuring the festive season, we as a citizens and responsible human beings must fully adhere to the MHA guidelines and take preventive measures to stop the spread of virus. The corona pandemic has affected and devastated many countries on the economic front. In any case, the unlock measures have to be observed carefully. Laxity and deliberate ignorance of SOPs is putting lives of many at stake. Persons having old, senior citizens and small children at home must stay away from crowded places. It is a binding and duty of all to prevent the spread of disease.Dr Karan Singh Vinayak, Chandigarh---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Don’t lower guard against virusThere is a need to keep the guard on during the winter season. Rush in public and religious places has to be reduced during the ongoing festival season to keep the virus at bay. Parties and other social gatherings have to be restricted and avoided if possible to remain safe. Last but not the least, people must wear mask at all times, wash hands and maintain safe distance to check another surge.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (retd), Mohali-----------------------------------------------------------------Celebrate festivals at homeAs this is festive time, some complacency from people is expected. So, to prevent it the authorities must ensure that people wear masks at public places and those not doing so must be fined. The police should checking violations. Shopkeepers should make sure that customers maintain social distance. People must celebrate festivals at homes to prevent the spread of virus. Elders should avoid outdoor movement.Abhinav Kapil, Chandigarh---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Not out of the woodsDuring festival season it’s natural for the general public to take the guidelines easy and indulge in socialising, shopping and celebrations. We must observe all safety norms like before. The police must challan people not wearing mask. The enforcing agency has to take a call and make sure that guidelines like social distancing and less crowding are strictly follow in letter and in spirit.SC Luthra, Chandigarh----------------------------------------------------------------------Act as responsible citizensApart from the UT Administration, people themselves should act as sensible and responsible citizens and do all that needs to be done to keep the virus away in the festival season. There should be no let up in the safety precautions at all. Let us maintain social distancing norms and wear mask and use sanitiser without fail. These small precautions will help us keep the Covid-19 surge down.RK Kapoor, Chandigarh---------------------------------------------------------------Extend Covid protocol for six monthsThe UT Administration should ensure that residents take precautions like wear mask properly, maintain social distance and cleanliness strictly for another six months to keep the deadly disease under control. Any laxity will boost pandemic as winter season comes with other diseases, which affect lungs/chest.KC Rana, Chandigarh-----------------------------------------------------------------Increase testing facilitiesAll organisations have started functioning and the festival season is also on. So, another COovid-19 surge is much expected. The Administration should increase testing facilities for Covid-19. It can allow good medical stores to have testing facilities for the virus at nominal rates.NPS Sohal, Chandigarh--------------------------------------------------------------------------------Opt for e-greetings during festivalsThe festival season is here, but we all must remember that Covid-19 has still not abated from our country though its pace is slow. At any cost the guard must not be lowered as far as the precautions regarding the spread of virus. The celebrations must be there but while observing all pandemic norms. Shopkeepers have to make sure that their customers maintain physical distance, wear masks and undergo thermo scanner check. Shoppers should themselves follow all safety measures. While greeting each other avoid handshakes and embracing. Rather greet with folded hands from a suitable distance. Keep an eye on children as they generally forget safety norms during festive celebrations. Go for e-greetings as today it is the world of virtual celebrations.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, Chandigarh--------------------------------------------------------Online shopping good alternativeOne person per house should step out to avoid rush during festival season. Shopkeepers should not allow more customers to enter in shops. Protocols must be followed inside the shops. Online shopping or visit to shop by appointment can be good alternatives. Shopkeepers can publicise their products by making WhatsApp group and providing home delivery. Masses should realise the gravity of the situation and step out only when it is mandatory stop the pandemic surge. Masses ought to be more responsible.Abhilasha Gupta, Mohali------------------------------------------Public cannot stay indoors during festivalsPeople want to celebrate Durga Puja, Dashera and Diwali. These are cherished religious festivals. Hope these will protect people from problems. People cannot stay indoors because they can neither spend nor celebrate during festivals. Thousands of businessmen, who've stocked goods for the festive season, will bear losses if their wares remain unsold. The Administration should maintain law and order during festivals. It should make sure that people and businessmen follow guidelines like wearing face masks and keep social distance. The police should request people to go home soon after shopping to prevent the Covid surge.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, Mohali-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Make sure protocol is followedKerala was considered as a model state to control the Covid-19. However, the pandemic surged due to the community transmission because of Onman celebrations by the people. Make proper arrangements in markets for residents so that they can follow SOPs. The Administration must ensure social distancing and strictly following of Covid protocol while people celebrate festivals.Gopal Mittal, Panchkula------------------------------------------------People should follow thumb ruleMaintain social distance (two gaj ke duri), sanitise your hands and wear mask at public places is a basic thumb rule to control Covid-19 epidemic. The public should make a habit to follow the rule everywhere. Help can be taken from local NGOs and RWAs to spread awareness among people about following guidelines to prevent virus from spreading again in the UT.TBS Bedi, Chandigarh--------------------------------------------------Prevention better than cureResidents should never show laxity in following Covid prevention norms like social distancing and wearing masks while shopping during the ongoing festival season. They should always keeping in mind that prevention is better than cure. In a nutshell, it would be appropriate to say that residents should follow Centre Government’s appeal to ensure their safety and prevent another wave of coronavirus in the UT.Hardeep Singh Slaich,Mohali--------------------------------------------------------------------------------Help admn to prevent surgeThere are two aspects of the problem, religious and climatic. By and large we are orthodox and firm believers of rituals. Even though we are well educated and sensible, needs of rituals override the guidelines of social distancing as people rush out for purchases for celebrations. Festivals being religious the Administration cannot take harsh measures either. At best the Administration can be ready for treatment of patients as new cases may crop up. Therefore, people must help the government to control the resurgence of Covid-19. Try to keep warm by remaining indoors and go out when absolutely necessary.Dr Gurdev Singh, Mohali----------------------------------------------------------Set up special market in every sectorAnother surge in coronavirus cases can be checked by imposing strict lockdown during festival season. On the other hand, keeping in view of festivals, the Administration should set up special markets in every sector and locality to cater to needs of residents. Check posts should be established at entry points of markets to ensure use of sanitisers and masks. To take care of religious sentiments of people, the Administration should decorate every corner of the city, distribute sweets, diyas, candles and flowers among residents.Priyam Aggarwal, Chandigarh.----------------------------------------------Over confidence may backfireThe tricity tiptoes into near-normalcy sidelining guidelines. Apprehensions of easy spread of the virus can’t be ruled out. Hasty decisions and over confidence may backfire unless precautions and prevention are religiously adhered to. The authorities must ensure testing of every suspected patient. Thermal screening and sanitation should be mandatory at places with substantial footfall. Mounting violations of face-mask, social distancing and frequent hand washing should be curbed strictly. The situation is too risky to be left to self-regulation. Sooner we adopt norms the better it would be for self and society. Rigidity by the Administration should not be taken as an onslaught on individual’s festive mood.Lalit Bharadwaj, Panchkula---------------------------------------------Let’s bear restrictions for next six monthsWe may get euphoric during Dashera, Diwali and Durga Puja, but coronavirus will not be kind to us. Rather it will feast on our foolishness. So, let’s not fritter away our last seven months efforts. During festivals, let’s not go out and mix with people. We can do away with lavish Diwali shopping and going to others’ houses to give gifts. Give a gift of your love, blessing and best wishes on telephone. There is no need for a joint celebration this year in a club, hotel or community centre etc. The police and the authorities must be alert and strictly check those, who refuse to abide by the Covid precautions. Every one must wear a mask and keep distance while interacting. For the next six months, let’s bear with the restrictions and keep ourselves safe and healthy. God willing, we will beat Covid-19 by then.Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala Cantt----------------------------Live stream celebrations at public placesIt is quite necessary to take extra precautions during the festive season amid Covid-19 pandemic. But it is a matter of fact that the number of Covid cases have gone down so people aren’t as scared as before. Celebrate festivals in a simple way without gathering. It’s duty of the Chandigarh Administration to live stream celebrations at public places on Facebook or Youtube. Adhere to Covid precautions like wearing face mask, maintain physical distance, use hand sanitisers and wash hands frequently.Anita Tandon, Kharar-------------------------------------------------Gandhigiri need of the hourA rose and a letter for violating norms In ‘Lage Raho Munna Bhai’, Sanjay Dutt sent roses and cards wishing “Get well soon” to Boman Irani for his wrong conduct. Similarly, the UT Administration should give a rose and a letter stating all necessary precautions and adverse effects of Covid to those, who are violating pandemic guidelines. A photo should be clicked of a violator while giving a rose and letter and uploaded on the UT Administration website.Tarunjot Kaur, Greater Mohali-------------------------------Celebrations must be a low-key affairThe authorities should ensure that celebrations are a quiet and low-key affair this festive season as safe distance cannot be maintained at public places with maximum footfall. The police have to work hard to enforce norms like wearing mask and maintaining social distance. The authorities should ensure hand sanitising every where in the city.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, Chandigarh-------------------------------------------------------------------Haste may put peoples’ life at riskThough fresh Covid cases have dropped in the city, pandemic is still among us and far from over. Any haste may backfire risking precious lives. Laxity by the people can seen everywhere. To curb another surge and make festival a fun follow measures such as avoiding crowded places and stay home. The authorities should carry out sero survey during the festival. The only defence against the virus is safety protocol, which includes washing hands, wearing mask and keeping distance.Vidya Sagar Garg, Panchkula-------------------------------------------------------------------------Lives more precious than celebrationsIt will be better to save ourselves from contracting virus in festival days. Residents must behave responsibly and take all precautions. They should ensure that their children also take safety measures. The Administration should ensure that vendors are allocated stalls at safe distance from each other. No vendor or public should be allowed without mask in the market. Vendors should be instructed to sanitise their hands frequently. People should also keep sanitiser with them to sanitise hands frequently. Crowding should not be allowed at public places. All must realise that our lives and that of our dear ones are more precious than festival celebrations.Balbir Singh Batra, Mohali---------------------------------------------------------------Ramp up testing for virusPandemic has become a way of life. All have to learn to live with it. A spike in Covid cases is expected during festival season. Taking precautions like social distancing, wearing mask and sanitising hands can save many lives. Healthcare workers should be deployed to guide people to take precautions. Testing for Covid should be ramped up. Citizens must take measures to protect themselves and their families. This can help suppress another surge of coronavirus.Charu Malhotra, Mohali------------------------------------------------------------------------------Ban large gatherings temporarilyThe UT Administration should ban large public gatherings, fairs, food stalls, exhibitions, rallies and religious processions temporarily during the festive season. It may sound ridiculous but failing to adhere to such tough measures can result in losing all gained during the last seven months in the fight against Covid-19. Another surge can do irreparable damage to the economy.Dr Manjinder Kaur, Manali---------------------------------------------Use CCTVs for compliance of normsThe UT Administration should issue strict guidelines for senior citizens, people with comorbidities and children less than 10 years to stay at home. Event organisers must ensure availability of sanitisers, thermal screening, physical guides, signs on walls, sneeze guards or partitions, multiple entrances and exits and change of seating layout to maintain physical distance. Heavy fines should be imposed on people without masks. Drones and CCTVs must be used to monitor compliance of physical distancing norm. It will help in containing the surge.Komal Singh, Chandigarh-----------------------------------Market associations can helpMarket associations can assist the UT Administration in checking the rush at public places during the festival season. They can ensure that customers coming to shops wear mask and maintain social distance. This will also prevent community transmission of virus and resultant surge.Tarlok Singh, ChandigarhQUESTIONSanitation workers are up in arms against the Chandigarh MC’s move to introduce GPS-enabled watches for 4,000 employees. The watches are used to mark online attendance of the field staff and keep a check on their location as there were complaints from residents that the sanitation workers often missed duty. Workers claim the watches show faulty location and cause health issues. MC Commissioner KK Yadav, however, says he and other officers also wear the watches and the workers’ claims are baseless. What do you have to say about it?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/provide-care-scale-up-testing-contact-tracing-to-flatten-curve-161154
26-10-2020||---||Car speeds away from naka, police open fire||Chandigarh, October 25The UT police opened fire at a Hyundai Verna to stop it from speeding away after breaking a naka laid on the road separating Sector 8 and 18 on Madhya Marg here on Saturday night. The suspects were chased by a police vehicle. However, cops failed to catch it.In view of the rising shooting incidents in the city, a naka was laid with heavy police deployment on both sides of the road separating Sector 8 and Sector 18.DSP (Central) Krishan Kumar, SHO, Sector 17 police station, Ram Rattan, SHO, Sarangpur police station, Inspector Jasbir Singh and other police officials were present at the naka laid to check the movement of gangsters in the city. The suspected vehicles were being stopped and checked at the naka.In the meantime, a Verna car arrived and slowed down on noticing cops. The driver suddenly accelerated the vehicle and sped away after breaking the naka. Since a PCR was stationed near the Sector 8/7 roundabout, the driver took a U-turn on the slip road and drove the vehicle in the opposite direction.While they were speeding away, Neelam police post in-charge Sub-Inspector Jaiveer Singh Rana fired a gunshot at the car’s tyre, but it missed the target.Cops alerted the Police Control Room and a message to intercept the vehicle was flashed. However, the suspects managed to escape.In another incident, a Swift car bearing Himachal Pradesh (HP) number was stopped by the police. As one of the occupants tried to run away, cops nabbed him. He was identified as Mandeep Singh (29), a resident of Ropar district. During his search, a country-made pistol loaded with two cartridges was recovered. The search of the car driver, identified as Pardeep (24) of Mankpur village in Himachal Pradesh, led to the recovery of two live cartridges.In yet another incident, the police caught Husandeep Singh Hundal (34), a resident of Amritsar, who was driving a Hyundai Creta, and 19 live cartridges were found in the SUV. He could not produce any licence or permission to carry the ammunition.Cases against all suspects have been registered at the Sector 3 police station and an investigation has been initiated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/car-speeds-away-from-naka-police-open-fire-161160
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 61 new cases, 2 deaths||The city today recorded 61 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths. The case tally stands at 14,038. There are now 653 active cases, while 218 persons have succumbed to the virus.A 73-year-old man from Sector 44 and a 70-year-old woman from Sector 30, both cases of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, died at the GMCH, Sector 32.A total of 80 patients recovered today, taking the tally of those cured to 13,167. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-61-new-cases-2-deaths-161165
26-10-2020||Dera Bassi||Bid to break open godown locks||Man found dead in BaltanaZirakpur: A 33-year-old man was found dead in Baltana here on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Abhishek Kumar, who hails from Himachal Pradesh and was putting up in Behlana. The incident came to light when Sukhdev Singh, a resident of Baltana, saw the body behind a municipal park. No sign of injuries was found on the body. It has been shifted to the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi. The police said the victim’s kin had been informed. TNSAAP MLA, 38 party workers bookedChandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Gurmeet Singh and 38 party workers were booked for assembling near Batra theatre in Sector 37 here on Saturday. The police said the AAP leader and workers violated the District Magistrate’s order in wake of the Covid pandemic. A case under Section 188 of the IPC has been registered at Sector 39 police station. TNSThree held for attacking manChandigarh: Three persons have been arrested for assaulting and attacking a Sector 45 resident with swords. According to the police, complainant Ajay Kumar alleged that Dharmender, Soman, Dangi, Vikas, Sandeep and others assaulted him and attacked him with swords near Pal Hotel in Kajheri village, Sector 52, on Friday. The victim, who suffered serious injuries, was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. Later, Dharmender (22), a resident of Tin Colony, Sector 52, Soman (22), a resident of Phase IX, Mohali, and Sandeep (19), a resident of Sector 44, were arrested. TNSNine booked on charge of riotingChandigarh: Six days after three vehicles- two cars and a motorcycle – were vandalised in Sector 25, the UT police booked nine persons. Complainant Rajinder, alias Nitu a resident of Sector 25, had alleged that Guggad, Sabu, Rohit, Rahul Chawla, Ashu, Deepu, Rahul, Amit, Shakeeb and others armed with sticks, rods and knife broke the windowpanes of his house and vandalised his vehicles parked outside. A case has been registered against the suspects at the Sector 11 police station. TNSStone of cow shelter laidMohali: Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday laid the foundation stone of a “Bal Gopal Gau Basera”, which will come at Balongi village. Stray animals will be kept here in appropriate housing conditions with separate enclosures for healthy and sick cattle. Cattle breeding will also be undertaken with experts’ advice. A special place for stray dogs would also be set up at the cow shelter. The gram panchayat of Balongi village has leased 10 acres for 33 years for the purpose. TNSSUV driver flees naka, nabbedMohali: The police have arrested a 33-year-old man, Vineet Kumar, for breaking barricades at a naka laid in Phase X here on Saturday night. The suspect, driving an SUV, fled after the police signalled him to stop the vehicle at the naka around 10 pm. Vineet, a resident of Phase X, was stopped at the next traffic lights by a PCR vehicle, said DSP (City-II) Deep Kamal. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bid-to-break-open-godown-locks-161168
26-10-2020||---||Some relief, just 8 cases in Panchkula||Panchkula, October 25For the first time since June, the district reported fresh Covid cases in the single digit. Eight new infections took the cumulative tally of the district to 6,979.Among the fresh cases, three were from Kalka, two from Sector 20 and one each from the MDC, Sector 5, Pinjore and Sector 12-A.The district also witnessed a Covid death.A 56-year-old woman from Marrawala, who was suffering from diabetes, succumbed to the virus.As many as 6,684 patients have been cured so far. The district recovery rate stands at 95.7 per cent.With a consistent dip in the daily Covid numbers, Panchkula now just has 185 active cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/some-relief-just-8-cases-in-panchkula-161169
26-10-2020||Mohali||39 new cases in Mohali||As many as 39 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district here today. Sixteen more patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 25 are from Mohali (urban), seven from Kharar, four from Dera Bassi, two from Dhakoli and one from Kurali. The total number of cases reported from the district so far are 12,063. As many as 11,283 patients have been cured. On Saturday, 49 new cases and a Covid death were reported, which took the toll to 232. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/39-new-cases-in-mohali-161170
26-10-2020||Chandigarh||Art historian BN Goswamy bereaved||Celebrated art historian and Padma Bhushan awardee Dr BN Goswamy’s wife Dr Karuna Goswamy passed away after a prolonged illness on Sunday. She was 79.An eminent historian of Indian art and culture, Dr Karuna was formerly a professor of history at Panjab University, Chandigarh, and a fellow at the Indian Institute of Advanced Study, Shimla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/art-historian-bn-goswamy-bereaved-161258
26-10-2020||---||Conduct PU senate elections immediately, demand scholars||Chandigarh, October 25A group of scholars has urged Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore to hold the Panjab University senate elections immediately so that the institute is not divested of its democratic structure.“There is a dark shadow over Panjab University’s democratic structure as the senate elections are being not conducted on the basis of allegedly false reports,” they said. The scholars and senators of the university, including Ashok Goyal, Anu Chatrath, Rajesh Gill, Keshav Malhotra, Rabinder Nath Sharma, Ronki Ram and Harpreet Singh Dua, said the UT administration’s decision to postpone the elections in view of Covid-19 was based on an “erroneous and factually incorrect” recommendation of the UT SSP and Director, Health Services, Chandigarh.Notably, the SSP had said a large number of voters from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Maharashtra who were members of faculties would arrive in Chandigarh to cast their votes.The scholars said no one would come from Maharashtra, Rajasthan or Haryana to vote in the faculty elections. “Besides three members from Delhi, and a few from Punjab, all others who will be participating in the voting process are from the tricity,” they said. “The reasoning is unfounded also due to the fact that hundreds of people are coming to Chandigarh daily by flights, trains and roads, not only from different corners of the country but also from abroad. All restrictions on inter-state movement have also been lifted now under Unlock 5,” they said. As per the university calendar, the elections to the senate must take place well before October 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/conduct-pu-senate-elections-immediately-demand-scholars-161113
