26-11-2020||---||Bicycles stolen from outside house in Sec 19; incident caught on camera||Chandigarh, November 26  Two juveniles stole two bicycles parked in the porch of a house in Sector 19. The incident was caught on CCTV camera.Complainant Dr Rajesh Rana reported that two boys entered his house at around 4.23 pm on November 25, and stole the bicycles parked in the porch.The boys first crossed from outside the house and then returned back to steal the bicycles.Police was informed about the theft following which an investigation has been initiated at Sector 19 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bicycles-stolen-from-outside-house-in-sec-19-incident-caught-on-camera-176212
26-11-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 157 COVID-19 cases; district tally 14,929||Mohali records 157 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the district total to 14,929.In the last 24 hours, no fatality was reported.Out of the total 124 positive COVID-19 cases 114 came from Mohali (urban), two each from Kharar and Kurali, six from Lalru, 9 from Dera Bassi, 16 from Gharuan and 8 from Dhakoli.Meanwhile, 5 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital.As of now, out of 14,929 cases, 12,903 patients have been cured. There are 1,753 active cases with 273 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-157-covid-19-cases-district-tally-14-929-176208
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Face mask fine doubled, no night curfew in Chandigarh; details inside||Not wearing a mask? Be ready to shell out Rs 1,000.The UT administration on Thursday increased the penalty for not wearing a face mask from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000.During a COVID-19 review meeting, the UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar to go for stricter punishment for violations of Covid-19 guidelines.Brar informed, that 27,878 challans had been issued against people who violated COVID-19 protocol.After detailed discussions, the UT Administration has also decided to open classroom teaching for the students in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector-32, from December 1, 2020.The Administration also permitted the coaching institutions to open from December 1, subject to strict observance of COVID-19 protocol; both in classes and hostels.     HighlightsHowever, the coaching institutions will be directed to concentrate on online teaching; rather than physical classes.The Administrator directed the officials to ensure, that COVID-19 protocol is followed in public gatherings like marriages, social events etc.There would be no night curfew in Chandigarh.However, the closing time of bars, restaurants, clubs etc will be reviewed in the next meeting, in case of a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases.The Administrator directed the officials to go for stricter enforcement of COVID-19 protocol in places like Mandi in Sector 26, ISBT, Railway Station, parks, Sukhna Lake, Rock Garden and other marketplaces, where crowding takes place.Badnore also directed the officials to be ready for storage, transportation, distribution and planned vaccination of people, once the corona vaccine is made available.The Administrator directed the health officials to intensify corona checking and testing in crowded places like ISBT, Sector-26 Mandi, Railway Station, Sukhna Lake, Rock Garden and crowded market areas.The Administrator appealed people to take all precautions and wear masks.“Masks are out the vaccine, till a real medical vaccine is found,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/face-mask-fine-doubled-no-night-curfew-in-chandigarh-details-inside-176207
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh unlikely to impose night curfew||Even though there has been a sudden spike in the coronavirus cases, the UT Administration is unlikely to impose a night curfew in the city, but will take stringent measures to prevent further spread of the virus.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said there was no plan to impose a night curfew as the situation in the city was under control. However, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore would take a final call on the issue at a meeting tomorrow, he said.However, amid a rise in the Covid-19 cases, Punjab has decided to impose a night curfew in all cities and towns from December 1 from 10 pm to 5 am. To break the transmission chain of the virus, the UT Administration may increase the fine for not wearing mask in the public and will take a decision on opening of schools, coaching centres at the meeting tomorrow.The Adviser said the Administration had adopted the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in toto, which would be effective from December 1. As per the guidelines, the UT shall take necessary measures to promote Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. Strict enforcement of wearing of facemasks, hand hygiene and social distancing would be ensured.The UT, based on its assessment of the situation, may impose local restrictions. However, the UT shall not impose any local lockdown outside the containment zones without prior consultation with the Central Government.The UT will also enforce social distancing in offices. In cities, where the weekly case positivity rate is more than 10 percent, states and UTs concerned shall consider implementing staggered office timings and other suitable measures with a view to reducing the number of employees attending office at the same time, thereby ensuring social distancing.No restriction on inter-state, intra-state movementThere shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. No separate permission/approval/e-permit will be required for such movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-unlikely-to-impose-night-curfew-175835
26-11-2020||Mohali||Four deaths, 138 fresh infections in Mohali||Four deaths due to Covid-19 and 138 new positive cases were reported from the district today.Four patients recovered in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases reported today, 83 are from Mohali (urban), 18 from Dhakoli, 12 from Gharuan, 11 from Dera Bassi, eight from Kharar, three from Boothgarh, two from Lalru and one from Banur. The total positive cases in the district are 14,772, of which 12,898 have been cured. The total active cases in the district are 1,601. With four deaths today, the toll has reached 273.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-deaths-138-fresh-infections-in-mohali-175836
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 87 cases, 1 death||Chandigarh today reported 87 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death, taking the toll to 266.A 57- year-old man from Sector 19 died at the PGI.Of 16,925 Covid-19 cases in the city, 1,127 are active and 15,532 have been cured till date.In the past 24 hours, 77 patients have been cured of the disease. As many as 1,595 samples collected from the district were tested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-87-cases-1-death-175837
26-11-2020||Panchkula||58 fresh cases, one death in Panchkula||The district today reported 58 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the case tally to 8,454. It also witnessed one Covid death.A 72-year-old man from Sector 15, who was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension, succumbed to the virus. The Covid toll now stands at 125.Among the fresh cases, six were reported from Kalka, five from Sector 20 and four each from Sector 11, Sector 15, Sector 4 and Sector 9.While 7,821 patients have defeated the virus so far, 508 cases are still active.The district recovery rate is 92.51 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/58-fresh-cases-one-death-in-panchkula-175838
26-11-2020||Zirakpur||Avoid unnecessary travel: Mohali police||In view of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ call by farmers, the Mohali police have issued a traffic advisory requesting commuters not to undertake any non-essential travel on the Chandigarh-Zirakpur-Delhi and Patiala-Zirakpur-Chandigarh routes.Alternative routes have been provided through Chandigarh-Panchkula-Nada Sahib-Yamunanagar-Delhi and a diversion from the Chhat light point towards Mohali.District traffic police in-charge Gurjot Singh Kaler held a meeting with Zirakpur DSP (Traffic) Guriqbal Singh, DSP Amroz Singh and Inspector Omvir Singh regarding the arrangements here today.The police also reviewed the traffic arrangements in Dera Bassi and Lalru.The information regarding alternative routes will also be provided through banners at strategic locations.Kaler said: “We are trying to provide diversions at the Kalka chowk to the normal traffic moving towards Delhi. Diversions are being made at Singhpura Chowk and McDonald’s point so that normal traffic is unhindered. Also, diversion has been made at Chhat village so that there is no hassle for commuters. We are working in coordination with the police of adjoining cities of Panchkula and Mohali.”The police said additional manpower and barricades have been deployed and round-the-clock vigil will be undertaken in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/avoid-unnecessary-travel-mohali-police-175841
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Post-Covid symptoms lingering on for months||In just a week, 30 patients with post-Covid complications have turned up at the clinic for post-Covid syndrome at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.On an average, the clinic is receiving at least four to six recovered patients with post-Covid symptoms lingering on for as long as three months, including mental health issues.Post-Covid syndromeSome patients may develop “post-acute Covid-19 syndrome” in which they experience persistent symptoms after recovering from the initial illness phase. The post-Covid-19 syndrome must be tackled with clinical assessment, psychological intervention and comprehensive rehabilitative care.Dr Honey Sawhney from the GMSH, said: “Patients are coming with issues such as breathlessness, cough, weakness and body aches. A lot of patients are also reporting anxiety issues. Two patients came to us with post-traumatic distress disorders. A woman patient reported that she didn’t feel like taking up any task and had trouble sleeping. The symptoms have been lingering on for one to three months.”Meanwhile, the PGI has also started following up on patients with post-Covid syndrome. “Patients are reporting in medicine, pulmonary and other departments. These patients have comorbid conditions as well,” said Dr Jagat Ram,Director, PGI.The severity of post-Covid syndrome is higher among those visiting the PGI as many are being diagnosed with lung fibrosis (scarring of lung tissues). Prof Mandeep Garg, chest radiologistat the PGI, said: “We are conducting a chest scan for those reporting breathlessness or hypoxia in the post-recovery phase. We then decide whether anti-fibrotic drugs should be used. Fatigue, cough, joint pains, loss of taste and smell are the other lingering symptoms observed as long-term consequences of Covid-19. Patients may also develop complications involving cardiovascular, skin and neuropsychiatric system that require multi-disciplinary care.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/post-covid-symptoms-lingering-on-for-months-175843
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC mulls renovating toilets, but where are the funds?||Despite grappling with an acute financial crisis, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has proposed to construct 27 public toilets in green belts and renovate 236 pubic conveniences in city markets.The estimated cost for the work is Rs19.18 crore, but the UT Administration has already refused to provide the MC with the grant and the civic body does not have any funds in its kitty. Despite all this, the matter is on the agenda for the General House meeting on Friday.“The requirement may be met from the MC’s own funds instead of seeking additional dedicated funds from the Administration,” reads the agenda.An official said since the MC had already allowed advertisement on 55 toilet blocks, they expected about Rs27 crore revenue during the five-year contract period. The corporation might be able to use the funds generated for constructing and renovating toilets.“Besides, efforts will be made to arrange funds from various organisations and business houses under the CSR and other sources,” reads the agenda.A senior officer said: “We do not even have enough funds for meeting the day-to-day expenses. Where will the money for the toilets come from? We are not much hopeful in this regard.”However, councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, who is also a member of the MC’s Sanitation Committee, said: “I suggest funds from the Smart City project should be used for the purpose or the MC can renovate them in a phased manner.”The renovation of public conveniences is due for the past few years, but the MC failed to take an action due to a shortage of funds. At present, most toilets have seepage and broken tiles and taps. Foul smell is one of the main concerns in almost all of these.Self-help groups may operate toiletsThe civic body has proposed handing over the operations of public toilets in its 22 villages to self-help groups registered by the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM). The House will consider the proposal for entrusting these groups with the operation, running and maintenance of the toilets in villages on similar rates as being given to market welfare associations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-mulls-renovating-toilets-but-where-are-the-funds-175844
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University Syndics write to Chancellor||After exhausting various options, 12 members of the Panjab University Syndicate submitted a letter to PU Chancellor and Vice-President of India M Venkaiah Naidu, demanding Senate elections and a meeting of the Syndicate.“No meeting of the Senate had been convened from December 2019 till the expiry of its ter. Also, the Vice-Chancellor, who is also the Chairman of the Syndicate, has failed to convene any syndicate meeting after July 2020. In violation of rules and regulations, all crucial decisions are being arbitrarily taken by the VC, despite requests for holding a Syndicate meeting immediately.“Therefore, both governing bodies have been rendered defunct by the VC, who has refused to relent despite the repeated requests of the fellows as well as syndics, on flimsy grounds. He postponed the Senate elections twice on the pretext of Covid-19. Now, he has come up with a baseless excuse, only with the intention to tarnish the image of the Chancellor by promoting that the elections are not being conducted at your (chancellor) behest,” states the letter.Syndicate members said: “At the VC’s behest, all entry points were sealed to prevent us from entering his office yesterday,” They added: “The university is currently functioning without any governing body..”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndics-write-to-chancellor-175845
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Morcha takes out silent march at Panjab University||“In coming time, whatever the administrative form or system should be established, the position of elected heads of teachers union, students union and employees union should be ensured so that there is genuine democracy in the university,” said member of the Bar Council and former student leader Rajat Gautam.Guruparvez Shella, former head of the University Student Council, also alleged that the Senate had become a means to appease some leaders rather than uplifting the university’s standards. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/morcha-takes-out-silent-march-at-panjab-university-175846
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Former Panjab Univesity students meet Vice-Chancellor||Former Panjab University students interacted with the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, and demanded Senate elections.Kuljit Singh Nagra (MLA Fatehgarh Sahib), Malwinder Singh Kang (former PUCSC president and senator), Harpreet Singh Multani (former SOPU leader), Simranjit Singh Dhillon (SOI leader), Parminder Singh Goldy (PUCSC president in 2007 and AAP leader), Manoj Lubana (former SOPU president and chairman of social media cell of NSUI), and Rahul Kumar (vice-president of PUCSC) held a meeting with the VC today. They claimed that the VC had ensured them of a solution to the dispute. “We will now hold a joint meeting with all stakeholders, including political parties, PUTA and syndics, in the first week of December and proceed further accordingly,” said Nagra. “The intent of the BJP-RSS is crystal clear. Any resistance by the BJP-RSS will be dealt with force,” said Kang.Lubana said: “The BJP-RSS thinks they can fool all people. But I just want to remind them, this is PU.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-panjab-univesity-students-meet-vice-chancellor-175848
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh private schools release schedule for nursery admission||City private schools have started rolling out the schedule for nursery admission for the session 2021-2021 while the UT Education Department is yet to finalise the same.Key datesStrawberry Fields High School, Sector 26Entry level: KGSt Anne’s School, Sector 32 (Minority status)Seats: 200Age: Child born between 1st April, 2016, and 31st March 2017Entry level: LKGSt John High School, Sector 26 (minority)Seats: 160Age: Only boys born between 01st April, 2015, and 31st March 2016Entry level: UKGSt Xavier’s School, Sector 44Seats: First-come-first-served basisAge: 2 and a half yearsEntry level: Pre-nurseryAccording to the tentative schedule, the issue and receipt of admission forms will be available from school websites from December 3 onwards and continue till December 16. The list of eligible candidates shall be displayed by January 15 and the finalisation of selected candidates and waiting list will be done by February 1.The admission form will be free of cost and Rs 100 will be charged as registration fee.The emphasis this year would be on carrying out the admission process through online mode as much as possible. Atul Khanna, Director of Strawberry Fields High School, said: “We will encourage online submission of forms but those who are willing to come to school may do so. We will ensure all Covid protocols are followed when parents come to deposit their forms.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-private-schools-release-schedule-for-nursery-admission-175851
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University gets EPVM patent||Panjab University has been granted patent for Electronics Preferential Voting Machine (EPVM) which is related to a voting system based on preferential voting as per the single transferable vote method. Prof Manoj Kumar Sharma of the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) is the inventor of the EPVM.Prof Sharma started work on the machine in 2010. The design is being modified with improved features. In the EPVM, the complete election process (voting as well as counting) is automated (voting is done using electronics machine and counting is done using the software).At present, elections based on the preferential voting system are conducted for the selection of various prestigious posts, including President of India, members of the Rajya Sabha and members of bar councils and others.The Prestigious Oscar awards are also decided on the basis of the same voting system. Till now, the election based on the preferential voting system is held using paper ballots and counting is done manually.The preferential voting system is a good democratic process as it demonstrates the decision of the masses. However, because of the complexity of the process, it is not used generally.The EPVM designed at the UIET, PU, will make the system of voting automated. It is easy to adopt and simple to use.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-gets-epvm-patent-175852
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||CSIO device best Covid innovation||An electrostatic disinfection machine developed by the Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) here in collaboration with the private industry has been selected as one of the top innovations for Covid-19 Ignition Grant of Rs 1 crore for scaling up in India and the US.Christened the Encee Spray project, it is a joint venture of the CSIO, Rite Water Solutions, Nagpur, and the University of Florida. The device comprises an electrostatic sprayer and electro-hypo disinfectant generator, which is an ideal solution for surface disinfection for Covid-19.It reduces the usage of chemical agents as the disinfectant is generated at the site from salt solution. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/csio-device-best-covid-innovation-175853
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Issue of affiliation to rowing assns to be solved soon, says COA chief||The decade-old unsolved mystery of affiliation and disaffiliation of local sports associations by the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA), which usually surfaces near its elections, took a new turn today when the Rowing Federation of India (RFI) wrote to the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) and requested it to intervene and direct the COA to include the Chandigarh Rowing Association (CRA) in its coming meeting and elections, if conducted.Meeting may get postponed: BazazMeetings of the general body and the executive committee of the Chandigarh Olympic Association scheduled for November 27 may get postponed, said Amarinder Singh Bazaz, President, COA. “We will take a final call for calling the meeting or not on Thursday following some unavoidable circumstances,” said Bazaz.In a very mystification way, the COA has disaffiliated the CRA and affiliated the Rowing and Sweep Association, which has voting rights in the COA. However, the CRA is the one which conducts state championships, sends teams to nationals and its players get gradation certificates from the UT Sports Department.Office-bearers of both the CRA and the Rowing & Sweep Association claim their stakes on local rowing, and have a number of documents to support their claim.However, a recent letter by the national rowing body to the IOA president could be game-changer.President of the RFI Rajlaxmi Singh Deo submitted to the IOA that the CRA was its affiliated unit and should be included in the election process and also in the annual general meeting. The letter was written on November 23. A similar letter was written to the COA President by RFI on November 19. The COA officials have maintained that the CRA became defunct in 2017 and its affiliation was temporary withdrawn. After which, a new body (Rowing and Sweep Association) was awarded affiliation in 2018. However, the CRA maintained that the election process was re-conducted in 2018 and since then they have been managing the championships.“We will try to solve this problem without any further delay in coming days,” said Amarinder Singh Bazaz, President, COA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/issue-of-affiliation-to-rowing-assns-to-be-solved-soon-says-coa-chief-175854
26-11-2020||Mohali||Nod for colleges in Mohali||The state government has approved the nursing and pharmacy colleges under Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences in Mohali.Health and Labour Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the decision had been taken at a video conference that was attended by Vice-Chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Science Raj Bahadur; Adviser, Health and Medical Education to State Government, Dr KK Talwar; Principal Secretary Health and Family Welfare Husan Lal; Secretary Medical Education DK Tiwari and other senior officers.He said the course of BSc in Nursing and Pharmacy would be initiated in the next session in new colleges under Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nod-for-colleges-in-mohali-175855
26-11-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||SAD wants FIR against manager of Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib revoked||A large number of SAD workers, leaders, SGPC member and staff, led by Didar Singh Bhatti, halka in-charge for Fatehgarh Sahib, today organised a massive dharna outside the District Administrative Complex against the administration for not cancelling the FIRs registered against the manager of Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib and other SGPC employees allegedly at the behest of MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra.A delegation of SAD (B) leaders and SGPC members had submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner and the SSP a few days ago, demanding that FIRs should be cancelled immediately as the land belonged to the SGPC. They said MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra and officials of the Tourism Department are the ones trespassing.The SGPC members warned that the FIRs were not withdrawn, the SGPC would boycott the administration during Saheedi Jor Mela. He urged the administration not to follow the dictates of MLA Nagra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-wants-fir-against-manager-of-gurdwara-fatehgarh-sahib-revoked-175857
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||2.41% inbound travellers found infected at Chandigarh ISBT-17||Nearly 2.41 per cent passengers coming from other states have tested positive for Covid-19 at the ISBT-17 here.Special mobile teamDr VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, stated that a special mobile team had been deployed at the bus stand to screen passengers. A total of 1,488 samples had been collected in the past nine days and 36 of them had tested positive for the virus.Amid rising coronavirus cases in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), Dr Amandeep Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, initiated a process to test passengers arriving at the ISBT-17 from other states.Dr VK Nagpal, Medical Superintendent, Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, stated that a special mobile team had been deployed at the bus stand to screen the passengers. A total of 1,488 samples had been collected in the past nine days and 36 of them had tested positive for the virus.On confirmation, the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme of the home state of the passenger was informed for further action, said Dr Paramjeet Singh, Deputy Medical Superintendent, GMSH. Over sudden spurt in coronavirus cases, the UT Administration is also considering certain measures to contain further spread of the virus in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-41-inbound-travellers-found-infected-at-chandigarh-isbt-17-175859
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Consider DSP Ram Gopal’s claim for promotion, tribunal asks Admn||The Chandigarh Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has directed the UT Administration and the DGP, Chandigarh, to consider the claim of DSP Ram Gopal for the promotion to the post of Superintendent of Police (SP) and, if found fit, promote him from due date with all consequential benefits of arrears of pay and allowances and seniority, within a period of two months.The CAT also quashed and set aside the order of the DGP stating that there is no vacancy in the rank of Superintendent of Police (non-IPS).DSP Ram Gopal approached the tribunal seeking quashing of the letter dated September 16, 2017, of the DGP conveying that there is no vacancy in the rank of Superintendent of Police (non-IPS) in the Chandigarh Police meant for promotion from the rank of Deputy SP and the Punjab Police Rules governing the promotion are pending for adoption. He also demanded to direct the respondents to consider his claim for promotion as SP against the existing vacancy of Deputy Commandant, IRB, in the rank of Superintendent of Police, being the senior most and eligible in terms of the Punjab Police Service Rules, 1959, as amended on December 26, 2006, applicable to the Union Territory, Chandigarh, with effect from due date with all consequential benefits.Ram Gopal claimed that the Administration does not have its own recruitment rules governing the post of SP (non-IPS). The conditions of services of UT employees are same as that of Punjab by virtue of a notification dated January 13, 1992.Ram Gopal said he fulfilled all criteria for the promotion. In terms of the Punjab Police Service Rules, 1959, promotion to the rank of SP should be made from the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police (both promoted from the rank of Inspector and directly recruited) having six-year continuous service in the rank of DSP (substantive) on the basis of merit-cum-seniority subject to the availability of the post of SP.He submits that no DSP from Chandigarh fulfilled the eligibility criteria of six years for promotion as SP between 2009 and 2012. Later, the UT IGP recommended the names of six DSPs, who had completed six years of continuous service as per the Rules of 1959 for promotion as SP against three vacant posts of Deputy Commandant vide a communication dated August 7, 2013.Some other correspondence took place and ultimately the UT DGP vide letter dated September 16, 2017 replied to the Home Secretary that there is no vacancy in the rank of SP (non-IPS) in the Chandigarh Police for promotion from DSP and an amendment dated December 26, 2006, in the Rules of 1959 for six-year eligibility for the promotion of DSP to SP was pending with the Home Secretary for adoption.It is submitted that the post of Deputy Commandant, IRB, having remained vacant for more than one year is deemed to have been abolished in view of the instructions on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/consider-dsp-ram-gopals-claim-for-promotion-tribunal-asks-admn-175865
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mani Majra resident booked for negligence||The UT police have booked a Mani Majra resident, Mohammad Anis, whose negligence had led to a fire in the LPG cylinder that left a six-month-old girl child injured. Three others, including Anish, also suffered injuries in the incident.The police said the girl’s father, Raja, a resident of Govindpura, reported that Anish negligently placed the leaking cylinder in the gallery in front of his door, due to which his daughter suffered burn injuries.The police said a case under Section 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life and personal safety of others) of the IPC has been registered at the Mani Majra police station.Anish a vegetable vendor, was trying to fix the regulator of the cylinder when the gas started leaking. He kept the cylinder in the gallery. However, it suddenly caught fire.Anish, his neighbours Salman and Mohammad Harun, had also suffered burn injuries while trying to douse the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mani-majra-resident-booked-for-negligence-175877
26-11-2020||Mohali||Shopkeeper held for selling duplicate LCDs||The police arrested a man for selling duplicate LCDs to customers at Madanpura village on Tuesday night. The police also recovered 70 LCDs and a bag of stickers from his possession.The suspect has been identified as Gagandeep, a resident of Malout, who runs a shop, “Doomra Digital Home”, at Madanpura village.Manphul Singh, Station House Officer of the Phase 1 police station, said: “We got a tip-off that the suspect was duping customers by selling them counterfeit LCDs. He used to purchase assembled LCDs from Delhi at a cheaper price and sold them here at higher price by pasting the logos of big brands on the items. The illegal practice was going on for the past few months.”A case has been registered against the suspect under Sections 63 and 65 of the Copyright Act at the Phase 1 police station. The suspect was later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shopkeeper-held-for-selling-duplicate-lcds-175896
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||CHB holds second draw for 448 EWS flats at Maloya-I||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) today held the second computerised draw for the allotment of 448 flats at Maloya-I.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Office, CHB, said the UT Administration had decided to re-locate residents of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 to EWS flats at Maloya-I under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHC) scheme of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs.Of the total applicants, 380 were from pre-fab shelters in Sector 52, while the remaining 68 occupants were from Sector 56.There were 15 specially abled applicants, who had been allotted flats on the ground floor, he added.The draw was held in a transparent manner and was streamed live on YouTube and at the site of the pre-fab shelters through a display van.After the draw, the result was uploaded on the website of the CHB. A copy of the result was also displayed at the pre-fab shelter site in Sector 52 and 56.He said allotment letters and possession slips would be issued to the successful applicants on Friday.The CEO said physical possession of the flats at Maloya-I would be handed over from December 1 in a staggered manner to avoid rush and to ensure compliance with the social distancing norm.The water and electricity connections will be released on the day of the physical possession itself.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-holds-second-draw-for-448-ews-flats-at-maloya-i-175897
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Burail gets water booster||In a respite to residents, a water booster has been inaugurated near Shiv Mandir, Burail.Area councillor Kanwarjeet Singh Rana, who inaugurated the project, said this underground reservoir had a capacity of 1 lakh gallon water. It was built at a cost of Rs70 lakh.“Residents living on upper floors used to face problems in getting proper water supply. The pressure of water did not reach upper floors. The residents often had to come down to fetch water or depend on water tankers. Now, this problem will not be there,” said Rana.“It was a pending demand. We have been continuously taking it up with the Municipal Corporation. Finally, it has been done,” said the councillor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/burail-gets-water-booster-175898
26-11-2020||Panchkula||Badminton c’ship to be held in Panchkula||Sports Promotion Society (R), Panchkula, will organise the first inter-park badminton championship in the second week of December in Sector 12 here. The matches will be organised in for doubles event for the age group 30 to 40 years, 41 to 50 years, 51 to 60 years and 61 to 70 years. Interested candidates can submit their entries to DP Singhal, organising secretary, Jatinder Mahajan and Sunil Bhalla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/badminton-cship-to-be-held-in-panchkula-175899
26-11-2020||Mohali||Defacement of Kharar flyover goes unchecked||Even before the second part of the Kharar flyover is thrown open to commuters, the defacement of the project has already begun.Posters, hoardings, pamphlets and commercial advertisements have sprung up on pillars underneath the flyover in various places, ruining the outlook.“Passing through the stretch underneath the flyover, the traffic is chaotic, sound of horns and a plethora of commercials advertisement on pillars make it an unpleasant experience. Hundreds of crores have been spent on the project, but what does a commuter get in return?” said Jaspreet Bhangu, a Kharar resident.NHAI officials are optimistic that the second phase of the Kharar flyover will be thrown open on December 15. The 1.5-km stretch between Balong and Mundi Kharar was opened on a pilot basis to access the practical problems. The Kurali side of the flyover would also be opened in January next year, said the officials.Though the project is under-construction, the waste material of the shops, plastic refuse and stray cattle have already made it a home. “People too have to show restraint and act responsibly if they want to see the area neat and clean. The NHAI cannot be held responsible for everything,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/defacement-of-kharar-flyover-goes-unchecked-175900
26-11-2020||Mohali||Pinjore academy log 7-wicket win||Dream Achiever Cricket Academy, Pinjore, registered a seven-wicket win over IVCA Cricket Academy, Dera Bassi, in the ongoing 2nd Panna Lal Memorial U-21 Cricket Tournament.Batting first, the Dera Bassi outfit posted 206 runs before getting all out in 38.5 overs.Aryan Verma (57), Paras (50), Aman (38) and Abhinav Sharma (20) were the main run-getters for the side.Bali Chaudhary was the pick of the bowlers as he took four wickets, while Milind Kamboj picked three and Aditya Chauhan took two.In reply, Dream Achiever Cricket Academy boys posted 207/3 in 33.1 overs with the help of Aditya Chauhan (76), Piyush Sharma (65) and Chaudhary (34).Vishal Moudgil claimed two wickets and Puneet Kumar claimed one for the bowling side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pinjore-academy-log-7-wicket-win-175901
26-11-2020||Mohali||MC elections: BJP likely to contest all seats in Mohali||The BJP has become increasingly active in Punjab after the end of its 24-year-old political alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). The party is likely to contest all seats in the MC elections.The BJP has intensified its activities in Mohali city and is all set to contest the MC elections on its own while the SAD is yet to launch its activities in this regard. It appears that the Akali Dal is on the back foot.After the party’s victory in the Bihar Assembly elections and byelections in other states, the BJP leaders are in high spirits.While the BJP is trying its best to woo the leaders of other parties to join the saffron party, it has stepped up its activities in view of the coming Assembly elections in other states of the country, especially in West Bengal.As far as Punjab is concerned, more than one year’s time is to go for the Assembly elections and the BJP has started preparing itself for the same. According to sources, the party leaders are of the opinion that the party is strong in the Majha and Doaba belts of the state and even though the party was weak in the Malwa region, which is considered a stronghold of the SAD, the party was working hard to strengthen its position there.Meanwhile, the BJP is preparing to field candidates on all 50 seats in the Mohali MC elections likely to be held in January. In the previous MC elections, the BJP had contested 17 seats, of which it had won six seats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-elections-bjp-likely-to-contest-all-seats-in-mohali-175902
26-11-2020||Panchkula||Boy killed in road mishap||UT suspends bus service to HaryanaChandigarh: In view of farmers marching towards Delhi from November 25 to 27, the UT Administration has suspended all Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) bus operations in/through Haryana. An official spokesperson said the CTU operations in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh may also get affected. As such, commuters were requested to plan their journey on CTU buses after proper enquiry at 0172-2700006 (ISBT-17), 0172 2624403 and 0172-2624413 (ISBT-43). TNSYouth held with pistolChandigarh: A 22-year-old youth was nabbed with a country-made pistol. Akshay, alias Golu, a resident of the Sector 25 colony, was nabbed at a naka near the cremation ground in Sector 25. The police seized a pistol from him. The police said the suspect had procured the pistol from Saharanpur. He was produced in the court and remanded in one-day police custody. TNSTributes paid to DAV CMC gen secyChandigarh: Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, organised a "havan" to pay tributes to RS Sharma, general secretary, DAV College Managing Committee (DAV CMC), New Delhi. Vice-president of DAV CMC H Gandhar and senior governing body member Sudesh Gandhar took part in the ceremony wherein the MCM family prayed for the peace of the departed soul. The "havan" was followed by a "shanti paath". Principal Nisha Bhargava highlighted his immense contribution to the cause of DAV. TNSPharma legend rememberedChandigarh: The University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), Panjab University, organised a webinar, "Pharmacy Education: Responding to NEP 2020", in remembrance of the pharma legend, Late Professor Harkishan Singh, whose birth anniversary falls on November 25. Prof Indu Pal Kaur, Chairperson, UIPS, shared the reminiscences of the glorious life journey of Prof Harkishan Singh, a globally renowned pharmaceutical scientist and a science historian who is credited with the discovery of a neuromuscular drug, Chandonium Iodide. Around 280 participants joined the webinar. TNSWorkers join SAD (Democratic)Mohali: The Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) got a shot in the arm as several supporters from Mohali district joined the party on Wednesday in the presence of MLA and former Punjab Finance Minister S Parminder Singh Dhindsa. The leaders and supporters joined the party at the party head office in Mohali under the leadership of Capt Tejinder Pal Sidhu. Dr Major Singh was appointed coordinator, Mohali (City). TNSDrive to shift homelessPatiala: The MC has launched a drive to shift homeless people from to night shelters. Officials said they shifted more than 30 persons from Mall Road, Sheran Wala Gate, Kali Mata Mandir to the shelters on the Rajpura road on Tuesday night. The officials said according to a recent survey, there were more than 400 homeless people in the city. TNSTraining course for NDRF membersChandigarh: The Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force’s National Institute for Training in Search, Rescue and Disaster Response (NITSRDR) conducted a training course on searching and identifying radioactive sources for members of the National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) on its campus in Panchkula. As many as 50 members of the NDRF attended the course where they were familiarised with detectors and personal protective gear that is used in radiological emergencies. The NITSRDR will train two more NDRF teams in the next few days. TNSCyclothon held to spread awarenessChandigarh: A cyclothon to spread awareness about the importance of organ donation was organised by the Central Reserve Police Force’s North-West Sector here on Wednesday. As many as 22 officers and jawans participated in the event that covered adjoining localities. Covid-19 protocols and precautions were followed along the route as well as during interaction with the public. TNSShopkeepers issued challansMohali: The Mohali Municipal Corporation issued challans to shopkeepers for using plastic bags in the Phase 10 and Phase 11 markets here on Wednesday. Sanitary inspector Sarabjit Singh said shopkeepers were challaned for keeping plastic bags in their shops and spreading filth. Challans worth Rs7,000 were issued to the erring businessmen. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-killed-in-road-mishap-175903
26-11-2020||Panjab University has extended the last date for submission of examination forms without any late fee till December 8 and 17 for undergraduate and postgraduate examinations||Last date for exam forms extended||ABVP office-bearersDr Rajan Bhandari (Chandigarh) and Qudratjot Kaur (Panjab University) have been elected unopposed state president and state secretary, respectively, of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad. The tenure of both office-bearers will be one year. Bhandari is a resident of Zirakpur while Qudratjot is a resident of Rupnagar. She is a third year student of Law Department from Panjab University. TNSResults declaredPanjab University has declared the results of Bachelor of Hompeopathic Medicine and Surgery (4th professional), Bachelor of Homoeopathic Medicine and Surgery (3rd professional) and Master of Science (Environment Science), 4th semester. TNSFDP concludes at PUA five-day faculty development programme (FDP) on "Personal Effectiveness and Stress Management" was organised by Dr BR Ambedkar Centre, under a scheme of the All-India Council for Technical Education and its AICTE Training and Learning (ATAL) Academy. The valedictory session was conducted online in the presence of Prof Ashish Jain, Director, IQAC, PU, who was the chief guest. He appreciated the efforts of the organising team. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/last-date-for-exam-forms-extended-175906
