27-07-2020||---||23 more test positive for COVID-19 in Chandigarh; tally crosses 900||Chandigarh, July 27Twenty-three more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Chandigarh in 24 hours, taking the total caseload in the UT to over 900 on Monday.The COVID-19 death toll in the city stood at 14.A 67-year-old male, a resident of Sector 38 who was diagnosed COVID-19 positive on July 5 was treated and discharged from PGIMER on July 14. He died on Sunday at ICU of Sector 48, COVID centre of the GMCH 32.The patient had tested positive on July 8 and then negative on July 10, 11 in PGIMER before he was discharged on July 14.He was later admitted for respiratory complications and was having co-morbid condition of diabetes.Seventeen patients were discharged following recovery on Sunday. So far, 572 people have been cured of the disease, it stated. There are 321 active cases as of now in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh-tally-crosses-900-118609
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 2 miscreants rob Rs 3 lakh cash at gunpoint from Western Union branch||In a broad daylight robbery, two miscreants reportedly robbed Rs three lakh cash at gunpoint from a Western Union branch in Sector 27 on Monday.Complainant Sanjeev Kalia stated that he had returned to his office after withdrawing the money from a bank.Kalia then went to washroom in the market.“As I returned to my office, two persons with their faces covered arrived and demanded money from me. While one of them was holding a pistol, the other one had a saw in his hand,” Kalia said.The complainant got scared and he handed over the money to them. They kept the money in a laptop bag and escaped from the spot.Police was informed about the incident that reached the spot and initiated an investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-2-miscreants-rob-rs-3-lakh-cash-at-gunpoint-from-western-union-branch-118608
27-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports 32 new coronavirus cases; district tally now 747||Mohali reported 32 new cases of coronavirus on Monday, officials said---a development that takes the district's COVID-19 cases to 747.Some 14 positive patients were released from hospitals after recovery, officials said.Meanwhile, Punjab Director General of Police has been admitted to Grecian Hospital in Mohali he showed symptoms of coronavirus. Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said Kharar City SHO Bhagwant Singh has also been quarantined at his house in Kharar’s Omega city."Kharar SHO was asymptomatic following which he is in home isolation. Punjab DIG showed symptoms of Covid-19 due to which he was admitted to Grecian Hospital here. The contacts of both the officials are being traced."In a separate development, a branch of State Bank of India in Kharar has been sealed after an employee tested positive. Employees of the branch, which is near the bus stand, have been asked to quarantine themselves at home since the development. Authorities said that their swabs have yet to be taken for testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-32-new-coronavirus-cases-district-tally-now-747-118597
27-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||19-yr-old axed to death||A 19-year-old newly married girl was found murdered in a room near Talania village here on Sunday. SP (Investigation) Harpal Singh said it seemed that she was murdered with an axe, which was found on the spot. He said she had been identified as Ranjana and was married to Arvind, who was absconding. The SP said a case was registered and an investigation had begun. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-yr-old-axed-to-death-118288
27-07-2020||Zirakpur||Assault video viral, cop sent to Police Lines||A traffic cop posted at the Baltana beat box was sent to the Police Lines after a video of him holding money and assaulting a truck driver near the highway went viral on the social media here today.The cop, Mahinder Singh, is seen counting currency notes and putting them in his pocket. The truck driver, along with his helper, is seen arguing with the cop, claiming that he had all the requisite papers and his documents be returned after verification. The cop replies that they need to be further checked by a senior officer. The arguments turn violent as the cop thrashed him with a stick twice and threatened him.The truck driver alleged that his business had suffered due to the lockdown and the cops here had made accepting bribe a routine affair. No written or verbal complaint was made in this regard at the Baltana police post. It is learnt that the video was made on July 24 near the K-Area light point on the Panchkula road.Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal sent the cop to the Police Lines till further inquiry.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/assault-video-viral-cop-sent-to-police-lines-118296
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Martyrs remembered||To pay homage to soldiers who laid down their lives during Operation Vijay in 1999, Kargil Vijay Diwas was observed at the Major Sandeep Shankla Memorial in Panchkula today.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, only a limited number of citizens and military veterans were invited to pay tributes to the martyrs on behalf of the tricity. By the end of the Kargil conflict in 1999, 527 soldiers were killed and 1,363 were wounded.Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Gen VP Malik, who was the Army Chief during the Kargil conflict, also paid tributes at the memorial. The ceremony was organised under the aegis of the Indian Ex-Servicemen Movement (IESM).Saplings plantedTo mark Kargil Vijay Diwas, Sanjay Tandon, national executive council member of the BJP, planted saplings to pay homage to the martyrs of the Kargil war. Tandon planted saplings at a garden near his house in Sector 18. He also planted saplings at Dr Ambedkar Bhawan, Ram Darbar and Khuda Ali Sher. “I cannot think of a more fulfilling way to pay tributes to our nation’s martyrs,” said Tandon.Social distance maintainedCouncillor Davesh Moudgil took part in a plantation drive to mark Kargil Vijay Diwas. Tributes were paid to the soldiers martyred in the Kargil war. Social distancing was maintained during the drive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/martyrs-remembered-118301
27-07-2020||---||Tree branch falls, damages cars, electricity poles in Phase VI||Mohali, July 26Around 50-ft-long branch of a tree in front of a house in Phase VI suddenly fell and damaged three parked cars here today.Two electricity poles were also damaged leading to the disruption of power in the area for morethan four hours. This inconvenienced the Phase VI residents.RP Sharma, former MC councillor of the area, said an Alto, a Honda City and three Hyundai i10 cars were badly damaged.He said the residents had been facing this problem since long as this was the third such incident in the past six months. He said several complaints had been lodged with the higher authorities and the issue was also raised in the MC House meetings, but nothing had been done to prune tall trees in the area.Later, Ranjit Singh, junior engineer of the Powercom, took up the task of repairing broken poles and power lines.Accusing the ruling party of political vendetta, Sharma said the situation would not have arisen today if the government had not banned the purchase of foreign tree pruning machines. He said even before this, there was a big catastrophe due to heavy rains and strong winds that lashed the region. “The Mohali administration and the government are waiting for a major tragedy to happen,” Sharma added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tree-branch-falls-damages-cars-electricity-poles-in-phase-vi-118300
27-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Adviser tweets ‘say no to beggars’, rankles netizens||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26An appeal by UT Adviser Manoj Parida on avoiding beggars at traffic light points has apparently not gone down well with city residents.Parida today tweeted: “Appeal to Chandigarh residents not to give money to beggars at traffic points. They could be corona spreaders. We can’t jail them since beggary is not a crime. When put in shelter homes they run away to make money from streets. Simply say No.”On July 24, Chandigarh Tribune had highlighted the presence of beggars at various traffic light points and junctions, which is posing a threat to city residents during the pandemic.Netizens are of the view that Parida’s tweet shows the inability of the top administrator to find a viable solution to the issue.Dalip, a netizen, tweeted: “Why these people run away from shelter homes if their documents are verified on the date of admission.”Many feel that the administration should take help from various NGOs and the MC. “The Administration should initiate a drive to identify the nationality of these beggars. They should be brought under the MHA’s scheme meant for the welfare of the poor,” said Simar, a teacher.“Officials should come up with a solution. Not giving money to beggars won’t stop them from begging,” tweeted Gurcharan Singh.Replying to a netizen who suggested that begging in the city was being run by a clandestine organisation, Parida tweeted: “We made a police inquiry into the possibility of such gangs operating here. Report said no such gangs were active.” In one of the tweets, he also claimed: “The Supreme Court has decriminalised begging.” However, alert netizens raised questions about that too.Rajesh Jogpal, former MC Commisioner, Panchkula, who is currently the Special Secretary (Home) Government of Haryana, tweeted: “Chandigarh Administration has adopted the Haryana Prevention of Beggary Act 1971 under which beggary is a crime in Chandigarh. The city has three certified institutions for beggars. Sure they can’t be jailed but can be put into the certified institutions.”Jogpal told Chandigarh Tribune: “During my tenure, we were able to control the menace to some extent. We started by giving free food and then started identifying parents of children on streets. The teenagers were sent to ‘snehalyas’. I don’t know about the current status, but previously, the UT was following the Haryana Prevention Beggary Act 1971. Under the Juvenile Justice Act, parents can’t make their children beg. The UT police had also started operation ‘Muskan’ to identify these groups. These beggars should be identified and be moved to certified institutions. They should be taught basic skills.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-tweets-say-no-to-beggars-rankles-netizens-118290
27-07-2020||---||Experts for use of immune modulators to treat patients||Chandigarh, July 26Covid has a special affinity for blood vessels and that’s why after reaching lungs, it starts invading into the small blood vessels present in the walls of alveoli (tiny air sacs in lungs that take up the oxygen one breathes in) and from there, it spreads to the entire body, says a review paper by a group of researchers at the PGI.The lead authors of the paper are Dr Suruchi Garg, a city-based dermatologist, and Dr Mandeep Garg of the PGI. Dr Nidhi, Dr Pankaj Malhotra and Dr Ritesh Agarwal of the PGI are the co-authors.The researchers reviewed the mechanism of how Covid affects not just lungs, but also other multiple organ system of the human body.According to the paper, immune modulators such as vitamin C, D and zinc help a Covid patient in the first week of illness and blood thinners are required to be given from the second week while the body is trying to fight the virus through various mechanisms.The research paper said, “If the immunity of the person is low, the virus starts multiplying, more so in people with underlying co-morbidities. It invades into the capillaries of lung alveoli and creates multiple injuries leading to microthrombi (blood clots) formation. Andthen these virus-laden microthrombi get dislodged and start circulating in the blood and affect various other organs.”He said, “When this happens, the body’s second line of defence comes into play against the viral antigens by secreting antibodies, which try to eradicate the virus by the formation of antigen-antibody complex. This results in the excessive release of cytokines by various immune cells of the body and produce cytokine storm.”Dr Mandeep Garg from the Department of Radiodiagnosis and Imaging, PGI, explains, “Once blood vessels of vital organs such as heart, lungs, brain and liver get occluded due to these two mechanisms, end organ damage starts happening in various systems leading to high fatality.” According to the review paper, the treatment for Covid-19 should be aimed on the basis of disease pathogenesis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experts-for-use-of-immune-modulators-to-treat-patients-118277
27-07-2020||---||Man who tore constable’s PPE kit in Sector 30, Chandigarh gets bail||Chandigarh, July 26The court of Additional Sessions Judge Dr Gagan Geet Kaur has granted bail to a person, who allegedly tore the PPE kit of a policeman on duty at Sector 30, which was a containment zone.Abhilash (26), a resident of Sector 30-B, was booked by the Chandigarh Police on June 1 under Sections 186, 188, 269, 270, 353 of the IPC at the Industrial Area police station. The case was registered on the complaint of constable Sachin, wherein he stated that the accused used criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duty.He said on June 1, when he was urging people to stay indoors, Abhilash started abusing him and also tore his PPE kit. He also provoked other people to come out against the Administration.The public prosecutor for the state vehemently opposed the bail application and submitted that the accused had done a serious offence by violating the Administration’s orders passed due to the Covid-19 outbreak.AS Gujral, counsel for the accused, said the accused had been falsely implicated in the case. He said the police were just covering up their failure to give timely help to an old woman patient in the containment zone. The counsel further submitted that the accused was not alone to raise the objection to call an ambulance inside the zone, but all other residents were also insisting for the same.After hearing the arguments of both parties, the Judge said the alleged offence had been committed during Covid-19. The court could not ignore the mental health of the general public, particularly of the public of containment zone, during the period of Covid-19.He said at the same time, the court was also conscious about the circumstances and pressure under which police officials had been performing their duties day and night by risking their lives during the pandemic. After considering both factors, the court was of the opinion that the applicant-accused deserved concession of anticipatory bail as no purpose would be served by taking him into custody as nothing was to be recovered from him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-who-tore-constables-ppe-kit-in-sector-30-chandigarh-gets-bail-118278
27-07-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali Municipal Corporation told to submit details of all wards by July 30||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 26As the elections to the local bodies are to be held in October, the Local Bodies Department has asked the Municipal Corporation (MC) to submit details of all 50 wards with their population by July 30.Even as the date for the elections to the Municipal Corporation and municipal committees is yet to be decided, the notification says that elections will be held in all 50 wards of the MC.It has been decided that elections will be held for all 50 wards of the MC. Seats have been reserved for candidates. — Kamal Kumar, Municipal Commissioner, MohaliAs many as 2.36 lakh voters will exercise their right to franchise, the notification adds. It further states that as many as 25,000 voters are Scheduled Caste and five seats have been reserved for a candidate from their community, two for women (SC), three for Backward Classes and two for women (BC). As many as 43 seats are for the general category, including 23 for women and 20 for men.Kamal Kumar, Municipal Commissioner, Mohali, said the Local Bodies Department had sought details about the wards and population by July 30. Dates for elections were yet to be decided, he added. “It has been decided that the elections will be held for all 50 wards. Seats have been reserved for candidates,” he said.Balbir Singh Sidhu, Cabinet Minister and local MLA, said, “We are ready for the elections. People of the city have seen development in the past few years.”In the last term of the Municipal Corporation, which ended on April 26 this year, the Congress had 14 councillors, SAD-BJP and Azad group 33 councillors while there were two independent councillors in the House. Realtor and former Mayor Kulwant Singh was re-elected to the post for five years.Earlier, the elections to the civic body were held in February 2015 when SAS Nagar recorded a mere 60.5 per cent voting, which was lower than the Lok Sabha elections of 2014 when the city had reported 70 per cent polling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-municipal-corporation-told-to-submit-details-of-all-wards-by-july-30-118273
27-07-2020||Open House||Don’t ignore signs of depression, opt for treatment||A challenge to mental healthBeyond the physical threat, Covid-19 has also deeply hurt our ineffable inner selves. Shocking suicide by persons across all sections of society, particularly senior citizens, speaks about wider mental health challenges in the pandemic times. As the pandemic fuels anxiety and loneliness, we do not even know its end. We do not know whether we will be safe or when we will be reunited with loved ones in distant lands or regain ascendant career paths. We all must take care of our near and dear ones, especially our elders during this crisis by ensuring the required companionship so that they don’t feel depressed because of loneliness.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliHelp old couples living in vicinityCovid-19 has adversely affected mental health of all sections of society. Senior citizens are more prone to mental ailments due to their age. However, since lockdown restrictions have been eased elders can go to parks and join their peer groups while maintaining social distance and taking other precautions. People living in elders’ vicinity can help the latter as most aged couples live alone in the tricity.Dr AP Singh, ChandigarhA myth created by bureaucratsA myth has been created by bureaucrats in the Health Ministry while issuing Covid-19 safety guidelines that senior citizens above 65 years are more prone to infection if they venture out of their homes. This assumption is negated by the average age of the Covid fatalities at the national level. Scoffing at this assumption all political leaders, businessmen, governors, and judges keep themselves pre-occupied with normal routine while stepping out of their homes. Elders, who are not tech savvy and cannot use social media to interact with their friends, are more prone to depression. A suicide by an old man at Sukhna Lake last week is the case to point. The authorities must spare a thought for the mental well being of senior citizens and reconsider the existing guidelines.SC Luthra, ChandigarhKeep them busy with routine choresDue to the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown, stress levels have increased manifold among senior citizens. They should be kept busy in their routine life. More interaction with senior citizens is the need of the hour. Senior citizens can do yoga, read books and newspaper, listen to music, sing, dance and go for morning and evening walks to enjoy the flora and fauna. They must learn new things to reduce the stress level, which otherwise leads to suicide.Col TBS Bedi (Retd), MohaliNeed source of entertainmentThe fear of coronavirus has created stress in minds of the people, particularly elders. Suicides cases have been increasing in the tricity, but these cannot be directly related to the virus. There is a dire need to look after elders, who stay alone. Awareness through counselling may help elders to de stress. As elders cannot socialise during the pandemic, they need some source of entertainment. Regular visits, phone calls, small gifts on anniversaries and birthdays can help elders feel better. People living in elders’ vicinity must speak and listen to them regularly so that they feel part of society.Wg Cdr Jasbir Singh Minhas (Retd), MohaliLaunch mobile app for elderlyA mobile app solely meant for senior citizens necessity can be designed. All essentials must be provided to them safely and on time. A dedicated TV channel for senior citizens, which shows religious lectures, motivational talks, news and health-related shows can also be started. Also, the authorities concerned must hire volunteers, who conduct a regular survey on senior citizens. Children must stay in contact with their elders and spend happy time with them.Jasleen Kaur, MohaliMake parks people-friendlyMan is a social animal. The spread of Covid-19 has led to social distancing and lockdown, which has affected mental health of especially those, who are not computer savvy. Senior citizens come under this category. Younger members of the family do not permit elderly to move out. Although they are right, yet this has adversely affected the mental level of elderly. The administration should start mobile libraries with good and suitable books for senior citizens. Programmes based on religion and how to cope with stress and seclusion can be aired in the mornings and evenings on radio and TV. All parks should be made people friendly by providing benches so that elderly can sit after short walk and chat with peer groups.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhOrganise feast to boost moraleThe elderly have no one to talk to or share their problems. Earlier, many people regularly visited old age homes to meet them, but now the practice has stopped due to the pandemic. Organising a feast for the elderly might boost their moral and make them happy. It might prevent senior citizens from taking the extreme step.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhYoga, exercise can drive away boredomOur senior citizens urgently need online counseling sessions for stress busting. Senior citizens should make yoga and daily exercise a routine so that they can lead a healthy lifestyle. They can also benefit from online yoga classes to keep themselves engaged and drive away boredom and loneliness due to physical distancing.Dikshant Dhanda, ChandigarhSocial interaction can keep stress awayThe Covid-19 pandemic has really changed the way we lived our lives. Senior citizens need social interaction to keep stress away, which Covid has hindered. So, they are getting depressed and resorting to suicides. We can call on senior citizens to inquire about their well being. We can even visit them while maintaining physical distance. Immediate family members of such people should be in regular touch with them. Social organisations can come forward to supply essentials to the elderly. Moreover, they should listen to gurbani and bhajans and watch programmes based on religion to keep themselves away from negative thoughts.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhInsecurity gives way to helplessnessObviously, senior citizens in the tricity, especially those living alone, feel unsecure amid the Covid-19 pandemic. They are more vulnerable to negativity, which burdens their minds with unpleasant thoughts, including suicidal attempts. Their insecurity is more attributable to their helplessness to move out for essentials and medicines. Therefore, there is a right opportunity for all those volunteers associated with various NGOs in the tricity to come forward to help old people by providing them essential items. There is no better service than the service to humanity at this critical juncture.Hardeep Singh Sulach, MohaliStart online portal for sharing problemsThe Administration should start online portal for senior citizens to let them share their problems. Database of senior citizens of each sector should be maintained. Officials can reach senior citizens through video and audio calling so that the latter can come up with their pent up feelings. Whatsapp group can be formed to keep the elderly busy in good reading content and chatting. Online debates, group discussions and poetry recitation can be organised for the elderly. The authorities concerned can take senior citizens help for imparting moral values among students through storytelling sessions and citing their own life experiences. Volunteers of NGOs can roped in for visiting and interacting with senior citizens.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliLoneliness not entirely to blameThere may be other reasons too for suicides. But blaming it on the loneliness etc due to lockdown may have become a trend these days to hide the real reason. It’s right to limit going out as far as possible for old people due to the Covid-19 pandemic. I am 72-year-old and go out of home only when it becomes necessary. Local markets, I go on foot with face mask on. For far off sectors, I go on Activa or car, but with full precaution. “Stay safe, stay healthy” is my moto. Wish all the same.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhDiscuss family matters with themIt is not justified to blame only pandemic for recent suicide cases in the tricity. Senior citizens should be respected by the family members. Children should spend some time with elders to discuss domestic/family matters and drive away their loneliness. Elders should be allowed to move out, but reduce social interaction.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliSelf-centered attitude may be a reasonIt has continuously been propagated over different media that the virus can affect the elderly because of less immunity and minimum chances of recovery. Consequently, they have to compulsorily remain indoors. During confinement like conditions, possibly they get depressed and have suicidal thoughts. But, with the passage of time as the overall situation will improve, number of suicide cases would subside. Family members should keep an eye on behaviour of their elders. They should make elders feel better emotionally and physically to avoid undesirable happenings.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliKin should give them company isolation is big punishmentDue to the Covid-19 pandemic all residents particularly senior citizens are facing a lot of problems. When things were normal senior citizens regularly met in groups in parks and exchanged their happiness and sorrows. Due to restrictions such gatherings are not possible. As such senior citizens feel isolated. This could be main cause of their depression. Isolation is the biggest punishment. Now, family members of senior citizens should come to their rescue and spare time for them. They should give elders good company, have discussions, try to entertain them and never let them feel isolated till the restoration of normalcy.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliIncrease retirement age to 70 yearsThe words — senior citizen — is a state of mind. If a person is physically fit and able to walk and talk, he/she is as good as a normal citizen. In the West, for many jobs there is no retirement age. One is the teaching profession in universities. We think that anyone over 60 years is a burden. The average life span in the country is increasing. Hence, we should increase the retirement age to 70 years. This step will ensure total engagement of senior citizens for nation building. It will keep them involved. They will have the freedom to move out and interact socially.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurTreat them with compassionA sizable chunk of the elderly population tops the tally of suicides committed during the out-stretched corona-induced lockdown, which is quite worrying. Truth be told. Incidents of depression, suicides, et al, which were unheard of during the times gone by, have increased manifold due to stressful lives. To cope with the growing menace, we need to go an extra mile to keep the elderly in good spirits. They may be given the leeway to de-stress themselves from the home-bound existence. The more they are involved in household chores, the more de-stressed they would be. We may ask our children to spend quality time with their grandparents, chatting off their old-age blues and stresses and strains. They can watch mythological soap operas and other programmes, which give tips to stay happy and healthy. We need to understand that the elderly need nothing but our personal attention and cheer on our faces.Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhBe happy and stress freeProlonged curbs, stay-at-home and curtailed public transport have adversely impacted our interaction. Generation-gap under one roof piles up feelings, which don’t vent and depression sets in. When blandishment of life are gone the coward sneaks to death and the brave lives on. This calls for building of mental resilience and ability to adapt to and cope up with adversities. “Nemo repente, fuit turpissimus” (no one becomes extremely vicious all at once). The elderly need to cultivate flexibility in dealing with different age groups in their family. Golden rule to be happy and stress-free, is to make others happy. To cope up with stress at community level, books, media and electronic gadget are our refuge to share and care when social meetings are taboo.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaElderly should Accept winds of ChangeIn fast changing society, senior citizens exhibit their displeasure for the new style of living. On the other hand, the young generation is quite impatient and aggressive in its thinking. This is a sparking point, which sets all relations on fire because ideology and preferences are poles apart. There should be an understanding between both generations. Elders have to embrace winds of change, but at the same time, young people must realise that one day they also will get old.Anita Tandon, KhararMental health services inadequateIncreasing suicides, particularly among senior citizens, in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic is a serious issue and needs right focus to deal with. Our mental health services are grossly inadequate in resources and awareness. We are awfully short of psychiatrists at the national level, having just around 9,000, which means one doctor for one lakh persons. As per the WHO, there should be at least three doctors for one lakh people. It’s time we boost the National Mental Health Programme (NMHP) and reduce suicide cases in the country. We need to discuss mental health openly. Let us reach out to senior citizens and help them with kindness and reassurance. Let us make our young mentally strong by encouraging them to face challenges of life head on.Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttShift them to community centresThe recent spurt in suicides among senior citizens can certainly be attributed to the current pandemic that has deprived them of the freedom to move out of their homes. Strolling within premises is the best non-formal exercise that refreshes both body and mind. The authorities concerned in tandem with sons and daughters of the house would do well to shift their elders to the sector community centres, school halls, and other suitable places. There they should be provided entertainment such as TV, movies and music. Of course, those in charge of such amenities should ensure that instructions regarding wearing mask and social distancing are followed strictly by one and all. However, elders must be allowed to use such facilities on their own so that they have a feeling of being in control.Dr SS Bhatti, ChandigarhSociety should take care of themSenior citizens are more prone to suicidal tendency. There are many factors responsible for it, including lack of interaction, filial ingratitude, physical ailments, expensive medical treatment and heart-rending news on the TV and media. They have served society for 70 years or more. Now, it is responsibility of society to take care of them. Neighbours, NGOs, police, nodal officers and SHOs should maintain liaison with elders. They are like kids and society must behave like parents to take care of them.S Chaudhary, MohaliRevive old family bondsSuicide is not a normal response to stress. Suicidal thoughts or actions are a sign of extreme distress and should not be ignored. With the right knowledge, family and friends can recognise warning signs of suicide. This can be the first step towards helping an at-risk individual find treatment of mental health conditions. This pandemic has made everyone home bound, especially senior citizens. Just make sure to spend time together and talk as much as possible to know what is happening in their lives. We must realise the dire need to bring back family bonding to have a peaceful and stress-free life.Dr Shruti K Chawla, ChandigarhConfinement no reason for suicideStaying indoors cannot be blamed for suicides. The elderly have experienced harsh time such as wars, emergency, Partition and leprosy in the country. Social isolation of elderly is a concern and needs to be addressed. There might have been multiple personal problems to commit suicide. A person needs to be self-motivated and active in some productive work.Dr Shailja Beniwal, ChandigarhQUESTIONWith the tricity reporting 60 to 65 Covid cases on an average every day, do you think Haryana and Punjab were justified in turning down the UT’s proposal for a total weekend curfew from Friday 7 pm to Monday 6 am in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dont-ignore-signs-of-depression-opt-for-treatment-118297
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Prostitution racket busted in Sector 52, Chandigarh||The UT police busted a prostitution racket operating from a hotel in Kajheri, Sector 52, here, on Saturday night. Ten women were rescued from the hotel.The police have registered a case against eight persons, including a woman. Of this, five persons have been arrested. The police had a tip-off that a sex racket was being operated from Hotel Moonlight. A decoy customer was sent to the hotel before carrying out the raid.As soon as the decoy customer handed over the money, a police team raided the hotel. Ten women, who were forced into the prostitution, were rescued from the hotel.The police said a case had been registered against a pimp, Poonam, two brothers, who run the hotel, identified as Gaurav Sharma and Hrithik Sharma, hotel manager Jovanjeet Singh, Rahul, Rajesh Kumar, Rocky and building owner Shupinder Singh at the Sector 36 police station. Five suspects were arrested in the case. They were produced before a court, which sent them to judicial custody. The women have been handed over to their families. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prostitution-racket-busted-in-sector-52-chandigarh-118295
27-07-2020||Chandigarh||Drunk driver rams BMW into rotary||A Panchkula resident riding a BMW in an inebriated condition rammed the car into the Sector 3/4/9/10 roundabout here on Saturday night. The police have impounded the vehicle and registered a case against the driver.The BMW was being driven by Ujwaldeep Singh of Sector 27, Panchkula. The police were informed about the incident following which a PCR team reached the spot. The suspect was taken to a hospital for medical examination and he was found to be driving under inebriated condition.A team of the traffic police also inspected the accident spot. The police said a case under Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act had been registered against the suspect at the Sector 3 police station. An investigation has been initiated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/drunk-driver-rams-bmw-into-rotary-118302
27-07-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||EO order set aside, relief for Sector 17 property owners||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 26In a major relief to owners of various properties in Sector 17, the Chief Administrator, UT, quashed the order of the Estate Officer wherein the appellant was directed to deposit the additional premium on account of extra floor.The Chief Administrator, in an appeal filed by M/S Kapsons Agencies Private Limited in respect of SCOs 136, 137 and 138 in Sector 17, set aside the order issued by the Estate Office on October 6, 2017, and remanded back the matter to the Estate Officer to take a judicious decision by taking into consideration the issues raised by the counsel in the appeal, which was filed by Advocates SK Jain and Vikas Jain.“The building plans of the site were sanctioned in 1975 and the temporary sewerage connection was taken in 1976, prior to the issuance of the notification of 1981 regarding extra floor. Then how the composition fee is demanded in the case,” argued Vikas Jain. The counsel for the Estate Office failed to show anything in support of his contention and to rebut the contention of the counsel for the appellant.In the order, SDM Nazuk Kumar, excising the powers of the Estate Officer, stated: “The imposition of composition fee on account of extra floor in this case shall be against the principles of natural justice. As per the decision taken in a meeting held on March 18, 2005, it was explicitly decided that in cases where the sewerage connection issued in the validity period prior to the issuance of notification for extra floor in 1981, it is not justified to levy composition fee in such cases and there was no condition that the building should have been constructed up to fifth floor before the issuance of notification of 1981.”The High Court in the case has also noted that "Architectural control designs of SCOs in Sector 17 were introduced only in 1981, which permitted the construction of five number of floors on payment of extra charges but such conditions cannot be applied retrospectively to the building plans already sanctioned”.The circular had been issued in 2005 for charging composition fee by the UT Administration, but the same had been approved in 2016, after a gap of 11 years only when the Punjab and Haryana High Court had issued the contempt notice for the approval of circular, said Jain.“This case will have direct bearing on 83 cases of similar nature of Sector 17, which are still pending before the Estate Office,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eo-order-set-aside-relief-for-sector-17-property-owners-118271
27-07-2020||---||Covid-19: Chandigarh sees 14th death, biggest spike||Chandigarh, July 26A 67-year-old man from Sector 38 succumbed to Covid-19 at the Civil Hospital in Sector 48 here today, taking the toll to 14 in the city.The patient was admitted to the PGI on July 6 and discharged on July 14. Since then, he was at a quarantine centre. He was shifted to the Sector 48 hospital after his condition deteriorated.Meanwhile, Chandigarh saw the highest-ever single-day spike of 35 Covid-19 cases today. With the fresh cases, the tally rose to 887 in the UT. The previous single-day high of 31 cases was reported on July 18.July has so far witnessed the maximum number of coronavirus cases i.e. 441. The patient load in the city has also increased with 301 active cases.Around 34 per cent of the total cases are still active, while the remaining patients have been discharged from Covid health facilities.With the highest spike in the number of cases, the official media bulletin was released with diluted information about the patients.One person each from Sector 15, 23, 24, 30, 32, 35, Maloya, PGI Campus and Raipur Khurd tested positive for Covid-19 today. Two persons each from Sector 19, 37, Dhanas, Ram Darbar, Mauli Jagran and Mani Majra were found infected, while three cases each were reported from Sector 21, 40, 41 and 47.A 28-year-old man from Sector 15, a 27-year-old man from Sector 23, a 48-year-old man from Sector 32, a 31-year-old man from Sector 35, a 69-year-old man from Sector 42, a 51-year-old man from Maloya, a 30-year-old man from the PGI Campus and a 39-year-old man from Raipur Khurd contracted the infection.A seven-year-old girl from Sector 24, a 35-year-old woman from Sector 30 and a six-year-old girl from Sector 48 were found infected.Two men, aged 52 and 28, from Sector 19, and a 12-year-old girl, a 20-year-old woman and an 11-year-old boy from Sector 21 were among those infected. A 50-year-old man and a 45-year-old woman from Sector 37 were diagnosed with Covid-19.Two men, aged 43 and 29, and a 45-year-old woman from Sector 40, two men, aged 23 and 20, and a 52-year-old woman from Sector 41 were also infected. A 14-year-old boy, a 27-year-old man and a 47-year-old man from Sector 47 were found suffering from the disease. Two men, aged 42 and 43, from Dhanas, two men, aged 46 and 34, from Mani Majra and two boys, aged 19 and 17, from Ram Darbar were found positive. An 11-year-old girl and a 45-year-old man from Mauli Jagran also contracted the infection. Meanwhile, 17 patients were discharged from Sood Dharamshala and Shri Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College & Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-sees-14th-death-biggest-spike-118272
27-07-2020||Mohali||4 held with drugs, fake currency||9 new cases in Fatehgarh SahibFatehgarh Sahib: Nine new positive Covid cases were reported from the district on Sunday. The Civil Surgeon, Dr NK Aggarwal, said the patients were two migrant labourers from Bihar, three from Sirhind, one from Khamano, one from Chanarthal Kalan, one from Nandpur Kalour and one from Mohali. Meanwhile, as many as 186 patients had been cured and discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital, the Civil Surgeon added. TNSMan held with 50-gm heroinChandigarh: The crime branch of the UT police arrested a 42-year-old man after he was found possessing 50 grams of heroin. According to the police, the suspect, identified as Ravinder Kumar, alias Kala, a resident of Sector 7, was nabbed near the Sector 26/7 light point on July 25. A case was registered against him under the NDPS Act at the Sector 26 police station. The suspect was produced in a court, which sent him to judicial custody. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-held-with-drugs-fake-currency-118303
27-07-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Only 5 of 650 evacuees found infected in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, July 26Less than one per cent of the Mohali residents stranded abroad and came back home by evacuation flights tested positive for Covid.A total of 650 stranded passengers, including residents of the town and NRIs, arrived at the Chandigarh international airport till July 16 and only five of them were found infected. Their contacts, including family members, were traced to contain the further spread of the virus.A total of 22 evacuation flights, operated under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate Indians stranded abroad, carrying 3,500 passengers had arrived at the airport in the past two months. The first flight carrying 100 passengers from the USA had arrived on May 22. Since then, flights carrying passengers from various places, including Auckland, Dubai, Sharjah, Kuwait and Ukraine, reached India. Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said while conducting screening, health officials took utmost precautions and the passengers also maintained social distancing. He said all passengers were also impressed upon by health teams deployed at the airport to take all Covid-related precautions such as covering face with a mask, using hand sanitisers, washing hands as much as possible and observing social distancing guidelines.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the need of the hour was to identify those who came from other districts so that they could be placed under isolation or quarantine. He said door-to-door sampling was on the cards and if need be, they would start with vulnerable areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-5-of-650-evacuees-found-infected-in-mohali-118304
27-07-2020||Mohali||Gangster Buttar to be produced in court today||A hardcore gangster, John Buttar, who got injured in an encounter with the police at Kharar on Friday, will be produced in a local court tomorrow.Buttar was undergoing treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh, as he had sustained two bullets on his legs during the encounter at Aman Homes in Kharar. He was discharged from the hospital today.DSP Bikramjit Singh Brar of the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) said, “We have arrested John Buttar today after he was discharged from the hospital. He will be produced in a local court on Monday. We will seek his police remand for a thorough investigation. The other four gangsters arrested after the encounter are being interrogated.”Kulwinder, alias Kinda, and Palwinder Singh, alias Pinda, all residents of Buttar Kalan, Moga, Amritpal Singh of Manupur, Samrala, and Amrik Singh, alias Angrez Singh, a resident of Lopon, Samrala, who were arrested after the encounter were produced in a court yesterday and were sent to a five-day police remand.The five gangsters were nabbed by the OCCU, in a joint operation with the Mohali and Jagraon police. The police had also recovered six weapons and a Jeep from them. An FIR was registered at the Kharar (Sadar) police station under Sections 307, 353, 186 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangster-buttar-to-be-produced-in-court-today-118299
27-07-2020||Mohali||25 new Covid-19 cases, Mohali goes past 700 mark||The Covid count of the district crossed the 700 mark with 25 more cases surfacing today. The tally now stands at 715. Sixteen patients were discharged from hospital today, taking the number of recoveries in the district to 451.Those found infected with the virus include a 56-year-old man of Omega City, Kharar, a 29-year-old woman of Sector 66, a 79-year-old woman of Phase 3B2, a 37-year-old man of Aman City in Kharar, a 55-year-old man of Sunny Enclave, a 30-year-old woman of Sector 76, a 29-year-old woman of Phase 1, a 37-year-old woman of Phase XI, two men of Kharar, both aged 31, a 23-year-old youth of Sector 99, a 43-year-old man of Chao Majra village and a 23-year-old woman of AKS Colony. Besides, two women of Eco City, New Chandigarh, aged 33 and 52, three women, aged 45, 27 and 30, and a 60-year-old man of Dera Bassi and four women, aged 21, 22, 23 and 24, a 26-year-old youth and a 52-year-old man of Zirakpur were also found infected. All of them have been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Meanwhile, 16 patients were discharged from hospital today. As of now, the district has 250 active cases while 451 patients have been discharged and 14 died of the disease. — TNS9 staffers test +veZirakpur: AMCARE, a private hospital on VIP Road, was sealed on Sunday as nine of its employees, including the head of the ICU and nursing staff, tested positive for Covid. The head of the ICU, a resident of Silver City, is admitted to the hospital while the other employees are in home isolation. Health officials are also probing the death of a hospital employee, suspecting it to be a Covid fatality. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/25-new-covid-19-cases-mohali-goes-past-700-mark-118287
27-07-2020||---||Two flights bring home 341 persons stranded abroad||Mohali, July 26Two evacuation flights, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indians abroad, carrying 341 passengers landed at the Chandigarh international airport here today.No passenger was found suffering from fever, cough or cold and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus. — Spokesperson, Health DepartmentAn Air India Express flight carrying 167 evacuated Indians from Sharjah arrived here at 3.30 am. A SpiceJet flight carrying 174 Indians from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) landed at the airport at 5.05 pm.Till now, 25 international flights carrying 4,018 stranded Indian passengers from various countries have landed at the Chandigarh airport.All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab, Haryana and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined as per the government guidelines.A Health Department spokesperson said health officials took utmost precaution during the screening and passengers also maintained social distancing. He said no passenger was found suffering from fever, cough or cold and all were asymptomatic for coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-flights-bring-home-341-persons-stranded-abroad-118291
27-07-2020||Panchkula||19 Panchkula natives found infected||The district today reported 29 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total infection count to 432. However, only 19 cases were added to the Panchkula tally.According to the daily bulletin, four infected persons are still untraced and six are from outside the district. A 59-year-old man of Sector 6, a five-year-old boy of Sector 11, a three-year-old boy of Sector 21, a 35-year-old woman of Barwala, a 24-year-old youth of Barwala, a 24-year-old woman of Sector 21 and a 22-year-old woman of Kundi village are among those who contracted the infection today.A 34-year-old man of Pinjore, a 46-year-old man of Sector 8, a 31-year-old man of Sector 12-A, a 21-year-old youth of Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 4, a 49-year-old man of Jaloli and a 34-year-old woman of Sector 21 were also found infected. A 30-year-old woman, a 61-year-old man and a three-year-old boy of Sector 19 too were diagnosed with Covid-19. A 58-year-old woman, a three-year-old girl and a seven-year-old boy of Nada Sahib were also found infected. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-panchkula-natives-found-infected-118293
