27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 2 deaths and 188 COVID-19 cases; death toll 43||Chandigarh reported two deaths and 188 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the Union Territory's death toll to 43.So far, this is the highest single-day rise in the city.The city's coronavirus tally stands at 3,566.COVID-19 deaths:A 75-year-old male—a resident of Sector 46—died at GMCH-32. He tested positive on 24th August. He had severe acute respiratory failure.Another, 54-year-old male—a resident of Sector 41—was detected with high uncontrollable sugar. He tested positive on 21st August. He also had a complex lung injury, that led to respiratory failure and cardiac arrest at GMCH-32.Meanwhile, the city has 1,544 active cases.About 181 patients recovered from the deadly disease, and were discharged from the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-2-deaths-and-188-covid-19-cases-death-toll-43-132254
27-08-2020||---||Chitkara University collaborates with Parexel international; offers 2-year M.Sc program||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh/Punjab, August 27Chitkara University has announced the launch of a 2-year M.Sc Program in Pharmacovigilance & Clinical research, in collaboration with Parexel—a leading provider of solutions to accelerate the development and delivery of innovative new therapies to improve world health—from Clinical through Commercialisation.The program is aimed at addressing the concern of talent crunch in the pharmacovigilance industry and contribute towards building the research and development capacity of India.The 2-year master’s degree program in Pharmacovigilance & Clinical research is designed to create skilled and competent professionals who can work effectively at different levels in Pharmacovigilance departments of leading Pharma companies and Clinical Research Organizations (CROs) in India as well as around the world.Parexel, a leading CRO, will provide industry and curriculum support from its Parexel Academy as a part of the collaboration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chitkara-university-collaborates-with-parexel-international-offers-2-year-m-sc-program-132251
27-08-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports one death and 128 COVID-19 cases; death toll 68||Mohali reports one death and 128 fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the district death toll to 68. The COVID-19 tally stands at 3,165.A 63-year-old woman succumbed to the deadly disease. She was admitted to Mayo Hospital because of an accident and was tested for COVID-19. She was found positive.Meanwhile, at least 41 patients have recovered from the disease.While 1,415 cases are still active, 1,682 have been cured and discharged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-one-death-and-128-covid-19-cases-death-toll-68-132248
27-08-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 2 deaths and 94 COVID-19 cases; death toll 15||Panchkula reported two deaths and 94 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the district's death toll to 15.Coronavirus tally stands at 1,923 in Panchkula.A 75-year-old man, who is a resident of Sector 17, succumbed to the deadly disease at Civil Hospital, Sector 6.He had diabetes.Another, 60-year-old woman from Manakpur village, who was suffering from diabetes, passed away at the same hospital due to COVID-19.While 730 cases are still active, 1,178 patients have been cured and discharged.Till date, Panchkula has conducted 31,000 COVID tests, of which 28,005 have come out negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-2-deaths-and-94-covid-19-cases-death-toll-15-132238
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||RLA office to remain closed for 3 days||The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) office in Sector 17 will remain closed from August 27 to 29, as two of the staff members have been tested positive for coronavirus.During this period, the office premises will be sanitised and the services will be resumed on August 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rla-office-to-remain-closed-for-3-days-132222
27-08-2020||---||Chandigarh MC office sealed after Social Development Officer tests COVID positive||Chandigarh, August 27A part of Chandigarh Municipal Corporation’s office on Thursday has been sealed for 48 hours after Social Development Officer Vivek Trivedi tested positive for COVID-19.He was into public dealing with street vendors and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-office-sealed-after-social-development-officer-tests-covid-positive-132176
27-08-2020||---||Landslide on Chandigarh-Manali, Pathankot-Manali highway; traffic blocked||Mandi, August 27The Chandigarh-Manali highway got blocked for traffic movement on Thursday morning due to a massive landslide at Hanogi and Aut tunnel.Heavy rains lashed the Mandi region whole night, which triggered the landslides at several places.Owing the landslide, the traffic movement has become standstill on the highway between Mandi and Kullu and a large number of vehicles have been stranded in the area and a line of vehicles was seen at Hanogi and Aut.Similarly, the alternate route via Kataula between Mandi and Kullu was also blocked for traffic movement due to the landslide just a few kilometres away from Mandi.The Pathankot-Manali highway has also been blocked for traffic movement since morning after a massive landslide was reported near Bijni in Mandi.The district administration has engaged its workforce and machinery to clear these highways for traffic movement.“It is expected that in the next few hours, these highways will be restored for traffic movement,” said a police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/landslide-on-chandigarh-manali-pathankot-manali-highway-traffic-blocked-132161
27-08-2020||Panchkula||No evening OPDs at Sec 6 hospital||4 thrash Sec 46 resident, bookedChandigarh: Four persons have been booked for allegedly thrashing a Sector 46 resident. According to the police, complainant Veeru reported that Konda, Kanda, Ajju, Manish and others assaulted him at Tin Colony, Sector 52. He was injured and admitted to the GMSH, Sector 16. The police have registered a case at the Sector 36 police station. TNSPU VC office shut for two daysChandigarh: The administrative block and Aruna Ranjit Chandra Hall of Panjab University will remain closed for two days on August 27 and 28 following a suspected case of Covid-19, said Prof Karamjeet Singh, Registrar, PU. All officers, including deputy registrars and assistant registrars posted in these blocks, will seek information from officials under their charge as to whether they had any contact with the employee who has been found positive. The building, which houses the Vice-Chancellor’s office, the DUI and the Dean Research, has been closed and will open on August 31. TNSAward in disaster managementMohali: The Government of India has instituted an annual national award called Subhash Chandra Bose Aapda Prabandhan Puraskar to recognise the excellent work done by individuals and institutions in the field of disaster management. The applications for the award for the year 2021 can be filed online on the website dmawards.ndma.gov.in. The last date for filing the application is August 31. A link of the portal is also being created on the website of the district administration to encourage maximum nominations of deserving individuals and institutes. TNSTeachers not following normsChandigarh: The Chandigarh Residents Social Welfare Federation has written to UT Adviser Manoj Parida complaining about “unauthorised functioning of teachers during the Covid-19 pandemic”. DS Chahal, chairman of the federation, said even though no online classes were being taken by some schools, teachers were being called to the schools. They did not wear a mask and observe social distancing. “Some teachers in Sector 39 and 40 schools are working even on Saturdays. May be many more schools are doing it. An inquiry should be initiated and all such schools be identified,” Chahal added. TNSPhones given to needy studentsPanchkula: Philanthropist-actor Sonu Sood and Karan Gilhotra, Chairman, PHDCCI, Punjab, have initiated a drive to facilitate online education of underprivileged students. Recently, they provided smartphones to some students of Government Senior Secondary School, Morni, who had been unable to join online classes in absence of a smartphone. School principal Pawan Jain said of the 190 students in the school, 20 per cent did not have a smartphone. TNSRise in cut-offPatiala: The first cut-off for admission to BA (Honours) Social Sciences at Punjabi University for the upcoming session has gone up to 95.6 per cent from 89.8 per cent last year. Department officials said the merit topper this year had 99.56 per cent in Class XII. They said 1,308 applications had been received. Last year, the number was 684. TNSSavita Bhatti awardedChandigarh: The Parivartan Welfare Association awarded 16 women from across the country with Inspirational Women Award 2020 on Women Equality Day . Awardees from the region include actress Savita Bhatti, singer Dolly Guleria, Panchkula former Mayor Upinder Ahluwalia, BJP leader Paramjit Kaur , etc. TNSTheft at Mauli Jagran houseChandigarh: A theft incident was reported at a house in Mauli Jagran. The complainant, Rihan Ansari, reported that unknown persons had stolen jewellery and documents from his sister’s house in Charan Singh Colony, Mauli Jagran, on the intervening night of August 21 and 22. A case has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station and an investigation has been initiated. The police on Wednesday arrested Sahil, alias Lado, Sagar, Ajmat Ali and Salu, alias Shanu, all residents of Mauli Jagran, for committing the theft at the house in Charan Singh Colony. TNSUP native nabbed with 1.1-kg opiumChandigarh: The crime branch of the UT police nabbed a Uttar Pradesh (UP) resident while possessing opium. According to the police, 26-year-old Arif Saefi, alias Mohammad Arif, a resident of Bareli district, UP, was nabbed from near the Sukhna choe bridge, Industrial Area, Phase I, while possessing 1.1 kg of opium. The police have registered a case against the suspect under the NDPS Act at the Industrial Area police station. TNSIrregular travel: 8 apprehendedChandigarh: The Ambala Division of the Northern Railway has launched a 15-day intensive ticket checking drive to curb fraudulent travelling and touting activities. It was observed that some passengers were engaged in unauthorised travelling on transfer of tickets (TOT) and also misusing the senior citizen quota. In several cases, younger passengers were found travelling with Xerox of tickets booked on the senior citizen quota. On the first day of the drive, two teams of 12 ticket-checking staff found eight cases of irregular travel. Among those, one case was of transfer of ticket (passenger found travelling on ticket booked for another one) while another case was of misuse of the senior citizen quota. The teams apprehended all eight persons. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-evening-opds-at-sec-6-hospital-132089
27-08-2020||---||Campaign for women inmates||Chandigarh, August 26Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, and Executive Chairman, State Legal Services Authority, UT, launched a campaign to enhance legal services to women inmates and their accompanying children in the Model Jail, Chandigarh.Justice Jaswant said women prisoners constituted a vulnerable group in prisons due to their gender. Most ofthe women prisoners lacked awareness about their rights.The objective is to make them aware about their rights and also of the functioning of the legal services.The District Legal Services Authority shall form a team consisting of lawyers, a woman psychologist and an official from the Department of Women and Child and an official each from the Departments of Prison and Education and a representative from NGOs to help the prisoners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/campaign-for-women-inmates-132083
27-08-2020||---||Sewage-laced drinking water has Zirakpur residents fuming||Zirakpur, August 26Local residents have alleged that they were getting water mixed with sewage for the past three to four days.Residents in Baltana, Bhabat and nearby housing societies are forced to buy bottled water for drinking as there is a risk of diseases.A social worker from a welfare society distributed 40 cans of drinking water among the residents and promised to get the broken sewage line restored in a day or two.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sewage-laced-drinking-water-has-zirakpur-residents-fuming-132082
27-08-2020||---||Zirakpur residents, traders confused over restrictions||Mohali, August 26Four days after the Mohali administration imposed a weekend curfew and additional restrictions in all municipal towns and cities of the district to check the rapid spread of Covid-19, there is still a lot of confusion about the dos and don’ts among the residents, particularly shopkeepers.In Zirakpur, many residents complained that they only came to know of the odd-even system in the markets on Saturday after they found shops closed. Some traders chose to open the shops despite the curbs, which created confusion.“On some days, the shops are shut and on some days, these are open. There is no fixed pattern,” said Bhagyashree Sharma, a housewife and resident of Savitri Greens, Zirakpur.Charanjit Ahuja, who owns an electrical shop on VIP Road, said, “Even police officials are not sure of the exact timings and the category of shops allowed to open on a given day. They just come and ask shopkeepers to close the shops in the evening when more people venture out.”On August 22, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan had ordered that, “the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain prohibited between 7 pm and 5am within the municipal limits of the district throughout the week”.“The movement of persons and students in connection with all kinds of examination and admission/entrance test conducted by universities, boards, public service commissions and other institutions shall be permitted on the production of ID cards, admit cards.Shops/malls can open from Monday to Friday till 6.30 pm,” the order read.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-residents-traders-confused-over-restrictions-131917
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Olympic Association to discuss State Games on August 30||Having not organised a single tourney in their current term of four years, the Chandigarh Olympic Association (COA) has called upon their annual general meeting on August 30 to decide on the dates for organising the Chandigarh State Games amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Despite having a dedicated office at Sector 44, the COA has conveyed to its members that the meeting will be held at a five-star hotel in the Industrial Area. “This refers to an earlier letter dated March 26, 2020, regarding postponing of executive committee meeting and annual general meeting of the COA due to the lockdown in the city. The meeting shall be held on August 30 (5 pm) at Hotel Hyatt Regency. Agenda: Confirmation of last meeting, financial status of association- treasurer report, general secretary report, affiliation/disaffiliation of association, to finalise dates for the Chandigarh State Games, to finalise dates for election for next term keeping in view Covid-19 and any other point with the permission of chair,” stated the circular. The meeting is also important as the next elections of the COA are scheduled in November. The house will not only discuss about the election dates, but will also look into affiliation/disaffiliation process of the associations, as only affiliated units have the right to choose the next house.Earlier this year, the COA proposed to seek approval of the house for organising the State Games from August 23 to 27. The last event the COA had organised was in 2012 by the name of ‘Mini Olympics’, a sponsored event, while the full-fledged State Games were held in October 2005. “There’s is uncertainty over conducting championship and even elections. The elections can be preponed to October or September. We will take decision as per the situation,” said Maha Singh, general secretary, COA.Grants, tracksuits for meritorious sportspersonsThe association has reportedly distributed a grant of Rs10,000 to associations/players and also announced to give tracksuits to meritorious sportspersons, which is perhaps for the first time in these four years ahead of its elections. Maha Singh said, “Earlier, they (players) used to practice, but now they do only physical activity so they must need money for diet.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-olympic-association-to-discuss-state-games-on-august-30-131918
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Online contest for teachers on New Education Policy||The Ministry of Education, in partnership with MyGov, is organising an online competition for teachers on ‘Preparation of communication material relating to the National Education Policy (NEP 2020)’. The competition will be held at the school level first. Thereafter, the next selection will be done at block/district/state level. All entries selected at the district level will be called for state level by the State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT). An online competition for teachers in the city schools will begin between September 5 and 19 and it will continue between September 21 and September 26 at the cluster level. A district-level committee  will select 20 best entries at cluster level. Then a state-level committee will assess the 10 best entries at state level. The 10 best entries will be exhibited in State Education Department and the SCERT website from October 15 onwards. These entries will be submitted for national-level selection at the link supplied by the NCERT. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-contest-for-teachers-on-new-education-policy-131919
27-08-2020||---||ASHA workers intensify stir, demand better pay||Panchkula, August 26Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers today intensified their protest by “unsuccessfully” marching towards the Haryana Vidhan Sabha in Chandigarh when its session was underway.Hundreds of protesters from four districts of the state were stopped by heavy police force while they were on their way from Yavnika Park in Sector 5 here to Chandigarh.Sitting at the site, protesters under the banner of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) raised slogans against the government for not paying heed to their long-pending demands.They even tried to break police barriers at the site. However, the police defeated their attempts. The traffic on the Chandigarh-Panchkula border was also affected throughout the day.With the gathering of hundreds of protestors, social distancing norms went for a toss. ASHA workers had been on strike since August 7 in support of their demands, which include the government should treat them like its employees, minimum income of Rs24,000 per month, risk allowance of Rs4,000. Apart from this, the government should continue its incentive-based system and withdraw its decision of deducting money from activities being done by ASHA workers, proper personal equipment kits and implementation of insurance cover.The workers union had given a call to intensify their protest and gherao Haryana Vidhan Sabha over state government not paying to their demands.Vandana, the elected president of Asha Workers Union of Panchkula, said, “Our delegation had gone to meet higher authorities. We won’t leave the site until the deliberation reaches some conclusion.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/asha-workers-intensify-stir-demand-better-pay-131921
27-08-2020||---||At Patiala factory, 67 workers test positive||Patiala, August 26As many as 67 workers of a thread factory in Samana town of the district tested positive for Covid today.The Health Department said 120 workers of the factory were tested, of which 67 were found infected with the disease.The tests were conducted at the factory after three workers had developed Covid symptoms and later tested positive. 2 deaths, 42 new cases in Fatehgarh SahibThe thread factory has already been closed for public dealing. All workers, who had tested positive for the virus, had been isolated at the factory as they were asymptomatic, said a health officer.Hundreds of positive cases have already been reported from mills and factories of the district this week.It has been learned that hundreds of migrant workers were transported to the district in private buses without registration.The Health Department has already advised the factory owners to have staggered shifts. The department has suggested them to have meals at different time. The factory owners have also been suggested to have different entry and exit timings to and from the workplace to reduce maximum contact between the workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-patiala-factory-67-workers-test-positive-131922
27-08-2020||---||Court denies bail to former cook||Chandigarh, August 26The court of Additional Sessions Judge Rajesh Sharma has denied bail to an 18-year-old youth, who allegedly attacked his former employer and advocate on March 17 this year.An FIR was registered on the statement of a Sector 9 resident, Ritu Sethi, who had alleged that Mukesh and his friend attacked her husband and advocate Amit Singh Sethi on March 17 around 10.45 am. She said her husband was attacked while he was trying to catch the two unknown persons, who were stealing copper/iron by breaking dish antenna installed on the roof of their house.Sethi was hospitalised and remained unconscious for nearly a week. It was during investigation that Sethi identified Mukesh and his accomplice following which they were arrested on May 10.While the counsel for the accused claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case, the public prosecutor said Mukesh, who used to work as cook at Sethi’s house, assaulted the latter because he had recognised his former employer.He said the accused had attacked on the head of the victim with an iron pipe with an intention to kill him. He further said Sethi was a practising lawyer at the Punjab and Haryana High Court and remained hospitalised for a long time as he suffered multiple grievous injuries and was still under treatment.After hearing the arguments, the court observed that there were serious allegations against Mukesh as he, along with another accused, brutally assaulted Sethi with an intention to kill him. Therefore, this court did not deem fit to grant the relief of regular bail to Mukesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-denies-bail-to-former-cook-131923
27-08-2020||---||Shift mild cases to other centres, Chandigarh Administrator advises PGI||Chandigarh, August 26In view of a sudden increase in the number of coronavirus cases, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has advised the PGI to shift patients with mild symptoms to other places.“If there are mild and stable cases in the Nehru Hospital Extension, PGI, they can be shifted to other places so that beds remain reserved for critical patients only,” he recommended during a war-room meeting here today.‘Conduct regular sanitisation’UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed MC Commissioner KK Yadav to conduct regular sanitisation in different areas to contain the spread of Covid infection and other monsoon-related diseases.Apart from 200 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients at the PGI, the Administrator had recently directed the hospital authorities to add another 100 beds for local residents suffering from the virus.Meanwhile, Dr G Dewan, Director Health Services, mentioned that 22,744 persons had already registered for digital health cards, which was highest in the country.After detailed discussions, the Administrator said all efforts should be made to ensure that the entire population of Chandigarh was covered under the National Digital Health Mission. All residents must go for digital health cards, he stated.UT Adviser Manoj Parida informed the Administrator that a team of the Government of India, led by Dr Parveen Gedam, Additional CEO of the National Health Authority, visited the UT Secretariat and appreciated the efforts already taken to popularise digital health cards.The Adviser also informed the Administrator that five months’ ration quota (wheat and pulses) would be distributed among various centres shortly under the extended Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna.The Administrator directed MC Commissioner KK Yadav to conduct regular sanitisation in different areas to contain the spread of Covid infection and other monsoon-related diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shift-mild-cases-to-other-centres-chandigarh-administrator-advises-pgi-131924
27-08-2020||---||Cave-ins on cycle tracks pose threat to pedallers||Chandigarh, August 26The ongoing monsoon season has caused cave-ins on some cycle tracks in the city.It has put the life of cycle enthusiasts at risk. In a random check, it was observed that cave-ins have appeared on a cycle track in Sector 33 on the road separating Sector 33 and 32.Affected spots Another cave-in was witnessed on the other side of Sector 33 on the road separating Sector 33 and 34. The caved-in portion was covered with a tree branch, which could prove fatal during late evening hours.“The UT Administration should repair the caved-in portions of cycle tracks as soon as possible. It also raises questions on the work carried out by the Administration,” said Satwant, a cycling enthusiast.Surender, a regular cyclists, said in Sector 30 on the road separating Sector 20 and 30, people offer prayers on a cycle track outside a religious place leaving no space for cyclists. In Sector 32 on the road separating Sector 32 and 33, overhanging wires have caused injuries to many cyclists.Cycle tracks at other places such as Burail and Sector 56 are also in a poor condition making it difficult for people to pedal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cave-ins-on-cycle-tracks-pose-threat-to-pedallers-131925
27-08-2020||---||Kalka man duped of Rs 20,000||Panchkula, August 26A 24-year-old Kalka man allegedly lost Rs20,000 after he tried to purchase an iPhone 11 from an Instagram page.The complainant, identified as Abhishek Sharma of Tagra Kali Ram village, claimed that he was cheated on an Instagram page, “Saleroomm”, offering an iPhone 11 (128 GB Black) for around Rs20,000.In the FIR, Abhishek said the suspect, Satyam Gound, had promised him an iPhone on an advance payment of Rs20,680.“The suspect promised me to deliver the iPhone via Delhivery Courier Service. He gave his contact number and told me to send the screenshot of the payment on it. I made the payment through Paytm on two mobile numbers. After the payment, he gave a wrong courier tracking ID and asked me to wait for the next 48 hours until the activation of the ID,” the complainant said.He said: “The suspect delayed the order citing various reasons such as lockdown and kept ignoring my messages. When I sent him a message to check the status of my order after nine days, he blocked me on Instagram and WhatsApp. He subsequently switched off his cellphone.”The victim also claimed that the Instagram page, “Saleroomm”, was still working.A case under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC was registered at the Kalka police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kalka-man-duped-of-rs-20-000-131926
27-08-2020||Dera Bassi||Biker killed  in hit-and-run||In a hit-and-run case, an unidentified motorcyclist was killed after being reportedly hit by an unidentified vehicle near the Bhankharpur light point on the Chandigarh-Ambala Highway on Tuesday night. The injured person was shifted to the Civil Hospital, Dera Bassi, where doctors declared him dead. The suspect fled from the spot after hitting the motorcyclist. Mubarikpur police post in-charge Arshdeep Sharma said: “No documents were recovered from the victim. The body has been shifted to a mortuary. The police have initiated investigation into the matter. The victim is in his 20s and appears to be a migrant worker.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/biker-killed-in-hit-and-run-131927
27-08-2020||---||Come forward for eye donation: PGI Director||Chandigarh, August 26As the nation observes 35th National Eye Donation Fortnight, Prof Jagat Ram, PGI Director & Head, Advanced Eye Centre, inaugurated a session.The function was attended by staff and corneal transplant faculty of the Advanced Eye Centre comprising Prof SS Pandav, Prof Amit Gupta, Dr Chintan Malhotra, Dr Parul Chawla and members of Lions Club, Chandigarh.Prof Jagat Ram highlighted the problems in eye donation in general and during Covid times in particular. Special measures have been implemented in the Advanced Eye Centre to increase eye donation during the Covid era.He requested more and more people to come forward and pledge to be eye donors.Around 2,800 patients are waiting for corneal transplantation at the PGI, but the hospital gets only 600-700 corneas every year. The objective of this fortnight is to create mass public awareness and to bridge the gap between the demand and supply of cornea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/come-forward-for-eye-donation-pgi-director-131928
27-08-2020||Sandeep Rana||Lifespan of machines at Sec 25 waste plant over: IIT-Roorkee||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26Observing that all machines at the city’s waste processing plant in Sector 25 have already completed their lifespan, the IIT-Roorkee has recommended setting up a modern 500 tonne per day (TPD) plant for dry and wet waste treatment.“All machines are already 12 years old, which is practically the life of such machines. Both primary and secondary shredders are not in a working condition. The shredder is an essential component of waste processing,” said the report which has been submitted to the corporation.What report says“All machines are already 12 years old, which is practically the life of such machines. Both primary and secondary shredders are not in a working condition. The shredder is an essential component of waste processing,” said the report which has been submitted to the corporation.“Though the existing scheme for solid waste processing is technically correct, it is only applicable to dry waste segregated at source. The plant should receive dry waste separated at source. Due to wet material, trommel screens are prone to blinding,” it further stated.It has been observed that the plant was constructed in 2008 as per the municipal solid waste (MSW) 2000 guidelines. Now, it is mandatory to follow solid waste management (SWM) 2016 rules, which require segregated waste collection and processing.“The best way is to set up a new modern 500 TPD plant for dry and wet garbage in the given plot. For wet waste stream, biological treatment will be required to meet the SWM 2016 rules. For dry or mixed waste, even after repairs/maintenance of existing machinery, shredder, trommels, etc., the existing plant will at best handle 60 to 65 TPD. Hence, if the corporation expects the plant to treat 200 TPD (40 per cent of 500 TPD), additional new equipment will be required,” the experts suggested.Jaiprakash Associates Ltd had set up a municipal solid waste processing plant of 500 TPD, but it was recently taken over by the civic body on account of non-processing of the waste.Since, the plant was not operated to its optimum capacity, the MC asked the IIT to conduct the site visit, assess the efficiency of processing machinery and suggest measures to improve the capacity of machines and the effectiveness of the plant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lifespan-of-machines-at-sec-25-waste-plant-over-iit-roorkee-131929
27-08-2020||
||Residents protest 12-hr power cut||Zirakpur, August 26 Residents of Ramgarh Bhudda village staged a protest against PSPCL after they remained without power for 12 hours. The villagers said the power supply was snapped at 10 pm on Tuesday and restored at 10 am today. The villagers said they had to spend a sleepless night due to humid conditions but no official attended to their complaints. PSPCL SDO Mandeep Attri said the power supply was affected due to a technical problem. The supply had been restored now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-protest-12-hr-power-cut-131930
27-08-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Travel firm penalised for deficiency in service||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 26By saying that it has become a common practice for companies to fleece gullible consumers by issuing memberships of resorts on false promises of providing stay in 4/5 star hotels/restaurants and other facilities abroad, the consumer court has imposed a penalty on Clarks Holidays, a unit of CI Hospitality Worldwide Private Limited.The Chandigarh State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed the company to pay interest @ 9 per cent on the total amount of Rs1,15,000 from the date of purchase of membership to a consumer and also pay a compensation of Rs55,000 for harassment and mental agony suffered by him and his family and Rs11,000 towards litigation expenses.Namit Kumar, a city resident, has filed a complaint before the commission after the company failed to provide him services offered while taking the membership.He said in April, 2016, two persons from the company approached him and explained various facilities worldwide held by Clarks Holidays in 4/5 star properties. On being assured, he took the membership for 10 years after paying Rs1,15,000 and became a member of CI Hospitality Worldwide Private Limited vide an application dated April 6, 2016.Later, he, along with his wife and two children, planned to go on a holiday trip with two other families. On May 18, 2016, he made a request to book a hotel in Phuket and Krabi (Thailand) from June 20 to June 23 through an e-mail, but he did not get any confirmation. On May 23, he again requested the firm’s office in Delhi to look into the matter.On his repeated requests, he was given an assurance that booking at Club Bamboo Boutique Resort and Spa at Phuket, Thailand, and Krabi Green View Village Resort at Krabi, Thailand, would be done after confirming the availability from these resorts.However, he was surprised to see on the Internet that the properties were not even three star and were far away from the main cities.Left with no other alternative, he made reservation at Phuket, Krabi, Pattaya and Bangkok after paying an additional cost and that too at a higher price.He filed a complaint alleging that the aforesaid acts of omission and commission on part of the opposite party amount to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice.The court said during the pendency of the complaint, the opposite party refunded Rs1,15,000 to the complainant without any interest after retaining the amount with them for four years. The complainant, along with his family members, had to suffer mental agony and harassment due to the aforesaid acts of omission and commission on part of the opposite party. As such, the complainant has got every right to seek refund of his amount with interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/travel-firm-penalised-for-deficiency-in-service-131931
27-08-2020||Mohali||Virus kills 3 more, Mohali toll 67||Three Covid-19 deaths, 86 positive cases and 43 recoveries were reported from Mohali district today. A 58-year-old man from Kharar died in Ivy Hospital, Mohali. He was also suffering from diabetes. A 43-year-old man from Lalru died at the Civil Hospital, Ambala, while a 62-year-old woman from Nayagaon died at the PGI.Among the fresh cases, Mohali reported 33, Zirakpur (19), Gharuan (17), Kharar (12), Dera Bassi (four) and Banur (one). The district has so far witnessed 3,037 cases. While there are 1,329 active cases, 1,641 patients have been discharged from hospitals. The death toll has mounted to 67. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/virus-kills-3-more-mohali-toll-67-131937
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||1 death, 167 cases in Chandigarh||The city reported one more Covid-19 death, taking the toll to 41, and 167 fresh cases of the virus, pushing the tally to 3,376.RLA closed for 3 daysThe RLA, UT, will remain closed from August 27 to 29 as two staff members have tested positive for the virus. During this period, the office will be sanitised and the services will be resumed on August 31.A 73-year-old man from Ram Darbar, a case of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, acute kidney injury with respiratory failure and septic shock, who had tested positive for the virus on Tuesday, died at the GMC, Sector 32, today. The number of active cases has reached 1,537, while the tally of cured patients in the city stands at 1,796. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-death-167-cases-in-chandigarh-131939
27-08-2020||Mohali||48 deaths in 17 days in Mohali||As many as 48 of the 67 Covid deaths in the district so far, which comes to more than 70 per cent, have been reported in the last 17 days.On August 11, the Covid toll in Mohali and Chandigarh was 23 and 26, respectively, but in just 15 days the death count in Mohali rose to 67, while it is 41 in Chandigarh. Notably, the total number of cases in Mohali (3,037) is considerably less than the UT (3,376).Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said there were multiple reasons for the recent spate in deaths in the district. He said most victims had co-morbidities with the age not on their side. Most deaths took place in tertiary care hospitals.According to the Civil Surgeon, it showed that patients were hospitalised in reputed, big institutions, thereby negating any apprehension of lack of treatment. “The death rate in the district is still close to 2 per cent,” he added. Notably, most tertiary care hospitals in Mohali are private facilities. Dr Manjit Singh categorically denied that the sudden spurt in Covid deaths could be due to late hospitalisation of the victims.Punjab Principal Secretary (Health) Hussan Lal said, “Most deaths in Mohali district have been in the tertiary or critical care.The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is not taking patients from Punjab so we have to depend on Rajindra Hospital in Patiala or the Banur facility.”Tally rises from 2K to 3K in 7 daysThe first Covid case was reported from the district on March 20. It took 138 days to reach the 1,000 mark. The district hit the 2,000 mark in the next 13 days. Seven days later, the 3,000 mark has been breached. Dera Bassi, one of the worst-hit blocks, registered 196 new cases in the month of August.Zirakpur has reported 10 deaths this month. A total of 421 cases have been reported from the place with 149 patients having been discharged. As many as 228 patients are in home isolation.Tally trackMarch 20:  First case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/48-deaths-in-17-days-in-mohali-131910
27-08-2020||---||End odd-even, traders write to UT Administrator Badnore||Chandigarh, August 26Members of various market associations have demanded withdrawal of the odd-even system for opening of shops after the implementation of weekend lockdown in the city.In a letter to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Shashtri Market, Sector 22, president Jashminder Singh Nagpal, Palika Bazaar, Sector 19, president Naresh Kumar Jain, Sadar Bazaar, Sector 19, president Narinder Singh, Krishna Market, Sector 41, president Sunil Jain and Patel Market, Sector 15, president Sanjeev Kumar, under the banner of the Chandigarh Udyog Vyapar Group, stated that after the implementation of weekend lockdown in the city, nearly half of the shopkeepers were only able to open their shops for two days a week due to enforcement of the odd-even system in their markets.It would be injustice to the poor shopkeepers as they had to pay various bills and wages to their workers and meet other expenses, they said, adding that they had already suffered huge losses due to nationwide lockdown in the wake of Covid.The shopkeepers requested the Administrator to withdraw the odd-even system when two-day weekend lockdown was in force in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/end-odd-even-traders-write-to-ut-administrator-badnore-131911
27-08-2020||
||Newlywed youth ends his life at Hallo Majra||Chandigarh, August 26 A 24-year-old youth reportedly committed suicide at Hallo Majra on Tuesday night. The victim has been identified as Mohit Kumar, who had recently got married. Sources said he had an argument at home after which he went to his room and started playing loud music. Sometime later, he was found hanging following which the police were informed and the victim was taken to the GMCH, Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead.  The police said the reason for the suicide was being investigated. Inquest proceedings have been initiated at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/newlywed-youth-ends-his-life-at-hallo-majra-131912
27-08-2020||
||MC Chandigarh auctions booths at AC fish market||Chandigarh, August 26 Fourteen years after their construction, the MC finally managed to auction 33 booths at the AC Fish and Meat Market in Sector 41 here. All 32 booths and a chill room at the market were auctioned today on monthly licence fee basis for a period of five years. The MC fetched Rs16.50 lakh as earnest money deposit from the open auction and will receive licence fee of approximately Rs5.42 lakh plus GST per month against the reserve price of Rs3.88 lakh. In February, the corporation had to withdraw the tenders floated for the purpose as only nine persons showed interest in buying the units. Before that, the MC had made several attempts, but the booths failed to find any takers.  The booths were constructed by the UT Administration at a cost of Rs5 crore in 2006. These were later handed over to the civic body in 2009. The MC offered to sell these for Rs60 lakh each, but failed to do so. Then it offered to rent these out for Rs30,000-Rs35,000 per month. Now, it has lowered the monthly fee to Rs10,000-Rs15,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-chandigarh-auctions-booths-at-ac-fish-market-131913
27-08-2020||Chandigarh||Activa hit by truck, priest of Maloya temple dies||A 36-year-old Activa rider died after the scooter was hit by a truck near Maloya. The victim was a priest at a temple in Maloya. The police said the victim had been identified as Ramashankar, a resident of Jujhar Nagar, Mohali. He was coming to the temple from home when the accident took place. He was seriously injured and rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police have registered a case against the truck driver at the Maloya police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/activa-hit-by-truck-priest-of-maloya-temple-dies-131914
27-08-2020||
||Man tries to bribe CHB section officer, arrested||Chandigarh, August 26 Security guards of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) today apprehended a person, Manmohan Singh of M/s HST Enterprises, for allegedly trying to bribe an officer. Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the man entered the chamber of a woman section officer and placed an envelope on her table. He told her that the envelope contained money. She objected and asked him to remove the envelope. The person was apprehended with the help of the security guards. Later, he was handed over to the Vigilance cell, which arrested him. The person tried to bribe the woman officer as some bills of payments were being examined by the officer, the CHB official said.  “There is zero tolerance towards corruption in the CHB and strict action will follow in such matters,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-tries-to-bribe-chb-section-officer-arrested-131915
27-08-2020||---||172-case surge in Panchkula district||Panchkula, August 26In the biggest single-day spike, 172 cases of coronavirus were reported today, taking the count of Panchkula district to 1,829. Haryana Congress spokesperson and national coordinator for the All India Mahila Congress Ranjeeta Mehta and her husband Abhi Mehta were among those who tested positive for the virus.Spokesperson for Hry Cong, husband +veHaryana Congress spokesperson and national coordinator for the All India Mahila Congress Ranjeeta Mehta and her husband Abhi Mehta were among those who tested positive for the virus.At least eight “missing” patients, who were found positive yesterday, were finally traced and added to the overall virus count of the district.The fresh cases include 71 from Kalka, 21 from Nanakpur, 15 from Pinjore, 14 from Surajpur, seven from Sector 6, five from Sector 16, four each from Sector 10, Sector 15, Sector 25 and Sector 17, three each from Old Panchkula, Sector 12-A and Sector 12, two each from Raipur Rani, Sector 4, Sector 26, Sector 31, Sector 7 and the MDC, Sector 5, and one each from Sector 11 and Sector 20.While 658 cases are still active, 1,158 patients have been cured and discharged.Panchkula has so far conducted 30,689 Covid tests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/172-case-surge-in-panchkula-district-131916
