27-05-2020||---||Covid case count in Chandigarh rises to 282||Chandigarh, May 27The total number of coronavirus cases in Chandigarh rose to 282 on Wednesday with 91 of them being active. Out of the total positive cases, Bapu Dham Colony alone has reported 210.Meanwhile, a 32-year-old male and another male (20), both residents of the same house in Bapu Dham Colony have tested positive for Covid-19.Another resident of Bapu Dham from a different house — an 18-year-old male has tested positive for nCoV. All are contacts of previous positive cases detected in two different houses. They are admitted in a hospital isolation facility.Meanwhile, 46 Covid patients who had been earlier discharged and were in post-discharge quarantine centre at Sood Dharamshala were sent home today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-case-count-in-chandigarh-rises-to-282-90736
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh's Sector 38, Sector 52 & Shastri Nagar containment to end||The Chandigarh Administration on Wednesday approved to end the containment zone operations in Sector 38 and Sector 52. The containment ended in Sector 38 on May 27, while in Sector 52 it will end on May 28. For Shastri nagar, the containment will end on May 31.Earlier, the Chandigarh Administration had declared six areas in the city as containment zones. With today's decision only three areas namely parts of  Sector 30 B, Kachi colony in Dhanas, Bapu Dham Colony and Shastri nagar in Mani Majra will now be containment zones. As per the guidelines of the Central Government, a containment zone can be denotified only if no new Covid-19 case is reported from the locality for 28 days.UT Adviser Manoj Parida had said: “Since in Chandigarh corona outbreak is scattered and not confined to a specific pocket, area, village or cluster, entire district has been declared as containment zone”.What is a containment zone?Ministry of Health and Family Welfare defines the containment zone as a specific geographical area where coronavirus cases are found.The administration imposes strict restrictions on movements in such areas to prevent further spread. These zones are primarily aimed at mapping local transmission of the disease and prevent the contagion from spreading.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarhs-sector-38-sector-52-shastri-nagar-containment-to-end-90711
27-05-2020||Mohali||32-year-old man tests coronavirus positive in Mohali; district tally rises to 107||Mohali on Wednesday reported a new coronavirus case, taking the total cases in the district to 107.A 32-year-old man, a resident of Sector 71, who is a banker in Delhi, had arrived in the district on May 22. After he developed symptoms, he was admitted to the Civil Hospital in Mohali. His sample was taken on May 24 and in the report that came out today, he tested positive.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that the administration  would trace his contacts and a survey will be done in the area where the patient resides. He said even though the patient claimed that he had not met anyone after his return from Delhi, they would trace his contacts and also take their samples today. Singh said the patient has been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.At present, Mohali has two active cases. On May 23, a pregnant woman, a resident of Adarsh Nagar in Nayagaon, had tested positive for coronavirus, shortly before giving birth at the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16, Chandigarh on May 25.With 102 people recovering so far and three deaths, Mohali has a recovery rate of 96 per cent and a and fatality rate of 2.8 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/32-year-old-man-tests-coronavirus-positive-in-mohali-district-tally-rises-to-107-90620
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Sector 38, 52 may shed containment tag||Two of the six containment zones in the city are likely to get rid of the tag in the next two days. Sources said a part of Sector 38, one of the six containment zones in the UT, was expected to be declared containment-free tomorrow and a part of Sector 52 on Thursday. As per the guidelines of the Central Government, a containment zone can be denotified only if no new Covid-19 case is reported from the locality for 28 days. Sector 38 completed the 28-day period on May 26, while Sector 52 will complete it on May 27. At present, there are no active cases in these sectors. Kachi Colony in Dhanas, Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, Sector 52 and Shastri Nagar in Mani Majra are the other four containment zones. Earlier, reacting to several representations received for opening areas that are under containment and buffer zones, Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today clarified that such relaxations could be given only as per the guidelines of the Government of India after a lapse of a specific number of days since the last positive case. Badnore said he was aware of the inconvenience being caused to residents. However, to check the spread of the infection, such hardships were unavoidable. People from Sector 30 and Bapu Dham Colony had highlighted several social, financial and psychological problems being faced by them. Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said keeping in view the hardships of workers in Bapu Dham Colony, a containment zone, the district administration had contacted their employers to ensure that the workers got due wages and did not lose their jobs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-38-52-may-shed-containment-tag-90320
27-05-2020||---||Boy found dead in Kansal forest area||Chandigarh, May 26 The body of a minor boy, aged around 13, was found under mysterious circumstances in a forest area at Kansal today. The victim, who is yet to be identified, didn’t have any injury marks on the body.  The police said a forest guard saw the body and informed them. The police and a medical team visited the spot. The police said nothing was found from the spot that could help establish the victim’s identity. The forest where the body was found is close to a village in Panchkula. “We have informed neighbouring police stations in Mohali and Panchkula to check if a minor has been missing from their area,” said a police official. The body has been shifted to the mortuary at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. The police said samples of the victim would be taken for Covid-19 after which the autopsy would be conducted. An investigation has been initiated into the matter at the Sector 3 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boy-found-dead-in-kansal-forest-area-90321
27-05-2020||---||Four more from Bapu Dham +ve||Chandigarh, May 26Four fresh cases of Covid were reported from Bapu Dham Colony in the city today, taking the tally to 279.A one-and-a-half-year-old boy, a 22-year-old youth and two men, aged 60 and 61, were among those found positive for the virus.The number of cases reported from the colony now stands at 206, which is 73 per cent of the total cases in the city. At present, there are 88 active cases in the city and 84 of these are from the colony.As many as 14 cases were reported from Bapu Dham on Saturday, followed by 28 cases on Sunday and 13 yesterday. The family members of a three-day-old Covid-positive baby, who died at the PGI on Saturday, have tested negative for the virus. The family resides in Dadu Majra Colony. Some of their relatives live in Sector 38. A total of 12 contacts of the baby have been traced and sampled for a Covid test.Meanwhile, 29 patients, who were in the post-discharge quarantine centre at Sood Dharamshala, were sent home today after their samples tested negative for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-from-bapu-dham-ve-90322
27-05-2020||---||Lone patient discharged, Panchkula now Covid-free||Panchkula, May 26 The district became Covid-free today as the lone patient was discharged from the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here. However, the results of 60 samples are yet to be received. “We are keeping our fingers crossed as of now. The lone patient from Rajiv Colony was discharged from the Civil Hospital today,” said Jasjeet Kaur, Civil Surgeon. As many as 4,231 samples have been collected in the district so far and 4,123 of these have tested negative for the deadly virus.  The district had reported 25 positive cases and as many as 705 persons have been home-quarantined. The Sector 6 hospital is the only Civil Hospital in Haryana where Covid patients are treated. Elsewhere in the state, Covid patients are treated in medical colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lone-patient-discharged-panchkula-now-covid-free-90323
27-05-2020||the tribune IMPACT||Quarantine persons after testing in hospitals: Governor||Sandeep RanaTribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 26A day after Chandigarh Tribune highlighted that sans isolation facility, people of Bapu Dham Colony are being sent back home after testing, Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today directed to quarantine them in hospitals.In a war-room meeting, Badnore desired that suspected persons, whose samples had been collected, could be quarantined at the GMSH, Sector 16, and the GMCH, Sector 32, till their reports were received.He reviewed the test results and expressed satisfaction that the testing of samples in the containment zone and the buffer zone of Bapu Dham Colony had substantially increased.After teams from the GMCH-32 and the GMSH-16 started testing people at the government school in Bapu Dham Colony, the practice of keeping them in isolation till their reports are out was stopped.This increased the chances of infection transmission. Residents said there were people, who were taken to hospitals after 24 hours of being tested positive. By this time, the patient would not only have infected his family members, but also others.On Monday, Home Secretary Arun Gupta had said that they had no isolation facility at the school. Thus, the Governor today said they should be quarantined in two UT-run hospitals till their reports were received.Bapu Dham Colony accounts for a large number of Covid-19 positive cases in the city. Of the total 278 cases reported from the city, 205 are only from Bapu Dham Colony till now. Around 70-100 persons are being tested on the spot. Suspected patients or quarantined persons are sent home after testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/quarantine-persons-after-testing-in-hospitals-governor-90383
27-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||15% dip in air traffic on Day 2||Tribune News ServiceMohali, May 26The Chandigarh international airport witnessed a decrease in passenger traffic by 15 per cent on the second day today as compared with the first day when the operations at the airport started after being suspended for two months due to the Covid-19 lockdown.According to information, 675 passengers arrived or departed from the airport today, whereas 784 arrived or departed from the airport yesterday. A total of 405 passengers had arrived from various destinations, including Bengaluru and Delhi, while 270 persons had boarded the flights to three destinations, including Dharamsala.It is pertinent to mention here that 505 persons had arrived from metro cities of Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai, while 279 passengers had departed for these destinations on Monday.A total of seven flights had arrived today, which included two flights of Indigo from Delhi and Bengaluru, three of Air India from Delhi (2) and Dharamsala and Air Asia and Vistara flight from Bengaluru and Delhi, respectively. Indigo flight from Mumbai was cancelled due to operational reasons as per information provided by the airlines.A majority of 208 passengers had arrived from Bengaluru, whereas 197 passengers had arrived from Delhi, while none had arrived on the Air India flight from Dharamsala. A total of 52 passengers had boarded the flight to Bengaluru and 210 had boarded the flight to Delhi, while only eight passengers had boarded the Air India flight For Dharamsala. The passengers, who arrived today, belonged to Punjab, Haryana and HP and they were screened for Covid by health teams led by Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/15-dip-in-air-traffic-on-day-2-90384
27-05-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir---||Buyers of auctioned properties get relief||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 26 In a major relief to buyers of auctioned properties, the court of Chief Administrator has ordered that there is no provision for imposition of unearned increase amount in respect of auctioned properties in an appeal filed by Advocates SK Jain and Vikas Jain. The order came on an appeal preferred by Shashi Arora and others against the impugned orders dated June 8, 2016, and September 27, 2017, of the Estate Officer, whereby the appellants were asked to deposit unearned increase amount in respect of a shop in Sector 26, Chandigarh. During arguments, Vikas Jain, counsel for the appellants, stated that the shop was allotted by way of auction on a leasehold basis on June 26, 1975. Thereafter, the allottees sold the shop to the appellants in 1995. After some time, dispute arose between the sellers and purchasers. Therefore, the appellants filed the suit before the court of law and the same was decreed on March 18, 2008. On the basis of court decree, a sale deed dated June 24, 2008, was executed in favour of the appellants and the same was registered before the Sub-Registrar on June 27, 2008. The appellants applied for the transfer of leasehold rights in their favour on March 27, 2014. The Estate Office on February 25, 2015, asked the appellants to deposit transfer fee and the same was deposited on April 21, 2015. Thereafter, the appellants were shocked to receive a letter dated June 8, 2016, issued by the Estate Office whereby they demanded unearned increase in profit in respect of the site without stating any reason. Jain further stated that as per the Chandigarh Leasehold Sites and Building Rules, 1973, there was no provision for imposition of unearned increase where the site has been allotted by way of auction and can be imposed only where the property was leased out by way of allotment or at reserve price or at concessional rate. He further contended that the appellants applied for the transfer of the site in 2014 on the basis of the sale deed. It was registered in June, 2008. Thus, the rules prevailing in 2014/2008 will be applicable in the present case. As per the notification of 2002, issued by the UT Administration, the Estate Office cannot charge unearned profit and can only charge transfer charges, he submitted. He further produced a letter dated July 3, 2003, issued by the Finance Secretary, and addressed to the Estate Officer, whereby it was advised that in case of auctioned profit, no unearned increase to be charged and only the transfer fee for the share being transferred is to be charged. It was further ordered by the Finance Department to regulate their course of action while deciding similar cases. Moreover, it is totally illegal for demand of unearned increase even property is sold outside family members. On the contrary, the counsel for the Estate Office stated that it had calculated the unearned increase in a rightful manner. After hearing the arguments, the court stated that it is evident that there is no provision for imposition of unearned increase amount in respect of auction properties after notification of 2002 and Amendment of Rule 17 (10) of Act. “Consequently, the present appeal is accepted and the impugned orders dated June 8, 2016 and September 27, 2017, are set aside,” ordered the court. The court also directed the Estate Officer to bring out uniformity in such similar situated cases by affording due opportunity of hearing to the appellants within three months from the receipt of the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/buyers-of-auctioned-properties-get-relief-90385
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||Municipal Corporation may consider slashing reserve price of booths in Sector 48 market||Agenda regarding reducing the reserve price of booths in Sector 48 market will be discussed during the MC House meeting, which will be held through video-conferencing on May 30. The booths have been lying vacant for a long time despite several auctions. Agenda regarding several development works to be carried out in Mani Majra will also be discussed during the meeting. Some of the Smart City projects will also be taken up for approval. To exempt vending fee for the month of April and May, agenda for approval will be brought. The costs involving the fight against Covid-19 will be assessed too. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/municipal-corporation-may-consider-slashing-reserve-price-of-booths-in-sector-48-market-90386
27-05-2020||---||40-year-old man hangs himself at Sector 29 house||Chandigarh, May 26 A 40-year-old man reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself at his house in Sector 29 here on Monday night. The police said they had received information at 9.25 pm from the Government Medical College Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, about victim Gurdeep Singh being brought dead. During verification, the statement of the victim’s brother, Balwinder Singh, was recorded, who stated that Gurdeep was a taxi driver and was undergoing depression. Sources said Balwinder, who stayed in Sector 45, had called Gurdeep over phone, but when he did not take his call, he visited his house and found him hanging. The police said the victim was not married and his parents had also passed away. They have ruled out any foul play in the incident during preliminary investigation.  Meanwhile, an inquest proceeding has been initiated into the matter at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/40-year-old-man-hangs-himself-at-sector-29-house-90387
27-05-2020||Panchkula||Approve pending tubewell connections: Cong leader||Concerned over the plight of farmers of Raipur Rani block, Vijay Bansal, senior vice-president of the Haryana Kisan Congress, has sent a memorandum to the Power Minister and the Chief Minister of Haryana regarding approval of 300 motor tubewell connections pending since four years.  Bansal said the farmers were moving from pillar to post to get approval for the tubewell connections to irrigate their farms, but the BJP-JJP government was not serious about the farmers of Raipur Rani block. He said 300 applications for motor tubewell connection had been submitted by farmers of various villages of Raipur Rani since 2016, of which 45 applicants had submitted the entire fee for the connections after completing departmental formalities. But these farmers had failed to get the connection.  He said farmers had got the tubewells installed at Rs 4-5 lakh after taking loan from banks or samities. But due to lack of connection, they were irrigating land by running tubewells with diesel generators. This had increased the production cost of crop to double, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/approve-pending-tubewell-connections-cong-leader-90388
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||2,896 migrants board special trains to Uttar Pradesh||A total of 2,896 migrants boarded two Shramik special trains that left for Moradabad, Bareilly, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi and Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh. While the first train, which left the station at 2 pm, ferried 1,600 passengers, the second train left at 9:30 pm with 1,296 passengers. The next train is scheduled for Jounpur and Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-896-migrants-board-special-trains-to-uttar-pradesh-90389
27-05-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh Administration pays little heed to PGI experts’ tips on tackling Covid in Bapu Dham||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 26At a time when Covid-19 positives cases in Bapu Dham Colony are increasing, the UT Administration has shown indifference in adopting suggestions of experts from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).While some of the recommendations given by the experts were already in place, including institutional quarantine, home-isolation strategy, community participation and mental health services, no novel suggestion made by the team has been adopted by the UT.Recently, 143 residents from Bapu Dham Colony were shifted to Panjab University, girls’ hostel number 8. Earlier, 66 residents were moved to Sector 47 Community Centre.The team had strongly recommended that all contacts of families from where cases are reported in Bapu Dham should be kept in institutional quarantine outside the colony as it’s done in Dharavi, Mumbai.The other recommendation, which the Administration is yet to follow is to undertake ‘active surveillance’ in Bapu Dham by recording oxygen saturation with pulse oximeter for all to identify high-risk individual for testing.As per experts, any oxygen saturation value less than 90 per cent should be reported and the suspected person should be clinically examined and tested for Covid.There was also a suggestion of ‘assessing community transmission’ by testing 100 high-risk people (health workers, police personnel) and low-risk group (50 non-ILI OPD patients and 50 pregnant women). The team had also opined that the UT must take permission from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for making ‘Elisa’ testing kits for sero survey.Besides, a suggestion was also made that keeping in view the long-term preparedness, a dedicated infectious disease (ID) hospital should be identified in periphery of Chandigarh to keep infectious patients away from routine health services and prevent infection in health workforce.The experts felt that there is a need to ‘identify super spreader’, who infects more than eight or more persons in the city or Bapu Dham Colony and a special drive must be undertaken to identify them.The team was headed by Prof JS Thakur, Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health.When UT Adviser Manoj Parida was asked about following suggestions made by the PGI, he said, “We only follow guidelines of the Central Government. We do not rely on unofficial reports.”Ironically, the UT Adviser had earlier announced on twitter that “PGI has given excellent suggestions on Covid management of Bapu Dham. We are working on it.”The UT Administrator had asked the PGI to send a Public Health Team to Bapu Dham and make specific recommendations for improving field operations. A four-member team was formed to analyse the ground situation and make recommendations to stop further spread of Covid-19 outbreak in the colony. Undertake active surveillance in bapu dham colony: PGI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-pays-little-heed-to-pgi-experts-tips-on-tackling-covid-in-bapu-dham-90390
27-05-2020||---||Worker held for Rs14L theft at Sector 22 showroom||Chandigarh, May 26A theft of around Rs14 lakh took place at a showroom in Sector 22 here on the intervening night of May 25 and 26. A worker, identified as Mandeep, has been arrested by the police in this connection.The theft at Croma, an electronics store, came to light in the morning when the staff reached there.The police said that the suspect had taken along the DVR so that they could not get the CCTV footage.Sources said that the employees working at the store were questioned regarding the theft after which the suspect was nailed.A case was registered on a complaint of the store manager, Rajinder, at the Sector 17 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/worker-held-for-rs14l-theft-at-sector-22-showroom-90391
27-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Annual tourney in memory of Balbir Sr on the cards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 26In a bid to honour late legendary hockey icon Balbir Singh Sr, the UT Sports Department plans to organise a tournament in his memory, once the Covid-19 restrictions are over in the city.If confirmed, the tournament will be added in the annual sports calendar of the department. “Yes, we can organise a tournament in his memory. He was a legend and there is no doubt that he deserved the best from us. A tournament on his name can be organised with the help of the local association in Chandigarh. This can be an annual feature in our calendar as like other tourneys,” said Tejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports. “We need to plan on this once things come back to track. The Covid-19 pandemic has halted all proceedings. We can also plan for organising some exhibition match,” added Saini.The department is one of the most popular centres of the country for the upbringing of young players. The department has two state-run hockey academies (boys and girls) and also offers scholarships under the Khelo India Talent Programme.Meanwhile, Hockey Chandigarh officials said they will like to organise an exhibition match on May 25 annually to remember the legend. “Just like we celebrate Olympic Day, we can organise exhibition match every year on May 25 to mark his death anniversary. He did everything for the sport and its our duty to honour such a legend in the noblest way he ever wished,” said Anil Vohra, General Secretary, Hockey Chandigarh. The legendary three-time Olympic gold medallist, Balbir Sr (96), died yesterday after been on ventilator support since May 12.He was cremated with full state honours at the Sector 25 crematorium.Can be part of sports dept’s calendarTejdeep Singh Saini, Director, Sports, said, “We can organise a tournament in memory of Balbir Singh Sr. A tournament on his name can be organised with the help of the local association in Chandigarh. This can be an annual feature in our calendar as like other tourneys. We need to plan on this once things come back to track. We can also plan for organising some exhibition matches. He was a legend and there is no doubt that he deserved the best from us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/annual-tourney-in-memory-of-balbir-sr-on-the-cards-90392
27-05-2020||---||Public toilets at Sector 17 sabzi mandi raise big stink||Chandigarh, May 26 At a time when sanitation should be one of the main priorities of the UT Administration, public toilets at the ISBT, Sector 17, are in an awful state. The fruit and vegetable market from Sector 26 was temporarily shifted to the bus stand in Sector 17, recently. Local traders and vegetable visitors complained that toilets here emit foul smell and are not properly maintained. Doors of the toilets are broken and sinks are full of flies and mosquitoes, they added. Deepak Sharda, one of the traders, lamented, “My shop is right adjacent to a toilet. People come out with wet slippers/ shoes as the toilet is blocked. Foul smell keeps coming from there. I sell potatoes to vendors, you imagine in what condition essential commodities are reaching people.” “We have complained about this problem many times but to no avail. On the one hand everyone is fighting Covid-19 and on the other hand the bus stand is devoid of basic amenities. The whole city visits the bus stand to buy vegetables and this is the kind of hygiene the administration is providing here,” he added. “There is no regular attendant at the toilets. People are ready to pay if they get clean toilets. The condition of toilets was better in Sector 26 sabzi mandi,” said a vendor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/public-toilets-at-sector-17-sabzi-mandi-raise-big-stink-90393
27-05-2020||---||After 3 deadlines, Education Department serves show-cause notice on 51 private schools||Chandigarh, May 26Acting tough on private schools for defying mandatory provisions of The Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, the UT Education Department today served show-cause notice to 51 private schools for not uploading balance sheets on its official website, confirmed Rubinderjit Brar, Director, School Education.The schools have been asked to explain why balance sheets were not uploaded on the official website and ordered to show compliance as per the provisions of the Act by seven days.The private schools had missed three deadlines given by the Education Department for uploading balance sheets. The first letter seeking details of balance sheets was sent on April 24 and schools were asked to submit details by April 30. On May 1, another letter was posted to schools and deadline was extended to May 8. The third letter was sent to schools on May 13.In 2018, the Ministry of Home Affairs had extended the application of The Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016, to the Union Territory of Chandigarh with certain modifications.One of the provisions of Section 5 of the Act says that “all private unaided schools to upload their balance sheets and Income-Expenditure accounts on their respective websites.”It has been found that many schools have uploaded their complete balance sheets and Income-Expenditure accounts on their official websites. However, very few schools have partially complied but uploaded incomplete documents.Parents stage protestMembers of the AAP Chandigarh Youth Wing along with parents and Chandigarh Parents’ Association today protested outside St. Soldier International School for forcing the parents to deposit fees for the lockdown period. Lalit Mohan, president (Youth Wing), Joint Secretary, AAP said, “Private schools of Chandigarh are putting mental and financial burden on parents by asking for fees instead of helping them. The school management must understand that it is the same parents, who have always deposited the fees of their wards in time and have always given into all the justified or unjustified demands from these schools, be it uniforms, books or other charges.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-3-deadlines-education-department-serves-show-cause-notice-on-51-private-schools-90394
27-05-2020||Mohali||Dealership scam: Five suspects sent to judicial custody||Five suspects arrested by the Cyber Cell of the Mohali police in the fake petrol pump dealership case were sent to judicial custody for 14 days by a local court.  The accused have been identified as Mahinder Singh, Brahm Prakash Shukla, Jatinder Singh, Asif Khan, and Akash Singh.  According to the police, the gang used to target people in the name of giving petrol pump dealership and their modus operandi was to publish online advertisements regarding petrol pump dealerships in states such as MP, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Odisha, UP, Bangalore, Manipur, Assam and Karnataka. The gang used to defraud people by making them deposit money into various bank accounts.   Police officials said a Scorpio car, Rs4.90 lakh cash, two laptops, mobile phones and SIM cards were recovered from them. The accused had 21 accounts in various banks. The amount of Rs2.50 lakh in these accounts had been freezed, they added. A case was registered in this regard under Sections 406, 419, 420, 465, 467, 471 of the IPC at the Mataur police station on May 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dealership-scam-five-suspects-sent-to-judicial-custody-90396
27-05-2020||Mohali||ESI Hospital often refuses treatment: Labour association chief||Shailendar, who works in a private factory at Industrial Area, Phase 8-B, sustained injuries on his fingers today following which he went to ESI Hospital, Industrial Area, Phase 7, for treatment.  Doctors referred him to GMCH-32, Chandigarh, without providing any treatment. Jasbir Singh, chief, Mohali Industries Labour Law Association, said, “The ESI Hospital charges employees every month, but during the need of the hour, the hospital often refuses treatment. If Shailendar was treated at the ESI Hospital, he didn’t need to pay a single penny from his pocket.” Dr Darshan Singh, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), ESI Hospital, said, “I am not aware of this.  We have all the facilities to treat such kind of patients. We assure to reimburse the cost of his treatment.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/esi-hospital-often-refuses-treatment-labour-association-chief-90397
27-05-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||527 Punjabis stuck in Kerala brought back||On Tuesday, Jaspreet Singh, Assistant Commissioner (G), received 527 Punjabis who reached Sirhind aboard a special train from Kerala.People from various districts of the state, including Chandigarh could not reach home due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.All of them were medically screened by the Health Department and were handed over to the Nodal Officers who sent them to their respective districts through special buses.Returnees thanked the state government for ensuring their safe journey. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/527-punjabis-stuck-in-kerala-brought-back-90399
27-05-2020||Chandigarh||7 arrested for not wearing mask||Man arrested for harassing womanChandigarh: The UT police arrested a property dealer for harassing and stalking a woman. The police said the victim had come in contact with accused Vikey Rana of Maloya, regarding purchase of a property. The woman did not buy the property, but the accused started harassing and stalking her. A case has been registered . TNS19-year-old held with pistolChandigarh: The crime branch of the UT police arrested a 19-year-old boy for possessing a country-made pistol. The police were patrolling in Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, when they noticed Deepak Pandey from Mauli village trying to flee on seeing the police party. A case under the Arms Act has been registered. TNS2 more held for killing labourerMohali: The police arrested two more persons for allegedly killing a 32-year-old labourer following a fight between them at a slum in Phase 8 here. The arrested suspects are Pawan and Ranjit, both hailing from Uttar Pradesh. The police had already arrested Pardeep after few hours of murder on May 24, while the other two were absconding. The trio was living in a slum near Phase 7 traffic lights. They were produced before a local court today, which has sent them to judicial custody. A case was registered under Sections 302 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase 8 police station. TNSHusband held in dowry death caseKharar: The police have arrested husband and father-in-law of a 27-year-old woman, a resident of Chhajju Majra Colony, who had committed suicide on Saturday. The suspects have been identified as Rakesh Singh and his father Kuldeep Singh. Kharar (City) SHO Bhagwant Singh said the victim had tied the knot with Rakesh in October 2018. Veru, brother of the victim, alleged that his sister was tortured by her husband and family members over dowry. The police have registered a case under Section 304B of the IPC against Rakesh Singh, Kuldeep Singh, Harbans Kaur, Karan Singh and Raman Kaur. They duo was produced before a local court on Monday, which sent them to three-day police remand. OC2 held with 40-gm intoxicant powderKharar: The police have recovered 40-gram intoxicant powder from the possession of two persons on Tuesday. The suspects have been identified as Ranvir Singh, a resident of Mohali, and Anil Sharma, a resident of Chandigarh. A case has been registered under the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-arrested-for-not-wearing-mask-90464
