27-06-2020||Chandigarh||For critical COVID-19 cases, PGIMER seeks 'Tocilizumab' drug from wealthy patients||As a life-saving measure, Post Graduate Insitute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), the institute, has been trying to replenish a highly costly drug, "Tocilizumab”, on critical COVID-19 patients. The drug, 'Tocilizumab', was originally used for rheumatoid arthritis. It has emerged as an effective drug for COVID-19 patients across the globe.   Recently, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) revised its protocol for clinical management of COVID-19 infections and has allowed the usage of this drug on a selective set of patients. While the drug has been showing signs of improvement, the doctor are facing challenges. One of the biggest drawbacks is the price of the drug. A vial of 400 mg costs Rs 35,000. In an attempt to provide the costly drug, PGIMER has started asking the patients from wealthy families to incur the cost of the drug. However, since it is an optional exercise, no patients from well off families have volunteered for the cause. Director of PGIMER, Dr Jagat Ram, said: “Though the treatment is free of cost, we have been asking patients, who can afford the cost of the drug to replenish it. While it is optional for the wealthy patients to do it, the poor patients have been receiving treatment of all costly drugs, here, at PGIMER.”Dr Pankaj Malhotra, Professor, Department of Internal Medicine, PGIMER said: “In an experimental therapy by ICMR, the use of Tocilizumab has been suggested. We have been giving this drug to severally ill patients whose P/F ratio (defining criteria for acute respiratory failure) is below 200. It has been observed that this therapy is quite useful. We have decided to give this option to the patients from rich families to replenish the drug so that the institute does not face any shortage in the future.”Dr Malhotra continued: “There have been problems in other cities as the drug is now black marketed and available at inflated prices like from Rs 75,000 to Rs 1,00,000. So far, no patient from a well off family has replenished the same".About Tocilizumab:It calms the aberrant hyperimmune response called, cytokine storm, by acting against the inflammatory infection to fight infection.The drug is originally used for rheumatoid arthritis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/for-critical-covid-19-cases-pgimer-seeks-tocilizumab-drug-from-wealthy-patients-105306
27-06-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports four new COVID-19 cases; district tally climbs to 246||Mohali reported four new coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the district tally to 246.The four new infections included two females and two males—a 24-year-old female from Naba village, a 26-year-old female from Dharamgarh village, a 22-year-old male from Lalru, and a 51-year-old from Mohali tested positive for the deadly disease.Divulging details, Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh said that the two females were delivery cases and were admitted at Sector GMCH-32, Chandigarh, while the two males, which includes an NRI, while the other from Lalru, is an Influenza-like illness (ILI) case.He revealed that the two males were admitted at the COVID Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Dr Manjit Singh added that six patients were cured and discharged from the hospital.A 34-year-old woman from Dera Basi, a 14-year-old girl and 40-year-old male, both the residents of Kurali and a 54-year-old from Sector 116, a 53-year-old male from Sector 91 and a 42-year-old male from Baltana were discharged.With 191 discharged and three deaths, at present, there are total 246 cases and 52 active cases in the district, said the Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-four-new-covid-19-cases-district-tally-climbs-to-246-105294
27-06-2020||Vijay Mohan||CSIO develops precision safety goggles to prevent infections amid COVID-19 pandemic||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 26The Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) has developed a technology for precision manufacturing of safety goggles for healthcare professionals involved in treating high viral load patients as in the case of the COVID-19 pandemic.The current situation has brought out the need and significance of effective Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to protect the healthcare service providers, patients and visitors from accidentally getting infected. The technology has been transferred to a copy-based private firm for its commercialisation and mass production.According to the scientists, the conjunctiva membrane, located inside the eyelid to lubricate the eyeballs, is the only exposed mucous membrane of the body. When the eyes are opened, the conjunctiva membrane is also exposed, making it an important but often overlooked entrance for viruses. The protective eyewear is ergonomically designed to provide full cover and efficient sealing to the eye area from hazardous aerosols as well as other suspended particles.A team of CSIO scientists led by Dr Vinod Karar, chief scientist and head, Optical Devices and Systems, had taken up the design and development of the safety goggles in consultation with various industries and stakeholders.These safety goggles are designed with a flexible frame to provide tighter sealing with the skin of the face and would cover the eyes and the surrounding areas and even accommodating for prescription eyeglasses. It consists of a sturdy polycarbonate lens and an adjustable elastic strap for ease of wearing.“The goggles comply to ANSI/SEA Z87.1-2010 standard with respect to see-through optical transmittance and can be used in varied environmental conditions without any fogging or fatigue,” said Dr Neha Khatri, senior scientist and Principal Investigator, CSIO, associated with the project.The team included Dr Vinod Karar, Dr Sanjeev Soni, Dr Amit L Sharma, Dr Mukesh Kumar and Vinod Mishra.Dr Surender S Saini, head, Business Initiatives and Project Planning, said apart from healthcare professionals, the safety goggles could also be useful for the general public in crowded areas as well as in public transport.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/csio-develops-precision-safety-goggles-to-prevent-infections-amid-covid-19-pandemic-105229
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 3 new covid cases; tally rises to 428||Chandigarh reported three new coronavirus cases on Saturday, officials said---a development that takes the union territory’s COVID-19 tally to 428.A 76-year-old woman from Sector 30 and a 31-year-old woman from Sector 46 have been admitted to GMCH-32.A 45-year-old woman from Sector 41 tested positive later on Saturday evening at Mohali’s Civil Hospital.Six coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals on Friday after they recovered from the disease. A total of 335 persons have been cured so far.Chandigarh now has 87 active cases. The UT has recorded six deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-3-new-covid-cases-tally-rises-to-428-105218
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||CITCO asks Administration to reimburse Rs 10 crore||Facing a financial crisis due to the Covid-induced lockdown, Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (CITCO) has sought reimbursement of more than Rs10 crore from the UT Administration on account of expenses incurred on running a UT Guest House in New Delhi and a canteen at the UT Secretariat in the city.Several reminders, payment awaitedAn official said CITCO was running and managing the UT Secretariat canteen since April 1983 and the New Delhi guest house since November 1984.The CITCO authorities had sent various reminders for the reimbursement of expenses for running the canteen and the guest house, but the Administration has not released any payment till date.The official said a meeting was held under the chairmanship of the Special Secretary, (Tourism), UT, on July 29 last year, in which it was conveyed that the Hospitality Department, UT, would reimburse the expenses to CITCO after getting approval from the higher authorities. However, there was no further development on the matter, the official added.As the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown of hospitality business adversely affected the CITCO finances, reimbursement of Rs8.85 crore on account of expenses incurred on running the canteen and Rs1.94 crore on account of running the guest house had been sought, stated Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary, Home, UT, in a letter to the Secretary, Establishment, Secretariat, and the Secretary, Hospitality.An official said the corporation had taken a loan against a fixed deposit to pay nearly Rs5.5 crore as salary to its employees of all categories for April. CITCO had recently sought a grant of Rs27 crore from the UT Administration to run its day-to-day affairs and pay the staff.Kashmir Chand, chairman, CITCO Progressive Workers Union, and vice-president, Hind Mazdoor Sabha, stated that the UT Administration must provide monetary support to the corporation to tide over the financial crisis it was facing due to the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/citco-asks-administration-to-reimburse-rs-10-crore-105094
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||IAF officer hangs himself to death in Chandigarh||A 50-year-old Junior Warrant Officer of the Indian Air Force reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a window in his office at the Air Force Station today. The victim left a suicide note in which he mentioned that nobody should be held responsible for his suicide.The victim has been identified as Ashok Kumar Maji. He was posted as an instrument fitter with the Mi-26 helicopter unit based at the Chandigarh Air Force Station. He was reportedly depressed.He took the extreme step around 11.30 am. By the time the police reached the spot, the Air Force staff had brought the victim down.He was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead.The police said a suicide note was recovered in which the victim mentioned that he was depressed and nobody should be held responsible for his death.A police official said the officer was suffering from recurrent depressive disorder (RDC) for two years. He was undergoing treatment for it at the Command Hospital, Chandimandir.He was a native of West Bengal. He is survived by his wife and two daughters, aged 12 and 18. The family resides in Sector 47.The police have initiated inquest proceedings in the matter at the Sector 31 police station. They have ruled out any foul play in the incident. “There was no external injury mark on his body,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/iaf-officer-hangs-himself-to-death-in-chandigarh-105095
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||7-month-old boy among 2 +ve in Chandigarh||A seven-month-old boy from Sector 22, a family contact of a Covid patient, was among two persons who tested positive for the virus in the city today. The tally of infections now stands at 425, with 84 active cases.A 25-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, has also contracted the virus. She has four family members and all of them are asymptomatic.Meanwhile, six patients recovered from the disease and were discharged today.Three patients from Khudda Jassu, two from Bapu Dham Colony and one from Mani Majra have defeated the virus.The total number of recovered patients in the city has risen to 335. The city’s recovery rate stands at 79 per cent, while 7,201 samples have been taken so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-month-old-boy-among-2-ve-in-chandigarh-105096
27-06-2020||Panchkula||4 more Corona +ve cases  in Panchkula||A 20-year-old girl, who lives at Manakpur Devi Lal in the Pinjore block, has also tested positive. She had a travel history to Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh. A 25-year-old woman from Mahadev Colony in Surajpur area is among the persons testing positive for Covid today. Her source of infection was yet to be identified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-more-corona-ve-cases-in-panchkula-105097
27-06-2020||Mohali||Baltana woman among 6 contract virus in Mohali||Six fresh cases of Covid have been reported from the district, raising the tally to 242.Those who have contracted the virus include a 29-year-old woman from Baltana. Five persons from Behda village have also tested positive for Covid. They are two 18-year-old girls, a 19-year-old girl and two women, aged 25 and 34.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the Baltana woman was a research scholar at the PGI, Chandigarh, while the Behda village patients were migrants from Uttar Pradesh, who were working at a meat unit in the village.He said the Baltana resident was admitted to the PGI and the other five patients to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.Seven beat virus, dischargedThe Civil Surgeon said seven patients had been cured of the disease and discharged from the Banur hospital. He said they were three women, aged 25, 55 and 75, and as many men, aged 27, 25 and 35. He said they all were residents of Mubarakpur in Dera Bassi. He added that the seventh patient to defeat the virus was a 25-year-old man from Lalru.Part of Sector 91 sealedThe Civil Surgeon said the area in Sector 91, Mohali, had been sealed from where four patients were reported positive for Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/baltana-woman-among-6-contract-virus-in-mohali-105098
27-06-2020||---||Cyclist hit by truck, dies in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, June 26A cyclist was killed after being hit by a Verka truck near the Sector 31/Industrial Area light point.According to the police, complainant Pushp Raj of Faidan village reported that the cyclist, identified as Rattan Singh Chawla, a resident of Phase IX, Mohali, was hit by the truck on June 25.The victim was seriously injured and taken by the police to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead.A case under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC and Section 3/181 of the Motor Vehicles Act has been registered against the driver, Ravi Kumar, at the Sector 31 police station.Ravi Kumar was arrested and later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cyclist-hit-by-truck-dies-in-chandigarh-105099
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Theft at lawyer’s house in Sector 10||An amount of Rs7 lakh, jewellery worth around Rs20 lakh and other valuables were stolen from a lawyer’s house in Sector 10 here.The complainant, Lovekirat Singh Chahal, a lawyer at the Punjab and Haryana High Court and son of former Punjab SP Jaskirat Singh Chahal, reported that thieves made off with gold jewellery, expensive designer articles, electronic items and other valuables from his house between June 24 and 25.The police were informed about the theft, who reached the spot and started an investigation.A police official said as per the complainant, Rs7 lakh and jewellery worth around Rs20 lakh were stolen. Besides, there were other valuables and their worth was yet to be determined. “At present, his family is in Jalandhar. They will ascertain the loss on reaching here,” said a police official.A case has been registered in this regard at the Sector 3 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-at-lawyers-house-in-sector-10-105100
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Experts favour use of pulse oximeter at Covid centres||Experts have suggested the use of pulse oximeter at Covid care centres and for those in home isolation for the detection of blood oxygen saturation as an early warning sign in Covid-19 patients. The technique is being used at the PGI to monitor patients.About the deviceThe use of the technology is being advocated not only to diagnose lung damage but also to monitor the treatment with various modalities.The Delhi Government recently announced that the state would issue pulse oximeters to all Covid-19 patients in the Capital, who were under home isolation. Pulse oximetry is a non-invasive method for monitoring oxygen saturation in blood.A team of experts from the PGI had advised the UT Administration to carry out regular check of oxygen saturation among vulnerable people in areas such as Bapu Dham Colony.Prof GD Puri, Dean (Academics) and Head, Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, says: “Pulse oximeter can be used as a complete remote monitoring technique in community care. Unfortunately, a number of care centres do not use it regularly and some do not even have it in their armamentarium. At the PGI, pulse oximeter is used to remotely monitor patients.”Professor Puri explains: “Covid-19 patients may have ‘happy hypoxia’ (a term used as these patients may not feel breathless while resting, especially when their oxygen tension in blood or pulse oximeter values may be low). If the condition is detected early, the patient’s condition can be managed in time.”“Though Covid apparently involves lungs, the pathology it creates can affect the brain, heart and other organs also,” says Professor Puri.Lifesaver||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/experts-favour-use-of-pulse-oximeter-at-covid-centres-105101
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested for harassing woman||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-for-harassing-woman-105102
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 40-cr tenders for road works||Four test covid +ve in AmlohFatehgarh Sahib: Tension gripped Amloh town as four close contact of a Covid positive patient, who is the president of the Amloh Bar Association, including his eight-year-old grandson, a maid and two tenants. They have been shifted to Gian Sagar Hospital. The bar association president has been moved to Rajindra Hospital in Patiala as his condition was critical. Anand Sagar Sharma, Amloh SDM, said the area had been sealed and sanitised. OCAwareness drive against drugsFatehgarh Sahib: Amneet Kondal, SSP, launched an awareness drive to eradicate drug menace in the district to mark International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking. She administered an oath to police officials to wage a war against the drug abuse. OCOfficial gets addl chargeChandigarh: Rajiv Tewari, Assistant Controller (F&C), Chandigarh Housing Board, has been given the additional charge of the Director Public Relations (DPR), thereby, relieving Navjot Kaur, Director, Social Welfare Department, of the additional charge of the DPR. TNSCCPCR gets new ChairpersonChandigarh: The UT Social Welfare Department has appointed Harjinder Kaur as the Chairperson of the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The term of the Chairperson will be for a period of three years from the date he/she assumes the charge. TNSSSP addresses Patiala studentsPatiala: Senior Superintendent of Police Mandeep Singh Sidhu addressed students of Aryans Group of Colleges during a webinar on ‘drug abuse and illicit trafficking’. Sidhu talked about depression, peer pressure, unintentional dependency of medicines and lack of self-control. TNSAddress industry issues: SAD to govtPatiala: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders, in a memorandum that was addressed to Governor VP Singh Badnore and submitted to DC Kumar Amit on Friday, demanded the state government to resolve matters concerning the industry and trade in the region. The letter written by NK Sharma, president, trade and industry wing of the party, read: “The industry and trade sector in the state are going through unprecedented crises and grappling with low supply of raw material and labour shortage.” TNSBattery-swapping facility launchedChandigarh: VP Singh Badnore, UT Administrator, and Dharmendra Pradhan, Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel, inaugurated a state-of-the-art battery-swapping station for electric vehicles at M/s Kapoor Service Station, an Indian Oil retail outlet in Chandigarh, through a virtual event held here on Friday. Indian Oil has partnered with M/s SUN Mobility to set up battery-swapping stations at select fuel stations in identified cities. Pradhan commended the efforts of Indian Oil and SUN Mobility in pursuing the innovation. He hoped that the tie-up would energise the EV markets in India. “The EV opportunity is so big that every player in the eco-system will benefit from it,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-40-cr-tenders-for-road-works-105103
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Hoteliers await Administration help to boost industry in Chandigarh||Local hoteliers continue to face huge losses in business due to various reasons, including short operational hours, non-serving of liquor and others during the pandemic.However, the UT Administration decided to wait for MHA guidelines before deciding on allowing serving of liquor in local hotels, during its war room meeting held today.Local hotel owners had earlier demanded the permission for serving alcohol at restaurants and in banquet halls during functions after the Punjab Government allowed the same in the state.The demand was raised as the UT Administration follows the Punjab State Excise Act, 1914, to penalise Chandigarh-based restaurants in case of any negligence. However, the UT decided to wait till the present lockdown instructions end on June 30 before taking any decision.“These three months are the most important for us. During May to July last year, we received 20,000 to 30,000 customers on weekdays and 50,000 on weekends. But last week, we served 1,500 guests on weekdays and around 1,000 on weekends,” said Pankaj Singh, Manager of Food Court, Elante mall.“If the government has opened liquor vends, then why not hotels? We should be allowed to operate till 11 pm and to serve alcohol. This lockdown has dented our business badly and it’s high time that our industry should be given some relief,” said Arvinder Pal Singh, president, Chandigarh Hotels’ Association.With no or barely any business, most of the restaurants have limited their work to home delivery and takeaways. “It is difficult to cover even our operational costs. Only 10 to 15 per cent customers are visiting us. As the Punjab Government allowed serving of liquor, people now prefer going to Mohali or Zirakpur. The Administration and the MHA should think on similar lines and allow us to extend operational hours,” said Rajesh Kalra, General Manager, Hotel Maya, Sector 35.Members of the City Chandigarh Hospitality Association met UT Adviser Manoj Parida and requested him to allow serving of alcohol in local hotels, said association president Ankit Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hoteliers-await-administration-help-to-boost-industry-in-chandigarh-105104
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Designated teams to monitor visitors’ health||To check the symptoms of Covid-19 among visitors, designated teams will monitor their health regularly to prevent further spread of the virus in the city.During a review meeting, Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar informed UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore that over 10,000 people had come to the city via trains, road and flights in the past two days.OfficialspeakHe mentioned that 8,972 people had registered themselves on the official website giving details of their travel plan and accommodation in the city.Expressing concern over the rising Covid-19 cases due to people coming to the city, the Administrator directed the Deputy Commissioner to monitor their health conditions periodically through the designated teams.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said he had already instructed the police and other authorised officials to have stricter implementation of social distancing norms and wearing of face masks. Surprise inspections would be carried out in all markets and public places, including Sukhna Lake area, to penalise the violators.Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, said of the 601 samples tested in the past two days, 15 persons were found positive. Five of them belonged to Chandigarh.Dr BS Chavan, Director-Principal, GMCH-32, said of the 74 samples tested, two were found positive.Dr G Dewan, Director Health Services, stated that 4,160 outdoor patients were given necessary diagnosis and medications in hospitals and dispensaries.The Administrator also directed doctors, health and municipal officials to make preparations to prevent outbreak of monsoon-related diseases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/designated-teams-to-monitor-visitors-health-105106
27-06-2020||---||Immigration consultants booked on fraud charge||Chandigarh, June 26The UT police have booked two immigration consultants for allegedly duping people to the tune of several lakhs on the pretext of sending them abroad.In the first case, complainant Sukhbir Singh, a resident of Malout, Punjab, alleged that Ram Naryan of Future World Company, Sector 34, cheated him of Rs10.20 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad.A case of cheating has been registered against him at the Sector 34 police station.In another case, complainant Bhupinder Kumar of Ludhiana alleged that Balwinder Singh and others of RB Immigration Global Consultant, Sector 34, cheated him and six others to the tune of Rs3.85 lakh on the pretext of sending them to Singapore or Dubai. The complainant alleged they had paid Rs 55,000 each to the suspects.The police have registered a case of cheating under Section 24 of the Immigration Act at Sector 34 police station and initiated investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/immigration-consultants-booked-on-fraud-charge-105107
27-06-2020||Chandigarh||Police act tough, challan 57 for not wearing mask in Chandigarh||The UT police challaned 20 persons for not wearing a face mask at Sukhna Lake here this evening. A fine of Rs500 was imposed on each violator.In the past few days, the UT Administration and the Chandigarh Police had conducted similar challaning drive at the lake. As many as 12 challans were issued on Thursday.A police official said people visiting the lake had been violating the norms by not wearing a face mask.“People argue with us when we question them over not wearing a mask, following which we first click their pictures and then issue a challan to them,” said Sub-Inspector Jaspal Singh, in-charge at the Sukhna Lake police post.Around 70 people were rounded up for the offence last week. They were issued a warning to wear face masks. The police said they would continue the challaning drive in the coming days.The police also challaned 37 persons for not wearing a face mask in Sectors 7, 27 and 28.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-act-tough-challan-57-for-not-wearing-mask-in-chandigarh-105108
27-06-2020||Mohali||Bains brothers’ cycle rally reaches Mohali||A cycle rally of the Lok Insaaf Party reached here this afternoon to protest outside the Punjab Chief Minister’s residence in Chandigarh. The rally, “Kisan Bachao, Punjab Bachao Rosh Yatra”, was flagged off from Amritsar two days ago.The UT police stopped hundreds of party workers, led by MLA Simarjit Singh Bains and Balwinder Singh Bains. They only allowed Bains brothers to proceed to the CM’s residence on bicycles. UT ASP Neha Yadav led them to the CM’s residence after they met duty officer tehsildar Suresh Kumar.Before leaving for the CM’s residence, Bains brothers said their protest rally, “Kisan Bachao, Punjab Bachao Rosh Yatra”, was purely in the interest of Punjab farmers.They said ordinances on agriculture, passed by the Centre recently, would ruin the future of Punjab farmers. To save Punjab, its farmers should be saved. Agriculture and farmers were under threat not only from the corporate, but also from the government. They would present a memorandum to the Punjab Chief Minister in this regard.To highlight the agrarian crisis, Bains brothers and other party activists had started the cycle rally from Amritsar two days ago. However, they were booked on the way by the Phagwara administration for allegedly violating the Covid-19 protocol.Simarjit Bains, while criticising the Centre for bringing ordinances on agriculture, said: “Agriculture is a state subject and bringing ordinance in such a manner only hints at centralisation of powers”.Bains brothers bookedThe Mohali police on Friday booked Simarjit Singh Bains and Balwinder Singh Bains, popularly known as Bains brothers, and their party workers for holding a cycle rally amid the Covid-19 outbreak.Members of the Lok Insaaf Party reached Mohali to meet the Punjab Chief Minister on bicycles under the campaign, “Kisan Bachao, Punjab Bachao Rosh Yatra”.DSP (City 1) Gursher Singh said: “We have registered a case against 150 activists, who gathered here during the cycle rally. Bains brothers are among four persons who have been named in the FIR. The case was registered under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the IPC at the Mataur police station.” The DSP said the MLAs were yet to be questioned in this matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bains-brothers-cycle-rally-reaches-mohali-105110
27-06-2020||Dhakoli||Recarpeting work begins in Dhakoli||The recarpeting of the Dhakoli-Mubarakpur link road from Sanauli village began here today. The 2.5-km stretch will be refurbished for Rs 2 crore.The recarpeting work began at the T-point near the DPS World School yesterday. Residents here have been complaining about the bad condition of the road for the past three years to Zirakpur Municipal Council, local administration, and the PWD Department, but to no avail.“The narrow road is littered with potholes, causing frequent accidents. Overloaded trucks ply on the road during the night, making it a dangerous affair,” said Mahesh Nagar, a Dhakoli resident.Overloaded tippers involved in mining activity in Ghaggar ply on the road and cause damage to it. “There is an urgent need to erect overhead barriers near both ends of the road to stop tippers from plying on the road,” said Anuradha Kulshreshta, a social activist. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/recarpeting-work-begins-in-dhakoli-105112
27-06-2020||Mohali||Punjab Government committed to creating drug-free state: Minister||The onus lies on each of us to protect our youth from falling into the trap of drugs. Healthy youth can play a vital role in creating a better and drug-free society.This was stated by Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu while addressing a state-level function on International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking at a drug de-addiction centre in Sector 66, here, today.He said: “It is reassuring for us that the new generation is becoming aware of the ill-effects of drugs use. The number of drug addicts in the state has come down drastically. However, the new generation must be stopped from going the wrong way”.Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Punjab Government was committed to creating a drug-free state. As a result of the government’s efforts, 5.47 lakh patients had so far registered themselves at drug de-addiction and rehabilitation centres across the state.The Minister said health workers were working day and night for the success of “Mission Fateh” being run by the Punjab Government to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.Balkar Singh Sidhu, IG, anti-drug special task force, highlighted the role being played by the task force in curbing drug menace. He said the state government had constituted this task force with the objective of eradicating drugs from the state. He said the cooperation of the common man was essential to win the war against drugs. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-government-committed-to-creating-drug-free-state-minister-105114
