27-10-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 67 new cases, one death in Chandigarh||The death of one more COVID-19 positive person pushed the toll to 223 in Chandigarh while 67 new cases took the infection tally to 14,152 on Tuesday.A 30-year-old coronavirus positive man, who had a head injury, died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, according to a medical bulletin.A total of 49 patients were discharged after they recovered, taking the number of cured people to 13,279, the bulletin said.As many as 1,02,933 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 88,155 tested negative while reports of 129 samples were awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-67-new-cases-one-death-in-chandigarh-161923
27-10-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh host reception at Chandigarh; newlyweds sing romantic song; see pictures||Newlyweds Neha Kakkar and Rohanpreet Singh hosted a reception for their friends and relatives at The Amaltas Farms in Zirakpur near Chandigarh on Monday. The two tied the knot on Saturday in a traditional Anand Karaj ceremony in Delhi.   For their reception, Neha wore an elegant silver-white lehenga with diamond-emerald jewellery while Rohanpreet wore a blue suit-piece.  Neha’s bridal look was completed with ‘sindoor’ this time.Couple of the night!!!!😍 This bride never miss a single chance to make her hubby happy so us too!!!❤️❤️❤️ @nehakakkar @rohanpreetsingh #NehaKakkar #RohanPreetSingh #NehuDaVyah #NehuPreet #NehuHappyNeheartsHappy #NeheartPalak #Nehearts .A post shared by  Palak Chaurasia (@_neheartpalak) on Oct 26, 2020 at 11:59am PDT  Pictures and videos from the reception have surfaced on several fan pages. Neha Kakkar’s reception look is here!😍 She made me believe again that she’s forever sweet16💫 God bless #NehuPreet with abundant happiness 😇🤲🏻♥️ @nehakakkar #NehaKakkar #NehuHappyNeheartsHappy #NeheartPalak #Nehearts .A post shared by  Palak Chaurasia (@_neheartpalak) on Oct 26, 2020 at 11:54am PDT  @nehakakkar & @rohanpreetsingh singing their own song #NehuDaVyah in their reception which will took your heart away😍💖 #NehaKakkar #RohanPreetSingh #NehuPreet #NehuHappyNeheartsHappy #NeheartPalak #Nehearts .A post shared by  Palak Chaurasia (@_neheartpalak) on Oct 26, 2020 at 9:52pm PDT  😍😍@nehakakkar didu and @rohanpreetsingh Jiju.. #nehupreet #NehuDavyah #rohupreet #nehakakkar #rohanpreetsingh #cutestcoupleN❤RA post shared by  @neheart_Prachi (@neheart_prachi6) on Oct 26, 2020 at 7:28pm PDT  In one of the clips, Neha was seen crooning songs for husband Rohanpreet.Dhamaal at #nehupreet Didu's Reception!!😍😍🤗@nehakakkar didu and @rohanpreetsingh Jiju..🤗🤗💝#nehupreet #rohupreet #nehakakkar #rohanpreetsingh #cutestcoupleN❤RA post shared by  @neheart_Prachi (@neheart_prachi6) on Oct 26, 2020 at 7:13pm PDT  #nehupreet Tonight look❤❤U both r lookinhg so beautiful..😍😍🤗@nehakakkar Didu and @rohanpreetsingh jiju..🤗🤗😘#NehuDavyah #cutestcoupleN❤RA post shared by  @neheart_Prachi (@neheart_prachi6) on Oct 26, 2020 at 7:30pm PDT  Neha and Rohanpreet kept their wedding festivities a close-knit affair with family members and close friends in attendance. The celebrities who were a part of various ceremonies included Urvashi Dholakia, Meet Brothers, Mankirt Aulakh, Rajat Nagpal, Urvashi Rautela, Maniesh Paul, Baani Sandhu and Jassi Lohka.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/neha-kakkar-and-rohanpreet-singh-host-reception-at-chandigarh-newlyweds-sing-romantic-song-see-pictures-161827
27-10-2020||Balwant Garg||Three years on, Gian Sagar Medical College likely to resume operations||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, October 26Three years after it was shut following a controversy over financial mismanagement, Gian Sagar Medical College at Banur is likely to resume functioning this year after the new management of the college pays Rs 1.5-crore endowment fund to the state government.While the Medical Council of India (now National Medical Commission) has already given its nod to the college to make admissions to 100 MBBS seats this time, the state Medical Education Department wants the college to deposit Rs 1.5 crore as endowment fund before resuming functioning. The fund would be utilised for meeting fee and other expenses of students in case college faces a crisis similar to the one it had faced in 2017, said sources in the Medical Education Department.The Medical Council of India (MCI) and Dental Council of India had withdrawn the recognition to the dental and medical colleges of the Gian Sagar Educational and Charitable Trust in 2017 after the management failed to come up with a concrete revival plan for the institute. At the time, the government had shifted around 1,500 medical and dental students to other medical institutions operating across the state.The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences has already started the process of MBBS and BDS admissions. It is expected that the state will have 1,135 MBBS and 1,030 BDS seats this time.There are hopes of addition of 100 new MBBS seats in the state with the starting of BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences at Mohali as the fourth government medical college in the state.During the inspection of the institute some time ago, the MCI board of governors had denied permission to grant temporary recognition to the Ambedkar institute to start classes due to inadequate infrastructure and teaching faculty.Since then, the process to recruit the faculty has been going on in top gear so that the MCI’s decision could be reviewed. However, the National Medical Commission has refused to review the MCI decision, revealed sources.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-years-on-gian-sagar-medical-college-likely-to-resume-operations-161494
27-10-2020||---||Waste collectors to resume work today||Chandigarh, October 26After four days of strike, door-to-door garbage collectors and sanitation workers will resume work tomorrow.Though the MC has assured them that it will consider most of their demands, the ones pertaining to the wearing of GPS-enabled watches and not working under the corporation are unlikely to be accepted. “We have told them the decision regarding two of their demands was approved by the House and subsequently cleared by the UT Administration. If anything has to change, it can be done only by the House,” said a senior MC official.However, the Safai Karamchari Union president said:“We have been assured that the two issues will be brought to the House again. Though we will resume work tomorrow, four members of the union will still stage a dharna daily.”Other demands of the union included regularisation of daily wagers, pay hike for contractual staff, allotment of houses to daily-wage employees and pension benefits for all.In a meeting with the union, MC Commissioner KK Yadav, Joint Commissioner Sorabh Arora and Medical Officer of Health Dr Amrit Warring were present.They assured the union members to take up the demands with the higher-ups. Meanwhile, several Sehaj Safai Kendras (SSKs) were seen full of garbage. Garbage was also seen strewn on roadside, parks, open spaces and near SSKs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waste-collectors-to-resume-work-today-161587
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||PGI to resume OPDs from November 2||The PGI has decided to resume physical OPDs from November 2. To ensure social distancing, each OPD will cater to a fixed number of 50 patients.However, the number of patients visiting the OPDs will be increased or decreased as per the situation. The institute has decided that all patients, who visit the OPDs without a prior appointment, will be attended to through tele-consultation. The departments that are operating special clinics and general OPDs will decide on the number of patients to be attended.Engg section to complete worksThe engineering section has been requested to complete any pending work in the newly prepared holding area for patients and all departments have been requested to intimate the person/wing concerned if any infrastructural modifications are required in their OPD areas. A meeting with the security wing of the PGI will be arranged to discuss crowd-control measures.The timings for the registration for tele-consultation will be from 8 am to 9.30 am. The departments of general surgery, internal medicine, paediatric medicine, gynaecology and ophthalmology will start daily OPDs.The OPDs will function as per the existing schedule and the focus will be on limiting the number of patients and crowd control. It was further decided that tele-consultation services will continue and these will also act as the point of getting appointments to visit the OPDs. Patients evaluated through tele-consultation and requiring physical examination will be called to the PGI on an appointment basis.All departments providing tele-consultation will write a date of appointment on the tele-consultation OPD cards of the patients. The appointments will be scheduled as per the recommendations of the department in hourly slots and intimation about it will be sent through an SMS on the registered mobile number of the patient.A decision was also taken to provide PPE kits to various cadres of healthcare workers in the OPDs for the second phase. The Department of Community Medicine has been entrusted with the responsibility of initiating a screening system for patients, who would be asked to visit the OPDs in person.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-to-resume-opds-from-november-2-161598
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Suspect in firing outside Sector 9 club in police net||A suspect involved in the firing incident outside a club, EskoBar, in Sector 9 has been arrested by the local police. Tiktok star Sourav Gujjar was shot at on October 11 following an argument over throwing money before him apparently as a reward for his dance moves.The police said one of the suspects, identified as Sukhdeep, alias Sukhi (21), a resident of Ludhiana, was arrested at a naka near the Sector 3/4/9/10 chowk.Gets 8-day police remandThe police said one of the suspects, identified as Sukhdeep, alias Sukhi (21), a resident of Ludhiana, was arrested at a naka near the Sector 3/4/9/10 chowk. Sukhi was produced in a court and remanded in eight-day police custody.Sukhi was produced in a court and remanded in eight-day police custody.Complainant Akash, a resident of Zirakpur, had reported that he, along with his friends Sourav Gujjar and Kunal, visited EskoBar. The trio was sitting on a table, while the suspect, Movis Bains, along with four others, was sitting on the other table.After sometime, members of both groups started dancing on the dance floor. While dancing, Sourav and Movis exchanged heated words when the latter threw money before him apparently as a reward for his dance moves. When Sourav asked a worker of the club to pick up the money, Mouvis slapped him. The bouncers intervened and both groups came out of the club where they again quarrelled. Movis’ friends opened fire at Sourav and his friends. Three gunshots were fired, one of which hit Sourav near the waist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspect-in-firing-outside-sector-9-club-in-police-net-161621
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Day after, cops visit lab techie’s office in Kharar||A day after a Sector 22 resident, working as a lab technician at the Food and Drug Administration office in Kharar, was shot at while he was returning home after paying obeisance at a gurdwara in Sector 22, the UT police visited his office to investigate if he had any enmity with anyone in his office. Amrik Singh was shot at on his right hip by an unidentified pedestrian.Singh works in the same office where Neha Shoree, a zonal licensing authority, was shot dead on March 29, 2019. The suspect, Balwinder, had blamed the victim for the cancellation of his drug licence in 2009 and nursed a grudge against her.A police official said though Amrik had stated that he did not have any enmity with anyone, they visited his office to speak to his colleagues.The official said they wanted to check whether Amrik was also involved in public dealing. “His colleagues stated that Amrik didn’t have any dispute with anyone in the office. Moreover, he was not associated with public dealing,” the official added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-cops-visit-lab-techies-office-in-kharar-161622
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||MC House to dwell on water tariff hike||Residents can hope for a revision in the new water tariff and sanitation workers may get rid of GPS-enabled wrist watches as the two contentious issues will be taken up during a physical meeting of the Municipal Corporation House on October 29.It will be the first time after the pandemic hit the city that a physical House meeting will be held. Since April, the meetings have been held via video-conferencing.“The agenda for the House meeting will include revision of the water tariff, watches for workers and rent reduction for Sector 23 booths. We will discuss the difference brought about by the watches in the past three months even as the cash-starved MC paid Rs18 lakh a month,” stated Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood. The ruling BJP chief has formed a committee to look into the waste collectors’ issue.About the meetingMayor Raj Bala Malik agreed to hold a physical meeting due to party pressure, said a senior leader.Sources said a BJP core committee meeting was held yesterday. It was attended by sangthan mantri Dinesh Kumar, Sood, party’s general secretaries, former Mayor Asha Jaswal, Mayor Malik and others. “She was asked to hold a physical meeting or face a no-confidence motion. She was also told to consider all tabled agenda items. Thus, she had to relent,” added a party leader.Meanwhile, Malik could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-house-to-dwell-on-water-tariff-hike-161623
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||In Chandigarh, Covid deaths down 45% in October||Deaths due to Covid-19 in the city have gone down in October by over 45 per cent as compared with September, which recorded the highest number of fatalities in a month.Although the number of deaths remained constant in the first two weeks of October, it decreased considerably in the third week. The first week recorded 18 deaths, followed by 17 deaths during the second week. Only 10 deaths were recorded in the third week of October.UT sees 4 deathsChandigarh: The city witnessed four deaths and 47 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday. An 83-year-old woman from Sector 36, died at Fortis Hospital, Mohali. She was also afflicted with coronary artery disease, chronic kidney disease and hypertension. A 58-year-old man with comorbidities from Sector 38 (west) died at the PGI. A 77-year-old woman from Sector 35 died at Mukat Hospital, Chandigarh. A 78-year-old woman from Sector 4 died at Max Hospital in Mohali. A total of 63 patients have been discharged. The total number of cured patients is 13,230, while 633 are active. TNSIn September, the city recorded 110 fatalities due to Covid-19, while 60 deaths have been reported in October so far. The city recorded 37 deaths in August.For every 100 confirmed Covid cases in Chandigarh, at least one died of the virus, 94 recovered and five are still active cases.Dr Amandeep Kang, Director Health Services, UT, said: “Deaths have decreased as the number of positive cases has also declined. People should follow the social discipline as it has been observed that the number of cases surges after festivals. To maintain the downward trend, people must not crowd markets during the festival period. People with comorbidities are at a greater risk.”“Positive patients with comorbidities should opt for home-isolation if they are under the active care of a physician,” added Dr Kang.About two-third of those who died of the virus were males and 80 per cent had comorbidities. A majority of the deceased were 50 years of age or above. The deaths being reported lately are persons with underlying conditions.Prof Jagat Ram, PGIMER Director, said: “We are admitting serious or critical patients to the hospital. Most of them have comorbidities. Such cases have high mortality despite the best possible treatment. However, the past few days have been a respite as the number of patients has declined. The best intensive care will continue for patients being admitted to our hospital.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-chandigarh-covid-deaths-down-45-in-october-161625
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Registration: Vendors jostle with each other, give safety the go-by||With no arrangements in place, social distancing went for a toss when a number of vendors queued up to get registered at the fee counters of the Municipal Corporation.Compared to the number of counters, there were many applicants. People jostled with each other to remain in queues. “What can we do, only one day has been fixed for applicants from a number of wards to get themselves registered. If we miss it today, we will not get a chance,” said a vendor.“They should have called a limited number of vendors per day to avoid rush. We have no option but to come here to get the registration done as tomorrow, applicants from other wards will come,” said another vendor.No official from the vendor cell was seen managing the crowd. “There should be someone to allow in people one by one. Otherwise nobody knows who will infect whom. We are vendors and have to visit different areas. The public can be at risk because of this,” said a vegetable vendor.These vendors were identified in the 2016 survey, but were not registered as they did not have the Chandigarh address on the Aadhaar card. However, now the MC is allowing them too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/registration-vendors-jostle-with-each-other-give-safety-the-go-by-161626
27-10-2020||Panchkula||Just 5 cases in Panchkula, no death||The district today reported just five Covid-19 cases, taking the district tally to 6,984.This is the second consecutive day when the district has witnessed cases in a single digit. Yesterday, the district had reported eight cases. The Health Department has urged people to exercise caution. No coronavirus death was reported today. The toll stands at 110. The new cases include two from Sector 25 and one each from Pinjore, the MDC, Sector 5 and Sector 17. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/just-5-cases-in-panchkula-no-death-161628
27-10-2020||Mohali||1 death, 55 new cases in Mohali||One Covid death and 55 new cases were reported from the district today. As many as 45 patients were cured of the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 32 were reported from Mohali (urban), 13 from Kharar, five from Gharuan, two from Dera Bassi, two from Dhakoli and one from Lalru.The district has so far reported 12,118 cases. While 11,328 patients have been cured, there are 557 active cases. The toll has reached 233. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-death-55-new-cases-in-mohali-161629
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||80 per cent Class IX students flunk reappear examinations||Nearly 80 per cent of students who couldn’t pass the final Class IX examinations have again failed in the reappear exams held in the first week of October and have been detained in the same class.Of 3,950 Class IX students placed under compartment, only 401 students could pass the reappear exam while 3,182 students have been detained for the 2019-20 session. These students have failed despite a whopping 30 grace marks given to them in the wake of unexpected turn of events observed during the Covid-19 pandemic.Nill result in 38 govt schoolsAs many as 38 government schools could not see any student pass the compartment exams. A majority of students who have failed in the compartment exams belong to peripheral schools. Some of the schools where no student has passed the exams include GHS, Kajheri; GHS, Hallo Majra; GHS, Daria; GHS, Sarangpur; GHS, Indira Colony MM; GMHS, Dhanas; and GMHS Karasn.Failure of no-detention policyThis is not the first time that these many students have failed in Class IX. The Class IX results can be best attributed to the policy of not detaining a child until Class VIII under the continuing “no-detention policy” and thus making weak students complacent and non-serious till they face detention.In the 2018-19 session, the department maintained a tough stance by discontinuing the practice of awarding 15-20 grace marks to students, which led to a decrease in pass percentage of Class IX to 55.05 per cent in 2018-19, by 17 per cent.A total of 1,572 Class IX students had failed last year despite being given two chances of reappear test. That was for the first time the Education Department had decided to give students a second chance in wake of the repeal of grace marks policy in the session 2018-2019.A leader of the UT government school teachers union said: “The students studying in government schools do not attend classes regularly till Class VIII and knowing that they will not be detained till completion of elementary education, they tend to grow more complacent towards studies. Their concepts are not clear and they somehow manage to clear Class VIII. But when weaker students reach Class IX, they are unable to cope with the level of studies, and are detained.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/80-per-cent-class-ix-students-flunk-reappear-examinations-161630
27-10-2020||Mohali||Gang of thieves busted, 5 held with stolen vehicles||With the arrest of five alleged members of a gang, the Kharar police claimed to have solved 10 cases of theft and snatching in Dhakoli, Dera Bassi, Zirakpur, Baltana, Sunny Enclave, Kharar, Balongi and Panchkula.Recoveries made from thievesThe police have recovered nine two-wheelers, a Jeep, a .315-bore country-made pistol, a sword, an axe and 80-gm smackThe police have recovered nine two-wheelers, a Jeep, a .315-bore country-made pistol, a sword, an axe and 80-gm smack from the suspects — Prince, Bhupinder Singh Rawat, Rahul Kumar, Lakhan and Pardeep Kumar. They have been booked under Section 379 of the IPC and 25 of the Arms Act. Pardeep Kumar was arrested by the police on October 24 with 80-gm smack.“Suspect Bhupinder Singh Rawat, alias Bulla, and Lakhan have already been booked for theft and fighting. Pardeep Kumar has been involved in supplying drugs in the region. A case was already registered against him under the NDPS Act in Bathinda. Pardeep Kumar used to supply drugs to people by stealing motorcycles or buying stolen motorcycles from his accomplices. After using them, he would throw the vehicles in a deserted place or take out their parts and sell them. The gang members carried weapons to intimidate people during looting and plundering,” said SP (Rural) Ravjot Grewal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gang-of-thieves-busted-5-held-with-stolen-vehicles-161631
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Bishnoi gang member held with weapon||The operation cell of the UT police has nabbed an alleged member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang with a country-made pistol.The suspect has been identified as Sandeep Kumar, alias Nata (35), a resident of Nadiyali village in Mohali district. He was arrested at a naka near Raipur Kalan village.A police official said Sandeep was an active member of the Bishnoi gang.“He is a key accomplice of gangsters Sampat Nehra and Deepu Banur,” said a police official.The police said Sandeep was earlier involved in a number of cases, including attempt to murder, kidnapping, firing and possession of illegal weapon, registered in Punjab. Sandeep disclosed that he procured the country-made pistol from Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh.A case has been registered against the suspect at the Mauli Jagran police station. He was produced in a court and remanded in two-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bishnoi-gang-member-held-with-weapon-161633
27-10-2020||Ambala||Woman dies for want of timely treatment||A 32-year-old woman, who suffered an electric shock, allegedly died in the absence of timely medical treatment here on Sunday.District health officials have recommended strict action against doctors, who were found absent from duty, including emergency, at the community health centre (CHC), Shahzadpur, in Ambala.The woman, Lalita, suffered an electric shock while working at her home in Shahzadpur Majra village here yesterday morning. The victim’s family members shifted her to the CHC. They allegedly did not find on-duty doctors at the CHC for around 40 minutes. In the meantime, the woman breathed her last.The victim’s husband, Chaman Lal, alleged that his wife didn’t get timely treatment. When they reached the CHC, no doctor was available there.The victim’s kin alleged that when doctors reached there, the woman had already passed away. The family members initially refused to cremate the body and sought action against the CHC staff. Later, they agreed to perform her last rites after Deputy Civil Surgeon Dr Balwinder Kaur and Dr Rajinder Rai reached the spot and assured the family members of taking appropriate action in the case.Dr Balwinder said: “Absence of doctors from emergency duty is a gross negligence. We have recommended action against doctors who were not present there”.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh discussed the issue with Health Minister Anil Vij.There are reports that the state government has suspended five doctors in this connection, but no orders were received till late this evening.Civil Surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said: “We have recommended action against the doctors and action will be taken against them. We have to see how many of them will be suspended. We have not yet received any written orders from the government.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-dies-for-want-of-timely-treatment-161634
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University postpones merit list||Panjab University authorities have decided to postpone the announcement a provisional merit list after objections were raised on including weightage of the “legal studies” subject while allotting seats to BA LLB (Hons) five-year course at the University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS).A notice in this regard states: “It is notified for all candidates seeking admission to BA/BCom LLB (Hons) for the session 2020-21, the provisional merit list for admission to above-mentioned courses is to be displayed on October 23, the same is now postponed till further orders.”On October 20, a tentative admission list for the course was released wherein students observed that changes have been made without any prior notice. The admission to this course is under way on the basis of merit, after entrance test for the same was scrapped this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-postpones-merit-list-161635
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Anirudh, Myraa claim medals in yoga meet||Anirudh Vasudev and Myraa Khattar claimed pole positions in the 8-10 years group of the boys and girls’ category, respectively, at the 36th Chandigarh State Yogasana Sports Championship today. Ayush Rathore and Amanjot Sood claimed second and third position, respectively, in the boys’ category while Yashika Gupta and Kritkya won second and third position, respectively.In the boys’ 10-12 years category, Kartik, Nihal and Sahajpreet Singh won top three positions while in the girls’ category, Guna Shree Sharma, Arti and Jasnoor Basra won medals. Vinayak, Jashandeep Singh and Deepash Kumar were victorious in the boys’ 12-14 years category whereas Jaya, Anushka Sharma and Komal shined in the girls’ category.ResultsBoys’ 14-16: 1st Ram Kumar, 2nd Krishna, 3rd HartmanGirls 14-16: 1st Ankita, 2nd Gurkirat Kaur, 3rd PayalBoys’ 16-18: 1st Arush Mehra, 2nd Dilip, 3rd Brijesh KasanaGirls’ 16-18: 1st Prajakta, 2nd Kamini, 3rd Jasmine KaurBoys’ 18-21: 1st Abhay, 2nd Ishwar, 3rd Dev KumarGirls’ 18-21: 1st Payal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anirudh-myraa-claim-medals-in-yoga-meet-161636
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||37% UT voters not aware of NOTA option in EVM: Survey||Believe it or not, over 37 per cent of the voters in the city were not aware of NOTA during the parliamentary elections held in 2019, while 42.6 per cent of people didn’t have any knowledge about VVPAT. A majority of the people called for making voting compulsory.Aamir Khan favourite campaignerOut of the sample electorates, who had seen Election Commission of India advertisement or campaign, actor Aamir Khan was the most motivating as reported by 36.2 per cent of the sample followed by cricketer MS Dhoni (33.5 per cent), actor Ayushmann Khurrana (32 per cent), Saina Nehwal (22.2 per cent) and Mary Kom (22.6 per cent).This was revealed in a survey conducted by the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) on behalf of the Election Department, UT.The main objective of the study is to understand the takeaways of the campaigns for voter awareness and education and understand the extent and level of participation of voters in the election processes in the recently concluded Lok Sabha poll, 2019.Most revealed tagline for campaignAs far as recalling the tagline for the campaign during those elections, the survey revealed that the UT electorates have limited knowledge. The most revealed tagline was “Koi Matdata Na Chootey” for 35.1 per cent of the sample followed by “Desh ka Mahatoyhar” (28.1 per cent) and “Go Register, Go Verify or Go Vote” (15 per cent).The present study is based on a sample of 1,000 individual electors in Chandigarh. Out of this, 150 were from the rural areas, 250 from rehabilitated colonies and the remaining 600 were from the urban areas. The field survey for the study was carried out during June under the supervision of Associate Professor Sunil Bansal and Assistant Professor Madan Mohan Singh of the CRRID.A majority of the sample electorates (93.3 per cent) reported to cast their vote in the last General (parliamentary) elections. More than half (54.5 per cent) of the voters got to know about the NOTA option while casting their vote, another 7.6 per cent told that they had read about it. Only 0.7 per cent of the sample revealed that they came to know about it during the election literacy programme. The remaining 37.2 per cent of the electorates did not know about this option.Nearly half (49.3 per cent) of the sample electorates reported to saw VVPAT while casting their votes and 42.6 per cent of the voters did not have any knowledge about it.Opinion on making voting compulsoryAbout half of the electorates (48.4 per cent) in the city agree with the statement “voting should be made compulsory” and another 45.3 per cent strongly agree with this statement. Nearly half (48.4 per cent) of the sample electorates agree with the statement “elections are conducted freely and fairly in India” and another 17.3 per cent expressed “strongly agree” with this statement.More than one third (38.3 per cent) of the electorates agree with the statement “EVM provided accurate results” and another 27.9 per cent strongly agree with it.One-third (33.3 per cent) of the electorates “agree” with the statement “influence of money and muscle is increasing in elections”, while another 10.8 per cent “strongly agree” with it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/37-ut-voters-not-aware-of-nota-option-in-evm-survey-161659
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Centre sanctions 2 oxygen plants for Sector 32 hospital Chandigarh||The Central Government has sanctioned two oxygen plants for the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, acting director, GMCH-32, stated that one plant would be set up at the Civil Hospital, Sector 48, being run by the GMCH, and another will be built on the premises of the Sector 32 hospital. No laser show at Sukhna on DiwaliIn view of the pandemic, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore has decided that there would be no laser show at Sukhna Lake this Diwali. However, the decorative lighting in market places and iconic buildings would continue.During a review meeting on the pandemic, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for sanctioning the plants, which would provide piped oxygen supply to all beds in the hospitals, instead of present system of oxygen through cylinders.The Administrator expressed happiness over the recruitment of 31 specialist doctors by the UT. He directed the Principal Secretary, Health, to ensure that doctors are posted in various satellite hospitals in different sectors on fixed days so that patients can avail the facility of specialist consultation locally, instead of crowding the GMSH-16, GMCH-32 or the PGI.He also directed the PGI to have tele-consultation so that patients could consult specialists over video, instead of crowding OPDs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-sanctions-2-oxygen-plants-for-sector-32-hospital-chandigarh-161662
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Six Chandigarh cops suspended for exchanging blows||The UT police have suspended six cops for exchanging blows near a night club in Sector 26 here after both teams reached there on getting information about suspects carrying illegal weapons.Inspector Satvinder Singh, Sub-Inspector Neeraj and Constable Sanjay, all from the Crime Branch, SI Navin Kumar and constables Kavipal and Sompal, who were posted at the Sector 26 police station, have been suspended.Show-cause noticeA show-cause notice has been issued to Inspector Harinder Sekhon, in-charge, Crime Branch, and Inspector Narinder Patial, SHO of the Sector 26 police station.A show-cause notice has been issued to Inspector Harinder Sekhon, in-charge, Crime Branch, and Inspector Narinder Patial, SHO of the Sector 26 police station.Police personnel from the Crime Branch and the Sector 26 police station had entered into a fight over verifying the persons who were suspected to have possessing illegal weapons. Both sides wanted to take suspects with them for verification, which led to an argument. It turned uglier after which cops exchanged blows.Inspector Satvinder suffered hairline fracture on the nose and ASI Ramesh suffered a fracture on the hand. The incident brought ‘credit war’ to the fore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/six-chandigarh-cops-suspended-for-exchanging-blows-161663
27-10-2020||Mohali||Driver held for injuring cop in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/driver-held-for-injuring-cop-in-mohali-161664
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sweets manufacturers, sellers told to use quality raw material||In the wake of the festive season, the Health Department has issued directions to the Food Safety Officers to keep strict check on the manufacturers, sellers and distributor of food articles in their respective areas, especially in the periphery of the city.The department advised all manufacturers and sellers of sweets not to indulge in any illegal activity. They have been asked to maintain proper hygiene, sanitation, use good quality raw material, permitted food colours and must have food licence under the Food Safety Act.No food business would be allowed to manufacture, sell, store or distribute any food article without having food licence. Stern action would be initiated if anyone found not complying with the law, stated the department.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the department advised all food business operators to maintain high level of personal hygiene, practice social distancing, place sanitisers at the entry to the premises and maintain appropriate cleaning and sanitation of the food operations premises and food storage units.The department also requested the general public to be more vigilant during this festive season in view of the pandemic and maintain all preventive measures to keep themselves and their family members safe. They have been asked to buy sweets and other food articles only from licensed shops. It also advised people to not to buy food lying in the open and exposed to dust and flies. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sweets-manufacturers-sellers-told-to-use-quality-raw-material-161665
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Camp to relocate pre-fab shelter occupants begins||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has started a camp for occupants of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56. The occupants will be shifted to EWS flats in Maloya-1. The allottees will be required to pay a monthly rent of Rs3,000.Yashpal Garg, CEO of the CHB, said around 250 applicants attended the camp on the first day today to complete the documentation for the rental flat under the Central scheme. For better compliance of Covid protocols, the applicants would be called in a staggered manner.“Entry of applicants is allowed inside the CHB premises in batches of 50 persons every hour for which schedule has been displayed at the site of the pre-fab shelters and on the CHB premises,” he said.The camp would continue till Thursday. The remaining applicants might be called in the first week of November, he said.He said the computerised draw would be made for allotment on a rental basis. The result of the draw would be pasted at the particular group of the pre-fab shelter at least three days before the actual shifting so that the occupants have sufficient time for packing their belongings.He said arrangements were also being made at Maloya-I for handing over the possession of flats immediately after Diwali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/camp-to-relocate-pre-fab-shelter-occupants-begins-161666
27-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to issue bid documents by November end||To start the process of privatisation of the Electricity Department, the UT Administration will issue bid documents by the end of next month.UT Adviser Manoj Parida today chaired a meeting in this regard. The meeting was attended by officials of the UT, Union Ministry of Power and transaction consultant Deloitte among others.Parida said it was a lengthy process and they would require more clarity on various issues before issuing bid documents. A trust would be constituted to look after the welfare of the employees. The Power Finance Corporation (PFC) had appointed Deloitte, a private firm, as a consultant to prepare a comprehensive report on unbundling of the department.Opposing the privatisation of the department, Gopal Datt Joshi, general secretary, UT Powermen Union, said it was the most profit-earning department of the UT and had never been in the red even as it does not generate power. Despite staff shortage, the department was serving the public with the best services. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-issue-bid-documents-by-november-end-161668
27-10-2020||Mohali||Two held with arms, narcotics||Get coupons for diwali stallsChandigarh: With Diwali around the corner, the MC will start issuing coupons to shopkeepers for putting up temporary stalls in various markets, except for Sectors 1 to 6, from November 1 to 11. Besides the MC head office in Sector 17 and other sub-offices, coupons will be available at community centres in Sectors 16, 19, 46 and Mani Majra near Shivalik Garden. An official said shopkeepers could seek permission for three or seven days. TNSTraders’ assn chief honouredChandigarh: Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president of the Chandigarh Traders’ Association, Sector 17, here, was honoured with the Chandigarh Rattan Award by Narinder Bhatia, president and members of the Shri Sanatan Dharam Dasehra Committee for commendable contribution to cause of humanity by battling the pandemic, at a function here on Monday. The committee chooses one personality for this award every year from the city for his or her services towards society. TNSBid to rob ATM: 2 more arrestedZirakpur: Two more persons have been arrested for bid to rob an ATM on VIP Road here on October 20. Four persons have already been arrested and a vehicle used in the crime was seized. Deepak Sharma, a resident of Dafarpur village, Dera Bassi, and Gurpreet Singh, alias Tinku, a resident of village Devi Nagar, Sector 3, Panchkula, were arrested. Deepak, who is a bank employee, has been remanded in two-day police custody while Gurpreet will be produced in a court on Tuesday. Zirakpur SHO Rajpal Singh Gill said: “Another accomplice, Abhishek, is still absconding.” TNSMore flights to Goa, MumbaiMohali: Two new domestic flights, one for Goa and another for Mumbai, have been added to the winter schedule of the Chandigarh international airport. Now, there are three direct flights to Mumbai from the city daily. Chandigarh international airport PRO Prince Dildar said: "The winter schedule will keep on updating as and when airlines begin new flights." Six flights, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai, Delhi and Ahmedabad, will halt at the airport overnight and take off early in the morning. TNSInter-university webinarPanchkula: The placement cell and Hindi Department of Kalka Government College organised an inter-university webinar under the supervision of Principal Premila Malik on Monday. The chief orator of the online event was Dr Satyapal Sehgal, Professor, Panjab University. He discussed the scope of employment for Hindi department students. The placement cell in-charge, Dr Sunita Chauhan, and other officials urged the students to take part in the webinar. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-with-arms-narcotics-161669
