27-11-2020||---||PGIMER Chandigarh best hospital in organ donation, 4th time in row||New Delhi, Nov 27The PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Friday won the top honour of being the best hospital in the country for its contribution to the promotion of cadaver organ donation.This is the fourth straight year when the PGI has been adjudged the best for organ donation work.In another feat, Dr Navdeep Bansal, Transplant Coordinator at PGIMER, was also awarded “Best Transplant Coordinator’ award during the event.The events were held to mark 11th National Organ Donation Day.Health Minister Harsh Vardhan attended the event.Another highlight of the event was the felicitation of the donor families whose gesture of organ donation of their relatives was instrumental in saving precious lives.Speaking on the occasion, PGI Director Jagat Ram said, “It’s an honour to be acknowledged nationally for PGIMER’s contribution towards the promotion of the deceased organ donation programme for the fourth time in a row. The national awards as Best Hospital and Best Transplant Coordinator are a reiteration of the fact that we are on the right track and our multiple teams working in the field of Organ Donation and Transplantation have been able to make a difference through their consistent efforts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgimer-chandigarh-best-hospital-in-organ-donation-4th-time-in-row-176702
27-11-2020||---||Boys steal bicycles from house||Chandigarh, November 26Two boys stole two bicycles parked in the porch of a house in Sector 19 here yesterday. The incident was caught on the CCTV camera.Complainant Dr Rajesh Rana reported that two boys entered his house at 4.23 pm on November 25 and stole the bicycles parked in the porch.The boys first crossed from outside the house and then returned back to steal the bicycles.The police were informed about the theft, following which an investigation has been initiated at the Sector 19 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/boys-steal-bicycles-from-house-176411
27-11-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Two get 7-yr jail in robbery case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 26Observing that offences such as robbery are increasing day by day in society, it is becoming difficult for ordinary and peaceful citizens to venture out of homes during night time, a Chandigarh court has sentenced two persons to seven-year imprisonment in a robbery case. A fine of Rs5,000 was also imposed on each convict.Additional Sessions Judge Sanjiv Joshi awarded seven-year jail term to convicts Yodha Singh, alias Jodha, and his accomplice Lovepreet Singh, alias Happy, for looting a youth, saying they do not deserve any leniency.According to prosecution, both convicts had looted a city resident, Sanjeev Kumar, of Rs10,000 and a gold chain when he was returning home at night after completing his duty in December 2017. They used a country-made pistol to commit the crime.A case in this regard was registered at the Sector 17 police station on December 26, 2017, on the compliant of Sanjeev Kumar.Yodha Singh has been held guilty and convicted under Sections 392/34, 397 and 411 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act and Lovepreet Singh has been held guilty and convicted under Sections 392 and 411 of the IPC.As per the complaint filed before the police, Sanjeev said he was working at a dhaba in Sector 22-A, Chandigarh. After finishing his job, he was returning home on his motorcycle at 2 am. When he reached a few metres ahead of the Sector 22/23 light point, a white car stopped in front of his motorcycle. Two boys came out of the vehicle and asked him to handover whatever he had. One boy slapped him, while another one took out a weapon and hit him on his head. They forcibly robbed him of Rs10,000 and a gold chain and also threatened to kill him, if he raised the alarm.The police later arrested both accused and recovered the stolen gold chain in two parts from them. The car and the pistol used in the crime were also recovered from Yodha Singh.After hearing the arguments, the court said the prosecution had been fully able to prove that Lovepreet Singh and Yodha Singh robbed a gold chain and Rs10,000 from the complainant near the Sector 22/23 light point. Thus, the prosecution has proved the offence under Sections 392 and 34 of the IPC against both accused. Yodha Singh was armed with a country-made pistol at the time of the incident and he hit the complainant on the head with the pistol to commit the robbery. Thus, he is also liable to be convicted under Section 397 of the IPC. Pistol recoveredThe police later arrested both accused and recovered the stolen gold chain in two parts from them. The car and the pistol used in the crime were also recovered from Yodha Singh.The chargesYodha Singh has been held guilty and convicted under Sections 392/34, 397 and 411 of the IPC and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act and Lovepreet Singh has been held guilty and convicted under Sections 392 and 411 of the IPC.The caseAccording to prosecution, both convicts had looted a city resident, Sanjeev Kumar, of Rs10,000 and a gold chain when he was returning home at night after completing his duty in December 2017. They used a country-made pistol to commit the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-get-7-yr-jail-in-robbery-case-176413
27-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||GMCH’s time-bound promotion scheme under judicial scanner||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 26The time-bound promotion scheme of the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, has come under the judicial scanner less than one month after it was implemented, with the Punjab and Haryana High Court issuing a notice on a plea seeking its quashing.Among other things, Dr Roosy Aulakh has contended that it was being implemented “retrospectively and super confidentially”. Appearing before the Bench in person, the Associate Professor has also sought the quashing of a consequential order dated November 9 on the ground that it granted “second step re-designation” to 14 junior faculty members even though it had already been stayed by the High Court thrice vide orders dated August 30, 2018, February 5, 2019, and July 17, 2019.Dr Aulakh added the same had also been stayed by the Chandigarh Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal vide order dated June 20, 2018. The Bench was also told that the move was in breach of an undertaking by the GMCH and other official respondents in response to a contempt notice on her plea.She also contended that the impugned scheme implemented vide notification dated October 29 was, inter alia, ultra vires to the statutory recruitment rules of the respondent-institute as it amounted to reverting UPSC’s selection based inter-se-seniority of the petitioner by granting retrospective experience to the 14 members in absence of vacancies. It was also against well-settled legal prepositions based on multiple High Court and Apex Court judgements.Going into the background of the matter, Dr Aulakh contended that the 14 junior faculty members moved the CAT in February 2015, claiming time-bound second-step re-designation from re-designated Associate Professor to re-designated Professor.Dr Aulakh added an affidavit dated October 26, 2016, filed by the institute’s Director-Principal stated it was dehors the Career Advancement Scheme. Thereafter, the plea was withdrawn. They again moved the CAT in August 2017 for the same claim. In the ensuing rounds of litigation, stay was granted. The official and other respondents were seeking vacation of the stay order, while it was being “vehemently contested” by the petitioner.Dr Aulakh added the impugned orders under the time-bound re-designation scheme granted the same benefit to same 14 respondents over and above the petitioner even though she approached the courts in time and was granted timely relief.Dr Aulakh’s case was that the move was in blatant violation of stay granted in the same matter by three senior Division Benches of the High Court and an attempt to hoodwink the stay orders by changing nomenclature of the challenged scheme while retaining its content and intent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmchs-time-bound-promotion-scheme-under-judicial-scanner-176414
27-11-2020||Panchkula||Sports enthusiasts rue monthly fee at Sector 23 community centre||Sports enthusiasts here are upset over the monthly fee introduced at the Sector 23 community centre, which is managed by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), for playing badminton. According to the orders from the Administrator, HSVP, pasted at the community centre, those who wish to play badminton in the badminton hall of the community centre should deposit a one-time refundable Rs5,000 security fee and Rs2,500 monthly fee. Expressing resentment over the “heavy fee”, Kirti Singh Lubana, a Sector 23 resident, said it was the only recreational activity available in the area. Monthly fee at government-owned sports complexes was lower than what was being asked to pay here. The facility was available free of cost prior to the Covid-19 crisis. Lubana, while tagging the Haryana CMO, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala in his tweet, requested the HSVP to exempt the Sector residents from the fee. Anil Kumar Doon, Estate Officer, HSVP, Panchkula, said he wasn’t aware of any such order. As per the HSVP orders, the monthly fee is being charged on account of consumption of electricity, water and other miscellaneous charges of the community centre building. The monthly fee will have to be deposited before or on 7th of the month. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-enthusiasts-rue-monthly-fee-at-sector-23-community-centre-176416
27-11-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Recovery rate dips in Mohali district||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 26In the wake of spurt in Covid cases after the festive season, the recovery rate has gone down to 86.42 per cent from the 93.7 per cent in the Mohali district during the past two weeks.The district has also witnessed 213 per cent increase in active cases in the past two weeks as 1,753 positive cases have been reported till Thursday against 822 cases reported till November 12.As per the data, 13,179 cases were reported till November 12, which increased to 14,929 till Thursday evening. The number of deaths has also increased from 251 to 273. As of now, 12,903 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospitals in the district.During a random survey of the city markets and other places in the district, people were seen moving without a mask, exposing themselves to the virus despite the fact that the health authorities have been warning people not to move out without wearing a mask.According to rough estimates, more than 25 per cent people moved out of their house without wearing a mask during the festive season in the markets.Nodal Officer Dr Harmandeep Kaur said spike in Covid cases was due to the festive season. People came out in a large number, causing the spread of the virus. The trend would continue till next two weeks. People should take proper care by observing all precautions. They should move out of the house only during an emergency.Dr Kaur said patients diagnosed with Covid-19 were being admitted to Covid care facilities at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur and government hospitals in the district. She said about 70 per cent Covid patients had been kept in home quarantine.People seen moving without maskDuring a random survey of the city markets and other places in the district, people were seen moving without a mask, exposing themselves to the virus despite the fact that the health authorities have been warning people not to move out without wearing a mask.213% increase in active casesThe district has also witnessed 213 per cent increase in active cases in the past two weeks as 1,753 positive cases have been reported till Thursday against 822 cases reported till November 12.Number of deaths also upAs per the data, 13,179 cases were reported till November 12, which increased to 14,929 till Thursday evening. The number of deaths has also increased from 251 to 273. As of now, 12,903 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospitals in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/recovery-rate-dips-in-mohali-district-176418
27-11-2020||---||Man held for sexual assault on minor girl||Panchkula, November 26The police yesterday arrested a man for allegedly sexually assaulting a minor girl.Identified as Ankit, the suspect was sent to judicial custody by a local court.An FIR was registered on the basis of a statement of the victim’s grandmother, who had stated that on August 30, her granddaughter was sexually assaulted by a person living in the neighbourhood.“I found my granddaughter missing from her cot when I woke up around 1 am. I kept searching for her until I found her in an unconscious state resting against a wall near the washroom around 4 am. After she regained consciousness, she told me that the suspect had taken her to the terrace of his house and sexually assaulted her,” the complainant had told the police.A case in the regard was filed under the POCSO Act at the women police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girl-176419
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Operations Cell in-charge transferred to Police Lines||Inspector Ranjit Singh, in-charge, Operations Cell, was transferred to the Police Lines, Sector 26, here today. A departmental inquiry has also been initiated against him. While officers were tight-lipped over the reason behind the sudden transfer of the Inspector, sources said a complaint was received against the cop following which a preliminary inquiry was conducted based on which he has been transferred. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/operations-cell-in-charge-transferred-to-police-lines-176421
27-11-2020||---||Chandigarh MC House meeting today, several issues to be tabled||Chandigarh, November 26Operation of gyms at community centres on a PPP mode, renovation of public toilets and regularising two rehabilitation colonies will be tabled in the MC General House meeting to be held tomorrow.Issued regarding giving temporary water connection to over 2,000 illegal consumers and giving relaxation in licence fee to parking lot firms due to the business affected by Covid-19 will also be taken up for approval. If the agendas get approved, these will be sent to the UT Administration for final nod.The contentious issue of smart watches for employees will be missing this time as the committee could not table its report. Agenda of reducing rents of Sector 23 shops will also not be there. Findings of committees regarding the two issues were supposed to be brought up in this House meeting as decided in the last meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-house-meeting-today-several-issues-to-be-tabled-176424
27-11-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Power supply hit in various parts of Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 26Many areas in the city faced disruption in power supply, as employees of the Electricity Department went on a one-day strike in protest against privatisation of the department.Residents of Sector 23-B said there was no power supply in their area since midnight and it was only restored around 7.30 pm. As there was no electricity during the day, they even could not charge their mobile phones and perform other activities, they said, adding that instead of harassing the common man, the protesters should first snap the power supply of the residences of senior officials of their department.Hitesh Puri, vice-president, Chandigarh Residents’ Association Welfare Federation, said they had been receiving complaints of power cuts since midnight from many areas of the city, including Sector 28, 35, 43, 45, etc.Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary, UT Powermen Union, said on a call of the central trade unions, thousands of workers and employees of various organisations went on a one-day strike in Chandigarh today.Advocate Ajay Jagga, member, Consumer Protection Council, Chandigarh, said, “Denial of electricity supply is a violation of human rights.”Anil Dhamija, Superintending Engineer, Electricity Department, said they had received nearly 400 complaints of power cuts from different parts of the city today. In the absence of field staff, they still managed to restore the supply in a majority of the areas by the evening, he added.Dhamija said the power disruption was due to rain last night. On normal days, it takes nearly 20-30 minutes to repair a minor fault, but in the absence of ground staff it was taking long to restore the power supply, he added. Fortunately, there was no major fault reported in the transmission lines, he said.The official, however, ruled out any deliberate attempt to disrupt power supply.On initiating action against the protesters, he said as per rules, the principle of ‘no work, no pay’ would apply on those who remained absent from their duties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/power-supply-hit-in-various-parts-of-chandigarh-176426
27-11-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula reports 26 fresh cases, two deaths||The district today reported 26 fresh coronavirus cases and two deaths. While the infection count in the district has reached 8,480, the Covid toll stands at 127.A 65-year-old man from Kalka, who was also suffering from diabetes mellitus, succumbed to the virus.A 75-year-old man from Sector 21, who was also suffering from diabetes mellitus, hypertension and coronary artery disease, lost his battle against the infectious disease. According to the Health Department, at least 7,891 patients have recovered from the disease so far, while 462 cases are still active. The recovery rate is 93 per cent. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-reports-26-fresh-cases-two-deaths-176428
27-11-2020||Saurabh Malik||Nod by Financial Commissioner under High Court scanner||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 26The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made clear its intent to examine whether irregularity or extraneous consideration led to the acceptance of a coloniser’s application for exchanging shamlat land with another chunk in Mohali district, despite objections by the Director, Rural Development and Panchayats, Punjab. The approval in the matter was granted by a Financial Commissioner.“If so, this court shall consider an inquiry by an independent agency,” the Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Jasgurpreet Singh Puri added.The matter was brought to the notice of the Bench after a petition was filed by Baljit Singh against the state of Punjab and other respondents.As the case came up for hearing through videoconferencing, the petitioner’s counsel pointed out that shamlat land of a gram panchayat was exchanged with the land of a respondent, who was the coloniser’s partner. The counsel contended that the application moved by the coloniser was readily accepted by the gram panchayat, but the Director raised certain objections.In an attempt to buttress his contentions, the counsel placed before the Bench the order’s copy. Its operative part said the front portion of the shamlat land was adjoining the newly constructed 200-foot-wide Airport Road. On the other hand, the land owned by the private party was far away.The order added that the market rate of two acres adjoining the road could be the same. However, the rate of more than two acres of faraway land could not be the same. As such, a report depicting the current situation was called for after carrying out a spot inspection regarding difference of the two pieces of land. The counsel added that the objections pointed out by the Director in his order were overlooked and approval was granted by the Financial Commissioner. “This court shall also consider whether there has been any irregularity or extraneous consideration while accepting the application moved by the coloniser...,” the Bench asserted before parting with the order. The case will now come up for the final hearing in the second week of December.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nod-by-financial-commissioner-under-high-court-scanner-176429
27-11-2020||---||Chandigarh doubles fine for not wearing a mask to Rs 1K||Chandigarh, November 26If you are caught without a mask, be ready to pay a fine of Rs1,000. Coming down heavily on those who fail to wear a mask in public places, the UT Administration has increased the penalty from Rs500 to Rs1,000.During a review meeting on the Covid-19 pandemic, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar to go for stricter punishment for violation of the Covid-19 guidelines.Brar said 27,878 challans had been issued for violating the Covid protocol.After detailed discussions, the UT Administration also decided to open classroom teaching for students at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, from December 1.The Administration also permitted coaching institutions to open from December 1, subject to strict observance of the Covid protocol, both in classes and hostels. However, the coaching institutions will be directed to concentrate on online teaching rather than physical classes.The Administrator directed officials to ensure that the Covid-19 protocol was followed in public gatherings such as marriages and social events.There will be no night curfew in Chandigarh. However, the closing time of bars, restaurants and clubs will be reviewed at the next meeting in case of a surge in the coronavirus cases.The Administrator directed the officials to go for stricter enforcement of the Covid-19 protocol in places such as the Sector 26 mandi, the Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT), railway station, parks, Sukhna Lake, Rock Garden and other market places where crowding takes place.Badnore also directed the officials to be ready for storage, transportation, distribution and planned vaccination of people once a Covid vaccine was made available.Classroom teaching at GMCH from December 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-doubles-fine-for-not-wearing-a-mask-to-rs-1k-176431
27-11-2020||---||Curbs imposed in 9 more zones in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, November 26To break the transmission of the coronavirus, the UT Administration today declared nine more micro-containment zones in the city.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the issue of outbreak of Covid-19 was examined by a committee and a considered view emerged that the affected areas be declared as micro-containment zones in the city.The affected areas declared as micro-containment zones are parts of Sector 15, 20, 37-D, 38-A, 40-A, 42-C, 45-C, 46-C and 51-A.Parida said regular screening and monitoring of the areas would continue and frequent sanitisation of the areas would be conducted. Besides, residents had been advised to strictly maintain social distancing, wear a mask and follow hand hygiene.As many as 14 micro-containment zones were declared on November 19.City reports four deaths, 116 casesChandigarh: The city on Thursday reported four deaths and 116 fresh cases of Covid. A 69-year-old man from Mani Majra, who was also suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, died at the GMSH-16. An 80-year-old man from Sector 40, who was also suffering from hypertension and diabetes, died at Fortis Hospital. A 61-year-old man from Sector 15, who was brought dead at the PGI, tested positive posthumously. An 85-year-old man from Sector 37, a case of hypertension, died at Grecian Hospital, Mohali. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/curbs-imposed-in-9-more-zones-in-chandigarh-176432
27-11-2020||Mohali||157 cases, no death in Mohali||A total of 157 Covid-19 cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 14,929. No new fatality was reported from the district. Among the fresh cases, 114 were reported from Mohali (urban), two each from Kharar and Kurali, six from Lalru, nine from Dera Bassi, 16 from Gharuan and eight from Dhakoli. Five more patients have been cured of the disease.There are now 1,753 active cases in the district, while 273 persons have fallen prey to the virus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/157-cases-no-death-in-mohali-176434
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Notorious woman peddler held with vials||A 58-year-old notorious drug peddler, Bala, who was earlier booked in 52 cases, of which she was convicted in 22, has been again nabbed by the local police with 104 banned vials.A team, led by Inspector Amanjot Singh, SHO of the Sector 39 police station, arrested Bala from near the grain market chowk in Sector 39. The police said Bala, a resident of Sector 38, was nabbed by a patrolling party after she tried to flee after seeing them. The police said Bala had a tainted past. As per the record of the Sector 39 police station, 52 cases were registered against her, of which, she was convicted in 22.The first case against Bala was registered in 1992 for burglary. She was involved in house thefts till 2004.The police said Bala later entered into the world of drugs and started smuggling banned substances. The first case under the NDPS Act was registered against her in 2006. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/notorious-woman-peddler-held-with-vials-176435
27-11-2020||---||Chandigarh Education Department releases common admission schedule for schools||Chandigarh, November 26The UT Education Department today released common admission schedule for entry-level classes for the 2021-22 session.The Education Department has directed unaided recognised schools to follow the common admission schedule.Schools have to display information, including date of admission, total no of seats, age requirement, fees structure, admission criteria, documents required and date of draw, on the notice board and their website before December 2.Important datesThe list of eligible students has to be displayed on the school notice board and official website by January 15, 2021. The list of students selected and kept in waiting has to be finalised and displayed by February 1. Selected children will have to deposit fee by February 12. Schools will upload all information on their official website or release it in the public domain through notice board.Also details, including names of children (category wise), who applied for admission on the school website after the closing date and those selected (category wise) for entry classes after completion of the process as per the schedule, has to be uploaded on the official website and displayed on the notice board. Schools have been directed to complete the admission process through online mode keeping in view the SOPs for the Covid-19 pandemic.Menawhile, St Xavier's School, Sector 44, hasn't finalised the admission schedule yet. The school has not started the admission process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-education-department-releases-common-admission-schedule-for-schools-176437
27-11-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Clear stand on fee hike for next session: Schools to Chandigarh Administration||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 26The Independent Schools’ Association (ISA) has once again raised concerns over charging fee before starting admissions for entry-level classes.The ISA claims that as per the UT Fee Act local schools are allowed to hike fee upto 8 per cent every year. However, as they have not charged full fee in the last session, the association wants to know if schools are allowed to hike fee upto 16 per cent for the 2021-22 session.A meeting in this regard was held last week and the agenda to finalise the fee structure was not discussed by the authorities, the ISA stated.“We want to tell parents about fee before starting the admission process of entry level classes. The information has to be given in school prospectus. However, there’s no word of confirmation from the UT Administration. Last week’s meeting was unfruitful. Now, we are going to submit a representation again,” said HS Mamik, president, ISA.He insisted that schools are being kept in the dark over charging fee.“As per the Fee Act, we can hike fee upto 8 per cent every year. We were not allowed to charge full fee in the last session. We want to know if schools can hike fee up to 16 per cent as per the Act for the upcoming session. If not then what is the procedure to decide the fee structure?” he added.“We want the UT Administration to clear its stand on this issue and assure us that the approved fee structure won’t be taken back, which has been done earlier during the Covid-19 pandemic, citing implementation of the Disaster Management Act for the next session or in the future. Otherwise, the matter will be stretched to no limits,” he said.He maintained that no information or discussion by the UT Administration would affect the upcoming common admission schedule of entry-level classes starting from December 2.“How can we decide on the fee structure if the UT Administration is not going to listen to our claims? They have to come up with a clear solution to allow schools to make public their next session fee structure for the upcoming admissions. What would we say to parents when they ask us about fee or fee hike at that time when we ourselves don’t know about the UT Administration’s plans,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clear-stand-on-fee-hike-for-next-session-schools-to-chandigarh-administration-176439
27-11-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Foreign national held with 250-gm heroin from Delhi||The district police have arrested a foreign national from Delhi on the basis of the information provided by a drug smuggler during his interrogation and recovered 250 gm of heroin from him.The Fatehgarh Sahib SSP, Amneet Kondal, said during a drive against anti-social elements and drug smugglers, the Khamano police headed by DSP Dharmpal had arrested a drug smuggler identified as Bobby Verma and recovered 470 gm of heroin from him.During interrogation, the suspect revealed that he used to bring heroin from a foreign national in Delhi and sell it in Punjab, the SSP added. On the basis of his disclosure the police raided foreign national’s residence in Delhi and arrested him, the SSP said. He was identified as JNC Kofi, the SSP added. The police recovered 250 gm of heroin from his possession, the SSP said. He was produced in a court, the SSP added. Information about more drug suppliers would likely come out during his interrogation, the SSP said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foreign-national-held-with-250-gm-heroin-from-delhi-176440
27-11-2020||Our Correspondent---||Anganwadi workers protest  at DC office in Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, November 26 Hundreds of members of the Punjab Anganwadi Employees’ Union (CITU) today organised a state-level protest dharna in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office here today. They raised slogans against policies of the Union Government.  Addressing the gathering, Harjit Kaur Panjola, union’s state president, said, “On the call of anganwadi workers, protest dharnas are being organised at district headquarters and jail bharo andolan has been initiated to highlight the anti-people policies of the Union Government.” The Modi government came to power with the promise of development, but now it had started privatisation of all government institutes even the Railway, she added.  “Moreover, the preamble of the constitution is being distorted. The GDP is at its lowest and the Rupee has less value than Taka of Bangladesh. Profit making companies are being sold to big houses just to benefit them. Unemployment is at its peak, farmers are protesting against anti- farm laws and employees are being targeted,” she said.  “The Union Government is anti farmers, employees, traders and workers and only working for the capitalists,” she added. She demanded that anganwadi workers should be given the status of NTT teachers. Children should be sent back to anganwadis and deducted allowances should be restored, she said. After dharna anganwadi workers presented themselves for arrest. They were taken to the police station in buses. Later, they were released by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anganwadi-workers-protest-at-dc-office-in-fatehgarh-sahib-176442
27-11-2020||---||27 scientists of Panjab University make it to elite list||Chandigarh, November 26Panjab University’s 27 scientists from various disciplines out of 2,313 Indian scientists have been included in the elite list of world top two per cent scientists.Prof Surinder Kumar Mehta from Department of Chemistry is active in research areas like metallosurfactant chemistry, nano electrochemical sensors, synthesis and application of semiconducting nanoparticles and colloidal chemistry that includes noval formulations of drug delivery applications.Prof Om Prakash Katare from University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS) is an expert in nano liposome technology and drug delivery with major focus on translational research and technology transfers to industry.Dr Anurag Kuhad from the UIPS does research in neuropsychopharmacology, metabolic pharmacology, neuropathic pain and autism.Prof Renu Chadha from the UIPS does research in crystal engineering of biologically active molecules by preparing their polymorph and co-crystals.Dr Suman Mor of the Department of Environment Studies is engaged in research on air pollution monitoring, characterisation, source apportionment, health impacts assessment from biomass burning, thermal power plant, pollen and landfill emissions.Prof Sonal Singhal from the Department of Chemistry has got Best Researcher Award 2018 under Purse Grant from the PU in chemical sciences.Prof Navneet Kaur from the Department of Chemistry has research work related to application of organic chemistry and analytical studies in samples of environmental and biological importance. The main area of research work of Prof Surya Kant Tripathi from the Department of Physics is to develop materials and devices for different societal applications like solar cell, super capacitor devices, thermoelectric devices, chemical sensors, biological sensors, MIS/MOS, FET, memresistors, memory and telecommunication devices.Prof Daizy Rani Batish from the Department of Botany, who does research in plant ecology and environment, has won various awards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/27-scientists-of-panjab-university-make-it-to-elite-list-176444
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||ABVP activists submit memorandum to DUI||Members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) submitted a memorandum to the Dean, University Instructions, (DUI) regarding the problems of the University Institute of Legal Studies (UILS) Department.  The merit list of the department, which was to be finalised on November 12, is yet to be released. While submitting memorandum, Paras Ratan, chairman, ABVP, PU, Hrishika Raj, secretary, ABVP, PU, Rohil Oberoi, vibhag convenor, ABVP, Chandigarh, and Prabh Grewal, Shaurya Mehra, Shubham Bhardwaj, Prince Chaudhary, Prabh Saini, and others were also present on the occasion.  ABVP members claimed that the DUI had assured them that the admission process would be completed within next week. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/abvp-activists-submit-memorandum-to-dui-176445
27-11-2020||Our Correspondent---||Minor saved from forcible marriage at Mandi Gobindgarh||Fatehgarh Sahib, November 26 Timely intervention by the district police saved the life of a minor girl, who was allegedly being married forcibly by her family members with an aged person. The police raided the wedding site and arrested family members of the girl and the groom. The girl was handed over to the Child Welfare Committee. The Amloh DSP, Sukhwinder Singh, and the Mandi Gobindgarh SHO, Prem Singh, said the police got a tip-off about a minor girl, who was getting married at Mandi Gobindgarh. The matter was brought to the notice of the Fatehgarh Sahib SSP, Amneet Kondal. The SSP immediately gave instructions stop the marriage. The police raided the wedding site and stopped marriage ceremonies.  The girl was getting married with Ram Swarup Singh, a resident of Mari village, falling under the jurisdiction of the Nabha Sadar police station. A case has been registered under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, at the Mandi Gobindgarh police station in this regard.  The Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) directed the Bal Mitra police station, Mandi Gobindgarh, in- charge, Sub-Inspector Kulwinder Kaur, to immediately take the minor girl in custody. After counselling, the girl was further handed over to her aunt Manjit Kaur, a resident of Bagh Sikandar village. The police arrested Ram Sarup Singh, the groom, Gurjant Singh, his father, Baljit Kaur, girl’s mother, and Nirmal Kaur, know to both families, and produced them in a court at Amloh today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-saved-from-forcible-marriage-at-mandi-gobindgarh-176447
27-11-2020||Sandeep Rana---||Water ATM project hits roadblock||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, November 26 Chandigarh Smart City Limited’s aim of providing quality water to the public at cost- effective rates by setting up 10 water ATMs in different parts of the City Beautiful has hit a roadblock. Not even a single agency showed any interest to take up Rs50 lakh project on the PPP (public-private partnership) mode in the recent tendering process. No technical bids were required and participants had to submit application for the financial bid. However, it did not work out with none coming forward. “Earlier, we had proposed to set up 20 water ATMs. Later, their number was reduced by half. It could be that bidders found that stations are less and estimates high. Thus, they will not be able to recover the cost,” said an official. Smart City’s General Manager NP Sharma said, “No company came forward in the tendering process. We will evaluate the reason and refloat the tender with some required changes.” He shared this project was envisioned with the hope of providing water on cheap rates to people outside. “Sometimes, person needs just one glass of water. He/she has to buy whole bottle. But, on cheap rates they can take it from the ATMs,” he added. The price of a small glass of 250 ml water has been fixed at Rs2. The rates go up to Rs20 as per the requirement. The water ATMs have been planned at bus stand, Sector 17, near Sector 43 ISBT, Sector 35 and the District Courts complex.  More, water vending machines will be added later on new sites. It would also boost tourism. With this project, people will be able to drink safe water with a click of a button without any hassle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/water-atm-project-hits-roadblock-176450
27-11-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||DELHI CHALO: Protest leaves commuters high & dry||Tribune News ServiceMohali, November 26The ‘Delhi Chalo’ march of farmers caused problems to commuters due to day-long traffic jams on the Chandigarh-Ambala road and at the Zirakpur-Chandigarh border today.Commuters had a tough time negotiating traffic snarls and diversions created as the entry points on the highway approaching Chandigarh were sealed for around 10 hours today. Due to the day-long snarl-ups, employees working in Chandigarh and coming from Punjab areas could not reach their offices on time.The police had sealed the entry points of Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru where vehicles were seen stuck for miles till late in the evening.The Mohali police had sealed the Zirakpur entry points at 9.30 am and the borders were not opened till the filling of this report. Vehicular movement on the Zirakpur flyover was not allowed.To facilitate the movement of traffic, vehicles coming from the Ambala side were diverted at Dera Bassi towards Panchkula to reach Chandigarh. Similarly, the outgoing traffic from Airport Road at the Patiala crossing was diverted towards Zirakpur where it was further diverted towards Panchkula-Nada Sahib-Barwala road so as to enable commuters to take the Yamunanagar highway to reach Ambala and Delhi.Commuters were stuck in the traffic jam for over an hour and a half.Arshdeep Singh, a resident of Zirakpur, said he went from one road to another to reach Zirakpur from Chandigarh and reached his office in the city only in the afternoon. He said the protesters should think about people also as after a day-long work, they longed to reach their homes.Jaswinder Kumar, a resident of Ambala Cantonment, said the scenario on the Panchkula side was worse. He said he had been waiting for 40 minutes for his turn to change the route to the other side of the highway to join the traffic moving towards a free road to reach Ambala. He said if he had prior knowledge about the diversion of routes, he would have gone directly to Panchkula from Mohali first and then moved to Ambala through Yamunanagar highway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delhi-chalo-protest-leaves-commuters-high-dry-176452
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Hookah: Eskobar manager booked||Expect clear sky for two daysChandigarh: The Met Department has issued a forecast of a clear sky for the next two days. However, on November 29, the sky is expected to be cloudy again. The maximum temperature recorded in the city on Thursday was 21.7°C, four degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 13.5°C, four degrees above normal. In the coming days, the maximum temperature is expected to increase, while the minimum temperature is likely to fall. TNSPU extends date for admissionChandigarh: Panjab University extended the last date for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate courses (first semester for new applicants) in various teaching departments, regional centres, constituent and affiliated colleges of the PU for the academic session 2020-21. For both undergraduate and postgraduate courses, (with permission of VC with late fee of Rs3,000) has been extended till December 7. TNSPanjab varsity declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University declared results of Bachelor of Fine Arts (sixth semester), Master of Computer Applications (second semester) and BVoc-Food Processing & Quality Management (sixth semester). TNSConstitution Day observedChandigarh: To commemorate the adoption of the Constitution of India, Government College of Yoga Education and Health, Sector 23, organised a webinar on “Constitutional Values and Fundamental Principles of the Indian Constitution”. The webinar was graced by Justice Vijender Jain, former Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, who was welcomed by Dr Sapna Nanda, Principal of the college. While highlighting the significance of the Constitution Day, she read out the preamble of the Constitution of India. TNSSolo general quiz competitionChandigarh: St Kabir Public School, Sector 26, in association with Bangalore-based Nexus Consulting conducted a two-day online inter-school solo general quiz competition titled “Pantomathics”. The contest saw participation of students between Classes IX and XII from 19 schools in the tricity. Suvanssh Mahajan, a Class XII student of St Kabir Public School, won the first place with 70 points. Sejal Trehan, a Class XII student of YPS, Mohali, finished second with 65 points and Rattandeep Singh Puar, a Class IX student of Vivek High School, Chandigarh, came third with 40 points. The participating schools included Vivek High School, St Kabir Public School, Stepping Stones, Strawberry Fields, New Public School, Learning Paths School, Yadavindra Public School and Sacred Heart School, Moga. TNSMan arrested with marijuanaPanchkula: A team of the Sector 19 Crime Branch, Panchkula, arrested a man for smuggling over 6 kg of marijuana during a regular patrolling in Kalka here yesterday. The suspect, Ripu (24), is a resident of Tipra, Parwanoo. He was today produced before a court, which sent him to judicial custody. According to the police, they intercepted a man under a flyover on the Kalka-Shimla highway during patrolling and seized 6.400-kg marijuana from his possession. A case was registered under Sections 20, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the Kalka police station. TNSWoman hangs self to deathChandigarh: A woman reportedly committed suicide by hanging herself in Sector 21 here. The victim has been identified as Radhika (26). She took the extreme step on Wednesday evening. The victim used to stay in servant quarters. The police have initiated inquest proceedings into the matter at the Sector 19 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hookah-eskobar-manager-booked-176461
