28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Kuldeep Singh Chahal to be new UT SSP||Kuldeep Singh Chahal will be the new Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) of the UT. Chahal, a 2009-batch IPS officer, is presently serving as SSP in the neighbouring district of Mohali. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet, Department of Personnel and Training, Government of India, on Monday approved the proposal of the Ministry of Home Affairs for inter-cadre deputation of IPS officer Kuldeep Singh Chahal from Punjab cadre to AGMUT Cadre (Chandigarh) for a period of three years. Chahal was the senior-most officer among the other two IPS officers, KB Patil and Viveksheel Soni. The UT Administrator had sent Soni’s name to the Home Ministry last month from among a panel of three officers. Before joining the IPS, Chahal was an Assistant Sub-Inspector in the Chandigarh Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kuldeep-singh-chahal-to-be-new-ut-ssp-147964
28-09-2020||---||Covid tally crosses 10,000-mark in Mohali||Mohali, September 28Covid tally crossed the 10,000-mark as 129 more cases surfaced in Mohali district during the past 24 hours. The district also witnessed three deaths, taking the toll to 186.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjeet Singh said the three fatalities included 50-year-old female from Jujhar Nagar, who died at Gian Sagar, Banur, and was suffering from renal disease and diabetes, 92-year-old female from Zirakpur, who died at Ace Heart hospital in Mohali and was suffering from bronchial asthma and blood sugar and 32-year-old male from Mohali, who died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.The Civil Surgeon said 88 cases were reported from Mohali (urban), 15 from Kharar, eight from Dhakoli and Kurali, six from Derabassi, two each from Banur and from Lalru.As of now there are 10,124 positive cases and out of these 7,896 had been cured and discharged from hospital. There are 2,042 active cases with 186 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-tally-crosses-10-000-mark-in-mohali-147943
28-09-2020||---||171 new COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh; six more die||Chandigarh, September 28Six more COVID-19 deaths were reported in Chandigarh on Monday, raising the toll to 153 while 171 new cases pushed the infection count to 11,678.There are now 2,200 active cases in the city.As many as 222 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection. A total of 9,325 people have been cured so far, according to the medical bulletin.A total of 75,896 samples have been taken for testing so far, of them, 63,776 tested negative while reports of 155 samples are awaited, it stated. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/171-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-six-more-die-147926
28-09-2020||---||Covid claims 6 lives in tricity||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 27Three more fatalities took the Mohali Covid toll to 183 today. As many as 160 fresh cases were reported from the district, raising the infection count to 9,992.City sees 173 new casesChandigarh: The city on Sunday recorded 173 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths due to the contagion. A 70-year-old woman from Ram Darbar, who was also suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome and acute kidney injury, died at the PGI. An 81-year-old man from Sector 52, a case of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, succumbed at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. The two deaths took the toll in the city to 147. The UT tally stands at 11,553. A total of 166 patients were discharged on Sunday, increasing the number of cured patients to 9,103. There are 2,303 active cases in the city. TNSThe Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjeet Singh, said a 53-year-old man from Baltana died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala. He had a history of blood sugar and hypertension. A 72-year-old man from Dera Bassi breathed his last at Max Hospital in Mohali. He was suffering from hypertension, anaemia and blood sugar. A 49-year-man from Saidpura village, who was suffering from diabetes and hypertension, succumbed at Rajindra Hospital.The Civil Surgeon said 134 cases were reported from Mohali (urban), nine from Dera Bassi, eight from Kharar, six from Lalru, two from Zirakpur and one from Nayagaon,. He said 264 patients were cured and discharged from various hospitals.As of now, 7,623 patients have recovered from the infection. There are 2,186 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-claims-6-lives-in-tricity-147689
28-09-2020||Panchkula||67 cases added to Panchkula tally||The district today reported one more Covid-19 death, taking the toll to 80. A 55-year-old man from Naggal village succumbed to the virus. He was suffering from hypertension. The district tally today jumped to 5,730 with 67 more persons testing positive.The fresh cases include 12 from Kalka, six from Sector 28, five each from Sector 15 and Sector 25, four from Sector 16, three each from Amravati, MDC, Sector 4, MDC, Sector 5, Pinjore, Sector 20 and Sector 21, two each from Chandikotla, Indira Colony, Sector 10, Sector 23 and Sector 4 and one each from Raipur Rani, Rajiv Colony, Sector 11, Sector 12-A, Sector 19, Sector 7 and Naggal village. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/67-cases-added-to-panchkula-tally-147693
28-09-2020||Karam Prakash||Factories turn Covid hotspots in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, September 27Factories in the district have become Covid hotspots.As many as 58 employees of a steel factory in Bhadson tested positive for the virus during a random sampling on Saturday. It is the second Covid outbreak reported from a factory this month. Earlier, 143 employees of a textile company in Samana were found infected.Positivity rate high: Civil SurgeonIt is a matter of concern because the positivity rate is found to be high during random sampling at factories. Repeated reminders to the employers to get the workers tested fell on deaf ears. Consequently, we had to start random sampling. - Harish Malhotra, Civil Surgeon, PatialaThousands of migrant labourers working in factories, workshops and mills have already become a cause of worry for the Health Department. A majority of the employers have brought labourers from neighbouring states without getting them tested for Covid.Sources said factory owners reportedly had brought migrant labourers – illegally - in private buses to the district through villages without any registration at the Shambhu barrier.The Health Department claimed that employers had not informed the authorities about the interstate migration of labourers.Sources in the department said the positive cases surfaced in the factory were just the tip of the iceberg.The department daily holds camps at factories to detect Covid cases. Sources said over 500 migrant labourers had already tested positive for the virus this month.Over 1,000 factories, including rice mills and brick kilns, are registered under the Factories Act in the district.It is pertinent to mention that the department had issued directions to the factory owners last month to get 20 per cent of their staff tested for Covid on a weekly basis.Patiala Civil Surgeon Harish Malhotra said it was a matter of concern because the positivity rate was found to be high during random sampling at factories.The Civil Surgeon said, “Repeated reminders to the employers to get their workers tested fell on deaf ears. Consequently, we had to start random sampling at the factories.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/factories-turn-covid-hotspots-in-patiala-147695
28-09-2020||---||Young farmers hit roads in Mohali as stir enters Day 3||Tribune News ServiceMohali, September 27Young farmers, student organisations and other youth groups, under the banner of Naujawan Kisan Ekta, today came out on the streets in large numbers to protest against the contentious farm Bills. It was the third day of protests by farmers over the passage of the Bills in Parliament.The protesters raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and burnt his effigies to vent their anger against the government move. Heavy police deployment and barricades were seen as farmers on foot, tractors and two-wheelers carried out a protest march from Gurdwara Sahib Singh Shaheedan towards the Punjab Governor’s residence in Chandigarh via the Phase VII light point and YPS Chowk. However, Chandigarh cops stopped them at Sector 52, preventing their entry in the UT.Around 800 persons, including Punjabi singers Afsana Khan and Rupinder Handa, participated in the protest. Their representatives later handed over a charter of demand to the Executive Magistrate, Chandigarh. It was addressed to the Punjab Governor and sought withdrawal of the contentious Bills.According to the protesters, these “black laws” will ruin the agricultural system of the country. Due to the protest, the traffic on Airport Road was hit for at least four hours, causing inconvenience to motorists.However, no untoward incident was reported from any part of the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/young-farmers-hit-roads-in-mohali-as-stir-enters-day-3-147696
28-09-2020||---||Nearly 2K appear for JEE-Advanced in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, September 27Around 2,000 students appeared for the JEE-Advanced 2020, an entrance test for admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), in two shifts amid Covid-19 preventions in the city today.Students had to mark biometric attendance for which they had to report at 7:30 am for paper-I and 12:45 pm for paper-II. The first paper was held from 9 am to noon and the other from 2 pm to 5 pm. Both papers were compulsory and carried 198 marks each. Each question paper was divided into three sections —physics, chemistry and mathematics.Sachin, who appeared at an examination centre in Mohali, said, “I found paper-I tougher than paper-II. Chemistry was the only section where questions were moderate. Maths and physics sections were exhaustive.”He added that in maths, questions from algebra and calculus were lengthy and difficult. Physics section was lengthy too and questions were mostly from rotation, work power energy, magnetism and thermodynamics concepts.IIT-JEE physics expert Kunal Singh said, “The JEE-Advanced is always a tough nut to crack due to diversity as well as complexity of questions which are always beyond basic school textbooks. Negative marking and huge calculations in multiple-choice and integer-type questions check the student’s accuracy making the exam more difficult. On the basis of students’ feedback, I think mathematics and physics questions were lengthy, intricate and highly conceptual, which makes scoring tough. Still, students claimed the paper was overall a bit easier than the previous year.”Those qualifying the exam will be eligible to get enrolled for the bachelor’s, integrated master’s and dual degree programmes in all IITs and IISERs. The JEE-Advanced result will be announced on October 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nearly-2k-appear-for-jee-advanced-in-chandigarh-147698
28-09-2020||---||Three phones recovered from Burail jail inmates||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27Three mobile phones, including a smartphone, were recovered from a barrack during a surprise search conducted by the Burail jail authorities on Saturday night.AIG (Prisons) Virat said a special team constituted to conduct surprise checks in the barracks recovered the phones from the cells in barrack number 10.“Two were basic phones while another was a smartphone,” he added.Sources said one of the mobile phones was recovered from an inmate, Kali, who was said to be a member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang.The jail authorities have submitted a complaint in this connection to the Sector 49 police station for registering an FIR. The police will now investigate as to how the inmates managed to procure mobile phones in the jail. “It will also be investigated as to whom the calls were made from these phones,” said a police official.It will be for the first time in the UT that inmates will be booked for possessing a mobile phone in the jail.Earlier this year, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had issued a notification making the use of phone or its accessories by prisoners a criminal offence in Chandigarh.With this notification, any prisoner found guilty of possessing, operating, or using a cell phone or components such as SIM card, memory card, battery or charger shall be punished with an imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or with a fine not exceeding Rs25,000 or both.Further, if a prisoner used the mobile phone to commit an offence inside or outside the jail premises, the imprisonment shall not be less than a year, which may extend to three years or with a fine not exceeding Rs40,000 or both. The prisoner or any other person who assists or abets or instigates the supply of mobile phone, SIM cards or other accessories will also be punished under the Prisons Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-phones-recovered-from-burail-jail-inmates-147699
28-09-2020||---||Minor’s rape: Brother's friend,  ex-tenant in judicial custody||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27Two suspects — a 25-year-old youth and a 51-year-old man, who were arrested for allegedly raping a 15-year-old girl — were today produced in a court, which sent them to judicial custody.The victim in her statement had accused her 19-year-old brother, his friend, who was a frequent visitor to their house and a former tenant of violating her.Sources said while the victim’s brother had allegedly raped her in December last year, the other two had sexually assaulted her earlier this year. The man, who lived as a tenant for around three months, violated the minor multiple times.A case was registered at the Sarangpur police station.The UT police have collected the DNA samples of the three suspects.A police official said once the victim, who was eight-month pregnant, delivered a baby, its DNA samples would be sent to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory along with the samples of the three suspects for DNA profiling, which would help in identifying the father.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minors-rape-brothers-friend-ex-tenant-in-judicial-custody-147700
28-09-2020||---||Two held for impersonation during exam||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 27The police have arrested a Sonepat resident for appearing as a fake candidate in the HARTRON Computer Appreciation and Applications (SETC) exam. The candidate too has been apprehended.The suspect, identified as Sumit, was appearing in place of his friend Mahender of Sirsa district. The duo was arrested for impersonation and cheating. They were produced in a local court, which sent them to judicial custody.According to the police, Roshan Lal, AGM, HARTRON, had filed a complaint in which he alleged that a suspicious person appeared in the SETC exam for Mahender, whose roll number was 20091180. The checking staff found that the candidate’s documents bore different photographs. A case was registered under Sections 419 and 420 of the IPC at the Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-impersonation-during-exam-147702
28-09-2020||---||Father-son duo assaulted at Sec 25 colony||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27A father-son duo was assaulted by miscreants at their house in Sector 25.According to the police, the complainant, Mahipal of the Sector 25 colony, alleged that the suspects, identified as Rohin, Rohit Abhi and Ashish, and others attacked him and his son Ankush with sticks and sharp weapons at his house on September 26.The complainant and his son sustained injuries and were admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16.A case has been registered at the Sector 11 police station and an investigation has been initiated into it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/father-son-duo-assaulted-at-sec-25-colony-147703
28-09-2020||Should the UT increase the number of Covid testing centres?||More facilities needed for timely detection, treatment||In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the city needs to set up at least 15 more testing centres. One way is to authorise chemists of the city to conduct tests by charging a nominal fee of Rs250 as has been permitted in the state of Punjab.NPS Sohal, ChandigarhEvery sector should have testing facilitiesAs Covid cases are increasing with each passing day, there is an urgent need to increase testing facilities in Chandigarh. It has better resources and good literacy rate. Testing facilities should be made available in every sector. No need to buckle under the pressure of traders to unlock everything. If they do not follow health guidelines strictly, heavy penalties should be imposed on them. Lives are more precious than anything else.BS Dhillon, MohaliCreate centres near vulnerable locationsNow that Covid cases have crossed the 10,000 mark, there is no denying the fact that Chandigarh residents, and particularly those living in densely populated pockets, are unaware about their being the possible victims of Covid 19 as the positivity rate has been found to be much higher than Panchkula and Mohali. Apart from enforcing preventive norms such as wearing of masks and observing social distancing by the police, there is an urgent need to create more and more testing centres near vulnerable locations and isolate positive cases by faster communication of results to the victims and promptly sanitising their residences, so as to prevent the further spread of infection among their contacts.SC Luthra,ChandigarhDoorstep testing need of the hourThe UT Administration has opened Covid testing centres in different sectors and hospitals. Visiting the centre for testing and then again to collect the report is just a waste of time and resources. Testing should rather be done on the doorstep on call and report should be delivered the next day. This will save a lot of time and resources. People, who test positive for the virus, should self quarantine at home or they should be sent to the hospital, if required.Col TBS Bedi (retd), Mohali9 centres too lessChandigarh has a population of nearly 12 lakh. So, nine Covid-testing centres are too less as compared with Panchkula and Mohali, which have lesser population and more centres. The UT Administration should immediately take steps to increase the number of Covid testing centres to at least 25 to accommodate the day-to-day patients.RK Kapoor, ChandigarhDeploy more manpowerThe city requires 2,400 days to test all residents of the city, which means more than six and a half years of testing. The government is playing a joke with the lives of the citizens. It should accept the hard reality and rectify the anomalies in the testing methodologies. It should deploy more manpower and more teams to paint the true picture of the Covid-19 pandemic. The fact that today we are in a much better position than most developed nations such as the United States and China is no consolation. It is sheer luck. The key to control the Covid-19 pandemic is only testing.Rajiv Boolchand Jain, ZirakpurDivide city into zonesThere is a surge in Covid cases in the recent past as the curfew has been uplifted and life is coming back to normal. In order to stop the virus from spreading further, the UT Administration needs to set up more testing centres so that people can get timely treatment. The city should be divided into zones and testing centres should be set up accordingly to make people at ease. Special arrangements must be made for senior citizens, disabled and children. This is the time to go with the saying, “A stitch in time saves nine”. Timely detection of Covid can save a number of lives by increasing the number of testing centres.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliTesting foremost weapon to fight CovidDespite the Covid infection raging throughout Chandigarh and touching a figure of 10,000, with the caseload substantially higher than Panchkula and Mohali, the UT is equipped with only nine testing centres in contrast to 23 government sampling centres in Panchkula and 19 in Mohali. The UT has been consistently criticised for not testing enough people and doctors have also expressed affirmation that the city’s testing facilities should be increased in order to check the spread of the infection. According to the PGIMER’s Department of Community, testing is the foremost weapon to fight Covid-19. Test, detect and take action on a war footing. Government hospitals are overburdened and the entry of private players will help increase testing. The more we test, the better it is. There is no need to restrict testing, for it’s the only way to contain the disease until the vaccine is out.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliTimely testing can help reduce fatalitiesThe UT Administration should increase the number of Covid testing centres. Early detection of cases through timely testing can help in reducing the number of fatalities. Consult a doctor at the earliest in case of fever, cough and sore throat. Nine testing centres is a very small number as compared with the number of testing centres in Mohali and Panchkula. Even private testing labs can be given the nod. Mobile testing vans is also a good option. Voluntary testing by residents should also be there so as to stop the spread of the virus. Joint efforts by the government medical staff, private hospitals, labs and residents can help in the early detection of Covid-19 cases, thereby reducing the number of fatalities due to the disease.BirDevinder Singh BediDispensaries should have testing facilityFocus has to be on optimal utilisation of testing capacity. The RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test is a gold standard test, though the result is processed in 24 hours and costs about Rs1,600, and the rapid antigen test gives result in 15 minutes, though its reliability is 70 per cent and it costs about Rs500.When first symptoms are observed, testing should be resorted to for confirmation and cure with steps to curb the spread of the virus, if any. All dispensaries in different sectors of Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali should have testing facility or at least arrangements for sample collection (for testing at their controlling hospitals).Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaKeep preventive measures in mindThe Chandigarh Administration should definitely increase Covid testing centres so that residents can be treated at the initial stage. People should adhere to safety measures such as use good quality masks, sanitise or wash hands properly. It has been more than six months into the Covid-19 pandemic and no one can say that he/she is not aware of the restrictions. If the preventive measures are kept in mind, the cases will surely recede.MR Bhateja, NayagaonLabs not sufficientThe UT Administration can provide better facilities to the public if it takes keen interest in its activities. Covid-19 has been spreading very fast in Chandigarh, but there are no sufficient labs for testing in the city as compared with other cities. People are facing huge problems. They are being fleeced by private hospitals. It is the duty of the government to take care of public and save their lives by providing them better health services. The Administration should open more labs for testing.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliTesting only way to contain virusIn order to keep a check on the spread of Covid in the UT, more testing facilities and centres are needed. The UT has already been criticised for not having enough testing centres. Government hospitals are overburdened and patients complain that they do not get reports on time and healthcare workers are also functioning under extreme pressure. Testing is the only way to contain the diseases until the vaccine is out.Anita K Tandon, KhararEnsure timely reportAs Covid cases are increasing in the city at a rapid rate, there is an urgent need to increase Covid testing centres and, that too, on a priority basis so that the residents can easily get themselves tested at the primary stage of infection. The authorities should ensure minimum charges for these tests. Also, timely report should also be ensured by the authorities.Balbir Singh Batra, MohaliTest, detect, isolateThe callous attitude of the policymakers has breached the 10,000 mark of Covid cases in Chandigarh. Despite taking advice from medical experts, the city has failed to increase testing centres and even lags behind its peripheral areas such as Mohali and Panchkula. The less number of testing centres is a major deterrent in containing the virus and if steps are not taken immediately, the already overburdened medical facilities can shatter.Manjinder Kaur, Himachal PradeshExpand screeningSadly, Chandigarh has not been able to effectively arrest the Covid-19 spread. We have to increase the spectrum of Covid screening. As we increase the number of testing centres, we must also make it affordable. The poor will not come for testing if it is expensive or time consuming. It has to be made as smooth as possible. We must also encourage people to have pulse oximeters in their house for self screening of oxygen level in the blood. These can be provided at subsidised rates. Along with it, people coming from other states need to be screened at the entry point, with their test done, home address noted and then kept informed of the Covid test result. In case of positive cases, they must be immediately isolated/admitted to hospitals. The UT Administration can have some system through which all people coming from other states are required to inform in advance so that their screening and tests are planned and coordinated well in time.Col RD Singh (retd), Ambala CanttScale up samplingChandigarh being the capital city of both states of Punjab and Haryana has the best medical facilities as compared with Mohali and Chandigarh. So, there should be no problem in testing facilities in the city. The authorities should coordinate to scale up the testing facilities, increase the numbers of ICU beds and strengthen the track and trace system. However, there are other factors as well for which testing is important such as the fruit and vegetable market in Sector 26 where social distancing goes for a toss. People are not screened there that may spread the virus in the city. A medical team must be sent to the Sector 26 sabzi mandi to recommend steps to be taken.Col Balbir Singh Mathauda (retd), ChandigarhStart On-the-spot mobile testingThere is an urgent need for on-the-spot mobile testing. Though the Chandigarh Administration had, in the first week of August, announced that they would start mobile testing, but failed to take it off. The Administration does not have adequate technical staff. This is not feasible at all and that is why it could not be done. The Chandigarh Administration has been constantly facing flak for low testing. If Chandigarh can learn from Panchkula in this respect, cases can be detected early and chances of the spread of contagion can be less. The UT has been consistently criticised for not testing enough people and doctors have also expressed affirmation that the city’s testing facilities should be increased in order to check the spread of the virus. More testing facilities and centres in the UT is the need of the hour.SC Dhall, ZirakpurIncrease per day sample collectionThe increasing numbers of Covid cases in the city is worrisome. The authorities should increase per day testing capacity so that the virus can be detected early. This will help in early treatment and recovery. The testing should only be increased if the nine centres are not able to handle the situation.Bharat Bhushan SharmaImplement strict measuresAs the number of Covid cases is increasing by the day, it is imperative to increase the number of testing centres too. But you never get ahead of others by following them. Mohali and Panchkula are part of different states having more resources finances and manpower than Chandigarh, a UT with limited resources. Maybe Punjab and Haryana are able to spare more funds for Mohali and Panchkula, respectively, as these form part of the Chandigarh capital region. The main reason is that the southern sectors of Chandigarh are more densely populated, which need to be saved by strict implementation of measures or by limited lockdown till the peak of second wave of Covid subsides or flattens.Gurdev Singh, MohaliTesting a paramount need in cityTest, trace and isolate on a large scale in a systematic way is the need of the hour. The states and places that have been testing a large number of people daily have reported a gradual decline in the positivity rate as had happened in Bhilwara where a door-to-door testing was carried out. It took them only nine days to cover a population of 28 lakh, whereas Chandigarh has a population of nearly 12 lakh. Testing forms an integral pillar of Covid-19 response and management. The aim should be to catch every missing person through testing to curb the spread of the infection. All symptomatic negatives of rapid antigen tests should be mandatorily subject to the RT-PCR.SK Khosla, ChandigarhWill reduce load of existing centresChandigarh should increase the number of testing centres. This will not only reduce the risk of infection to other people, but will also reduce the load of the existing testing centres. More testing centres will help detect and treat more people. Testing centres need to be increased in proportion to the rising number of cases. Chandigarh should have more testing centres than Mohali and Panchkula, but unfortunately, it is just the opposite.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhQUESTIONEven as schools in the UT reopened partially for students of Classes IX to XII on September 21, though for a couple of hours a day, only a limited number of students are showing up. In view of the rising number of cases, do you think schools should remain functional only for senior students or for all classes so that students can adjust to the new normal?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-facilities-needed-for-timely-detection-treatment-147704
28-09-2020||Naina Mishra||4 months on, computer teachers await salary||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27As many as 150 senior and junior computer instructors working in various government schools of the city since 2008 have not been paid salaries for the past four months.A 35-year-old male teacher said, “I am yet to pay my son’s fee for six months amounting to Rs21,000 as I haven’t received my salary for the past four months. My six-month electricity bill is also pending and I haven’t even paid my insurance instalments as well. I am reeling under financial trauma and I have no strength to stretch it any further.”A 35-year-old female computer teacher said, “I have drained all my savings and have no resources left for sustenance. I have been earning for the past 12 years. We haven’t received our salaries after May and do not know for how long we are going to survive like this.”A representation citing the problems of computer instructors was submitted to the UT Administration time and again, but nothing has been done so far. The representation stated, “We are not getting our salaries for the past two months. As you are well aware that the Covid pandemic is going on and the inflation is at its peak, it has been difficult for the faculty to meet their inescapable expenses and has made their families face financial crisisand hardship in this tough phase.”“Computer instructors are handling online processes such as U-DISE, PISA, and DBT of notebooks and food security allowance under the Mid-day Meal Scheme, providing support in online teaching. All regular and contractual staff working in government schools are getting their salaries on time, but discrimination has been done with the computer faculty, which is really sadistic,” read the representation further.Till May 31, computer instructors were being paid salaries through SPIC (The Society for Promotion of IT in Chandigarh). Thereafter, the UT Education Department floated a tender at GeM portal, wherein a private contractor was given a contract for providing IT faculties.On June 19, they submitted a written complaint to the District Education Officer, UT, against a private contractor for allegedly demanding money from them.As per their complaints, the new contractor was adopting illegal methods to extract money by openly demanding Rs12,000 from teachers. However, the matter is still being investigated, while teachers are still devoid of their pay hitherto.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-months-on-computer-teachers-await-salary-147705
28-09-2020||Naina Mishra||Mohali has max 183 Covid deaths in tricity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27With 183 Covid-19 fatalities and 9,992 cases, Mohali district has the highest death toll in the tricity. Panchkula has been able to keep Covid-19 deaths to minimum at 80.The figuresProf JS Thakur from the Department of Community Medicine, PGI, who headed the Central team for reviewing the Covid-19 preparedness in Punjab, explains: “Punjab has more load of non-communicable diseases and 90 per cent deaths in the state are in patients having co-morbid conditions. Prevalence of hypertension in the state is 40 per cent and diabetes is 15 per cent. All these factors contribute to fatalities due to the virus. The similar pattern has been observed in Mohali as well.”Prof Thakur said: “Other things that have been noticed are that there is late diagnosis of the virus. People should come forward when they develop symptoms so that mortality can be reduced with the help of timely diagnosis.”The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said: “Our fatality rate is near 2 per cent. The only reason behind Covid-19 deaths in the district is that many patients have comorbidities. Several patients have died at the GMCH-32, the PGI and the Government Medical College, Patiala. This shows that patients were provided treatment at tertiary care hospitals, but the deaths were caused due to comorbidities. There are very few cases of late detection as we have augmented sampling facility.”With 5,730 Covid-19 cases, the fatality rate in Panchkula is 1.3 per cent.The Panchkula CMO, Dr Jasjit Kaur, said: “We have been able to manage with the help of early detection of Covid patients by extensive sampling and contact tracing. As many as 22 collection sites were prepared for easy access to sampling. Strategic rapid antigen test in symptomatic patients and on-the-spot isolation helped in appropriate management of patients before they develop any complications.”Kaur said: “Effective monitoring of home isolated patients by teams from the Health Department and IMA volunteers on WhatsApp led to timely alert in case of deterioration and admission has worked in our favour.”She said: “Admission in Level 1 (mild), Level 2 (moderate) and Level 3 (severe) according to the symptoms was managed effectively. We have been following timely referral for critical care in tertiary care by involving three private hospitals, which were equipped to deal with such patients.”Meanwhile, Chandigarh has recorded 147 Covid-19 deaths and 11,553 cases so far. The city has been witnessing a constant dip in the active cases and the rate at which the infection is growing. The recoveries, on the contrary, have risen to 79 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-has-max-183-covid-deaths-in-tricity-147706
28-09-2020||---||Encroachments galore in Sec 15 markets||Chandigarh, September 27Vendors are back in Sector 15 here displaying their items in the parking lot. Some of the vendors have encroached upon the road and the parking lot, causing an inconvenience to the road users.Their number is increasing day by day with no check from the authorities concerned.“There was a brief lull during the lockdown. As the situation is getting back to normal, they too have returned to the markets and encroached upon the public space,” said Vishal Uppal, a Sector 15 resident.Fruit sellers and footwear and clothing vendors have come up on the road and parking lots of the Sector 15-C and 15-D markets.“These unauthorised vendors connive with MC officials and the police. The result is that we end up losing our business here. What is our fault? We are paying all kinds of taxes and still losing our business,” said a booth owner in the Patel Market, Sector 15-D.Encroachments on roads are a threat to social distancing in the markets as buyers gather in front of the vendors and block the passage.“It seems nobody is there to check them. First, a handful of vendors will come up. Later, their number will keep on increasing daily,” said a Sector 15 resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/encroachments-galore-in-sec-15-markets-147707
28-09-2020||---||CTU to set up control room for Intelligent Transport System||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will soon set up a control room for Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) at ISBT, Sector 43.The featuresUT Administrator VP Singh Badnore had recently launched the system for 100 buses covering 14 routes in the tricity.An official said the CTU was planning to cover the entire fleet of 350 buses on 64 routes by the end of this year.Under the system, commuters will be able to track the movement of CTU buses on their mobile phones. The official said tenders had been floated for the setting up of the control room at the ISBT-43.The project has been sponsored by the World Bank with an aim to modernise the local transport system.Under the system, there will be four cameras inside each bus to monitor the behaviour of the crew and passengers. The fleet will be monitored in the control room of the CTU through global positioning system.An emergency button will be available both for the driver and the passengers to seek help from the police and ambulance, if needed. The digital system will enable the CTU authorities to monitor the exact location of buses, collection of revenue and the load of passengers on each route.There will be digital display of the timings of buses at each bus queue shelter. Passenger’s information display screens have also been installed at the ISBT in Sectors 17 and 43, the railway station and 12 other bus queue shelters in different locations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ctu-to-set-up-control-room-for-intelligent-transport-system-147708
28-09-2020||---||6 new vocational courses at Panchkula Govt PG College||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, September 27Government Post Graduate College in Sector 1 here has received a nod from the Higher Education Department of the Haryana Government to introduce six new vocational courses from the academic year 2020-21.The University Grants Commission (UGC) has sanctioned new courses to the college as part of the National Skills Qualifications Framework Scheme.“The courses have been launched keeping in view the emerging employment prospects in the related fields in the country. It is necessary to impart skill training to empower and encourage enterprising youth,” officials said.Dr Archana Mishra, Principal of the college, said: “We had been trying since long to get an approval to introduce vocational courses, along with traditional courses being already offered at the college. These courses have been approved by the UGC. We have added six more skill-oriented courses to our academic itinerary. While Bachelor of Vocation Education (BVoc) degrees include software development, information and technology (IT), banking, financial services and insurance and digital marketing, diploma courses are in the fields of information technology, web design, agriculture, mushroom cultivation and food processing.”She said admissions to these courses would begin from this academic year (2020-21). The guidelines for the same would soon be available on the website of the Higher Education Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-new-vocational-courses-at-panchkula-govt-pg-college-147709
28-09-2020||---||CHB to conduct survey of land in Sec 54, 55||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will soon conduct a survey of the vacant land in Sectors 54 and 55.An official said the UT Administration had allotted nearly 30 acres of land to the CHB around 10 years ago in Sector 54 for the launch of a general housing scheme. However, the board could not take the possession of the land as part of the land had been illegally occupied by people.He said the board would now hire an agency to get a survey done of nearly 110 acres of vacant land in Sectors 54 and 55 so that it could take possession of the land at the earliest.The official said the board had several times requested the Estate Office to get the encroachment removed from the land in Sector 54, but the department concerned had failed to launch any anti-encroachment drive there. Now, the board had decided to get the survey done in both sectors so that it could take the possession of the vacant land at the earliest.Earlier, the board had conducted a survey of the land in Sector 54 and found that illegal structures had increased there. If action was not taken at the earliest, it would be difficult for the Administration to remove the encroachment from the area, he said.Though the Estate Office had offered the board to take the possession of the land in Sector 54 several times, the latter argued that encroachment should be removed first, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-to-conduct-survey-of-land-in-sec-54-55-147710
28-09-2020||Patiala||Poll fever grips Punjabi varsity campus||Punjabi University teachers’ groups have actively started campaigning days before the PUTA elections.Both alliances have started door-to-door campaigning to woo voters. University professors associated with the Joint Action Committee comprising of teaching and non-teaching faculty said their protest being held for various unresolved matters for the past over 50 days was also going on side by side. The groups had already released their manifestoes.The Progressive Teachers’ Alliance (PTA) today went door to door in the residential areas of the university, Urban Estate and the Chinar Bagh areas to seek votes.Dr Jasdeep Singh Toor of the PTA said: “We are getting positive response from faculty members. Our protest for grants for the university is also going on simultaneously as those are our most important demands in the interest of the university.” He said they would continue campaigning till September 30 as the elections would be held on October 1.The Teachers’ United Front, other alliance of the teachers’ groups, today campaigned on the university campus till evening. Dr Kesar Singh Bhangoo of the Department of Economics and the alliance convener, said: “We went from house to house on the university campus today. We will go to the Bathinda campuses on Tuesday. We will also visit the Mohali campus.”He said the group had also demanded that separate pooling booths should be made on the Bathinda and Mohali campuses in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poll-fever-grips-punjabi-varsity-campus-147711
28-09-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Athletes want permission to practice at Sector 46 complex, approach secy||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 27Masters (veteran) athletes, willing to practice at the Sector 46 Sports Complex, have approached Secretary Sports demanding to open the field for amateur and professional athletes.The local athletes alleged that they were not allowed to practice at the complex due to non-availability of a coach and also blamed it on the lack of interest of the authorities. The Chandigarh unit has been divided into two zones (north and south), which participate separately in inter-districts tournaments.While the athletes from north district practice at the Sector 7 complex, those from south practice at the Sector 46 complex. However, since the Sector 46 complex is closed, they either go to Sector 7 or Panchkula.“There are three sanctioned posts for coaches, but the department has not bothered to fill-in all. We have been asked to practice at the Sector 7 complex, which already remains full to its capacity. A few athletes managed to go to Panchkula (Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Sector 3), but Covid-19 made things difficult for them,” said Anuj, one of the athletes.“Athletics is the most ignored sport by the authorities in Chandigarh. There has been no synthetic track. Equipment available is not up to the mark. These are some basic needs to develop sporting culture,” said Rahul, a local athlete.The veteran athletes also highlighted problems faced during practice hours.“Players of field events, especially throwing, have nowhere to go. Due to other sports played in the arena, they are sometimes asked to shift as throwing discus, hammer and javelin may cause injuries. We have several veterans who brought laurels to the city in national championships,” said Amarjit Singh, president, Chandigarh Masters’ Association.He said: “We don’t even need coaching, but a place to practice. We have to have a proper place to practice. All other sports have been allowed in the arena, why not athletics?”“I have been writing to the Administration often to solve this problem. Athletes from our sectors are unable to use the facilities. Moreover, ignorance of the department is a cause of worry,” said Councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali, who has also written to the department.Meanwhile, the District Sports Officer (DSO) said that the matter would be resolved soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/athletes-want-permission-to-practice-at-sector-46-complex-approach-secy-147712
28-09-2020||Patiala||Patiala residents, AAP workers protest poor condition of roads||Residents of various colonies and workers of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today held a protest against the poor condition of roads in colonies.Leaders of the political party reached Ward numbers 30, 31 and 32 where residents and party leaders claimed that development work had not been initiated.Tejinder Mehta of the Aam Aadmi Party said the roads in the colonies were in a poor condition.Walking as well as driving on the damaged roads had become a Herculean task for residents. Municipal Corporation officials as well as councillors had failed to take stock of the situation, he said.The work of laying sewage pipes in the area had been completed, but roads had not been repaired yet. No tenders had been allotted to carry out road repair works in these areas, Mehta claimed.Harish Aggarwal, Councillor of Ward No. 30, said: “Some work has already been started in my ward. We will complete the pending work in these colonies soon.”MC Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said: “Work to repair roads has already been started in the area. Sewage pipes were laid in this area recently under the Amrut Scheme. We will complete the work within two months.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patiala-residents-aap-workers-protest-poor-condition-of-roads-147713
28-09-2020||Chandigarh||Man arrested with heroin||Man held with 25-gm heroinAmbala: The CIA-1 staff of the Ambala police has arrested a man and recovered 25 grams of heroin from his possession here on Saturday. The suspect has been identified as Praveen Kumar, a resident of Sector 8, Ambala City. He was produced before a court, which sent him to two-day police remand. According to information, the CIA-1 staff received a tip-off that Praveen is on his way to sell drugs to his customer. Acting on the tip-off, a naka was laid and heroin was recovered from the suspect. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-arrested-with-heroin-147714
