28-04-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Watch: Elderly Panchkula man living alone gets emotional as cops come calling with a cake on his birthday||A sweet gesture by Panchkula police brought an elderly man to tears on his birthday amid the lockdown.  The man, who is residing alone in Sector 7, was greeted by the local police with a cake on Tuesday.  The cops wished him good health. The elderly man broke down into tears, and thanked the cops for "making his day".The video of the heartfelt moment was shared by the Commissionerate of Panchkula on Twitter. "Lockdown Birthdays can be special too. We wish Sh. Karan Puri of Sector 7, Panchkula a Very Happy Birthday", the tweet read. Lockdown Birthdays can be special too. We wish Sh. Karan Puri of Sector 7, Panchkula a Very Happy Birthday 🎂@Nijhavan_v @cmohry @police_haryana @nsvirk @ipspankajnain @ANI pic.twitter.com/RRKCrvD9SE||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/watch-elderly-panchkula-man-living-alone-gets-emotional-as-cops-come-calling-with-a-cake-on-his-birthday-77511
28-04-2020||Tribune Web Desk||Dial 112 if anyone holds parties in Chandigarh, UT Adviser tells residents||Chandigarh, April 28In order to contain the further spread of coronavirus in Chandigarh, UT Adviser Manoj Parida has asked the residents to report to the administration if anyone held parties or social gatherings in their neighbourhood.The move comes in the wake of a Covid-positive GMCH-32 employee holding a gathering at his house in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, and infecting many people."Now I appeal to residents to report against neighbours if they are holding parties/social gatherings /get-togethers, in violation of curfew. Just call 112 or send a video clip as evidence. This seems to be the only way to deal with these enemies of society," Parida tweeted.Now I appeal to residents to report against neighbours if they are holding parties/social gatherings /get-togethers,in violation of curfew.Just call 112 or send a video clip as evidence.This seems to be the only way to deal with these enemies of society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dial-112-if-anyone-holds-parties-in-chandigarh-ut-adviser-tells-residents-77507
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGI-Chandigarh to strengthen COVID-19 tests in region||Apart from providing COVID-19 testing to the tricity and adjoining districts of Punjab and Haryana, the PGI Hospital has also been identified as the mentoring institute by the Indian Council of Medical Education and Research (ICMR), a statement said on Tuesday.Under this, the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has been given the responsibility of increasing the capacity for COVID-19 testing in all government and private medical colleges of Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Uttarakhand.Thirty-one medical colleges with no COVID-19 testing facilities need to be strengthened in collaboration with the state governments by assessing their infrastructure, space, staff, expertise, equipment and reagents as testing requires sophisticated molecular laboratory set up with the proper bio-containment facility, the PGIMER said in a statement here.PGI Director Jagat Ram said a core committee has been constituted for giving approval to medical college labs to start COVID-19 testing.Mini P. Singh has been appointed as the Principal Coordinator for the establishment of these testing facilities, while R.K. Ratho is a member of the committee. Both are from the Virology Department.A total of 40 lab personnel, including senior faculty members from various medical colleges and medical institutes, have been trained in the Department of Virology from April 4 to April 26 which is also providing diagnostic services for testing around 200 samples per day for COVID-19. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chandigarh-to-strengthen-covid-19-tests-in-region-77502
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Toys, board games, cartoons keep children with Covid-19 busy in hospital isolation wards in Punjab, Chandigarh||With children infected by Covid-19 feeling anxious as they adjust to isolation wards and PPE-clad doctors, health authorities in Punjab and Chandigarh look to keep them occupied with board games, cartoons and regular counselling.At the Jalandhar civil hospital, two sisters who tested positive for Covid-19 have been given toys and a carom board to keep them busy, while at the PGI in Chandigarh, children infected with the virus are kept engaged with cartoons on TV and drawing sessions.Keeping these children busy in isolation wards is proving to be a challenge in itself for the health authorities."We have given them carom board and Ludo to play in order to make them comfortable," said Jalandhar Senior Medical Officer Kashmiri Lal.A television set has also been installed in the ward, he added.Lal said the two sisters, aged six and seven, tested positive after their grandfather contracted the disease."Our psychiatrists also counsel them regularly so they feel at ease," he added.Psychiatrists said convincing parents to being their children to the hospital is one of the biggest challenges."The biggest problem is to convince them to bring the kids here as they are not ready to come," said Assistant Professor, Department of Psychiatry, PGI, Swapanjit Sahu.Once they reach the hospital and are admitted to the isolation ward, they often get scared as they have never experienced an environment like that before, Sahu added.The children see doctors in PPE kits which they have never seen before and then start crying, he further said."We talk to them through video-conferencing to counsel them so their anxiety level goes down."We try to tell them that their parents are fine and they will be at the hospital for only some time," Sahu told PTI.Coronavirus positive children at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh have at least one of their family members also infected with the virus admitted for treatment, officials at the facility said.Children are also given digital copies of comics on WhatsApp, said Sahu."They even watch (cartoons) 'Motu patlu', 'Mowgli' on YouTube. Even crayons are given for drawing. We try to keep them busy," he said, adding that it helps them develop a bond with the children so they do not create any problem during sampling.The children also get to talk to their family members through video-conferencing to make them more comfortable."We play musical rhymes on Youtube and give them pen and paper to scribble," Sahu added.Currently, four COVID-19 positive children – a one-month-old, a six-month-old, a one-and-a-half-year old and an eight-year-old – are admitted to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. All of them are asymptomatic.On Sunday, an 11-month-old baby girl, along with her mother, was discharged from the PGI after they were fully cured of the infection."Though both mother and daughter were stable physically but psychologically, it was a very stressful experience to stay isolated."The mother reported significant distress during her stay at the ward and was consistently counselled through video-conferencing to address her anxiety and anger. Despite testing negative, she had to stay for a long period of time as her baby had tested positive," said Sahu. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/toys-board-games-cartoons-keep-children-with-covid-19-busy-in-hospital-isolation-wards-in-punjab-chandigarh-77481
28-04-2020||Mohali||Two more coronavirus cases take Mohali’s count to 65||Two people tested positive for coronavirus in Dera Bassi’s Jawaharpur, a development that breaks a two-week lull in the village that had until a few weeks ago been a place that set off alarm bells across the state.Two men aged 47 and 60 tested positive on Tuesday, officials said. One of the two was a relative of a sarpanch who tested positive a few days ago. Both had previously tested negative and had been asymptomatic.Officials said they have been moved to an isolation ward at Banur’s Gian Sagar Hospital.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said health authorities were tracing contacts and taking swab samples of people who may have met the two patients.“Containment protocol is being strictly followed in the village Jawaharpur and the adjoining villages. Sanitisation is also being done at regular intervals,” Dayalan said.The village reported its first coronavirus case on April 4, when a panch tested positive. Since then, some 38 people have followed suit, leading to the village becoming a major hotspot. Testing was ramped up in the village and authorities tightened restrictions as part of its cluster containment strategy.The authorities say the infection may have spread through some members of the Tablighi Jamaat sect who they say were suspected to have stayed in the village for a time. They left before anyone could find out more, officials say.The development takes Mohali’s cases to 65, with Jawaharpur alone accounting for a major chunk of these with 39 cases. The district now has 35 active cases.Twenty-seven people have so far been declared cured, and authorities are awaiting results for seven cases.Mohali has reported two deaths so far from the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-more-coronavirus-cases-take-mohalis-count-to-65-77471
28-04-2020||---||14 more test positive for COVID-19 in Chandigarh; total cases 59||Chandigarh, April 28Fourteen people tested positive for coronavirus in Chandigarh on Tuesday taking the total case count in the UT to 59.Earlier, six community contacts of positive case of Bapu Dham colony tested positive for the COVID-19. By the evening, 15-year-old boy and a man (24), both from Bapu Dham Colony, and a 33-year-old male from Sec 33-B also tested positive.Six others who tested positive from Bapu Dham Colony include a 16-year-old girl, an 18-year-old girl, a 13-year-old girl, a 36-year-old woman and a 10-year-old boy from one household and a 47-year-old woman from another household.Earlier in the day, five more cases of COVID-19 were reported from Sector 30. Those five cases include two women, who are said to be their late twenties.Administration to use drones, CCTVsChandigarh administration announced it would use CCTV cameras and drones to enforce social distancing.“Police will also patrol the areas regularly so as to ensure that the curfew orders are strictly followed,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida in a release here.He said the infection needed to be contained by focusing energy and resources on pockets like Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 and Sector 30-B.Apart from sealing the areas, efforts will be made to ensure that the locals maintain social distancing, he said.Parida also appealed to people to report any violation of the curfew orders.“Now, I appeal to residents to report against neighbours if they are holding parties/social gatherings /get-togethers, in violation of curfew. Just call 112 or send a video clip as evidence.This seems to be the only way to deal with these enemies of society,” Parida tweeted.His appeal came days after a 30-year-old ward attendant at a government medical college here hosted a party at his home.UT Administrator V P Singh Badnore held a detailed discussion with three chiefs of medical institutions through a video conference, said an official release.He emphasised the need for following proper protocol so that their premises do not become a source of infection.He stressed the need for providing necessary PPE kits, masks and safety gears to all levels of staff as per the laid down entitlement.He also stressed the need for maintaining proper rotation of the health staff so that the employees get proper rest and relief without getting fatigue.Badnore said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had enquired about the Chandigarh situation over the telephone on Tuesday morning. With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/14-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-chandigarh-total-cases-59-77465
28-04-2020||ATM van||ATM route plan for today||Location to start: PNB House, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Ashwani DhariaContact No. 9779196055Proposed route: Sector 52 and Sector 53 (10.30 am - 4.30 pm), ChandigarhTime to start: 10.30 amATM van, Andhra BankLocation to start: Andhra Bank, Sector 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Satvinder GurnamContact No. 8146903533Proposed route: Sector 23 (10.30 am to 1.30 pm) Sector 36 (2 pm to 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, Canara BankLocation to start: Canara Bank, Plot No. 1, Sector 34-A, ChandigarhCoordinator: ArvindContact No. 7889221046Proposed route: Khuda Lahora & Khuda Jassu village (10.30 am to 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 amATM van, SBILocation to start: LHO, SBI, 17-B, ChandigarhCoordinator: Pawan KumarContact No. 8728900229Proposed route: Bapu Dham (10.30 am to 1.30 pm) and Faidan village (10.30 am to 4.30 pm)Time to start: 10.30 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/atm-route-plan-for-today-77254
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||PU appoints DUI||Webinar dwells on info generationChandigarh: The Department of Library and Information Science organised the third webinar in a series on the theme ‘Information generation, dissemination, and use during Covid-19 lockdown.” The keynote speaker on the occasion was Dr DP Tripathi from NIT, Rourkela, who spoke on the topic “Open source solutions for librarians” wherein he highlighted various open source softwares available for use in libraries, how to select them, and what precautions are to be taken. TNSe-learning workshop concludes at varsityChandigarh: The Department of English and Cultural Studies organised a seven-day e-learning workshop titled “Research in the time of a pandemic”. The workshop was aimed to bring vast range of modern tools, sources, and practices to help researchers continue their valuable work in a moment when access to libraries and institutions was untenable. TNSInt’l webinar on biotechnologyChandigarh: The Department of Biotechnology organised an international webinar on “Recent advances in biotechnology”. PU VC Prof Raj Kumar, inaugurated it and applauded the enthusiasm of youngsters towards science and technology. TNSSeminar dwells on start-upsChandigarh: PU VC Prof Raj Kumar, inaugurated webinar on start-ups, organised by University Institute of Applied Management Sciences (UIAMS). The webinar was coordinated by Prof Sanjeev Sharma, Dr Monika Aggarwal and Dr Rachita Sambyal. TNS1,500 register for online quizChandigarh: The Criminal Justice Practicum Cell (CJPC), University Institute of Legal Studies, will organise an online quiz “Quarantiz pro quo” on April 30. As many as 1,500 students have registered for the quiz. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-appoints-dui-77250
28-04-2020||Manpriya Singh||‘Lessons learnt shouldn’t be forgotten’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 27If only there were cheat days or even cheat hours to these long days of lockdown. “That is why how religiously have you followed the lockdown shows not just one’s sense of discipline but one’s sense of social responsibility,” opines Dr Tejinder Kaur, Principal, Army Institute of Law, Mohali. Personally speaking, she hasn’t stepped out of the gate of her house since March 21 and it’s not been all that a challenge.“The real challenge lies in bringing normalcy back into our lives and psychology once all this over.”Something she intends to channelise all her energy into once the college reopens. “I’d still like to maintain social distancing though. And I also don’t think we should celebrate by immediately resorting back to the old ways.”The lessons learnt shouldn’t be forgotten anytime soon. Personally speaking, it’s the morning walks she misses the most, baring which the rest of the day goes on smoothly with the similar routine as before. “My day begins early, with a cup of tea, followed by half an hour devoted listening to Gurbaani, telecast live from the Golden Temple.”And then before she knows it, the rest of the day goes by. “We’ve covered the syllabus through online classes and in fact, are now onto online assessment. However, the modalities on the next session and the next year’s admissions are still being worked upon.” Currently at home with her husband, and with both her daughters based in the US, the day doesn’t begin or end before exchanging ‘All Good’ messages with both of them.In a span of less than eight weeks, there has been a complete reversal of life and lifestyles, then there are domestic pets and stray animals, who are probably grappling with intuitions of their own too.“There is this third generation of stray cats that I have been looking after. While earlier they would come twice a day for food, now knowing I’ll be home all the time, they visit thrice a day,” she laughs, adding how that’s not the only thing that staying at home has taught her.“I must have cooked after 20 years and initially I was quite stressed out about how I’ll cope up, but to my own surprise I not just managed but also I am enjoying cooking.” In fact, she is happy with having perfected ‘peas pulao’ and even ‘chhola bhatura.’ “I made it twice during this period,” she adds laughingly.Though cooking might be a new pursuit, reading has always been a part of life. “These days I am reading Ten Judgements that Changed India by Zia Modi.” Sure she must have her to-do list when the lockdown ends? “Honestly, I miss being physically present in my office. That’s the first thing I’ll do, go sit there and soak it all in. In fact on working days, I don’t come to know when it’s time to leave for home.” Hopefully, very soon it’ll be time to leave for office too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/lessons-learnt-shouldnt-be-forgotten-77231
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||PM calls up his friend in Chandigarh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called upon Raj Kishore, son of his former associate during his stint at Sangathan in 90s, and learnt about the well being of family, friends and Chandigarh.Raj Kishore, treasurer, Chandigarh BJP unit, said the call lasted for nearly half-an-hour. Besides his mother Chunni Devi (75), the PM asked Kishore about the well-being of his former associates Yashpal Mahajan, Desraj Tandon, Yudhvir Sharda and others.BJP president Arun Sood said, “The PM’s love and concern for the City Beautiful has no end. We residents of Chandigarh have to follow the lockdown strictly for living up to his expectations.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pm-calls-up-his-friend-in-chandigarh-77230
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Congress questions ‘Kher’s absence’||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in the city, Congress leaders today raised questions on MP Kirron Kher’s role in fighting the pandemic. They said when UT Administrator, Mayor, senior officials of the Municipal Corporation, councillors and several administrative officers are holding key meetings and can be seen on the field, then why not the people’s representative? Many even wondered is she really in the city?Pradeep Chhabra, president, Chandigarh Congress, said, “The MP, who should have come forward and worked for the public, has been missing for almost a month now and when the public started questioning her absence, she chose to release a video on the social media.”He pointed out that if Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore, UT Adviser Manoj Parida, DC and other officers can hold meetings every day in the war room, then why can’t the MP attend these and express her opinion on the issues of residents.Reacting on the statements, the MP said, “I refuse to get provoked by this childish and stupid politics. It looks like the Congress, which could not defeat me in elections, wants me to come in the path of Coronavirus by stepping out of my house.”Kher said she is in her Sector 7 house and since she is a senior citizen and a diabetic, she will not move out. “I am in touch with officials and getting the needful done,” she added.Tandon questioned tooThe Congress leaders also questioned former BJP president Sanjay Tandon. Chhabra said, “It is beyond comprehension that the administration is hosting meetings with Sanjay Tandon. In what capacity he is part of such meetings? He is not the city MP, neither party president nor occupies any administrative post.” Refuting the allegations, Tandon replied, “I am doing what Chhabra is not able to do despite being the president of Chandigarh Congress unit. I am distributing masks, sanitisers and ration. And raising voice of people with admin officials, what is wrong in that?” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-questions-khers-absence-77228
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||3 bootleggers nabbed with 34 liquor boxes||The Crime Branch of the UT police nabbed three bootleggers while loading 34 liquor boxes from a godown in Sector 36, which was meant to be sold in the city in violation of the curfew orders. Crime Branch sleuths, who were on patrolling, got a tip-off that a Bolero jeep parked at the rear of a liquor godown is being loaded with liquor boxes. ASI Rajinder Singh and his team reached the spot and found that 34 boxes of illegal liquor, including 18 boxes of Royal Arm, six boxes of Royal King, five boxes of Platinum, three boxes of Imperial and two boxes of Special, were loaded in the jeep. The police said the suspects could not produce any licence or permit for opening the liquor godown and carrying the liquor during the curfew. Following this, the three suspects - identified as Harinder Garg, in-charge of the liquor godown, Vijay and Ashish Kumar, both residents of Kajheri village, were arrested. The police said the suspects also violated the orders of the District Magistrate issued regarding Covid-19. Consequently, a case under Section 188 of the IPC and Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act, has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. The vehicle has also been impounded by the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-bootleggers-nabbed-with-34-liquor-boxes-77227
28-04-2020||Panchkula||4 gangsters sent to police custody||A local court today sent four gangsters, who were arrested from Billa village near Ramgarh after a brief encounter, to three-day police custody. A cop belonging to the Mohali police had sustained a bullet injury on his left leg.SP to recommend cops for promotionAfter four members of a gang were nabbed by the Mohali police in a brief encounter at Billa village in Panchkula on Sunday, SP (City) HS Virk has now decided to recommend names of the cops, who fought the armed gangsters, for promotion. The SP said, “We will surely recommend their promotion to the DGP, Punjab, for their bravery and achievement. For issuing them class one certificates, we will ask the IGP.”According to officials, the incident took place around 6 am yesterday when a police team, led by Rajnish Choudhary, SHO of the Phase 8 police station, went to the village to arrest four gangsters involved in an attempt-to-murder case, after receiving a tip off.A case was registered against them under Sections 186, 188, 332, 353, 307 and 34 of the IPC and the Arms Act.The gangsters were identified as Harsimran, alias Simu, a resident of Narayangarh, Dhruvmohan Garg, a resident of Ghaziabad, Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, a resident of Dera Bassi, and Gurcharan Singh of Paarwala village near Raipur Rani. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-gangsters-sent-to-police-custody-77226
28-04-2020||Mohali||Spray machine donated to MC||To assist the District Administration in curbing the spread of Covid-19, the Rotary Club, Mohali, donated a spray machine to the Municipal Corporation. Commissioner Kamal Garg said, “The machine will help the administration to sanitise the affected areas and protect residents from the infection.” Harjeet Singh, president, Rotary Club, said our volunteers are ready to support the Administration in this fight. Notably, the Club has already donated PPE kits, masks, gloves, shoes to garbage collectors, soaps to sweepers and groceries items worth over Rs 8 lakh. Urging everyone to strictly adhere to social distancing, Harjeet Singh said it is our battle and we all have to fight it together with collective action. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spray-machine-donated-to-mc-77224
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Youth arrested for outraging modesty||A youth has been arrested for outraging the modesty of a woman. According to the police, the victim was going to work when the suspect (19), who was taking an empty cart, tried to outrage her modesty near Centra Mall, Industrial Area, Phase 1, here on Sunday. The victim raised an alarm following which the suspect was nabbed by a passer-by. The police said the suspect revealed his name as Sonu, a resident of Behlana. However, later the cops found that the suspect’s real name was Manoj, a resident of Deep Complex, Hallo Majra. A case under Sections 354 and 419  of the IPC has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-arrested-for-outraging-modesty-77223
28-04-2020||---||Vegetable vendor robbed of Rs 25,000||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vegetable-vendor-robbed-of-rs-25-000-77257
28-04-2020||---||Some relief, no fresh case in Panchkula in week||Panchkula, April 27No fresh Covid-19 case has been reported in the district over the last week.‘HelpMe’ appDeputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Monday said the Haryana Government had launched a mobile app – ‘HelpMe’ – for the assistance of people in necessary services like telemedicine and delivery of dry and cooked food amid the Covid-19 crisis. The app can be downloaded on Android devices from Google Play Store.Seven of the nine infected members of a Sector 15 family were sent to 14-day home quarantine yesterday after they were discharged from Maharishi Markandeshwar University (MMU) Hospital at Mullana in Ambala post-recovery. The last Covid case came to the fore in the district on April 20, when a 20-year-old youth from Pinjore had tested positive.Of the total 18 cases reported so far, only eight are active.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said as many as 385 persons had completed their designated home-quarantine period of 28 days. He said six persons were isolated at the Civil Hospital, seven at Command Hospital and five at Alchemist Hospital. Around 150 persons have been quarantined at temporary shelters across the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/some-relief-no-fresh-case-in-panchkula-in-week-77252
28-04-2020||---||Travellers reaching Mohali to be screened||Mohali, April 27The district administration here today decided to screen all travellers entering the district.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in view of five asymptomatic persons returning from Sri Hazur Sahib in Nanded, Maharashtra, testing positive for the virus in Tarn Taran district, all those returning from Shri Hazur Sahib would be put in the quarantine facilities identified by the district administration.He said the samples of all these persons would be collected by teams of the Health Department at the quarantine facility and tested for Covid. He said instead of the basic screening, these persons would be tested through PCR and in case they were found positive, they would be placed under isolation at the state quarantine facilities. If found negative, they would be put under home quarantine for 14 days.Meanwhile, five more Covid patients were discharged from Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur on Monday after they defeated the disease. The number of recovered patients in the district now stands at 27.Civil Surgeon Manjeet Singh said of the patients recovering today, two were from Jawaharpur village near Dera Bassi while two belonged to Mohali city and one to Mundi Kharar. He said all these patients were discharged from the Covid care centre set up at Gian Sagar Hospital.Manjit Singh said a total of 15 patients belonging to Jawaharpur had recovered so far. Among the patients who recovered and discharged today were Ekamaveer Kaur (11), Jagdish Kaur (76), Harjinder Singh (26), Surjit Kaur (53) and Rajinder Pal Sharma (73). Notably, five patients hailing from the hotspot Jawaharpur were cured on April 21 and eight on April 26. They are currently staying at the district-level quarantine centre in Sector 70. They have been quarantined for 14 days as a precautionary measure.He added that two patients from Jawaharpur — Surjit Kaur and Harjinder Singh — were being kept at the quarantine centre while the remaining three were sent home. They too would be placed under home quarantine for 14 days and health teams would regularly monitor their health, he added.The remaining patients are undergoing treatment at Gian Sagar Hospital and their condition is stable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/travellers-reaching-mohali-to-be-screened-77236
28-04-2020||Naina Mishra||3 GMCH doctors among 9 more test +ve||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 27Nine more cases of Covid were reported from the city today. The doubling rate of Covid cases in the city has been recorded at 12.5 days, in contrast with 30.26 days recorded on April 24.67 contacts of hospital ward boy among 200 quarantined in cityChandigarh: About 200 persons were home-quarantined in the city on Monday. A Bapu Dham Colony resident, who was found positive for Covid, was involved in the distribution of ration by a political party in his colony recently. “We are trying to trace all those who got ration that day,” said a contact tracing and quarantine team member. A total of 67 of the GMCH ward boy’s contacts have been quarantined. Some of these have been sampled as well. TNSThe doubling rate is the time taken for the number of cases to double. A low doubling rate denotes a fast spread of infection and vice versa. The total number of positive cases in the city now stands at 45.The GMCH-32 ward boy from Bapu Dham Colony, who tested positive for Covid on April 24 and was booked for violating social distancing norms and curfew orders, has reportedly infected 12 persons.Two women doctors at the GMCH, a 30-year-old and a 24-year-old residing in Sector 49 and Sector 21, respectively, have tested positive for the virus. They were posted in the operation theatre ward, along with the ward attendant.As many as 30 work contacts of both these doctors have been identified. The samples of immediate family members of these doctors have been collected and their reports are pending.Another 27-year-old woman doctor at the GMCH-32 tested positive on Monday evening. She has been residing at the PG hostel of the hospital and is from the Department of Anaesthesia.A 28-year-old man, a resident of Ram Darbar who is among the housekeeping staff at the GMCH-32, has also been found infected.Meanwhile, a 55-year-old man from Bapu Dham Colony, a neighbour of the GMCH ward attendant, has also turned out positive for Covid.His six household contacts have been sampled and 12 family contacts (relatives) have been identified.Another community contact of the GMCH ward boy, a 38-year-old man, is also Covid positive. His four family members have been sampled and 10 relatives have been identified.A 19-year-old girl, a resident of Sector 52 and family contact of the first Bapu Dham case, is also positive for Covid.A 41-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman, both residents of Sector 30-B, have tested positive for Covid. The man is a contact of the husband of the Sector 30-B woman, who tested positive on April 17.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-gmch-doctors-among-9-more-test-ve-77235
28-04-2020||Chandigarh||Missing contact of +ve case traced to PU campus, booked||A missing contact of a Bapu Dham Colony Covid-19 patient was today traced by the police to Panjab University (PU) and a case was registered against him at the Sector 26 police station as he joined duty at the PU and did not disclose that he was a neighbour of the Covid patient.The suspect, who lives at the colony, works as a multi-tasking staffer at PU Boys’ Hostel No. 1. Since yesterday, he was living in quarters located at the hostel after he was allegedly denied entry to his locality.The UT Administration had sealed Bapu Dham Colony after Covid cases surfaced there. “After duty, he went back to his residence on Sunday morning. However, he was not allowed to enter the locality as the area was sealed,” claimed PU hostel warden Rajeev Kumar.“Left with no other option, he returned to the hostel and we accommodated him at one of the quarters. He claimed that he was not in direct contact with the Covid-19 patient," he said. A team of the Sector 26 police station, led by the SHO, Inspector Narinder Patial, was looking for him. After gathering inputs, the SHO reached the PU campus and the missing contact was rounded up.The police said since he joined duty at the PU and did not disclose that he was a neighhour of the Covid patient, a case under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC had been registered against him. The police informed a medical team about him. The team was yet to arrive at the police station till the filing of this report. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/missing-contact-of-ve-case-traced-to-pu-campus-booked-77234
28-04-2020||Amit Sharma||Panjab varsity teacher chips in to strengthen fight against Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 27Like any other city resident, Gaurav Gaur, an assistant professor at Panjab University (PU), could have preferred to sit back home during the Covid-19 lockdown. However, he decided to assist the UT Administration as a volunteer. For the past one month, he has been working as a nodal officer for Sector 27 and Sector 30, a part of which has been declared an “affected pocket”.Gaurav, who teaches at the Centre for Social Work, PU, is shouldering the responsibility of regulating the supply of essentials, including groceries, medicines and vegetables in Sector 27 and 30, besides ensuring that people follow social distancing.He also has the responsibility of ensuring the well-being of senior citizens staying alone in his area. “I wanted to contribute in my own way and offer my services to the city rather than sit at home. I am trying my best to ensure that residents do not face any problem regarding the supply of essential items,” he said.Gaurav spends around five hours at these sectors daily to assist the residents.However, his daily routine starts from the cremation ground in Sector 25, where he reaches at 7 am to feed around a dozen stray dogs.The routine is then followed by a visit to the PU campuses in Sector 14 and 25 where close to 180 migrant labourers are being provided with milk, biscuits and ration. “I am thankful to all PU teachers who have come forward to provide these essentials, which are being distributed among the needy. I am just the face for these teachers,” he said. Gaurav wishes to continue as a volunteer till the time the lockdown is not lifted from the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-varsity-teacher-chips-in-to-strengthen-fight-against-covid-19-77233
28-04-2020||---||Chandigarh Adviser forms 5-member panel||Chandigarh, April 27Told to submit report by April 30The committee, chaired by Finance Secretary AK Sinha, will seek the opinion of various stakeholders. It has been asked to submit its report by April 30.As the second phase of the lockdown will end on May 3, UT Adviser Manoj Parida today constituted a five-member committee chaired by Finance Secretary AK Sinha to examine and recommend the steps to be taken by the Administration in the post-curfew period in the city.The recommendations of the committee may include with regard to public transport, opening of schools and colleges, hospitality industry, opening of industries, factories, shops, inter-state movement, functioning of offices, etc.The committee will seek the opinion of various stakeholders. It has been asked to submit its report by April 30.The Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Deputy Commissioner, CEO, Chandigarh Housing Board, and the Secretary – Establishment, are other members of the committee.In addition to the committee report, the Administration will seek views of public representatives, community leaders and various associations.The decisions of neighboring states and guidelines of the Central Government will be kept in mind, before the Administrator takes the final decision.Earlier during the daily review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during video-conference, had emphasised on enhancing strictness in hotspot (red) zones.The Administrator stated that a plan be prepared to bring in reforms in the post-lockdown phase and the use of modern technology should be encouraged. He mentioned about the rapid response system for dealing with the Covid outbreak, which is already functional in the UT.The Administrator expressed concern on disposal of used gloves and PPEs. He stressed that these be disposed of with medical waste as per the laid down guidelines. He focused on regular checking of all health workers so that there was early detection of infection, if any.Finance Secretary AK Sinha stated that as per the Government of India’s guidelines, all departments had been directed to reduce the expenditure by 5 per cent in this quarter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-forms-5-member-panel-77229
28-04-2020||---||Traders write to PM||Chandigarh, April 27The Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, has sought waiver of various expenses from the Central Government in view of the lockdown.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Kamaljit Singh Panchhi, president of the association, said you requested all shops, offices and manufacturing units to close down during the lockdown.He said: “We, small businessmen and middle-class people, have not got any kind of help in this pandemic from the government. We have to run our businesses by working hard every day. We also have to meet various expenses, including household, school fees of children, electricity bills of office as well as of home, employee salaries, GST changes, EMI of housing loan as well office, office rent, property tax for shop as well house, transportation charges of school children, etc.”“Due to Covid-19, businessmen have suffered the most as businesses have closed down, but daily expenses are going on as such. Banks are also not waiving off loans, but extending EMIs only. We, middle-class businessmen, appeal to you to kindly wave off various expenses for six months only,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-write-to-pm-77225
28-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Spike in Covid cases prompts PGI, GMCH-32 to keep reserve staff||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 27In the past three days, as many as seven health workers have tested positive for Covid, raising questions over protocols followed by hospitals and pressing upon the need to alter them. This has prompted the hospital administration to keep a reserve force of health workers.Of the seven health workers, who tested Covid positive, six are from the GMCH-32, and one from the PGIMER.When asked about the source of infection in non-Covid areas, Dr BS Chavan, Director Principal, GMCH-32, said, “The first case from Bapu Dham Colony, who is also the GMCH staff, was working in the operation theatre (OT). Subsequent contacts from the GMCH were also working with him in the surgical and orthopaedic OT.”“Two doctors are from anaesthesia, who were also working with them in the OT. The primary source of infection is either ward attendant himself or Bapu Dham Colony,” he added.The PGIMER Director, Dr Jagat Ram, said, “We have deliberated upon the need to test patients coming to the OT. Patients coming from other states should be tested locally so that emergency cases can be handled promptly. There is a medical and surgical committee that will decide on these issues.”“We are keeping reserved force of doctors as many have chosen quarantine facility,” Dr Jagat Ram added.Dr BS Chavan said, “Identifying asymptomatic cases is a major challenge. I have told my doctors that they should treat every person coming to hospital as Covid case.”“We are keeping the hospital staff reserved as many doctors are going under quarantine. Due to this the manpower is also reducing,” Dr Chavan added.Governor to meet officialsUT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “We are arranging a special screening of all health workers directly involved in corona treatment. Governor will hold meeting with three heads of medical institutions, health secretary, Adviser, DC and Municipal Commissioner tomorrow to discuss safety norms on hospital premises.”Can activate more labs for testingThe PGI Director, Dr Jagat Ram, said “We can activate more laboratories for Covid testing at the PGIMER if we get kits from the ICMR. We have laboratory in microbiology, immunology and parasitology. The screening or testing of patients visiting the hospital can thus be successful.”Docs want PPE kits in ICU, OT“How to safeguard our health workers is a major challenge. Resident doctors want PPE kits in non-Covid areas like emergencies, ICU and OT. Cases coming from containment zones should be tested so that the risk is minimised. Doctors who touched surface where Covid case was reported are being tested,” said Dr Chavan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spike-in-covid-cases-prompts-pgi-gmch-32-to-keep-reserve-staff-77222
28-04-2020||Deepankar Sharda||UGC to take call on academic sessions||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 27Commission members hold virtual meetingUGC members on Monday held a meeting through video-conferencing. Sources claimed that the UGC accepted the reports submitted by two committees and would discuss the future course of action in the coming days. The meeting was presided over by the UGC Chairman. The sources said matters pertaining to holding exams, managing classes and others were also discussed at the meeting.The University Grants Commission (UGC) will consider the reports submitted by two committees before taking a call on the current and next academic sessions during a meeting next week.In a communiqué to the universities issued on April 25, the UGC Secretary said the commission would meet next week to reach a decision in the larger interest of the students.After the Covid-19 pandemic disrupted the sessions of all colleges and universities, the UGC constituted two committees to look into the issues pertaining to teaching/learning processes, examination, admissions, academic calendars and others.The committees were tasked to find various ways to avoid academic loss and suggest appropriate measures for the future of students.“The decision is most likely to come in the meeting of the UGC that is scheduled for the next week. The recommendations are believed to be in the favour of students, considering the ongoing situation. However, the issue still needs to be discussed due to its sophisticated nature,” said a source.The first committee was formed under the chairmanship of Prof RC Kuhad, former member of the UGC, and the Vice-Chancellor of the Central University of Haryana. Panjab University Vice-Chancellor Raj Kumar was also one of the members. The committee was given the responsibility to look into the issues related to examinations and academic calendar. The second committee was formed under the chairmanship of Prof Nageshwar Rao, Vice-Chancellor, Indra Gandhi National Open University . Their responsibility was to deal with problems related to promoting online education.“Both committees submitted their reports on April 24 to the UGC. The reports will be discussed in commission meeting and based on the decision, the UGC will issue guidelines /advisories next week to the universities and colleges regarding measures to be taken for the current academic session as well as the next academic session,” said a communiqué signed by the UGC secretary.New session in September?Sources said it has been recommended to start the new academic session for colleges and universities in September instead of July. It has been also recommended to take online classes, cancel winter holidays for the next session and hold classes on Saturdays. The final notification will be issued by the UGC through the MHRD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ugc-to-take-call-on-academic-sessions-77221
28-04-2020||Amarjot Kaur---||Women sex workers left to fend for themselves, say city NGOs||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, April 27 The safety call for social distancing in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic has wrecked mayhem on city’s sex workers who have been grappling with financial instability for over a month now and only a little respite has come their way. About 3,000 sex workers are registered with Chandigarh State AIDS Control Society and a majority of this chunk belongs to women residing in impoverished colonies and slums located on the city’s fringes. Though the first half of the instalment from a sum of Rs 3,000, given by the National Institute of Social Defence (NISD), an autonomous body under the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, has been sent to the NGOs in the city for transgender and men-to-men sex workers (MSM), the women are left to fend for themselves. Since none of the workers agreed to come on record as most of them are staying with their families during the lockdown, several NGOs working closely with their health concerns narrated their ordeal. Sandeep Mittal, deputy director, Chandigarh State AIDS Control Society, said, “Their business has hit a new financial low. Since there are no designated red-light areas in the city, most of them operate from home and through telephones. We have around 3,000 sex workers registered with NGOs working for preventing AIDS.” He said most of the sex workers registered with the NGOs were from colonies and slums. “Also, most sex workers here are home-based as there is no brothel in the city; so they don’t reveal their identity. Most of them, who are registered with us, are from the economically weaker section of society. A few of them have alternate jobs to earn extra income,” he informed Mittal. Working with Indian Public Health Association, Tapan Singh, who has a composite project that tends to male sex workers or MSMs and transgenders said, “Unlike the women sex workers, transgenders and MSMs are not home-based. Nevertheless, they have received the first half of Rs 3000, a two-part instalment by the NISD. We have a total of 150 transgenders and MSMs registered with us and a sum of Rs 1,500 will be credited to their account.” Pinky Rani, project manager at Yuvsatta, has been closely working with those involved in sex trade. “Because of the lockdown, the sex trade has been affected. Most workers are not able to head out and there are no customers,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/women-sex-workers-left-to-fend-for-themselves-say-city-ngos-77220
28-04-2020||---||Police show solidarity with SI Harjeet||Mohali, April 27The incidentPatiala Sub-Inspector Harjeet Singh’s hand was reportedly chopped off during an attack by Nihangs while he was trying to impose curfew restrictions in Patiala earlier this month.Following the instructions of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, the Mohali police today expressed solidarity with Patiala Sub-Inspector Harjeet Singh, whose hand was reportedly chopped off during an attack by Nihangs while he was trying to impose curfew restrictions earlier this month, by affixing his name on their badges.Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal, along with all SPs, DSPs, police station chiefs and employees of the district, affixed the name of Harjit on their uniforms and raise slogans holding placards reading “I am also Harjit Singh”.Officers and employees of the Phase-1 police station and Mataur police station conducted a joint programme. ASP (City 1) Ashwini Gotiyal was also present on the occasion. Elsewhere, various police stations conducted such programs at their own level while SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal in his office at the District Police Headquarters along with other senior officials. Besides, similar functions were also held in the State Cyber and Crime Cell, Special Operations Cell, Vigilance Bureau, STF and Commando Complex of the Punjab Police. During this, a complete social distancing was maintained.ChandigarhChandigarh: The UT police officers also showed solidarity with Harjeet by wearing badges of his name. DIG (Traffic) Shashank Anand and SSP Nilambari Jagdale tweeted pictures with badges of Harjeet Singh. Anand even changed the name of his twitter handle to “Mai Bhi Harjeet Singh”.Fatehgarh SahibFatehgarh Sahib: Officials of the district police also wore a badge of Harjeet Singh’s name while performing duty during the curfew. SSP Amneet Kondal said as a mark of respect, all their officials held a joint solidarity meeting by wearing a badge of Harjeet’s name. The SSP said the police personnel were joined by the Health Department led by Civil Surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal. She said the police also lauded the services of the frontline warriors such as health and sanitation workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/police-show-solidarity-with-si-harjeet-77219
28-04-2020||Looking ahead||India needs ICUs, not just ventilators||Dr Harinder K Bali & Dr Priyanka GoyalAs India battles Covid-19, a number of serious fault lines have been exposed in our public health system. We seem to have done reasonably well in limiting the spread of the disease till now. This has been possible despite and not because of our public healthcare system.The real challenge will arise when there is a progressive easing of the lockdown. In the absence of widespread testing, we have no idea about the extent of the spread of the disease in the community. Are we just seeing the tip of the iceberg? We also have started to believe that a majority of our citizens are immune to serious consequences of the disease. The widespread use of hydroxychloroquine to the national policy of uniform BCG vaccination have all been offered as possible explanations for this hypothesis.Worldwide, there has been lot of talk about ventilators. This is because lungs are the predominant organs that are affected by this disease and ventilators are used to provide temporary support to patients who are unable to get enough oxygen for their body on their own. A feeling seems to have taken root that if we have enough ventilators, we can save more lives.Ventilators are certainly one of the most essential components for management of these critically sick patients, but certainly not the only components. What we need are fully equipped and optimally managed intensive care units (ICUs). We need:Manpowera) Enough trained intensivists to manage these ICUsb) Specially trained nurses to handle critically sick patientsc) Medical officers trained to evaluate patients and carry out instructions under the supervision of intensivistsd) Respiratory therapists/ physiotherapistse) GDAs to assist medical officers and nursesf) Biomedical engineers to regularly check the medical equipment, identify trouble shooting.g) Sterilisation departmentEquipmenta) Ventilators, obviously the most important partb) All patients with critical diseases need to have monitorsc) Minimum of three to four infusion pumps would be required per patientd) Portable dialysis machineWith a few exceptions (Kerala, Himachal Pradesh and J&K), most states have a completely dysfunctional public healthcare system. Most hospitals have no ICUs. There is no infrastructure, no qualified manpower and no equipment. Either there is no equipment or whatever is present is lying defunct for want of maintenance and qualified manpower.It is ironic that even small nursing homes have 6-10 bed functional ICUs in the private sector. The present pandemic has completely exposed the inadequacies of our public healthcare system. It is a huge opportunity to get it back on track.The government has already placed an order for around 50,000 ventilators. We also need to have all other equipment that is essential to run these ICUs. More important, we need to rapidly train manpower required to manage these units. If we start now, it will take nine months to a year to have these ICUs in an optimally functional state.Till more trained intensivists become available, we should have aggressive short-term training for physicians and anaesthetists. We can also utilise the services of second and third-year DNB students to tide over the acute manpower shortage.We must not lose this opportunity to reboot our dysfunctional public healthcare system. India needs more fully equipped and properly manned ICUs in each and every sub-district.Dr Bali is a leading cardiologist and Dr Goyal a cardiac anaesthetist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/india-needs-icus-not-just-ventilators-77218
28-04-2020||Naina Mishra||Infected doctors express concern over safety of family members||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 27Resident doctors from the GMCH, Sector 32, who tested positive for Covid today, expressed concern about their safety as well as that of their family members back home.A resident doctor from Sector 21 said, “I’m worried about my family as they are all being tested for Covid at the GMCH. Even if patients who come for operation are screened, it doesn’t guarantee whether they are Covid infected or not. We did not even wear a PPE kit as we were using these judiciously.”“What’s the use of the PM-CARES Fund if the money is not being used for the safety of health workers,” she asked.A 30-year-old doctor from Sector 49, who works at the GMCH, said, “I was worried about my two-year-old daughter as I was going back home. So, I got myself tested. She was really cranky for the past two days as I am in hospital since Saturday. My parents don’t know about it and I don’t want to tell them. I know it is a risky job, but occupation hazards are everywhere.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/infected-doctors-express-concern-over-safety-of-family-members-77217
