28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 7 new coronavirus cases; UT tally rises to 289||Chandigarh on Thursday reported seven new cases of coronavirus, taking the union territory's case tally to 289. As per the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Punjab, a 91-year-old woman, who is a resident of Sector 15 in Chandigarh tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. The woman was admitted to the Max Hospital in Mohali after suffering from a neck of femur fracture.Bapu Dham Colony reported six new cases of the deadly disease, taking the total in the area to 216. The new cases were recorded in two different households within the same building. Those infected include 12 and 15-year-old girls and 8,16 and 17-year-old boys. A 53-year-old man has also tested positive for the contagion. With the latest cases, active cases in the city have now shot up to 98.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-7-new-coronavirus-cases-ut-tally-rises-to-289-91049
28-05-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Builder penalised for delay in giving possession of flat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27The developers of Sushma Crescent have been directed to pay a compensation of Rs 1 lakh on account of mental agony caused to a Zirakpur resident over delay in giving possession of flat.In a complaint to the State Consumers Disputes Redressal Commission, complainant Jagsukhbir Kaur stated that she was allotted a flat in Sushma Crescent, Gazipur, Zirakpur, Mohali, vide allotment letter dated November 5, 2011.Narender Yadav, counsel for the complainant, stated that as per the agreement executed on December 23, 2011, possession of the unit was to be handed over to the complainant within 36 months (on or before December 23, 2014), whereas Opposite Parties (Sushma Buildtech Ltd, Business Complex, Elante Mall, Chandigarh, through its chairman, Director, and Executive Director) offered possession on June 18, 2018, but due to some discrepancy in the offered unit, the complainant had taken over the possession only on August 17, 2018, and, as such, the complainant averred that the Opposite Parties are liable to pay compensation. He stated that the complainant paid Rs 61.88 lakh in respect of the unit and also took a loan from HDFC Bank.Yadav further stated that due to non-delivery of the possession in time, the complainant suffered a lot because she was forced to stay in a rented accommodation.The Opposite Parties submitted that possession of the unit was “endeavour” to be delivered within a period of 36 months from the date of execution of the agreement plus an extended period of six months for completing and handing over the unit to the buyer.It was further stated that the complainant has already settled the matter and the Opposite Parties have also paid a compensation of Rs 4,18,803 and Rs 12,000 towards some fixtures cost as was mutually agreed prior to the execution of the conveyance deed.After hearing the arguments, the commission observed: “The Opposite Parties were bound to deliver possession of the unit within a maximum period of 36 months plus grace period of six months, but in the present case, possession of the unit was offered after a huge delay of three years. Even the Opposite Parties used the hard-earned money of the complainant.”Thus, the commission directed the Opposite Parties to pay compensation, by way of interest at 9 per cent per annum on the deposited amount (Rs 61.88 lakh), to the complainant, from June 22, 2015 till possession was actually delivered on August 17, 2018, after adjusting Rs 4,18,803 already paid.The commission also directed the Opposite Parties to pay compensation of Rs1 lakh on account of mental agony and physical harassment caused to the complainant and Rs 45,000 as litigation cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/builder-penalised-for-delay-in-giving-possession-of-flat-90756
28-05-2020||---||2 brothers held for thrashing youth||Chandigarh, May 27Two brothers, one of them aged 16, were apprehended by the UT police for thrashing a youth at Sector 56 over his alleged affair with their sister.According to the police, complainant Sandeep Singh, alias Bhola, a resident of Sector 56, reported that he was standing near his house on May 26 when both accused attacked him with an iron rod and stick. The victim raised an alarm following which the accused fled from the spot.Sources said the victim had an affair with the accused’s sister, which they had opposed. The victim was seriously injured in the incident. The police reached the spot and initiated an investigation.A case under Sections 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 39 police station. The police said the minor boy was sent to the juvenile home.4 arrested for attacking pinjore manPanchkula: The Panchkula police have arrested four persons for allegedly attacking a man in Surajpur, Pinjore, with a sharp object. The suspects have been identified as Vipin, Viny, Sachin and Amar, all residents of Khark Mangoli in Old Panchkula. According to the complainant, the suspects entered his office in Surajpur a few days and attacked him with a sharp object. The victim claimed his office was also vandalised. He had sustained injuries in the attack. Subsequently, the victim was admitted to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital. A case was registered at Pinjore police station under relevant sections of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-brothers-held-for-thrashing-youth-90758
28-05-2020||---||2 hurt as car rams into auto||Chandigarh, May 27A speeding car rammed into a stationary pick-up auto loaded with egg trays at the Poultry Farm roundabout on Tuesday night.Two car occupants, including the driver, sustained injuries in the accident. The auto driver said he had stopped his vehicle at the red light when the speeding car rammed into it from rear.The auto dragged around 20 metres ahead and rammed into the roundabout.The police were informed following which a PCR reached the spot and took the injured to the GMCH-32.The vehicles were taken to the Sector 31 police station and an investigation has been initiated into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-hurt-as-car-rams-into-auto-90759
28-05-2020||Satinder Pal Singh||Sewage overflow troubles Zirakpur residents, traders||Zirakpur, May 27Road leading towards Shivalik Vihar here has turned into a pool of dirty water due to overflowing sewage.The stink emanating from the overflowing sewage has not only troubled residents but also traders along the road. They complain that their business has been adversely affected as customers avoid taking the route due to the stagnant sewage on the road.The overflowing sewage is turning out to be a major worry for several shopkeepers as well as small traders in the market. The shopkeepers allege that they were losing business due to the overflowing sewage on the road. They were not even able to open their establishments.Besides, the intolerable stench of sewage has made the life of residents unbearable. Sewer lines passing through the area are a cause of worry here as these have a tendency of overflowing frequently after getting choked. As of now, the entire neighbourhood has started stinking. Residents and shopkeepers want the civic body to replace old sewer pipes that generally remains choked here.“Most customers avoid visiting our shops. As a result, shopkeepers are facing huge losses in their business. Insanitary conditions in our area are an open invitation to disease,” said Varun, a shopkeeper.“There are chances that overflowing sewage can flow into potable water pipelines. It seems the civic body is still waiting for a disaster to happen,” shopkeepers alleged.Expressing anger over official apathy, traders said they would have to relocate if the situation did not improve. The shopkeepers alleged that despite repeated complaints to the Municipal Council, no steps had been taken.Another shopkeeper said: “Filth on the stretch has made the life of passers-by on this road miserable. Not even a single customer had visited by shop for the past couple of days, incurring losses to my business”.Manvir Singh Gill, Executive Officer, Municipal Council, Zirakpur, said the matter was not in his knowledge. He would send his team to rectify any fault.Traders express anger over official apathy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sewage-overflow-troubles-zirakpur-residents-traders-90760
28-05-2020||---||From June 1, pay for wasting water in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 27Like previous years, the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) is all set to tighten its noose around those found wasting water.MC officials said they had decided to impose Rs2,000 fine on those using a hose pipe for watering gardens and washing cars. Besides, overflowing water tanks will also attract hefty fines. The violators will be issued fine as per water bylaws following a notice.The exercise will start on June 1 and continue till July 15.The local Municipal Corporation today constituted 18 teams to check wastage of water, overflowing of water tankers, leakage of water supply line and other precautionary measures.Mayor Raj Bala Malik today called an emergency meeting with Chief Engineer Shailender Singh and Anil Kumar Dubey, Chairman, water supply and sewerage disposal committee, in her office regarding the issue.During the meeting, she asked the Chief Engineer to take necessary steps regarding the water supply issue.The Chief engineer informed the Mayor and the Chairman that the entire team of engineers was monitoring the issue very closely. He said 18 teams had been constituted. These teams would daily visit their respective areas early in the morning from June 1 to July 15.The Mayor also instructed the Chief Engineer to depute engineers concerned to visit the areas along with the chairman of the committee.Rs 2K fine for washing cars with hose pipeThe Municipal Corporation has decided to impose a fine of Rs 2,000 on those using a hose pipe for watering gardens and washing cars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/from-june-1-pay-for-wasting-water-in-chandigarh-90761
28-05-2020||Panchkula||Poor water supply adds to woes of Panchkula residents||The water supply problem has added to the woes of residents in Sectors 7, 9, 10, 11, 12-A, 14, 15, 16, 19, 20, 21 and trans-Ghaggar sectors.Residents said water supply often could not reach the first and second floor of their houses. SK Nayar, president, Citizen Welfare Association, Panchkula, said, “Water supply problem has become a regular issue and now the situation has gone bad to worse.” He alleged that the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), formerly HUDA, was not paying heed to their complaints.“Despite their assurance, the evening water supply started by around 6 pm instead of 4 pm,” Nayar claimed.“The strategy to supply potable water through tubewells in each sector is a blunder. The HSVP should focus on linking taps with overhead tanks so that water pressure is improved,” he added.Ram Kumar, an HSVP official, said, “There is no water crisis in the city. It’s just that the demand for water naturally increases in summers. It is an international phenomenon. Though we are trying our best to improve the overall situation, it’s also a result of suspension of electricity in recent days.” At present, the Kajauli waterworks and tubewells installed across the city are the two main sources of water as there is no water supply from Kaushalya Dam for several months. An official said water from Kajauli was mainly supplied in Sector 1, 2, 4,5,6,8,9,17 and 20. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poor-water-supply-adds-to-woes-of-panchkula-residents-90772
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Woman misses Shramik train, delivers in Mani Majra hospital||Among the 2,932 passengers, who arrived at the holding centre, Chandigarh College of Engineering Technology (CCET) in Sector 26, to board two trains to Uttar Pradesh today, was a pregnant woman.Considering her advanced pregnancy, she was asked to avoid the journey, but she insisted on taking the train. After her medical examination at the centre, the woman was sent to the railway station by a CTU bus to board the train. On reaching the station, she started having labour pains. The Health Department arranged an ambulance to take her to the GMCH-32. However, seeing her condition, she was taken to a nearby hospital in Mani Majra where she delivered a baby boy.Meanwhile, two Shramik special trains left the station for Jaunpur. While the 2 pm train carried 1,597 passengers, the one that left at 5:30 pm had 1,335 passengers on board. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-misses-shramik-train-delivers-in-mani-majra-hospital-90755
28-05-2020||---||Remain vigilant to keep Panchkula Covid-free: CMO||Panchkula, May 27A day after Panchkula was declared Covid-free, Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur appealed to the residents to remain vigilant.“It’s extremely challenging to maintain the Covid-free tag. A vigil over every person returning from all sorts of places to Panchkula and sampling adequately for early identification of infected persons will be the main focus. Strategy will change as we move ahead. Sampling of shopkeepers and foreign returnees will also be crucial,” Kaur said.All foreign returnees test -veDr Rajiv Narwal, Covid nodal officer for the district, said, “The report of all 37 foreign returnees, who were sampled for Covid, has come out to be negative.” “We have now 42 foreign returnees, belonging to Panchkula, staying in different hotels of the city. Now, all those returning from abroad will be quarantined in hotels for seven days as per the new Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) policy,” he added.The district had reported 25 positive cases, lowest in the tricity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remain-vigilant-to-keep-panchkula-covid-free-cmo-90757
28-05-2020||---||Complaint against Sohana SHO||mohali, May 27A resident of Landran village has submitted a complaint against the Station House Officer (SHO) of the Sohana police station alleging that the policeman wants to ‘grab’ his house.Rajinder Singh (58) alleged that Inspector Daljit Singh Gill, SHO, Sohana police station, wanted to grab his house, where he was having a dispute with his daughter-in-law. However, the SHO has refuted all allegations against him.Owing to a family dispute, Rajinder’s daughter-in-law had filed a police complaint against him. Acting on the complaint, last night, the SHO and few other cops arrived at Rajinder’s house and forcibly took away the house keys with them.He alleged that the SHO wanted to help his daughter-in-law to capture his house, where he was having a dispute with her.He today met Kuldeep Singh Chahal, SSP, Mohali, to submit his complaint against the SHO. The enquiry was marked to SP (city) HS Virk by the SSP. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/complaint-against-sohana-sho-90776
28-05-2020||Panchkula||Pad-making webinar organised||On the eve of World Menstrual Hygiene Day, a webinar on sanitary pad making was organised by social activist Renu Mathur, who is associated with many women empowerment activities.She taught volunteers from Jaipur, Delhi, Chandigarh, Bathinda and Panchkula about how to make reusable pads from old fabric available at home through a virtual training session. “When we went to the rural areas, it was found that women would use old clothes and that’s not ideal for reproductive health of a woman. It is imperative that the cloth pad is stitched in way that is not only neat hut also hygienic.so as to avoid unnecessary staining and can also be washed , reused,and disposed in an environmentally safe way,”she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pad-making-webinar-organised-90753
28-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||ISA questions fee hike protests; parents say why to pay at all if no classes held||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27"The ongoing protests by parents outside schools are nothing but a politically motivated act organised to tarnish the image of the selected schools," feels local Independent Schools Association (ISA)."The school (name withheld) usually hike Rs200 to 300 annually, but this time there is a hike of nearly Rs600 to Rs700. If they are not organising any classes, why should we pay anything. We demand that no fees should be charged, till the time schools don't re-open," said Manish Soni, a parent.When asked if they were paying school fee for summer vacations, Soni said; "Yes, we paid but the school was open for students for two months prior to vacations. Considering the ongoing pandemic, we want that school should not claim any kind of fee."Meanwhile, HS Mamik, President ISA, said these protests are politically motivated and moreover these have nothing to do with the fee hikes. "These protests, so far, are been conducted by few parents whereas majority of the parents have already submitted the fees. How's it possible that no fee would be charge from students...we have EMIs, salaries and other things to give. Now, schools hiking Rs700 are also witnessing such situations. These groups are targeting only selective schools. The school managements are already helping the needy, whenever they are approached," said Mamik.He further alleged, "We have been asked to charge the tuition fee and we are going to challenge the decision legally. We have families relying on us and our staff is doing the same work of teaching and managing school things."Fee for pre-kindergarten not right, say parentsMeanwhile, a few parents said the protest is for claiming fee for kindergarten classes. "Our children don’t know how to use laptops or phones. What can you expect from a student of pre-nursery or nursery classes? We expected them to learn something in school among other students of their age-group, but on the name of these online classes we have been asked to do teach them.The schools should waive off the fee for such classes, wherein the contribution of teachers or schools is nil," said a parent, seeking anonymity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/isa-questions-fee-hike-protests-parents-say-why-to-pay-at-all-if-no-classes-held-90773
28-05-2020||---||4 CITCO staffers suspended||Chandigarh, May 27Four employees of CITCO have been suspended for violating the directives on Covid-19, issued by the Disaster Management Authority, headed by the UT Administrator, under the Disaster Management Act, 2005.In a statement, CITCO stated that they indulged in unauthorised activities at Hotel Shivalikview, which was functioning as a quarantine centre for the UT Administration.The employees, Prem Dangwal, Rajiv Kohli, Balbir Singh and Kulbhushan Chaudhary, had organised a gathering by flouting the lockdown norms.Later, some of them indulged in a scuffle on the premises of Hotel Shivalikview along with other members. Due to their misconduct, the employees had been placed under suspension with immediate effect, the statement added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-citco-staffers-suspended-90774
28-05-2020||---||Reclaim hostels from Chandigarh administration, PUTA writes to VC||Chandigarh, May 27The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) submitted a representation to the Panjab University (PU) Vice-Chancellor Professor Raj Kumar demanding to take back hostels, which are converted into Covid-19 isolation wards, from the UT Administration.Rajesh Gill, president, PUTA, while giving references of some media reports requested the VC to take strict action in this regard. The hostels are being used as isolation wards for Covid-19 patients/suspects and the PUTA claimed that the step was not good for the future of the university, its staff and even residents. “There have been some media reports regarding grave lapses in the arrangements made by the administration to accommodate suspected Covid-19 patients at PU hostels. As per a report, over 100 persons were shifted from Bapu Dham Colony on Monday, along with three positive patients to Hostel No 8 at the south campus in Sector 25,” claimed Gill in the representation.It was further added, “These patients were removed from the hostel on Tuesday to stay along with other quarantined persons from Bapu Dham Colony on the campus. This single incident has sent shivers to all stakeholders of the university and at this crucial moment even a single error can prove disastrous not only for those living/working at the campus, but for the survival of the university itself.”It was further demanded to take back all hostels under university’s authority for taking parents and others into confidence. “The university authorities should visualise the plight of parents, who would have to take a decision on sending back their wards to PU hostels. It will be difficult for the university to convince the parents and students. Our teachers and staff residing on the campus along with their families, especially at Sector 25, are terribly awed by the way this entire matter has been handled,” it further added.The PUTA members further submitted that survival of PU depends upon ensuring an absolutely safe environment for prospective and existing students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/reclaim-hostels-from-chandigarh-administration-puta-writes-to-vc-90748
28-05-2020||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh’s 1st carcass incinerator plant may come up in Industrial Area||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27The city’s first animal carcass incinerator plant, which was to be built in Dadu Majra, is now being planned to be set up in the Industrial Area, Phase 1, here. The issue will be brought up in the MC House meeting for approval. The meeting is slated to be held on May 29 via video-conferencing.We have got the nod of the Chief Architect to set up the plant in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. After the House approval, we will soon start the construction process. — A senior MC officialEarlier, residents of Dadu Majra had protested the move. The residents had said they were already troubled with the garbage dumping ground in Dadu Majra and this incinerator plant would be another blow for them.The Municipal Corporation had also invited bids to set up the plant, but it remained unsuccessful till now.“We have also got the nod of the Chief Architect to set up the plant in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. He has no problem with the move. After the House approval, we will soon start its construction process,” said a senior MC official.According to the Solid Waste Management 2016 rules, skinning cannot be carried out openly. It leads to foul smell in the area and is also harmful for the environment. At present, dead animals are disposed of in the dumping ground or forest areas. It is the duty of the MC to remove and disposal of dead animals.As per the initial plans, the plant will have two burners. The environment-friendly plant will have 30-m high chimney. It will also have the facility of cold storage and automatic loading.Animals will be cremated with commercial LPGs.The budget for the advanced incinerator has been pegged at Rs1.75 crore. The amount may have some variations as the plan moves further.MC proposes Public bike-sharing systemThe Municipal Corporation has proposed to set up a public bike-sharing system in the Industrial Area. “The first phase will start from the Industrial Area. The agenda for the approval will be brought in the House meeting,” said an official.Solid Waste Management rulesAccording to the Solid Waste Management 2016 rules, skinning cannot be carried out openly. It leads to foul smell in the area and is also harmful for the environment. At present, dead animals are disposed of in the dumping ground or forest areas. It is the duty of the MC to remove and disposal of dead animals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-1st-carcass-incinerator-plant-may-come-up-in-industrial-area-90752
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Youth held with 10 gm of heroin||Road closedChandigarh: The Municipal Corporation is going to carry out work on the V3 road that separates Sector 38-A and 38 (W). Due to the work, which will be undertaken from May 28 to June 10, the road will remain closed. The civic body has advised people to take alternative routes. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-with-10-gm-of-heroin-90777
28-05-2020||---||Panjab University ready with SOPs for semester exams in July||Chandigarh, May 27Panjab University today finalised standard operative procedures (SOPs) to conduct semester examinations from July. As per the guidelines, a maximum of 150 candidates will be allowed at each centre in one session and the duration of the exam will be of two hours. Wearing a face mask will be compulsory for teachers, staff and students, whereas one assistant superintendent will be deputed for every 15 students. Those giving exams need to follow safety measures, including downloading Aarogya Setu app, bringing own water bottle, sanitisation of building/ benches, thermal screening of candidates, social distancing, among others.No candidate or examination staff from the red zone/containment zone will be allowed to enter the examination hall. A summary note of safety measures will be sent to the head of the staff and persons above 65 years, pregnant women or specially abled persons will be not be put under any duty. Shaking hands, spitting, assembly of over two persons and bringing eatables will be also prohibited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-ready-with-sops-for-semester-exams-in-july-90779
28-05-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Covid-19: Chandigarh's Sector 38 no more a containment zone||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27The UT Administration today decided to end the containment operations in a part of Sector 38 here, bringing relief to residents of the area. On the recommendations of a committee, the Administration also decided to rid a part of Sector 52 of the containment zone tag tomorrow and a part of Shastri Nagar in Mani Majra on May 31.During a review meeting, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore perused the report prepared by the committee on ending containment operations in certain areas of the city. He was informed about the condition of 28 days from the detection of the last Covid case in the area. After discussions, the Administrator approved ending the containment operations in Sector 38 today and in Sector 52 tomorrow.It was also decided that screening, surveillance and strict monitoring of the health of the residents would continue. Regular sanitisation measures and an information, education and communication campaign would be undertaken in the area by the municipal authorities.Random sampling of suspected cases, if any, will be done and reported to the Administration. Gatherings in the area will continue to remain restricted as per the norms of the Centre. Social distancing, wearing of mask and hygiene will be strictly enforced.To prevent the spread of Covid-19, the UT had, on May 2, decided to declare Kachi Colony in Dhanas and parts of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 30-B, Shastri Nagar in Mani Majra, Sector 38 and Sector 52 as containment zones from May 4.These areas were sealed and their entry and exit points were regulated. Residents were not allowed to come out of their houses.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said efforts were being made to contain the infection in the city. All guidelines issued by the Health and Homeministries were being followed strictly. He stated that people coming to the UT by domestic and international flights were being screened and tested, as per the guidelines issued by the Centre.Woman enters containment zone, heldChandigarh: A 63-year-old woman was arrested on Tuesday for entering Sector 38-A, a containment zone. The woman, a resident of the zone, had been staying in Sector 37 since the time the area was declared a containment zone. The police on duty in the containment zone saw the woman entering the area without permission or a pass. The police said the woman, identified as Neelam, violated the lockdown orders following which a case under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC was registered against her at the Sector 39 police station. She was arrested and later released on bail. TNS879 sent back to native placesFor the first time since Bapu Dham Colony was declared a containment zone, 668 persons from UP and 211 Jammu and Kashmir residents were sent back from the buffer zone of the colony to their native places on Wednesday after medical screening. Rajiv Tewari, nodal officer for coordination of movement of persons of other states stranded in the UT, said those from UP left by a Shramik train while the UT Administration had arranged buses for those going to J&K.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarhs-sector-38-no-more-a-containment-zone-90781
28-05-2020||---||3 more cases surface in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, May 27Three more cases of Covid were reported from Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 here today.Now, the count of Covid cases in the city is 282, including 210 from Bapu Dham. At present, there are 91 active cases in the UT.A 32-year-old man and a 20-year-old youth, who are residents of a house in Bapu Dham, have tested positive for Covid. An 18-year-old boy from another house in Bapu Dham also tested positive for the virus. They are contacts of positive cases living in the two houses.46 defeat virus, sent homeA total of 46 persons, who had defeated Covid, were sent home from the post-discharge quarantine centre in Sood Dharamshala on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-more-cases-surface-in-chandigarh-90778
28-05-2020||Chandigarh||Rain brings relief; more likely: Met||After a heatwave for the past four days, rain lashed the tricity this evening, bringing respite to people from the hot weather conditions. In Chandigarh, 0.5 mm of rainfall was recorded till the filing of this report. The rain started around 7.45 pm. The tricity was also lashed by winds in the evening.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, light rain is also expected over the next three days. On Thursday, the maximum temperature is expected to come down to 39°C. The next day, it is likely to be 36°C, while on Saturday, it is likely to further come down to 31°C.For the past few days, the maximum temperature has hovered over the 40°C mark, causing inconvenience to residents. On Tuesday, it was 43.1°C. However, on Wednesday, it came down slightly to 42.9°C. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-brings-relief-more-likely-met-90743
28-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||ACs switched off, cab drivers, passengers feel pandemic heat||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 27If a dent in business due to the Covid-19 pandemic was not enough, cab drivers are now facing a problem in dealing with customers asking for air-conditioned rides in this soaring temperature.As a precautionary measure, online cab operators had decided to switch off the air conditioner in cabs while ferrying passengers.However, with the temperature soaring in the city, cab drivers are facing a tough time in making passengers understand the decision.The decision to drop AC ride was taken after reports suggested the possibility or high risk of virus transmission inside cars owing to limited area and use by different people.“We have to make people understand about this step. Some drivers have pasted a written statement on the front seat as information for passengers. Our business was already affected due to the lockdown. Since we have started the business again, we have been struggling to tell people about all these basic things,” said Lakhwant Singh, a cab driver with an online company.“To avoid recirculation of air, it has been decided to switch off the AC. There are some people who fight over it. We ask them to roll down the windows of the car, but the soaring temperature is a concern,” said Mukul Parikh, another cab driver.“People ask us to produce the government notification (guidelines) in this regard. They have started giving us low ratings,” he said.The maximum temperature in the city is hovering over the 40°C mark.“There are no strict advisories, but no one wants to take a risk. Even if one sneezes inside an air-conditioned room, particles remain there for at least 10 minutes. In case of cars, the duration may vary owing to the compact cabins. Cars are used by several people, so we have to be extra cautious these days,” said Manoj, another driver.Last month, the Indian Society of Heating Refrigerating and Air Conditioner Engineers had issued an advisory that the temperature of the ACs run at home should be between 24°C and 30°C. However, there is no clarity on AC cabs.“It wasn’t a pleasing experience to ride a cab without the AC on but one has no option these days. Even drivers are also working in similar conditions. Introducing cabin partition is a good idea, but it should be cleaned after every ride,” said Anoop Kapoor, an IT professional.There is no clarity on ac cabs yetLast month, the Indian Society of Heating Refrigerating and Air Conditioner Engineers had issued an advisory that the temperature of the ACs run at home should be between 24°C and 30°C. However, there is no clarity on AC cabs.Disinfect all seats after each rideTo sanitise the vehicles, drivers have been asked to wash cabs every second day of usage and also spray disinfectant on all seats after every ride. Some drivers carry face mask to provide it to passengers, while many have made temporary partitions using plastic sheets.600 staffers sackedUber laid off 600 employees in India on Tuesday. Last week, its domestic rival Ola had trimmed its workforce too. Ola had slashed 1,400 jobs or 25 per cent of its workforce, as its revenue fell 95 per cent in two months, according to reports.Tough rideDhristi, a passenger, said, “One can imagine riding a cab without an AC in this soaring temperature. The authorities should come up with an authentic proof for not allowing switching on the AC in such a hot weather.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/acs-switched-off-cab-drivers-passengers-feel-pandemic-heat-90744
28-05-2020||---||Four more cases of COVID-19 reported in Mohali; total count now 110||Mohali, May 28An NRI from the US, who had returned to India on May 20, and three of the eight passengers of the domestic flights that arrived on May 25, have tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total count in Mohali to 110.Of the eight positive passengers, seven had arrived from a Mumbai flight and one had arrived from Delhi.A total of 133 samples of the passengers had been taken of both Mumbai and Delhi flights. All samples tests of passengers of Bengaluru flights have come negative.Divulging details, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the NRI had been living in quarantine at a hotel in Dera Bassi after his arrival while three persons, who arrived on a domestic flight, had been home quarantined.Dr Manjit Singh said three persons tested positive include Zirakpur woman and two men from Phase I and Sector 67. He added that after their test reports had come positive, they were shifted to the COVID Care Centre at Gian Sagar Hospital, Banur, while the NRI would be shifted to a private hospital for the treatment.Dr Manjit Singh said five other passengers, who had tested positive, include two from Ludhiana and one each from, Patiala, Barnala and Jalandhar. He added that the health officials of the concerned districts had been informed to take further steps in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-more-cases-of-covid-19-reported-in-mohali-total-count-now-110-90747
