28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 24 new coronavirus cases; tally inches closer to 1000-mark||Chandigarh reported 24 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, officials said---a development that takes the UT’s infection tally to 934.More than a quarter of those cases are still active.Four of Tuesday’s 24 cases were people over 60---including one who was 85.Ten were contacts of previously diagnosed cases. Four were people who worked in hospitals in the city---two in PGI, one at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 and one in Government Multi Speciality Hospital in Sector 16.   Sectors 22, 46, 48, Mauli Jagran, PGI, and Sarangpur each reported two cases. Four came from Sector 15, one each from Sectors 23, 32, 40, 61, Hallo Majra, Khuda Lahora and Dhanas.  Chandigarh has reported 14 deaths so far. COVID-19 cases in ChandigarhConfirmed cases: 934Active cases: 321No of patients tested: 13,069No of patients found negative: 12,076No of patients cured so far: 599Deaths: 14||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-24-new-coronavirus-cases-tally-inches-closer-to-1000-mark-119128
28-07-2020||Mohali||Office of Controller Examination PSEB sealed; 24 fresh cases of COVID-19 surface in Mohali||The office of the Controller Examinations of Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has been sealed as the Controller tested positive for COVID-19.Confirming the same, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the other staff members of the controller examination department have been home quarantined.He said the teams have been deputed to take the samples of the Controller’s family members and the possible contacts in the office.Dr Manjit Singh said 24 fresh positive coronavirus cases surfaced in Mohali taking the total count to 771.Meanwhile, four patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital, he added.The persons infected with the virus include 20-year-old female of Mubarikpur, 22-year-old male of Ambala, 51-year-old male of Kharar, 47-year-old male of Paras Panorma Kharar, 57-year-old male of Skynet Enclave Zirakpur, 28-year-old female and 52-year-old male of Mohali, three males aged 24, 29, 23 of Derabassi, 23-year-old male of Kheri Jattan Mohali, 36-year-old male of Motiya City Zirakpur, 27-year-old male of Dhakoli, 34-year-old male of Mullanpur, 43-year-old female and two male children aged 8 and 5 of Phase 2 Mohali, 70-year-old male of Phase 7 Mohali, 23-year-old male of Sector 82, 47-year-old male of Sector 127, 30-year-old male of Patiala, 78-year-old male of Phase 3B2 Mohali, 50-year-old male of Phase 4 Baltana, and 25-year-old male of Malakpur.The five positive patients cured and discharged from the hospital include 52-year-old male of Mundi kharar, 29-year-old male of Boor Majra, 24-year-old male of Derabassi, 53-year-old male and 47-year-old female of Zirakpur.As of now there are 771 positive cases of coronavirus and out of these 470 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital. There are 287 active cases with 14 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/office-of-controller-examination-pseb-sealed-24-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-surface-in-mohali-119125
28-07-2020||---||IIT optics specialist Ramakrishna joins as CSIO director||Chandigarh, July 28Dr S Anantha Ramakrishna on Tuesday joined as Director, Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) here. Prior to this, he was a professor with the Department of Physics at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur.Besides being conferred the Bhatnagar Award, he also has been awarded the Swarnajayanti Fellowship, INSA Young Scientist Medal and Homi Bhabha Prize. His specialisation is in optics and condensed matter physics. He has also made fundamental contributions in the field of metamaterials and in developing new forms of anisotropic photonic materials. He has also been adjunct faculty at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali, visiting professor, Nanophotonics and Metrology Group, Ecole Polytechnique Federale Lausanne, Switzerland and invited professor, Institut Fresnel, Universite Aix Marseille-I, France.On taking over CSIO's reins, Dr Ramakrishna said it was his privilege to lead the premier national laboratory dedicated to research, design and development of scientific and industrial instruments. He said CSIO is a multi-disciplinary and multi-dimensional industrial research and development organisation and is poised to stimulate growth of instrument industry in India covering wide range and applications. Stating that CSIO has well-equipped laboratories manned by highly qualified and well-trained staff with infrastructural facilities in the areas of agrionics, medical instrumentation and prosthetic devices, optics and cockpit-based instrumentation, laser optics-based sensors and advanced materials-based transducers, he added that a large number of instruments ranging from simple ones for society at large to highly sophisticated ones for defence forces have been developed here.He said he would strengthen the existing capabilities of CSIO and also strive to position CSIO so that it can further serve the country in new forthcoming challenges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/iit-optics-specialist-ramakrishna-joins-as-csio-director-119021
28-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University bus catches fire||The staff of Sri Guru Granth Sahib World University had a narrow escape when a bus ferrying them caught fire. There were 30 staff members in the bus, which was going from Chandigarh to the university, when the incident happened.After the fire, smoke engulfed the bus creating panic among employees, who jumped out of the vehicle to save themselves. MGNREGA workers working on the roadside rushed to help them. However, no one was injured in the incident. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sri-guru-granth-sahib-world-university-bus-catches-fire-118745
28-07-2020||---||Clerks allowed entry into lawyers’ chambers||Chandigarh, July 27Clerks can now enter the lawyers’ chambers at the District Courts in Sector 43 here.NK Nanda, president of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh, said with the efforts of the executive body of the bar association, the entry of clerks inside the chambers’ complex had been relaxed by the Sessions Judge during a meeting held here today.He said that the chambers would open from 9 am to 5 pm. Nanda also requested all members of the bar association to be cautious while entertaining litigants/clients in their chambers.The advocates have been demanding to allow clerks in their chambers for long. A large number of lawyers even protested in front of the District Court Complex, Sector 43, early this month. The advocates also raised the issue when suspended inspector Jaswinder Kaur was allowed to enter the court during her surrender in a bribery case on Saturday.Advocate Karan Khullar, vice-president of the bar association, said that earlier clerks and clients had to stand on road for meetings.Advocate Vinod Kumar Verma, former vice-president of the association, said advocates would take all precautionary steps while dealing with the litigants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clerks-allowed-entry-into-lawyers-chambers-118743
28-07-2020||Panchkula||Bike stolen from Sector 21||A bike was stolen from Sector 21 here on Monday. Jitender Kumar said he parked his bike outside his employer’s house. When he returned, the bike was missing. In a CCTV footage, two persons were seen stealing the bike around 5:30 pm. The complainant stated that the police were not initiating any action. Meanwhile, the police have refuted all allegations. When contacted, ASI Desraj of the Sector 21 police post said they were yet to receive complaint in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bike-stolen-from-sector-21-118747
28-07-2020||Mohali||Gangster Buttar sent to 7-day police custody||The police today produced hardcore gangster Navdeep Singh, alias Johan Buttar, before a court, which sent him to seven-day police custody. Buttar was arrested by the police yesterday after he was discharged from the PGI. The other four gangsters, who were arrested after a brief encounter on July 24, were already on five-day police remand.As per the police, gangsters would now be interrogated through cross-questioning.Buttar was living in Uttar Pradesh and had come here a few days ago, said sources. The gangsters were arrested by the Organised Crime Control Unit of the Punjab Police in a joint operation with the Mohali and Jagraon police after a brief encounter at Aman Homes in Kharar on Friday. The police also recovered six weapons and a Jeep from them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gangster-buttar-sent-to-7-day-police-custody-118748
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Covid awareness van inaugurated||Richa is new SDM of PanchkulaPanchkula: Richa, a 2013-batch HCS officer, will be the new SDM of Panchkula. Reshuffle orders of HCS officers were issued by the Haryana Government on Monday. Dheeraj Chahal, who was holding this post, has been given the charge of City Magistrate, Panchkula. Sushil Kumar, who was serving as City Magistrate, has been posted as the SDM, Radaur.New HSVP Estate OfficerAnil Kumar Doon, Secretary, Haryana Regularly Electricity Commission, will be the new Estate Officer of the HSVP, Panchkula, in addition to his present duties. Earlier, Mamta Sharma was holding this post. TNSGangster held in Dera BassiDera Bassi: The police have arrested a gangster of the Vikram gang of Ambala and recovered a country-made pistol, a revolver and ammunition from his possession near the bus stand here. Rahul Vaid, 40, a resident of Shobhawala, Hisar road, Ambala, is wanted in many cases of murder, attempt to murder and extortion in Panchkula, Ambala, Haryana, Delhi and UP and has been absconding for a long time. Dera Bassi police in-charge Satinder Singh said, “Since the accused is an active member of a dreaded gang and is a known shooter, he will be interrogated for the purpose of his visit here.” A case has been registered against him under the Arms Act. TNS7-yr-old sexually assaultedPanchkula: The police have booked four minors for allegedly assaulting a seven-year-old boy. All four minors, aged between 7 and 11, are still at large. The victim’s parents stated that their son had gone to play with his friends at 4 pm. When he did not return, his parents searched for him and found him at the Herbal Park. The victim narrated the incident to his parents, who informed the police. Victim’s medical examination was conducted at the Sector 6 Civil Hospital,. Doctors said there was no physical injury or visible marks on the victim’s body, the police said. A case was registered. TNSYouth held for assaulting girlDera Bassi: A 22-year-old youth was arrested for sexually assaulting a 10-year-old girl on Sunday morning. The suspect has been identified as Shivam Kumar, a neighbour of the victim. The victim’s mother works in Punjab Acid Company at Beheda village. She lives with her family in company quarters. Area residents thrashed the suspect before handing him over to the police. A case has been registered at the Dera Bassi police station. TNS2 booked for thrashing manChandigarh: Two persons have been booked for thrashing a resident of Dhanas and robbing him of cash, mobile phones and documents. According to the police, Yogesh, a resident of Housing Board Colony, Dhanas, alleged that the suspects, Vishal and Kali, attacked him with a sharp weapon near a park. The suspects allegedly robbed him of Rs700, a mobile phone and some documents. The victim was critically injured and admitted to the PGI. A case was registered against the suspects. TNSShift liquor vend: ResidentsChandigarh: Residents of Sector 61 have written to the authorities for shifting a liquor vend from their Sector. They said social distancing was not being maintained outside the vend and drinking in public was rampant. Col Jaspal Anand (Veteran), a resident, said violation of the Covid-19 guidelines in the market was a matter of great concern. VK Bector, chairman, Social Welfare and Cultural Association, Sector 61, said: “I have written to Mayor Raj Bala Malik to pay a visit here to see the ground situation and solve the matter.” TNSMake CSAT as qualifying examPatiala: The Punjab Public Service Commission has recommended that the state government should make Civil Services Aptitude Test (CSAT) as the qualifying exam for the Punjab Civil Services Examination. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-awareness-van-inaugurated-118749
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration allows merger of plots without change in FAR||Providing much-needed relief to city residents, the UT Administration has allowed the existing covered area and floor area ration (FAR) of two or more plots after amalgamation.The UT has notified the Chandigarh Building Rules (Amendment) 2020, which supersede the amendment rules of 2018. In 2018, the UT had allowed amalgamation of two or more plots under same ownership. The new notification has reduced the charges for reconstitution of the amalgamated plots from 10 per cent to five per cent. An official said, “Amalgamation of plots is allowed with no change in original FAR.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-allows-merger-of-plots-without-change-in-far-118750
28-07-2020||Naina Mishra||17K seats up for grabs in government schools in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27A record number of 17,867 seats have been made available for admission to elementary-level classes in 114 government schools as per the data available on the website of the UT Education Department.The 114 government schools have been divided into 20 clusters for admissions. The department has decided to hold a draw of lots for admissions if the numbers of applications received are more than the seats available in a particular school/class.On the receipt of online applications, the cluster head will scrutinise them. The final list of students will be uploaded on the cluster website and parents will be informed.Rubinderjit Singh Brar, Director School Education, said: “This is the first time we have decided to hold admissions through an online centralised system. Around 4,000 seats are for entry-level admissions that are held every year through a draw of lots. The admissions got delayed due to Covid-19. Seats lying vacant in the previous years have also been added to the current seats, taking the total to more than 17,000. We are also aiming for a special campaign to increase our enrolment.”Brar added: “We offer best infrastructure, best faculty and no fees till Class VIII, free books and uniform and best cooked mid-day meal also.”As per the RTE Act, “neighbourhood concept” (school nearest to the residence) is followed for admissions to government schools. The details of the neighbourhood area (sector or villages near that particular school) are also uploaded on the website.At the first instance, admission will be offered to students from Zone 1 of a school, if seats are still vacant, students from Zone 2 of that school will be considered and if the seats are vacant even then, students from Zone 3 will be considered.The UT Education Department has uploaded a list of clusters, cluster schools and tentative vacant seats on the website of the Education Department (www.chdeducation.gov.in) and on cluster school websites.The online applications for admission to classes (pre-nursery to Class VIII) in government schools will be made available cluster wise. The candidates can submit an online application for seeking admission to the nearby government school.The list of online registration form for admission from pre-nursery to Class VIII will be made available from July 31 on the website of the Education Department as well as cluster schools.It has been clarified that the application form is to be filled by only those candidates who are presently not studying in any government school. The request for change of school of existing students will not be entertained at this stage.Vacant seats in 114 schools: 17,867Pre-Nursery   2,277Nursery   2,047Class I   4,227Class II   1,771Class III   1,564Class IV   1,188Class V   1,171Class VI   1,475Class VII   1,098Class VIII   1,049||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/17k-seats-up-for-grabs-in-government-schools-in-chandigarh-118731
28-07-2020||---||2K apply for admission to colleges in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, July 27Over 2,000 students applied for various courses in the local colleges on the Day 1 of online admissions to 12 colleges today.According to the information, 2,115 students applied through the Director Higher Education portal.As many as 451 students applied for admission to BA (year I) in local government colleges and 751 students applied to local private colleges. Around 639 students applied for BCom, 302 for BBA, 214 for BCA, 34 applied for BSc (Medical) and 76 students applied for BSc (non-medical). It is for the first time that admission to all courses in local colleges will be conducted through an online mode.According to the joint prospectus, the last date for submission of forms for all courses is August 3 (Monday). The list of all applicants will be displayed on August 5 by 4 pm, while the submission of discrepancies by applicants will be allowed till August 7 by 1 pm. The list of eligible applicants will be displayed on August 8 by 4 pm. The list of colleges allotted to applicants will be displayed on August 13 by 5 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2k-apply-for-admission-to-colleges-in-chandigarh-118732
28-07-2020||---||Speed up development works, panel tells MC||Chandigarh, July 27The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) today asked the officials concerned to speed up development works.“Speed up the work of development projects for which the MC has already received funds. The projects include roads, strengthening of sewerage system, water supply and strengthening of water storage tanks at water works in Sector 39,” said committee members in a meeting.The members also asked the engineers concerned to remove the horticulture waste after pruning trees and cutting grass and lift the debris after cleaning road gullies and road berms. They directed the horticulture engineers to remove grass from footpaths in parks and green belts for the convenience of morning and evening walkers.The committee asked the engineers to speed up the fixing of electricity polls and installing lights where dark spots were identified.The committee accorded an approval to fixing shed for piles of wood and creating weather-proof arrangements at the Sector 25 cremation ground for Rs48.03 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/speed-up-development-works-panel-tells-mc-118733
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Senators want elections held||A few Senators of the PU have written to Vice-President of India and PU Chancellor Venkaiah Naidu for not stopping the Senate elections, scheduled to be held in September.They stated: “The PU Senate cannot be prevented from running the university as per the Act. But some of the Senators, who are also positional candidates to contest elections, are demanding rescheduling of the elections. The voter list has been released and the nominations to 16 seats of Senate have been filed till date.” Earlier in the day, another group of Senators had written to the Chancellor for rescheduling the elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senators-want-elections-held-118734
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||200 interviewed for gradation certificates||Over 200 sportspersons attended the first interview session for gradation certificates at the Sector 42 Sports Complex here today.The interviews were conducted at indoor basketball courts and all participants adhered to the social distancing norms. Different slots were allotted to players, who were allowed to enter the premises only after going through a basic medical screening.“Over 200 players attended the first interview session. All coaches and staff were assigned duties. The interviews were conducted at the indoor courts for following the social distancing norms. Same precautions will be taken for allotting certificates in the next interview sessions,” said Ravinder Singh, District Sports Officer.Technical problemsA few players, who had applied for more than five certificates, alleged that due to some technical problems, all certificates were not uploaded on the website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/200-interviewed-for-gradation-certificates-118736
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh takes up issue of substandard ventilators with Central Government||The UT Administration has written to the Central Government over the quality of ventilators provided to them under the PM Cares Fund after the PGI raised the issue of substandard quality of ventilators.Around 20 ventilators were received by the UT Administration under the PM Cares Fund, of which 10 ventilators each were provided to the PGI and to the GMCH, Sector 32. The PGI had reported certain faults with the ventilators provided by the UT Administration. The manufacturer of the batch sent to the PGI differs from the one sent to the GMCH.BS Chavan, Director-cum-Principal, GMCH, said, “Of the 10 ventilators given to the GMCH, the quality of two ventilators is being tested at the Sector 48 Civil Hospital. We have been using these ventilators for the past six days and the report is satisfactory.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-takes-up-issue-of-substandard-ventilators-with-central-government-118739
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 2K pension for persons with over 70% disability||The persons with more than 70 per cent disability will get double the pension from this month.Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Department of Social Welfare, UT, said: “Persons with below 40 per cent and above disability are paid Rs1,000 per month, whereas those with 70 per cent and above disability will get Rs2,000 a month.”The Centre for Human Right Initiative, Training and Research Association (CHITRA) said the pension regarding disabled persons having more than 70 per cent disability, which was increased from Rs1000 per month to Rs2000 per month from April 1, 2016, onwards, was lying pending.TC Gupta, president, CHITRA, Chandigarh, took up the matter with Garg to implement the decision in letter and spirit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-2k-pension-for-persons-with-over-70-disability-118740
28-07-2020||Mohali||Woman among 4 peddlers held with heroin||The police arrested four drug peddlers, including a woman, from Saini Bagh near Sohana here on Sunday. They were produced in the local court today, which sent them to two-day police remand.The arrested suspects have been identified as Inderpreet Singh, a resident of Makdona village in Ropar, Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Neholka village in Mohali, Harjit Singh, alias Lucky, from Sector 45, Chandigarh, and Mamta from Amritsar.The police have also recovered fake currency notes of Rs500 each worth Rs40,000, 30-gm heroin, a .32 bore country-made revolver, five cartridges and an SUV (bearing registration number PB 37 E 0087) from their possession.According to the police, Lucky and Mamta used to live together in Chandigarh. A case was registered against them at the Sohana police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-among-4-peddlers-held-with-heroin-118741
28-07-2020||Fatehgarh Sahib||13 new cases in Fatehgarh Sahib||Thirteen new Covid-19 cases were reported from Fatehgarh Sahib today, taking the district tally to 298.Those infected include a 12-year-old girl and a 42-year-old man from Bassi Pathana, a 30-year-old from Main Majri village, a 53-year-old from Saheedgarh village, a 29-year-old from Ramgarh and a 33-year-old from Amloh.A 29-year-old, a 33-year-old, a 36-year-old woman, a 24-year-old youth, a 45-year-old man and a 68-year-old woman from Mandi Gobindgarh also contracted the infection. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-new-cases-in-fatehgarh-sahib-118742
28-07-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Administration, Chandigarh Sports Department pass the buck||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27The UT Administration and UT Sports Department passed the buck on being asked about the sports achievements of the members of the Sports Committee of the Administrator’s Advisory Council.Also, both departments denied having minutes of any meetings held except for a few from 2000 till date. Both departments also hesitated in explaining the reason for not including major sportspersons in the council. They shared the information with The Tribune under the RTI Act.Despite several big names — former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh, his wife Nirmal Milkha Singh, an international volleyball player, former international cricketer Dinesh Mongia and former Indian football team captain Harjinder Singh — present in the city, the council has only one meritorious sportsperson, Olympics gold medalist shooter Abhinav Bindra, who did not attend the last meeting as per a press communique. “In a recently held meeting, the committee announced that they will pay a visit to Milkha Singh for taking his ‘ideas’. However, at first, the Administration did not bother to include him in the council,” said an officialRTI repliesThe office of the Superintendent Misc and RTI (CPIO), UT Administration, replied that the information would be provided by the UT Sports Department. However, the latter informed that the information is with the former. As per the guidelines, the members of the council shall be nominated by the Administrator for a period of two years.No minutes of meetingsAccording to the information, the Administration has only a few minutes of the meetings held since 2000. The minutes of a meeting held on June 19, 2014, were provided wherein no discussion on sports was held. As per the officials, they don’t have any data on minutes of the meetings, except for a few. And the remaining documents, if any, will be shared soon.While no official wished to come on record, sources in the Sports Department said they were at the receiving end due to the shortcomings of the Administration. “The Sports Department has nothing to do with the nominations as it is directly appointed by the Administration. We are just informed about the committee. They should be the one answering all queries,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/administration-chandigarh-sports-department-pass-the-buck-118737
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||Identify areas where violation of norms is evident: Badnore||The UT Administrator today directed the MC Commissioner to identify the congested and other markets, where the violation of social distancing norms is more evident so that stringent regulatory measures such as weekend curfew and odd-even formula can be implemented in these areas.During the review meeting, MC Commissioner KK Yadav informed the Administrator that the number of sanitisation teams had been increased.The PGI authorities apprised the Administrator of the feasibility of carrying out antigen testing and the ICMR protocol finalised for this testing.The Administrator said at least 1,000 such testing kits should be procured by the PGIMER and used primarily for OPD patients to validate the usefulness of these kits.He said all facilities of the Health Department should be operationalised for collection of samples of the patients. Bandore also directed that vulnerable population, particularly those staying in GRIID, Snehalaya, Old Age Home and Blind School, etc, needed to be specifically screened and senior citizen associations might also be consulted for any immediate medical assistance in these trying times.Dr G Dewan, Director, Health Services, said they had covered more than 10,000 persons in a door-to-door survey and 10 teams had been deployed for the purpose.The Deputy Commissioner, Mandip Singh Brar, said more than 7,500 challans had been issued for various violations to ensure the compliance of the norms. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/identify-areas-where-violation-of-norms-is-evident-badnore-118738
28-07-2020||Naina Mishra||51% patients contracted infection at home in July||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27Around 51 per cent patients, who were diagnosed with Covid-19 in July, had contracted the infection from their family contacts.Of the 406 patients who tested positive between July 1 and July 25, nearly 208 are family contacts of the previously diagnosed cases in the same house. In some cases, seven members of a family had tested positive.An analysis of the media bulletins during this period revealed that the contact history of around 32 per cent (133) patients was not known, whereas 17 per cent patients had contracted the infection from workplace, known contacts, community contacts and had a travel history.A similar pattern was observed by the South Korean epidemiologists, who have found in the study published in the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) that people were more likely to contract the virus from their household members than from contacts outside home.A UT health official said, “You are more likely to get infection from your family contacts as an asymptomatic family member may not know about the disease. He/she may be mingling with his/her family members and passing on the infection to them.”“According to the ICMR guidelines, the asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case are required to be tested once between Day 5 and Day 10 of coming into contact. We are tracking the cases and rigorously testing them,” the official said. UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “The emphasis could be on making the residents aware about the importance of social distancing through IEC and campaigns.”Home isolation doubtfulDr Sonu Goel, a community health expert at the PGIMER, said, “The reasons for more number of patients contracting the infection at home can be possibly due to cases opting for home isolation. Family is the close set up where we don’t follow masking or social distancing and stay close to each other. Hence, there is a possibility of more spread among them. The patients need to practice social distancing and follow guidelines strictly. ”According to the Union Health Ministry guidelines, very mild and pre-symptomatic Covid-19 cases are allowed home isolation, given that they have requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts. The patient should stay in a separate room, away from other people at home and should wear a triple-layered medical mask at all times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/51-patients-contracted-infection-at-home-in-july-118753
28-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Court allows CBI to take voice samples of suspended inspector||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27The special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has allowed an application moved by the agency to take voice samples of suspended inspector Jaswinder Kaur, an accused in a graft case.While moving the application, the inspector, CBI (ACB), Chandigarh, SS Rathore, said, “Permission is required to take specimen voice sample of accused Jaswinder, who was sent into four-day police custody yesterday.”The court allowed the application after Jaswinder gave her no objection for giving the voice sample while denying the allegation mentioned in the application.The counsel for the accused, Terminder Singh, said the transcript mentioned in the application was also wrong.In the application, the CBI stated that an FIR was registered on June 29, 2020, under various sections of the PC Act, 1988, against accused Jaswinder Kaur, former SHO, Mani Majra, Chandigarh, and Bhagwan Singh, a private person, on the basis of written complaint of Gurdeep Singh on the allegation of demanding a bribe of Rs 5 lakh.Out of Rs 5 lakh, Rs 2 lakh was paid by the complainant to accused Bhagwan. The CBI laid a successful trap and caught Bhagwan while demanding and accepting bribe of Rs 1 lakh on behalf of Jaswinder Kaur.During post-trap proceedings, Bhagwan also telephonically conveyed to Jaswinder Kaur that the money was handed over to him by Gurdeep as per contents mentioned in the relevant transcription as well as post-trap memo.Accused Jaswinder Kaur, the then SHO, did not join the investigation despite her anticipatory bail being rejected by the Court of Special Judge, CBI, Chandigarh, and the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the CBI stated.During trap proceedings conduit Bhagwan called accused Jaswinder Kaur in the presence of independent witnesses to intimate acceptance of bribe money by him from Gurdeep, the complainant.The said call between Bhagwan and Jaswinder Kaur was recorded and was an important evidence in the case. Further investigation of the present case depends upon the specimen voice sample of accused Jaswinder Kaur. Accordingly, Jaswinder Kaur was asked to give her specimen voice in the presence of an independent witness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/court-allows-cbi-to-take-voice-samples-of-suspended-inspector-118754
28-07-2020||---||MC proposes temporary chairs, tables outside eateries||Chandigarh, July 27The Municipal Corporation (MC) has proposed to give permission for placing temporary tables and chairs in front of eating joints for the whole day.The agenda regarding this will be tabled at the MC House meeting on July 30. At present, the MC gives permission for placing temporary tables and chairs only for the evening (7 pm to 10 pm). Now, the civic body wants that the permission should also be given from 12:30 pm to 3:30 pm.At present, shopkeepers pay between Rs 3,000 and Rs 7,000 for availing of this facility. Now, they will have to shell out between Rs 4,500 and 10,500 per month for placing temporary tables and chairs in front of their shops.For corner shops, the rates will be higher because they have more space. While in day food joint markets like Sector 15 and 11 where there are no existing charges for getting permission, the MC will levy Rs 3,000 per shop, if the proposal get nod in the House.Besides, agenda regarding disposing waste at the processing plant and managing its RDF will also be taken up at the House meeting. It will include disposal of waste generated by shops and booths in Sector 17/22 subway, Sector 39-D and Mauli Jagran on lease hold basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-proposes-temporary-chairs-tables-outside-eateries-118744
28-07-2020||---||Bank staffer among 32 contract virus in Mohali||Mohali, July 27A State Bank of India (SBI) branch in the main bus stand, Kharar, was sealed after a woman employee tested positive for Covid-19 here today.The Mohali Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the bank had been sealed after the clerk contracted the infection. Other staff members of the bank had been asked to remain in home quarantine. Their samples were yet to be collected.The SBI clerk was among 32 persons found infected with the virus in the district today, taking the tally to 747. They have been admitted to a Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.A 25-year-old man from Devinagar village, Dera Bassi, a 24-year-old man from Jujhar Nagar, a 26-year-old man from Phase 3B2, a 42-year-old man and a 39-year-old woman from Peer Muchalla, a 53-year-old man from Phase 3B1, a 31-year-old woman and a 33-year-old man from Baltana, a 47-year-old man from Sohana, two men, aged 50 and 24, from Kharar and a 54-year-old man from Sector 78 were diagnosed with Covid-19.Two men, aged 30 and 29, from Nayagaon, a 59-year-old man from Balongi, a 77-year-old man and a 72-year-old woman from Sector 66, a 31-year-old woman from Phase VI, a 35-year-old woman from Sector 67, a 58-year-old man from Sector 70, a 67-year-old man from Sector 61 and a 30-year-old man from Mohali contracted the infection.Two men, aged 35 and 29, from Manauli, two men, aged 27 and 28, from Dera Bassi, a 24-year-old man from Gillco Towers, Kharar, a 42-year-old man from Khuraka village, Banur, a 23-year-old man from Khanpur, a 80-year-old woman from Green Valley, Kharar, a 28-year-old man from Sunny Enclave, Kharar, and a 24-year-old man from Phase X were found suffering from the disease.As of now, there are 747 positive cases in the district. While 465 patients have been cured and discharged, there are 268 active cases. Fourteen persons have died of the disease in the district.14 patients dischargedMeanwhile, 14 patients were discharged from the hospital after defeating the virus today. They are a 35-year-old woman and a 29-year-old man from Gulabgarh road, Dera Bassi, three women, aged 32, 21 and 35, a nine-year-old girl and two boys, aged nine and six, from Kharar, a 32-year-old man from Baltana, a 30-year-old woman from Malakpur, a 29-year-old woman from Rampur village, Banur, two men, aged 41 and 63, from Dhakoli and a 26-year-old woman from Phase IX, Mohali.‘Police Dept stops public dealing’According to sources, the Police Department has stopped public dealings in all police stations in the district till further orders as several police personnel have tested positive for coronavirus. The step has been taken to check the spread of virus among other cops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bank-staffer-among-32-contract-virus-in-mohali-118728
28-07-2020||---||Rs 3L robbed at gunpoint in Sector 27||Chandigarh, July 27In a daylight robbery, two miscreants looted Rs3 lakh at gunpoint from the owner of a Western Union Money Exchange branch in Sector 27 this afternoon.Complainant Sanjiv Kalia, a resident of Raipur Khurd, said he had returned to his office after withdrawing Rs2.80 lakh from a bank.Kalia kept the money in a drawer and went to a washroom in the market. “When I returned to my office, two persons, one of them wearing a mask and a cap and the other a helmet, entered my office and threatened me,” he said. One of them had a pistol in his hand and the other a saw.Kalia claimed that initially he assumed that they must be his friends. However, when he noticed one of them holding a saw, he realised that they had come with the intention of robbing him. The robbers asked the victim to show all drawers where money was kept.They took around Rs3 lakh, including the money he had withdrawn from the bank. They also took away the victim’s purse.The robbers then asked for a bag following which the victim gave them a laptop bag. They kept the money in the bag and escaped from the spot. “While one of them left with the money, the other, who was holding the gun, left afterwards,” Kalia said.Kalia rushed outside his office and informed nearby shopkeepers. The robbers arrived at the complainant’s office around 2.10 pm and the police got information at 2.12 pm. The police visited the spot and scrutinised the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area. Employees of a shop next to the complainant’s office saw the two suspects going towards the Sector 19/27 light point.Sources said the duo had arrived on a motorcycle, which was parked at some distance, and they were talking in Punjabi. The victim had withdrawn money from a bank in Sector 27 to make payments to clients. The police have registered a case at the Sector 26 police station.Police left red-facedThe daylight gunpoint robbery has left the UT police red-faced. The incident has defied police claims of having stepped up patrolling in the city and has left residents shocked.Robbers seen in CCTV footageThe footage of CCTV cameras installed in the market shows the robbers walking through the corridor after committing the crime.Were speaking in PunjabiSources said the duo had arrived on a motorcycle, which was parked at some distance, and they were talking in Punjabi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-3l-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-sector-27-118729
28-07-2020||Chandigarh||23 fresh cases take Chandigarh tally past 900||The city today reported 23 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total infection count to 910. Over 100 cases have been added to the UT tally in only four days.The fresh cases were reported from Sector 14, 24, 19, 23, 29, 39, 44, 49, 50, 51, 52, Kishangarh, Khuda Lahora, Bapu Dham Colony, Mani Majra and Mauli Jagran.Among those infected, 12 patients are the contacts of previously diagnosed cases. Of them, four are the contacts of already positive cases reported from the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, while one patient is the contact of a previously positive case from the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. A 31-year-old man from Sector 52 also contracted the infection. He is a staffer of a hospital in Mohali.The contact history of the remaining infected persons is not known yet.Meanwhile, four patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus on Monday.67-year-old victim had tested -ve on July 10, 11A 67-year-old man from Sector 38, who succumbed to Covid-19 at the Civil Hospital, Sector 48,here, on Sunday night, had tested negative for the virus on July 10 and 11 at the PGI before being discharged on July 14.Ravi Gupta, Medical Superintendent, GMCH-32, said: “The PGI had stabilised the patient before he was discharged. When we received the patient on July 15, his oxygen saturation was 67 per cent. We stabilised him from time to time, but his condition kept fluctuating. He died yesterday after suffering multiple organ failure.”Dr Gupta said: “There is a possibility of a false negative result in Covid-19 tests and one cannot guarantee 100 per cent accurate results. The patient may have been positive, but the results had shown the opposite.”Lungs of the patient were badly affected with Covid-19 pneumonia. He was a patient of uncontrolled diabetic and hypertension. The patient, who tested positive on July 6, was discharged from the PGI on July 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/23-fresh-cases-take-chandigarh-tally-past-900-118730
28-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Nurse to pay Rs 1L for frivolous plea||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 27The Punjab and Haryana High Court has imposed an exemplary fine of Rs1 lakh on a staff nurse for filing a “completely frivolous” petition in an alleged sexual harassment case. The court ordered the drawing and disbursing officer to recover the amount from the petitioner’s salary in three instalments.The nurse, working at an ESIC Model Hospital in Chandigarh, had moved the High Court against the Union of India and other respondents for setting aside the report of an internal complaints committee on her complaint under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.Arguing before Justice Ramendra Jain’s Bench through video-conferencing, her counsel contended that three out of five members of the internal complaints committee, who held a detailed inquiry on her complaint of sexual harassment, appeared as defence witnesses and supported the “delinquent doctor”. Describing the inquiry report submitted by them as “biased and illegal”, her counsel added that the committee of internal inquiry, in connivance with another doctor and the “delinquent doctor”, destroyed the CCTV footage of the incident. Her counsel stated that the inquiry was unfair because of non-joining the petitioner in the proceedings.Appearing for the Union of India and another respondent, senior advocate Satya Pal Jain and Sai Geeta Srivastava submitted that they were not necessary party and had been illegally impleaded.Justice Jain asserted that the court found the instant petition to be “completely frivolous to blackmail the system and superiors under whom the petitioner works”.Out of the five members of the internal complaints committee, two were doctors and one was from the deputy nursing staff. Another one was an advocate with a degree of doctorate.The petitioner’s grouse that the impugned report was biased as three of its members appeared in defence was completely baseless, Justice Jain added. Their statements recorded during inquiry showed they only brought on record true facts of the alleged incident, which had happened in their presence, Justice Jain said. “Their conduct does not by in itself amount to favouring the alleged delinquent doctor,” Justice Jain added.Each and every aspect of the allegations levelled by the petitioner had been dealt with in detail by the committee without any bias, Justice Jain said.The petitioner being an arrogant worker wanted to create fear psychosis in the mind of their superiors through the petition, Justice Jain added. It could not be permitted as the report was given by a committee comprising three doctors, two belonging to medical profession and one legal expert, Justice Jain said.“The instant petition stands dismissed with exemplary costs of Rs1 lakh,” Justice Jain concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nurse-to-pay-rs-1l-for-frivolous-plea-118746
