28-11-2020||---||BEL, CSIO join hand for developing aviation, perimeter security technologies||Chandigarh, November 28The Panchkula Division of Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) and Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO), Chandigarh will work as joint partners for design and development of futuristic technologies in the area of aviation and perimeter security.A memorandum of understanding in this regard was signed between the two organisations here today. BEL is a Navratna Public Sector Undertaking under the Ministry of Defence, while CSIO is a constituent laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research under the Ministry for Science and Technology.Jitender Kumar, Additional Director General in the Defence Ministry’s Directorate General of Aeronautical Quality Assurance was the chief guest.onm the occasion. He appreciated CSIO’s efforts for developing aviation technologies and congratulated it for the design of Head up Display for aircraft. He also emphasised the need to develop more aviation related technologies in the future.CSIO Director, Prof SA Ramakrishna, said that the partnership between the two organisations is cemented by this agreement. It enabled CSIO to be the natural research source for BEL, while BEL becomes the logical industry partner that takes up and translates to reality the niche technologies developed by CSIO.Prabha Goyal, General Manager, BEL revealed that BEL will jointly explore  more futuristic avionics technologies and systems for perimeter monitoring to develop state of the art technologies for contributing towards self reliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bel-csio-join-hand-for-developing-aviation-perimeter-security-technologies-177191
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ladakh LG calls for greater use of science and technology for local development||The Lieutenant Governor of Ladakh, RK Mathur, on Saturday stressed upon the greater use of science and technology for the socio-economic development of the cold and arid region of the country.Speaking online at the curtain raiser event of India International Science Festival—2000 (IISF) at the Defence Institute of High Altitude Research (DIHAR) in Leh, he said that the utility of science and technology in Ladakh is extremely relevant and imminent for the population to sustain and adapt to the prevailing harsh environmental conditions.Briefing the audience about the importance and relevance of observing the science festival, he urged all the stakeholders to promote and enable science and technology to reach every remote location of the country.Elaborating upon the importance of utilizing science and technology to make a better and sustainable world, DIHAR Director, Dr OP Chaurasia, highlighted the development and dissemination of appropriate technologies related to agriculture in high altitude region like Ladakh through which farmers are able to increase their yield through optimum resource management.Vice-Chancellor of Ladakh University, C Phuntsog, briefed the audience about the importance of taking science beyond the university campus so that livelihood of the population is made healthier, economical and sustainable. A brainstorming session between representatives of the administration, policy, education, agriculture, entrepreneurship and local students was also held.Launched to promote science and technology and demonstrate how science could lead India towards a developed nation within a short span of time, IISF’s aim is to engage the public with science and celebrate the joy of science and show the ways how science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) provide us with the solutions to improve our lives.It intends to create an innovative knowledge society to inspire curiosity and make learning more rewarding for the young.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ladakh-lg-calls-for-greater-use-of-science-and-technology-for-local-development-177176
28-11-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula: 30-year-old man killed, another injured in knife attack over old animosity||A 30-year-old man was killed while another was seriously injured on Friday evening following a knife attack by a Rajiv Colony resident over an old animosity.The victim was identified as Ravi Shankar from Mauli Jagran. The injured was named Deepu.According to the police, the attack around 10:15 pm, they were taken to Civil Hospital in Sector 6 where doctors declared Shankar brought dead, and shifted Deepu to GMCH-32 in a critical condition.A case has been registered 302 (punishment for murder), and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 14 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-30-year-old-man-killed-another-injured-in-knife-attack-over-old-animosity-177163
28-11-2020||New Delhi||Former Chandigarh MP Pawan Bansal appointed as Congress treasurer||Former railway minister and ex-MP from Chandigarh Pawan Kumar Bansal on Saturday was appointed as congress treasurer after the demise of Ahmed Patel.Congress chief Sonia Gandhi has approved the appointed, saying the arrangement in interim and Bansal would take the charge immediately to discharge the duties as party treasurer.Recently, Bansal was made in-charge of administration replacing former General Secretary Motilal Vora.A confidant of Sonia Gandhi, Bansal has kept a low profile ever, since he was removed as the cabinet minister from the UPA over accusations of his nephew fixing railway posts for bribes.Bansal was picked as Congress LS nominee in 2014 and 2019, and lost both times to BJP’s Kirron Kher.Bansal has represented Chandigarh four times.In 2019, he bagged the Chandigarh LS nomination of Congress despite Navjot Sidhu seeking the same for his wife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/former-chandigarh-mp-pawan-bansal-appointed-as-congress-treasurer-177159
28-11-2020|| Chandigarh||Youth arrested with heroin||Purse snatched in Sector 44Chandigarh: A motorcycle-borne miscreant allegedly snatched a purse from a girl in Sector 44. According to the police, the victim reported that a purse containing Rs1,000, a mobile phone and documents was snatched on November 26. The police were informed following which a case was registered at the Sector 34 police station. TNSWoman duped of Rs8.78 lakhChandigarh: A case of cheating has been registered on a complaint of a woman, who alleged that she was cheated of Rs8.78 lakh. According to the police, the complainant, a resident of Sector 50, alleged that Randeep Ghoshal and others, members of Unifact Edutech Pvt Ltd, Gurugram, allegedly cheated her on the pretext of providing a study visa for Germany to her daughter. A case has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. TNSShopping extravaganzaChandigarh: The Black Friday celebrations began at Elante Mall with over 200 prominent brands taking part in the shopping extravaganza this season. Categories like fashion, footwear, cosmetics, F&B, accessories and personal care among others will offer up to 60 per cent off and the best deals till November 29. Various brands will offer heavy discounts to their patrons, bringing the best deals across categories to their disposal. Apart from this, Elante Mall is also planning to gratify its shoppers with assured gift vouchers. TNSAdvocates hold peaceful protestChandigarh: Advocates from the Punjab and Haryana High Court under the banner of “Lawyers in Solidarity with Farmers” on Friday held a peaceful protest to express solidarity with the farmers against three farm laws passed recently by the Parliament. The lawyers present during the protest expressed concern over the ongoing farmers’ agitation and condemned the way they were being harassed by the Haryana Government by blocking their entry to Delhi. A press statement issued on Friday evening said the initiative was taken as the Punjab and Haryana High Court was an integral part of the states of Punjab and Haryana and was having special bonding with the farmers out on the roads and railway tracks for months together agitating against the laws and now proceeding towards Delhi for their “legitimate demands”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-arrested-with-heroin-176923
28-11-2020||Mohali||1 more death, 156 cases in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-more-death-156-cases-in-mohali-176913
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||106 fresh cases in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/106-fresh-cases-in-chandigarh-176914
28-11-2020||---||Spike in Covid cases in Patiala||Patiala, November 27The district today registered the highest Covid-19 cases in the month. As many as 133 residents tested positive for the disease today. The Civil Surgeon office today stated that the situation has aggravated due to which people need to follow all Covid-19 related guidelines.The district also reported four deaths in a day. The total number of Covid cases in this month has reached 14,465 along with 425 deaths, which stood at 12,810 positive cases along with 378 deaths on October 31.In the guidelines released on November 25, the Chief Minister’s office had stressed on the full utilisation of the 25,500 daily RT-PCR testing capacity. The office directed targeted and regular testing of potential superspreaders, including government officials in Punjab.Thereafter, health officials in the city have also increased coronavirus testing. The report of 3,200 patients were received today against a little over 1,500 a day until some time ago. As many as 2,080 Covid tests were conducted in the day.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Harish Malhotra, said, “The Health Department is putting in all its efforts to contain the spread. However, the situation is aggravating.”“People have stopped following Covid guidelines. They are gathering and ignoring directions, including wearing face masks and use of hand sanitisers regularly,” he added.“People should maintain social distancing and follow other guidelines as issued by the government, he said.Majority of cases out of those registered on Friday were from Patiala city. The Covid cases number reached 113 from the city alone while Rajpura, Samana, Bhadson, Kauli and other places in the district registered two to four cases today.Health officials had made two micro-containment zones in Rajpura and Nabha two days ago when five and seven cases, respectively, were detected in clusters. While the cases from Patiala city were high these were sporadic and registered from different areas, said health officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spike-in-covid-cases-in-patiala-176905
28-11-2020||---||Officiating Vice-Chancellor of Pbi University joins office||Patiala, November 27Newly appointed Punjabi University officiating Vice-Chancellor (VC) Ravneet Kaur today joined her office. She was greeted by senior officials of the university. Ravneet Kaur is the Additional Chief Secretary, Forest and Wildlife, Punjab Government. She is a 1998-batch IAS officer.Ravneet held a special meeting with senior officials and discussed various affairs of the university management. Officials said she also asked about status of university admissions and other important issues.Representatives of Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) also met the officiating VC and raised concern over the financial conditions of the university. They said the university needed grants provided by the state government, which had exponentially come down from 125 per cent in 1991-92 to 33 per cent last year.Dr Avneet Pal Singh from the Department of Botany and secretary, PUTA, said a delegation of teachers met the officiating VC and discussed all issues of the teaching community at length.PUTA leaders said the management, including repair and maintenance of university buildings, was affected due to lack of grants. “We have sternly opposed laying-off of employees citing rationalisation,” they added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/officiating-vice-chancellor-of-pbi-university-joins-office-176906
28-11-2020||
||Coaching centres in UT to open for ‘doubt session’ on December 1||Chandigarh, November 27 Coaching institutes in the City Beautiful have finally decided to open from December 1 onwards after receiving the go ahead from the Chandigarh Administration, but only for doubt session. Institutes are also awaiting guidelines from the Administration before opening up completely. Jitain Gupta from Allen Institute, Chandigarh, said, “We are waiting for the guidelines and SOPs from the Chandigarh Administration. We will consider opening coaching centres for doubt session only as of now.” Hitesh Panwar from Sri Chaitanya Institute, Chandigarh, said, “We haven’t decided anything yet whether to open the coaching centre for physical teaching. However, we have decided to open the coaching centre for students, who have doubts. The session will continue for a limited time. We are also waiting for the Chandigarh Administration’s guidelines for opening up coaching centres.” Manoj Parida, UT Adviser, said, “The SOPs have been formulated and will be issued tomorrow.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/coaching-centres-in-ut-to-open-for-doubt-session-on-december-1-176907
28-11-2020||
||PUTA members write to their chief over delay in CAS promotions||Chandigarh, November 27 As the ongoing strike led by the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) executive entered eighth day today, a representation was given to the association president by its members citing dissatisfaction over pending career advancement scheme (CAS) promotions. The representation written by Dr Priyatosh Sharma (History), Dr Ashish Kumar (History), Dr Naresh Kumar (UIET) and Dr Suman Mor (Environment Studies) reads, “We are dismayed at your apathy towards the cadre when you have refused to respond to our concern.”  “We received your call on November 23 in which you conveyed that the Vice-Chancellor’s office is positive towards PUTA’s demands and you might brief the cadre after meeting with him at 11:30 am. You further conveyed that schedule of protest (involving cadre or department wise) will be notified if the meeting concerning CAS promotions does not yield any result,” the letter added.  “We reiterate our demands that CAS promotion is the right of every teacher and must be done at the earliest. We expect you to come up with detailed demands/programmes in writing concerning the same. We are denied absolute clarity as to what format of CAS interview you are demanding – offline, online or blend of both,” the letter stated. “Furthermore, what modalities PUTA has proposed if CAS interviews are held online to safeguard teachers’ interests. Whether these promotions will be recorded for future references setting the trend of recorded interviews?” the letter added.  “We expect you to issue detailed modalities for the promotions (if not done in offline mode) before both the cadre and the authorities to address to concerns of PU teachers and ensure that you do not end up in jeopardizing the whole process in your shortsightedness,” the letter stated.  “We have many teachers, among us, who remain stuck in long hurdles of audit and other technical clearances later. You have also conveyed through telephonic conversation that you are in favour of the PU governance reforms and want representation of university teachers increased in the PU Senate, but again the correspondence concerning the same is absent on your part,” the letter added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-members-write-to-their-chief-over-delay-in-cas-promotions-176908
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Weightage given to legal studies withdrawn||The higher competent authorities of Panjab University have decided to withdraw the weightage of legal studies subject given in the merit list of BALLB (Hons) five-year course for the 2020-21 session. “Applicants are advised to note the change,” said sources. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/weightage-given-to-legal-studies-withdrawn-176909
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Bailable warrant issued against Sukhbir Badal||A local court issued a bailable warrant against former Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Badal today. The case came up for hearing in the court of Tejpratap Singh Randhwa, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, today. The court in the direction noted that the bailable warrant issued against the accused was received back unexecuted with the report of not met. The same be issued for December 9, 2020, the court added.The case was filed by Rajinder Pal Singh, spokesperson of Akhand Kirtani Jatha, against Badal for his alleged controversial statement describing the jatha as political face of a terrorist organisation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bailable-warrant-issued-against-sukhbir-badal-176910
28-11-2020||
||Initiate counselling for patients in home isolation, pvt hospitals told||Mohali, November 27 The District Administrative Complex, Mohali, became the epicentre of Covid-19 probable stage-II management strategy with the state’s senior-most doctors and bureaucrats holding deliberations with doctors from private and government institutions. Dr KK Talwar, Adviser, Health and Medical Education and Research, Husan Lal, Principal Secretary, Health, DK Tiwari, Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research, Tanu Kashyap, MD, PHSC, Dr GD Puri, Dean, PGI, Dr Kamal Kajal, Associate Professor, PGI, Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, Ashika Jain, and Additional Deputy Commissioner, were among those present. Dr Talwar appreciated the quality health care services being provided in Mohali, which attracted patients from Panchkula, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh to seek treatment at health institutions in the district. He also lauded the seamless coordination between government and private hospitals under the direct supervision of Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan. He thanked all institutions for playing a stellar role in fight against Covid-19 and asked them to be prepared for surge, if any. Increasing sampling and arranging adequate bed capacity was called upon. Reducing case fatality rate (CFR) was deliberated upon at length. The doctors shared practical tips and best medical practices, which would be helpful for all hospitals in reducing death rate. Considering that the occupancy rate in L1 facilities was low, these have been discontinued state wide. So, it had been decided to promote home isolation for asymptomatic/mildly symptomatic patients. Home isolation kits are also to be distributed among the needy patients. In order to help the patients recover quickly and strengthen their immunity, post-Covid care kits have also been prepared by the state government, which are to be distributed generously among the needy patients. Private hospitals were requested to initiate home counselling services for patients under home isolation. An appeal was also made to private hospitals to charge genuinely. It was informed that the health institutions should fill death audit forms so that the experts can have a fair analysis of fatalities taking place in the state and tackle the CFR. All hospitals were suggested to attend the weekly live sessions conducted under Dr KK Talwar and other expert doctors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/initiate-counselling-for-patients-in-home-isolation-pvt-hospitals-told-176887
28-11-2020||
||7 women among 9 held for flesh trade||Mohali, November 27 The Sohana police arrested nine persons, including seven women, allegedly involved in flesh trade under the garb of a massage parlour in Sector 82 here on Thursday night. The suspects have been identified as Sanjay Saini, a resident of Baltana, and Rajdheer, a resident of Sector 45. According to the police, the suspects were involved in human trafficking from a rented showroom of Sanjay Saini on the pretext of a massage parlour in Sector 82. Sohana police station House Officer Daljit Singh said, “We got a tip-off that the suspects were involved in flesh trade. We conducted a raid and nabbed them. The suspects were today produced before a court, which sent them to judicial custody.” A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 3 and 4 of the Immortal Trafficking (Prevention) Act at the Sohana police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-women-among-9-held-for-flesh-trade-176888
28-11-2020||---||Tax exemption given to commercial vehicles||Chandigarh, November 27The UT Transport Department has decided to provide financial relief to the public transport vehicles, which could not ply during the lockdown period.A notification issued by Mandip Singh Brar, Secretary, Transport, stated that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Home Affairs had on March 24, 2020, had issued directions to the UT, which resulted into non-plying of public service vehicles, including e-rickshaws, auto-rickshaws, maxi cabs and motor cabs, and also restricted the movement of goods vehicles, thereby adversely affecting the income of the transport sector.The notification stated that in order to provide financial relief to the transport sector, the UT Administrator is pleased to exempt the Motor Vehicle Tax in respect of commercial vehicles, stage carriage buses, tourist buses, education institute, school and college buses, mini-buses, maxi cabs, three-wheelers and goods vehicles from March 23 to May 19, 2020.Meanwhile, the Transport Department also exempted all vehicles of the Municipal Corporation from the liability to pay road tax with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tax-exemption-given-to-commercial-vehicles-176890
28-11-2020||
||Revenue records to be completely digitised in city||Chandigarh, November 27 The UT Administration has decided to completely digitise revenue records such as ‘jamabandis’ and mutation registers in the city. A meeting on the review of digitisation of land record (Revenue Department) and the Sub-Registrar Office, UT, was held today under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar. The current status of work of digitisation was reviewed and some key decisions were taken in the meeting. It was decided that the complete revenue record containing record of rights such as ‘jamabandis’ and mutation registers of Chandigarh would be digitised completely. The revenue record would also then be integrated to the Sub-Registrar Office, thereby creating a complete online system. It will benefit the citizens as they will be able to check their ownership record online from their homes and through dedicated kiosks. It will also help in pushing the rank of ease of doing business by making the overall system more citizen-friendly. Clear-cut timelines are given in the meeting by the DC to the officers to complete several tasks on time. The meeting was attended by Nazuk Kumar, ADC, SDM Centre, SDM East and tehsildars of Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/revenue-records-to-be-completely-digitised-in-city-176891
28-11-2020||Mohali||Rs 86 cr to be spent on beautification of Mohali||Mohali is one of the most beautiful cities in the world. To enhance the beauty of the city and provide basic amenities to the citizens, Rs86.37 crore will be spent on development works here.Health and Family Welfare and Labour Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu stated this after handing over a cheque for Rs25 crore, which was received from the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA), to MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg. Municipal Corporation Joint Secretary Kinnu Thind, Chief Engineer Local Government Mukesh Garg and Kuljit Singh Bedi were also present on the occasion.Sidhu also thanked Housing and Urban Development Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Principal Secretary Housing and Urban Development Sarvjit Singh and GMADA Chief Administrator Pradeep Kumar Agarwal for the allotment of funds by GMADA to the Municipal Corporation for the development works of the city.Briefing the media, Sidhu said Rs86.37 crore would be spent on various works such as development works in various housing societies in the city, upgrading markets, augmentation and rehabilitation of main sewer line under the AMRUT Scheme, 50 open gyms equipment with platform in various parks, modular steel number plates, construction of playground for children in various parks, laying paver blocks, construction of a community centre in Phase 3B1, purchase of machinery for water supply and sewerage, bioremediation dumping ground and new tree pruning machine up to 60 feet height.The Minister said a medical college and a 500-bed hospital were being set up at a cost of Rs375 crore in the district. Apart from the efforts taken to curb the spread of Covid-19, the Punjab Government under the leadership of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh was working tirelessly to further strengthen the health infrastructure. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-86-cr-to-be-spent-on-beautification-of-mohali-176892
28-11-2020||---||Panchkula civic body to act tough against property tax defaulters||Panchkula, November 27Concerned over non-payment of property tax by residents and commercial institutions, the Panchkula Municipal Corporation will soon prepare a list of defaulters and send notices to them.MC Commissioner RK Singh, while presiding over a meeting of officials, directed the officials concerned to ensure that property tax is deposited on a priority basis. He also directed the officials to prepare a list of defaulters and sent notices to them on a priority.The Commissioner urged the defaulters to deposit their property tax soon, adding that notices were also being sent by the corporation in this regard.Earlier, chairing the meeting organised in connection with the Swachh Bharat Mission-2021, Singh also asked the officials concerned to implement the cleanliness campaign on a war-footing and make it a mass movement.He said: “Cleanliness drive cannot be successful without the participation of common people. All of us will have to make collective effort towards achieving a higher position in the survey. As many as 686 safai mitras can especially contribute significantly in the cleanliness campaign”.He talked in detail with the officials concerned to collect garbage from house to house and make bio gas and manure from wet waste.The Commissioner also discussed in detail about the location of sanitation parks with the authorities concerned on important points. He instructed the officials concerned to ensure that safai mitras use masks and gloves while doing work.Joint Commissioner Sayam Garg, Deputy Commissioner Deepak Sura, Executive Engineer Ankit Lohan, Chief Sanitation Inspector Sadhu Ram and Environment Adviser Priyanka Chauhan were among those present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-civic-body-to-act-tough-against-property-tax-defaulters-176893
28-11-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Five get life imprisonment in 3-year-old murder case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 27A local court sentenced five persons to life imprisonment in a three-year-old murder case.The court convicted the accused after finding them guilty under Section 302, read with 34, of the IPC. The court also slapped a fine of Rs20,000 on each of them.As per the case registered on February 3, 2017 at the Sector 39 police station, five persons attacked a youth near Batra Cinema, Sector 37, here around 9.30 pm. The victim, Ashok, a resident of Sector 25, later succumbed to his injuries at the hospital.The case was registered on the statement of an eyewitness, who told the police that he saw around six boys thrashing a boy. Some of the assailants have caught hold of the victim while others were beating him with a rod and slagger.When people started gathering, they ran away in an auto. While they were fleeing in the auto, the eyewitness noted down its registration number. The suspects were later arrested from near a petrol pump in Sector 39.Four of the accused were minors at the time of their arrest, while one was major.One of the accused, Kala, alias Ghodu, was sent to the lock-up while rest of the accused were sent to a juvenile home.Public prosecutor JP Singh pleaded before the court that the accused deserve no leniency as they committed a heinous crime and need to be given harsher punishment. The prosecution collected all weapons such as rod and slagger used in the crime and filed the chargesheet with supportive documents.After hearings the witnesses and examining the supportive documents, Additional District Judge Rajeev Goyal found all of them guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-get-life-imprisonment-in-3-year-old-murder-case-176894
28-11-2020||---||Orphaned kids await justice||Mohali, November 27It has been 15 days since a 24-year-old woman died in a hit-and-run mishap in Sector 79 here, but the police are yet to trace the suspect.The police have failed to arrest the suspect despite the fact that an eyewitness had noted down the registration number of motorcycle and gave it to the police. The woman has left behind two children, aged six and eight.Nowhere to go, the children are now staying with the family of victim Meenu Chauhan’s prospective husband, Dheeraj, who already has four children from her deceased first wife.Dheeraj and his mother Anita want to take care of the children, but they face financial constraints to rear a family of eight persons.On Friday, when the family was expecting relief from the administration and justice from the police, Mohali SP (Traffic) Gurjot Singh Kaler visited their house to provide winter clothing to the children. With two children in his lap, he also shot a traffic awareness message.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/orphaned-kids-await-justice-176895
28-11-2020||---||Delhi Chalo: Another day of traffic blues for commuters||Zirakpur, November 27The two-day closure of roads in Mohali district ended with barricades being lifted from all points in the evening, but not before leaving commuters inconvenienced.Throughout the day, barricades remained erected at various places in the district due to the “Delhi Chalo” agitation. The to and from movement of vehicles between Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru remained cut off even though there was virtually no movement of farmers towards the National Capital. No incident of violence was reported from any part of the area, said a senior police official.However, tricity residents continued to suffer due to multiple diversions at the McDonald point in Zirakpur, the Kalka chowk, the Chhat traffic light point, Dera Bassi and Lalru. One side of the Zirakpur flyover (Zirakpur to Chandigarh) was open, but the other side (Chandigarh to Zirakpur) remained barricaded.The barricades were lifted around 6.30 pm from all points and normal traffic was restored in the evening.Mohali SP (Traffic) Gurjot Singh Klaer said, “All barricades have been lifted and traffic restored. The police are still monitoring the Shambhu border near Ambala. There has not been any farmers’ movement here, but people are still avoiding this route.”During the day, the traffic was routed through the Zirakpur market, resulting in long queues of vehicles and traffic jams throughout the day. “Since the flyover was closed for vehicles moving from Chandigarh to Zirakpur, the traffic increased considerably in the market. We had to spend an hour in the traffic jam even though we were moving inside Zirakpur city,” said Shikha Bhasin, a private schoolteacher in Zirakpur.Most commuters were not aware of the diversions and did not know the exact situation on the ground, causing confusion and chaos.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delhi-chalo-another-day-of-traffic-blues-for-commuters-176896
28-11-2020||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh mulls training medicos as Covid vaccinators||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 27The UT Administration is mulling over increasing vaccinators by enrolling medical students in the Covid vaccination programme whenever a vaccine is introduced by the Centre.UT Adviser Manoj Parida today held the first-ever meeting of the state-level steering committee on a Covid vaccine in which the existing infrastructure and future challenges were discussed. Parida said, “We have formed a state-level committee by involving all government hospitals, the Municipal Corporation and the Police Department to foresee the challenges and work out a strategy of how to carry out vaccination whenever it will be available.” “We deliberated upon the need for more vaccinators because whenever a vaccine is rolled out, a vast majority of the people will need it. For the same purpose, we may make use of medical students, who will be trained for inoculation. This is also being done to ensure that the existing universal vaccination programme does not suffer,” said Parida. The role of the state-level steering committee will be to take stock of the preparedness such as checking cold chain storage points and vaccine points in the city. The committee is for inter-departmental co-ordination and will meet once a month, while another state-level task force will meet every fortnight.The committee also deliberated on the manner of keeping track of vaccine recipients, who will be requiring more than one dose. Parida said pre-registration was essential for any beneficiary to get vaccinated. He said the Aadhaar number could be used as one of the identity proofs and one-time password (OTP) generated to confirm that the vaccine had been administered to the end user.The UT has decided to identify more vaccination sites, besides hospitals, as and when the programme will enter the next phase wherein the vaccine will be administered to frontline workers, elderly and comorbid population.UT seeks 25% addl cold chain inventoryThe UT Administration has demanded 25 per cent more cold chain inventory from the Centre for storing a Covid vaccine in addition to the available infrastructure. The UT has 54 cold chain points with ILR and deep freezer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mulls-training-medicos-as-covid-vaccinators-176897
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Sec 51 resident loses Rs 87,399 in online fraud||A city resident has been allegedly duped of Rs87,399 by a swindler. The amount was withdrawn from his bank account.Complainant Amba Datt Papnoi, a resident of Sector 51, had ordered a bicycle from an online shopping site. The victim reported that the bicycle was delivered to him at his address. However, it was not assembled, following which the delivery agent asked him to contact the customer care of the shopping site. The victim searched for the customer care number on Google and called on the number on November 20. The person told him that a person would be deputed to assemble the cycle. However, for that, he would have to make a transaction of Rs2. The fraudster then sent a link to him and asked him to fill some information after which Rs87,399 was debited from the victim’s bank account. The victim has submitted a complaint to the Chandigarh Police. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sec-51-resident-loses-rs-87-399-in-online-fraud-176898
28-11-2020||Rajiv Bhatia||Fresh Covid curbs disrupt wedding plans||Zirakpur, November 27The Punjab Government’s decision to impose a curfew in the state from 10 pm to 5 am from December 1 has left couples scurrying to change their wedding plans accordingly.While wedding planners in Mohali district had started thinking of getting back into business, the new Covid curbs came as a bolt from the blue. In view of the new guidelines, couples are now rescheduling their weddings.Sources said a number of people who had booked banquet halls either advanced the ceremony or cancelled the booking. Some even booked banquet halls in Chandigarh or Panchkula, hitting the Mohali wedding planners’ businesses.On November 25, the state government had clamped the night curfew and decided not to allow marriage palaces and hotels to remain open beyond 9.30 pm from December 1. The government decided to review the curbs on December 15. This led to panic among those who had bookings during the period from December 1 and 15.Marriage palace owners said soon after the fresh curbs, they were flooded with calls asking them to either cancel or reschedule their functions.Since banquet halls will close by 9.30 pm, couples are in a quandary as most functions take place at night.Rajiv Sharma, manager, GK Resort, said, “We have cancelled two bookings between December 1 and 15. We have managed to arrange the bookings for two wedding events in Panchkula.” “Two couples wanted us to reschedule their wedding due to the night curfew. Now, people are asking about availability after December 15,” he said.Manjit Singh, owner of Wedlock Manor, said: “The only way out is to start the function a little early. We used to start the ceremonies by 8 pm but now we will start these at 6 pm and wind up the function by 9.30 pm. We have arranged rooms and other facilities for family members planning ‘vidaai’ after 5 am.”Sandeep Sharma, general manager, Palms Banquet, said: “We have six bookings between December 1 and 15. There have been no cancellations so far. Functions will start at 4 pm instead of 8 pm now.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fresh-covid-curbs-disrupt-wedding-plans-176899
28-11-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh MC set to get more wards||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 27With the merger of 13 villages, the Municipal Corporation (MC) is all set to get eight or nine more wards after delimitation.The UT Administration will initiate the process of delimitation after getting approval from UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore.An official said the file to fix the total number of wards, including the new wards to be created after delimitation, had been sent to the Administrator for his consent. After getting approval from the Administrator, Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar would issue a public notification, inviting suggestions and objections to the delimitation process.The official said the Administrator was likely to give his consent to the delimitation process early next week. After studying the suggestions and objections from the public, the Deputy Commissioner would issue a notification for final delimitation of wards and the entire process could take a few months, added the official. The official said the MC was likely to get eight or nine more wards after delimitation as 13 villages had been merged with the civic body last year.The process was necessitated as the MC is going to the polls in December 2021.On the basis of the 2001 census, the last delimitation of wards was held in 2006. However, the next process for delimitation of wards, which was to be held in 2015 on the basis of the 2011 census, could not be conducted as the issue of merger of the villages with the MC was still pending. At present, there are 26 wards in the MC, which include sectors and nine villages. The 13 new villages, which were included in the MC last year only are: Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas. The delimitation process would uniformly balance the population of the wards, stated the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-set-to-get-more-wards-176900
28-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||For now, no more notices over building violations||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 27In a temporary relief to 4,298 allottees of rehabilitation colonies in Mauli Jagran and Sector 52, the MC House has decided not to serve fresh building violation notices on them.A discussion was held on the issue during a General House meeting today. Later, MC Commissioner KK Yadav told the House that a committee would be formed to look into their demand for regularising the building violations by charging one-time fee. The committee will table its findings before the House for its approval. Till then, no fresh notice will be issued for violations.Along with this, house owners were directed to ensure no new construction takes place on their premises till a decision on the matter was taken. Those not abiding by the direction will face legal action.Reacting to the agenda earlier, Leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla demanded that the same norm should be applied to all colonies like the Sector 30 EWS Colony. However, he was told by other councillors that only these two rehabilitation colonies fall under the MC jurisdiction and they can decide only about them. Other colonies come under the jurisdiction of the UT Administration.Area councillors Chandrawati Shukla and Anil Dubey had proposed the agenda demanding suitable changes in the policy and regularising building violations by way of a one-time payment to provide relief to poor people and stop issuing notices to them. They had sought the relief on the grounds that the CHB violators had also been given one-time settlement offer.As per the agenda, most residents of the two colonies had violated the terms and conditions of allotment by making unauthorised constructions like cantilevers, toilets or new storeys. About 80 to 90 per cent of the licencees have sold out the transit sites on the general power of attorney.Under the scheme, only the ground floor was to be used for different trades, but the allottees built two to four floors.Other House decisions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/for-now-no-more-notices-over-building-violations-176901
28-11-2020||Panchkula||39 cases, no fatality in Panchkula||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/39-cases-no-fatality-in-panchkula-176902
28-11-2020||Sandeep Rana||Third fee relaxation for parking firms||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, November 27Even as smart features are missing at the parking lots, the agencies running 89 paid parking spaces in the city were today given licence fee relaxation for the third time in a row due to Covid.Following two firms’ submission that they will be unable to run the facilities at the present rates in the current situation, the MC General House today gave a further three-month relaxation to them. The relaxation is between 45 per cent and 65 per cent of the actual licence fee in different parking spaces. It was given for September, October and November. Officials said they had already paid the reduced amount for these months.However, there was no word regarding making the parking lots smart. At the last meeting, it was decided that if the firms fullfil the directives under the smart parking system by November 30, these will be allowed to charge on an hourly basis from December 1. However, till today, the MC has not made up its mind.On its part, the two firms had contended that it was not practical to run the lots at 100 per cent fee. They argued that since there was no crowd at parking lots of educational institutes such as the ones in Sector 34 and outside malls, it was not feasible to operate these at the current rates.At the House meeting last month, the firms were directed to pay 100 per cent fee. However, after their inability to do so, the corporation relented.“There is no point starting from scratch again. If they run away, we will have to depute our staff at the parking lots till the time we find new firms. As it is, we are short-staffed. We have told them that in case they leave after December, the relaxed amount will not be considered,” said a senior MC officer.The civic body had allowed the two companies to deposit 35 per cent to 45 per cent of the actual licence fee from June 1 to August 31, while their full fee was waived from March 16 to May 31. At present, smart features, uniform for the staff and proper display board regarding 10-minute free service are missing at the lots.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/third-fee-relaxation-for-parking-firms-176903
28-11-2020||Mohali||Youth dies as car overturns||A 28-year-old youth died in a road accident on the road separating Sector 78 and 79 here on Wednesday night. According to the police, the victim, identified as Harjinder Singh of Bhago Majra village, was going to drop his friend Harpreet Singh when their car hit the median and overturned multiple times.  Harjinder died on the spot while his friend sustained injuries. “On reaching the Civil Hospital, the doctors declared Harjinder brought dead. Harpreet Singh is undergoing treatment at the hospital,” said Bhartram, the investigating officer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-dies-as-car-overturns-176904
