28-10-2020||Chandigarh||COVID-19: 60 new cases, one more death in Chandigarh||A 60-year-old coronavirus positive woman, a resident of Chandigarh city, died, bringing the toll to 224 in the Union Territory while 60 new cases took the infection tally to 14,212 on Wednesday, according to a medical bulletin.The woman died at a private hospital in Mohali on Tuesday, the bulletin said.Chandigarh has 629 active cases of the novel coronavirus, it said.Eighty patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 13,359 in the UT, according to the bulletin.A total of 1,04,136 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing so far and 89,293 of them tested negative while reports of 106 are awaited, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-60-new-cases-one-more-death-in-chandigarh-162430
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Transport Department to e-auction fancy numbers of CH01-CC series from November 7||The Chandigarh Transport Department will hold an e-auction of the fancy registration numbers of a new series “CH01-CC” along with left over special registration numbers of previous series from November 7 to 9. Registration for participation in the e-auction will begin on October 29 and will continue till November 6. The e-auction will be started from 10 am on November 7 to 5 pm on November 9. The e-auction of the leftover fancy/special registration numbers of previous series CH01CB, CH01-CA, CH01-BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS will also be held along with the CH01-CC series. Those who purchased vehicles on Chandigarh address are eligible to participate in the e-auction. The owner of the vehicle can register himself/herself on the national transport website: https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy and the link of the same is available on the Chandigarh Administration, Transport Department website: www.chdtransport.gov.  The details of fee for registration for participating in e-auction, the list of reserve price for each special number, the detail of left over registration number of previous series and terms and conditions for e-auction is available on Transport Department website: www.chdtransport.gov.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-transport-department-to-e-auction-fancy-numbers-of-ch01-cc-series-from-november-7-162415
28-10-2020||New Delhi||Chandigarh, Himachal, Punjab have the best air pollution monitoring in India||Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab were the only ones among 23 states and union territories listed in the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) to have above average readings in the past three years for PM 10, an analysis of the National Air Quality Monitoring Programme tracking has said. NCAP policy says 104 readings are required in a year to get an accurate picture.The list shows Punjab has an average PM 10 reading of 133 over the last three years. Himachal Pradesh stands at 125, and Chandigarh at 102.This does not necessarily mean that pollution levels have gone down in these states--- in fact pollution levels in all three continue to be much higher than acceptable CPCB norms and way above the WHO limits of 10 micrograms/cubic-metre. What these rankings seem to indicate is a trend on air pollution in Chandigarh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, and that all three monitor them better than other states in the country.Delhi, meanwhile, ranked the most polluted state for PM 10 monitoring data over an average of three years. The national capital was followed by Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, according to the CarbonCopy and Respirer Living Sciences ‘dashboard’ of comparative picture of PM 2.5 and PM10 for the non-attainment cities from 2016 onward. Ghaziabad had the worst PM 10 level at 253 among 122 non-attainment cities, followed by Delhi (246) and Dhanbad (242). Dehradun ranked fourth, and was followed by Bareilly, Lucknow, Firozabad, Silcher, Noida and Kanpur. Varanasi just missed the top 10, coming in at eleventh.Santosh Harish of the Centre for Policy Research says “tracking annual average concentrations provides an objective way to verify whether air quality levels have improved or not. Annual averages have the advantage to speak better to long term exposures as opposed to episodic highs and lows”.In Punjab, Jalandhar and Ludhiana have four manual monitors each, Amritsar has three, Khanna, Patiala, Dera Bassi and Naya Nangal two each and Mandi Gobindgarh and Dera Baba Nanak one station each. Punjab's average PM10 readings for the 2016-2018 remained at 133 micrograms/cubic metre, higher in comparison to states like West Bengal, Gujarat, HP, Chandigarh, Maharashtra, TN, Andhra, Assam, MP and Chhattisgarh.Chandigarh fared the best among all NCAP states with 141 followed by Himachal Pradesh. The UT has five monitors and saw a slight annual improvement in the PM 10 levels from 105 in 2016 to 102 in 2018.  With three monitors, Himachal had a three-year average PM10 of 125, almost double the acceptable CPCB norm of 60 micrograms/cubic-metre. The dashboard provides a comprehensive picture of India’s National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) which come under the NAMP. The Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change notified the NCAP in January 2019 with the aim to reduce 20-30 per cent PM levels in 122 non-attainment cities by 2024, taking 2017 as the base year. These cities failed to meet the NAAQS standards for the period of 2011-2015 and are largely considered the most polluted cities among those being monitored.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-himachal-punjab-have-the-best-air-pollution-monitoring-in-india-162409
28-10-2020||Panchkula||70 head of cattle die after 'consuming poisonous fodder' at Panchkula's Mansa Devi Godham||In a suspected case, around 70 head of cattle died after consuming poisonous fodder at Mata Mansa Devi Godham. This is administered by Panchkula Gaushala Trust.The cattle died after eating the fodder on Tuesday evening, officials said.The exact reason behind the death of the cows is yet to be ascertained. The officials suspect, that the cows were fed contaminated fodder, which might have led to their deaths.Carcasses have been sent for post-mortem examination, and the investigation is underway.Meanwhile, the Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta visited the gaushala to take stock of the matter.He asked the officials to investigate the matter, and ensure this event could be avoided in the future.Dr Anil Banwala, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Haryana, said that they were inspecting the fodder, and water was given to these animals.The samples have been sent for forensic examination sent to Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Hisar.According to Dr Banwala, they were informed about the incident around 9:30 pm last evening, and a team of veterinary doctors was dispatched to the cow shelter soon after.“All those, who had fallen sick, were administered treatment in the sheds throughout the night,” he said.This incident was reported for the second time in the last two months.In the month of August, 18 head of cattle had lost their lives after consuming fodder at a gaushala in Saketri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-head-of-cattle-die-after-consuming-poisonous-fodder-at-panchkulas-mansa-devi-godham-162344
28-10-2020||Neha Saini||Covid induced a mental health pandemic as well||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, October 27As the world grapples with the crippling effects of the pandemic and the lockdowns, mental health had never before been the talk on the lips of people before. Many have not only been impacted economically and financially with loss of jobs and livelihoods, but emotionally as well. With growing levels of stress and depression and the loss of loved ones, this is a subject still being kept under wraps and in an attempt to start a conversation around the topic, Majha House’s online platform invited eminent authors, including Jerry Pinto, Jhilmil Breckenridge, Gayatri Gill and Amandeep Sandhu to share their end of tale and experiences.Award winning author Jerry Pinto, whose book, ‘Emm and the Big Hoom’ won the prestigious Windham-Campbell Prize as well as the Sahitya Akademi Award articulated how it is to love a person suffering from mental health problems and why the more you talk, the better. “The silence around this taboo subject needs to be broken by conversation and communication. We live in a society that is in denial about a lot of social ailments,” he said. Agreeing with Pinto, poet and writer Jhilmil Breckenridge, who joined the conversation from London, talked about the obsession we have with beauty and positivity that result in denial of mental health issues. “India is surrounded by this culture of toxic positivity fuelled by capitalism where everyone has to feel alright and deny the existence of illness, especially mental illness.”Author Amandeep Sandhu, said that the pandemic has been brutal to people who are diagnosed with mental illness. “The distancing, no contact, the difficulty in access to medicine and doctors has meant that it has been a catastrophic time. There have been reports that people suffering from mental disorders like dementia, bipolar etc have deteriorated amid the pandemic.”Veteran journalist Nirupama Dutt talked about how job cuts led to mental stress disorders. She confessed that she had faced an acute breakdown in communication after her younger and older colleagues lost their jobs and this was like a sword hanging over her head. “The isolation, the fear and stress was so great. At a time like that it was family support, friends and my work that came to my rescue,” she reminisced.Gayatri Gill, screenplay writer with her first book ‘The Day Before Today’, spoke about how she was depressed in the early days of the lockdown in Mumbai that these stories came tumbling out of her head. “What we have seen in these times has affected us all and will never forget what we have learnt now,” she said. For children and older people these last eight months have been particularly gruelling. Children, especially young kids, have no idea that life exists outside the computer screen where they have classes and also interact with friends — it has been so weird!” Gill added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-induced-a-mental-health-pandemic-as-well-162189
28-10-2020||Muktsar||Five days after Malout murder, cops clueless||Five days after four unidentified armed attackers shot dead a youth, facing nearly a dozen criminal cases, in his car at Aulakh village on the Muktsar-Malout road here, the police are so far clueless. No one has been rounded up in this connection.Linked to SOPU ex-prez Gurlal Brar killing?Unidentified person(s) in an FB post from account of SOPU ex-chief Gurlal Brar, who was shot in Chandigarh on October 10, claimed responsibility for murdering Ranjit SinghRanjit Singh, alias Rana Sidhu, a former kabaddi player, associated with the NSUI, was travelling in his car along with pregnant wife to see a doctor at Aulakh village on Thursday when three persons chasing him in a car fired nearly 15 bullets and fled. He died on the spot.Rajpal Singh, SP (D), Muktsar, said, “As per the autopsy report, 11 bullets were pulled out from the deceased’s body. His family has not raised suspicion on anyone. But we are probing it from all angles. We are trying to locate the person who posted on Facebook from the account of Gurlal Brar, taking the responsibility of the murder, tagging gangster Lawrence Bishnoi.”Sources claimed that it was a result of some old gang war as Rana was once linked with gangster Jaipal Ferozepur’s gang. “After Rana’s close aides Jimmy Sidhu and Davinder Bambiha were killed, he too had claimed that some people were trying to eliminate him,” said a relative of the deceased. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-days-after-malout-murder-cops-clueless-162070
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Two held with charas, heroin worth Rs 12 lakh||Two alleged drug peddlers were nabbed by the UT police and 112.58-gm heroin worth Rs12 lakh and 608-gm charas were seized from them.DSP (Central) Kirshan Kumar said a naka was laid at the road separating Sector 8 and 9 yesterday. A person was apprehended on suspicion and during checking, 112.58-gm heroin was recovered from his possession. The suspect has been identified as Jaswinder (25) of Anandpur Sahib.Another drug peddler was nabbed at a naka laid on the road separating Sector 2 and 11. Officials said a motorcyclist was stopped for checking and 608-gm charas was seized. The suspect has been identified as Vineet Thakur (32) of Nayagaon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-with-charas-heroin-worth-rs-12-lakh-161983
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Triangular contest for Bar Association poll||Three candidates will fight for the post of president of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh.Nineteen candidates are contesting for various posts of the executive body of the association. The nomination process has concluded. The poll is scheduled for November 6.The election is going to be held after a delay of over six months. Advocates Munish Dewan, Neeraj Hans and Bhaag Singh Suhag have filed their nominations for the post of president.The election was earlier scheduled for April, but was postponed due to the Covid pandemic.The supporters of the contenders have started campaigning through the social media. Door-to-door campaigning is also in full swing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/triangular-contest-for-bar-association-poll-161984
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Infantry Day observed at Chandimandir||The 74th Infantry Day was observed at the Chandimandir Military Station today with a solemn wreath-laying ceremony at the Veer Smriti War Memorial for paying tributes to the martyrs.Maj Gen Manjinder Singh, Major General General Staff (Operations), Headquarters Western Command, paid floral tributes to the martyrs at the memorial on the behalf of the Infantry fraternity of the command.It was on this day in 1947 that troops of the 1st Battalion of the Sikh Regiment landed at Srinagar Airport to defend the Kashmir Valley against the onslaught of Pakistani raiders. The day is commemorated as Infantry Day every year since then. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/infantry-day-observed-at-chandimandir-161959
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Cop refuses to go on poll duty, suspended||The UT Police Department today suspended an Inspector, posted in the security wing, for refusing to go on election duty in Haryana. Rajdeep Singh has been suspended and transferred to the Police Lines, Sector 26. The suspension orders were issued by UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal.The SSP said the Inspector was suspended on the basis of prima facie enquiry conducted by DSP Rashmi Yadav.Sources said the Inspector could not attend the election duty, citing medical reasons.The SSP said how could he be unfit when he was performing his duty in the city? “It’s totally indiscipline in the force, which won’t be tolerated,” the SSP said.The bypoll in Baroda, Sonipat, is scheduled to be held on November 3. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-refuses-to-go-on-poll-duty-suspended-161967
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||Visit Panjab University, Chandigarh, to complete admission forms today||The PU ABVP and SOI units staged a protest outside the Administrative Block of the PU here today. They were demanding that the authorities should adjust the examination fee for intermediate classes, conduct PUCET entrance (for LLB/MBA) and open the admission portal.The protest turned ugly when students tried to enter the Administrative Block premises by damaging the barricades. “The Controller of Examination and the DSW assured us to hold a meeting with the authorities. This protest was held keeping in mind the inability of students to fill forms due to unfavourable conditions these days,” said a SOI member.‘Can’t open portal’Officials met the students and discussed their demands. They decided that those who had registered for entrance test but failed to apply on the portal, can submit their forms at the PU till October 28. “The process of opening of the admission portal will take at least five days and may delay the admission process. Therefore, the candidates, who have failed to upload form on the admission portal have to come to the office of the Director of the APJ Abdul Kalam Computer Centre in person and complete their forms till October 28 (5pm),” said an official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/visit-panjab-university-chandigarh-to-complete-admission-forms-today-161956
28-10-2020||---||Vendors to get sites in all Panchkula sectors||Panchkula, October 27Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta directed the officials concerned to crack a whip on street vendors encroaching on public space in all sectors ahead of the festive season.To ensure safety against Covid-19, Gupta said the administration would provide vendors with temporary sites in every sector and rural areas to set up stalls.The vendors can apply for sites online before November 7 and they will be charged for the first three days after which they can stay at the site by paying on a per day basis.He urged the officials to make sure that the rates were minimal and less than Chandigarh.“Sanitation issues won’t be tolerated around the sites and strict action will be taken against violatiors,” he said.He was presiding over a district-level meeting at Haryana Vidhan Sabha secretariat.Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, MC Commissioner RK Singh and Executive Officer Jarnail Singh, HSVP Administrator Mahavir Kaushik and Estate Officer Anil Kumar Doon and others were present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vendors-to-get-sites-in-all-panchkula-sectors-161989
28-10-2020||---||Five development projects of Panchkula inaugurated||Panchkula, October 27Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today dedicated 15 development projects worth Rs 105.21 crore to the people of Panchkula district via video-conferencing.Haryana Speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta was the chief guest at the district-level event held to mark the first anniversary of the BJP-JJP coalition government in the state, at the PWD Rest House in Sector 1.Five development projects were inaugurated while foundation stone was laid for 10.Gupta said, “On the lines of Chandigarh, dedicated cycle tracks are being built in Panchkula at a cost of Rs8 crore and the construction of an ROB to connect remaining areas of the city with Sector 20 is under way. Around Rs52 crore will be spent on the project.”The projects which were inaugurated included a government polytechnic-cum-multi-skill centre in Sector 26, a government college in Raipur Rani and a sports stadium at Government College, Kalka.The projects for which foundation stones were laid include a multi-level parking at Nada Sahib Gurdwara to be built under the PRASAD scheme and an old age home at Mansa Devi Complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-development-projects-of-panchkula-inaugurated-161986
28-10-2020||---||Manoj Parida administers oath to Secretariat employees||Chandigarh, October 27A pledge-taking ceremony to observe Vigilance Awareness Week from October 27 to November 2 was held at the UT Secretariat on Tuesday with the theme, “Sarthak Bharat, Samriddh Bharat” (Vigilant India, Prosperous India).UT Adviser Manoj Parida administered oath to employees of the UT Secretariat in the presence of senior officers of the Administration.The Adviser as a Chief Vigilance Officer of the UT Administration attended a video-conference by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on transparency and anti-corruption issues in the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/manoj-parida-administers-oath-to-secretariat-employees-161971
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||CITCO yet to shut gate in boundary wall of Sector 10, Chandigarh hotel||The CITCO authorities have failed to close a gate in the rear boundary wall of Hotel Mountview, Sector 10, even after getting instructions from the Chief Architect four months ago.In a complaint to the UT Administration on March 16, 2020, Col Kulwinder Singh (retd), president of the RWA, Sector 10, stated that the authorities had opened a gate illegally in the rear boundary wall of the hotel.Acting on the complaint, the Chief Architect, Department of Urban Planning, sent a letter to the CITCO authorities on June 30, and stated that no such entry was permitted as per the approved Zoning Plan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/citco-yet-to-shut-gate-in-boundary-wall-of-sector-10-chandigarh-hotel-161973
28-10-2020||---||Sex racket busted in Panchkula, four women among 8 held||Panchkula, October 27The police today claimed to have busted a sex racket involving foreign women with the arrest of eight persons.Three of the four women involved in the racket were from Uzbekistan and the other from Turkey. They were aged between 20 and 40 and were staying in the country illegally, the police said.The other four persons arrested in the case have been identified as Aditya Goyal, alias Sunny, from Uttar Pradesh, who currently resides in Sigma City, Zirakpur, and is a key suspect; Manmohan Singh, alias Raju, of Rupnagar in Punjab, who currently resides in Sector 12; Shekhar Kumar from Banka in Bihar, who is also putting up in Sector 12; and Ganesh Kumar of Madhubani in Bihar, also a resident of Sector 12.Another key suspect, identified as Ashok Chauhan, is absconding.Acting on a tip-off that a sex racket involving several women from India and abroad was being run from a kothi in Sector 12 by Goyal and Chauhan, the police sent a decoy customer to meet the pimp before raiding the place on Monday night.A team of the Sector 5 police station, under the supervision of ACP Raj Kumar and Inspector Aman Kumar of the crime branch, raided the house and arrested the suspects.“The suspects operating the racket have a network of call girls. They used to supply women to hotels and other places through Manmohan, a driver,” said Panchkula Deputy Commissioner Mohit Kumar Handa while addressing a press conference.“The foreign women have been staying in the country illegally. We have informed the high commissions concerned about the matter,” he said.A case has been registered under Sections 3, 4, 5 and 7 of the Immoral Trafficking Act and Sections 370, 420, 465, 468, 471, 120-B and 34 of the IPC. The suspects were produced in a local court today, which sent them to judicial custody.12 held in Zirakpur, nine girls rescued Zirakpur: The police raided a hotel in Baltana on Monday night and arrested 12 persons for immoral trafficking. Nine girls were rescued and handed over to their kin.DSP Gurbakhshish Singh said on the basis of a tip-off, the police raided the hotel in Wadhwa Nagar of Baltana late on Monday night.Four others named in the FIR have been identified as Dev Rana of Sunny Enclave, Zirakpur; Sri Bhagwan of Sector 19, Panchkula; Deepak of Vaidi Camp, Mubarikpur; and Hans Raj Sharma of Lohgarh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sex-racket-busted-in-panchkula-four-women-among-8-held-161961
28-10-2020||Chandigarh||BMW car catches fire in Chandigarh||Three persons riding a BMW car had a narrow escape after the vehicle suddenly caught fire at the Sector 46/47 roundabout this afternoon.The car occupants were on their way to Mohali when the incident took place. They immediately got out of the car and informed the Fire Department following which a fire engine was rushed to the spot.The car was completely damaged before the fire was doused. The police also reached the spot and recorded the statements of the vehicle occupants. A daily diary report (DDR) has been lodged at the Sector 31 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bmw-car-catches-fire-in-chandigarh-161987
28-10-2020||---||Day after, safety on Chandigarh Municipal Corporation mind||Chandigarh, October 27A day after The Tribune reported the violation of the social distancing norms at the MC office, the civic body deputed an official to check overcrowding and ensure turn-wise entry of vendors into the premises.Vendors were not allowed to enter the area where counters were set up. Their documents were collected by the staff and they were called in one by one.Yesterday, they were seen jostling with each other outside the counters as social distancing went for a toss. The vendors were identified in the 2016 survey, but were not registered as they did not have a Chandigarh Aadhaar card. However, now the MC is registering them too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-safety-on-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-mind-161985
28-10-2020||---||Chandigarh Adviser visits camp for pre-fab shelter occupants||Chandigarh, October 27Manoj Parida, UT Adviser-cum-Chairman, Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), visited a camp being organised for occupants of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 here today.The occupants will be relocated to EWS flatsin Maloya-I on a rental basis under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHC) scheme of the Centre.The Adviser interacted with applicants and appreciated the compliance of Covid-19 protocols by them. He instructed the officers to guide the applicants properly and provide them maximum possible assistance in the completion of required formalities.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said a total of 597 applicants attended the camp in the first two days to complete the documentation. The camp would continue till Thursday. The remaining applicants might be called in the first week of November.Garg said the flats would be handed over to the occupants after Diwali. Water and electricity connections would be released on the day of possession itself.The CEO said some of the occupants of pre-fab shelters were having certain doubts about their pending claims under the Chandigarh Small Flats Scheme-2006. It was clarified to the residents of pre-fab shelters in Sector 52 and 56 that any application under the ARHC scheme would not be a bar to their claim, if any, under the Chandigarh Small Flats Scheme-2006.“In case of any allotment under the Chandigarh Small Flats Scheme-2006, the present rental agreement will be accordingly modified,” he said.Hence all such residents of pre-fab shelters, whose name appears in the list available on the CHB website, may apply under the ARHC scheme because it would not affect their pending claims under the Chandigarh Small Flats Scheme-2006. This way they would have an opportunity of dignified living in a EWS flat having two rooms, kitchen space, bathroom, WC and balcony, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adviser-visits-camp-for-pre-fab-shelter-occupants-161988
28-10-2020||---||Two Ambala men held for betting on IPL match||Ambala, October 27The Ambala police have arrested two men for allegedly betting on an IPL match between Kolkata Knight Riders and Kings XI Punjab last night.The suspects have been identified as Vikas Garg, and Nishant, both residents of Ambala Cantonment.Acting on a tip-off, a team of the CIA-2 unit, Ambala, conducted a raid on a rented accommodation in Mahesh Nagar around 10 pm yesterday and arrested both suspects. The police recovered a laptop, five mobile phones, a TV set, and Rs9,000 from their possession.The suspects were produced before a court, which sent them to one-day police remand. A case was registered against the duo under Sections 3, 4 and 13-A of the Public Gambling Act and Sections 420 and 120-B of IPC at the Mahesh Nagar police station.CIA-2 in-charge Subhash said: “We got a tip-off that Vikas and Nishant are involved in betting on IPL matches, following which a raid was conducted. The suspects were produced before a court, which sent them to one-day police remand. They were active for the past 10 days. Involvement of five more persons and a bookie, Sukhi Chandigarh, had come to fore. They will also be arrested soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-ambala-men-held-for-betting-on-ipl-match-161964
28-10-2020||---||Delimitation map on display at Mohali Municipal Corporation hall||Mohali, October 27The Local Bodies Department has released a map of redrawn boundaries of the Mohali Municipal Corporation wards and it has become a source of varied opinions ahead of the upcoming elections.The map has been displayed at the conference hall of the MC for public viewing for one week.Manjit Singh Sethi, former Deputy MayorThe delimitation board has members who are relatives of those in power. A former councillor who will himself stand in this year’s elections is a member of the board. I will submit my objections regarding the redrawing of boundaries of my ward. If need be, I will go to court. Onlookers, however, say it has not been displayed and just a flex drawing has been kept on the table. ‘’Displaying, at least, means hanging it properly against a wall. The map has been kept on a conference table. What if somebody comes and tears it? It can get torn accidentally also,’’ said a political activist.Officials expressed helplessness by saying that it was not possible to display it on a wall as there was no space for it in the conference hall.On the first day of public display, three suggestions/objections were registeredMC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “The public can give suggestions/objections regarding the delimitation of wards in writing till Sunday (5 pm). Three objections were registered on Monday. All of them would be considered in the next meeting of the delimitation board.”Sitting councillors and ticket aspirants from various parties have been streaming the office and taking a look at their battlefield. “There have been too many changes in the existing wards,” noted a sitting councillor.Former SAD councillors Paramjit Singh Kahlon, Kamaljit Singh Ruby and RP Sharma alleged that all wards where SAD and BJP councillors were in power had been “tampered with”.Former Congress councillor Amrik Singh Gill said the map should have details of phases and sectors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delimitation-map-on-display-at-mohali-municipal-corporation-hall-161975
28-10-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Decks cleared for mother and child care centre at GMCH-32, Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27Decks have been cleared for the construction of a mother and child care centre at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 here. The hospital authorities have submitted the duly approved drawing of the centre to the Chief Architect, Department of Urban Planning, UT, for approval.Sanctioned by the UT Administration last year, the centre will be set up in the K Block of the GMCH-32 at an estimated cost of Rs38 crore.The UT Administration had approved the construction of an emergency-cum-trauma centre and a mother and child care centre at the GMCH-32 with an estimated cost of Rs52.77 crore and Rs38.06 crore, respectively.The UT Engineering Department had recently floated tenders for the construction of the 200-bed emergency-cum-trauma centre in front of the existing Emergency. However, the work on the 348-bed mother and child care centre could not be started as the Obstetrics and Gynaecology Department of the GMCH-32 had raised some objections over the design of the centre.A senior official of the GMCH-32 said the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology had made some changes in the design of the centre and the same had been submitted to the Department of Urban Planning for approval.After getting approval from the Chief Architect, the Engineering Department would float tenders for the construction of the centre, he said.With the construction of the twin projects, the GMCH-32 will get a major boost in healthcare facilities, which will benefits patients from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and other states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decks-cleared-for-mother-and-child-care-centre-at-gmch-32-chandigarh-161966
28-10-2020||Sandeep Rana||Rs 48-cr multi-level parking lot in Sector 17, Chandigarh, turns ‘free taxi stand’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 27The Rs 48-crore multi-level parking lot of the cash-starved Municipal Corporation is becoming a sort of free taxi stand.Throwing all rules to the wind, around 70 taxis of a private car rental service operator are being parked with irregular charges on the second floor the parking lot, which is already running into losses.Manmohan Singh, who runs Tara BrothersWe used to have our taxi stand here before this parking lot was built. We were not allotted any place by the civic body. We have no option but to park our vehicles here. I know it is not allowed, but we pay charges for all cars. “This parking lot is operated from 8 am to 8 pm. However, cars of a taxi operator, Tara Brothers, remain parked here even during night hours. The taxi operator is not paying charges for all vehicles. Whenever we ask him for payment, he pays only for a few cars after several days. The parking area is being misused and officers are least bothered about it,” said a source privy to the development.He said the taxi operator had been parking vehicles here for the past around one and a half years without paying any charges. He had started paying money for the past few months, but did not get slips for all vehicles.“Someone has damaged the shutter at the parking lot. Thus, these taxis cannot be stopped from entering the lot at night. We have no security to check this practice. Some illegal activities may also take place here at night,” he said.Manmohan Singh, who runs Tara Brothers, claimed: “We used to have our taxi stand here before this parking lot was built. We were not allotted any place by the civic body. We have no option but to park our vehicles here. I know it is not allowed, but we pay charges for all cars.”MC Additional Commissioner SK Jain, who heads the parking wing, said: “I will get it checked and seek details.”Vehicles parked on roof of parking lotCrores have been spent on building this facility, but due to the apathetic attitude of MC officials, people park cars on the roof of the parking lot to avoid paying charges.“While most part of the multi-level parking lot is lying vacant, people continue to park vehicles on its roof. Most of these cars belong to shopkeepers. Now, visitors have also started parking their four-wheelers on the roof of the parking lot,” said an insider.“People even park vehicles on footpaths, which damages tiles. In case of an eventuality, it will be difficult for fire tenders or emergency vehicles to find a way,” said an official.He said: “The Municipal Corporation is busy in increasing water tariffs, but ignoring the place from where it can earn money.”There are three floors in the parking lot with a capacity to park 950 cars. Most of the parking space here remains unoccupied as not many people prefer parking their vehicles here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-48-cr-multi-level-parking-lot-in-sector-17-chandigarh-turns-free-taxi-stand-161982
28-10-2020||---||Covid-19: Two die, 28 more infected in Mohali||Mohali, October 27Two deaths and 28 new cases of Covid were reported from the district today.As many as 92 patients have been cured of the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases reported today, 21 were from Mohali, three from Kharar, two from Dera Bassi and one each from Lalru and Banur. The district tally has reached 12,146 and 11,420 patients have been cured. There are 491 active cases. So far, the district has reported 235 deaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-two-die-28-more-infected-in-mohali-161990
28-10-2020||Zirakpur||Man ‘attacks’ wife with sword||DBU celebrates foundation dayChandigarh: Desh Bhagat University (DBU) celebrated its foundation day with a cultural programme on the campus. Dr Zora Singh, Chancellor, DBU, and Pro-Chancellor Tejinder Kaur congratulated the staff members and appreciated their contribution to building the DBU as a successful and result-oriented educational hub. “We are happy to share that the university has been accorded with the coveted 12 (B) status by the UGC for its academic excellence,” said Singh. TNSBansal IS new SP (Traffic)Chandigarh: The UT Administrator has appointed Ketan Bansal, a 2016-batch IPS officer of the AGMUT cadre, as the Superintendent of Police (Traffic). Bansal will report to the SSP (Security and Traffic), UT. He had joined the UT Administration on October 8. TNSResults declaredChandigarh: Panjab University announced the results of Certificate Course in Urdu, Diploma in Urdu, Advanced Diploma in Urdu, BA (Hons) Economics, Certificate Course in Persian, Diploma in Persian and Advanced Diploma in Persian. TNSSenators now approach Punjab CMChandigarh: As many as 15 Senators from Panjab University and representatives of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) have now written to Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, requesting him to interfere in the issue pertaining to the postponement of the Senate elections. Notably, Syndics and PUTA had earlier approached the UT Administrator and the UT Adviser on the same issue. The Senate poll has been postponed twice and a Board of Governors is likely to be formed. TNSSmart ration cards givenMohali: Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu distributed 4,771 smart ration cards among beneficiaries of four villages — Sohana, Mataur, Balongi and Shahimajra. With the card, one can get foodgrain from any approved depot in the state. Among the recipients, 900 were from Sohana village, 752 from Mataur, 594 from Shahimajra village and 2,525 from Balongi. TNS‘Perform duties with devotion’Mohali: Aiming to eradicate corruption from society, BK Uppal, ADGP-cum-Chief Director, Vigilance Bureau, Punjab, on Tuesday administered pledge to all officers at the Punjab Vigilance Bhawan here on the first day of Vigilance Awareness Week. While addressing officials after administering the pledge, BK Uppal said: “It is the moral duty of the Vigilance Bureau personnel to sensitise people to their rights and duties to check corruption and assist the VB in its efforts to root out the evil from society”. He asked all officers to perform their duties with devotion and dedication. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-attacks-wife-with-sword-161991
28-10-2020||---||Rashly driven SUV snuffs out two lives in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 27A 26-year-old Activa rider and an eight-year-old boy were killed, while three others were injured after a recklessly driven SUV hit the scooter before hitting a pedestrian and a rickshaw on the road separating Sector 32 and 33 this evening.The speeding Tata Nexon, bearing a Punjab number and being driven by Dilpreet Singh (25), a resident of Faridkot, Punjab, first hit the Activa, being driven by Robin (26), from the rear side. Victims Rajwant Kaur (36) and her son Amrit (8), both residents of Pinjore, had taken a lift from the Activa rider and they were riding pillion. Rajwant was tossed into the air and fell on the windscreen of the SUV.The SUV then hit a pedestrian, Shashi (32), a resident of Hallo Majra. The vehicle then hit a rickshaw, being ridden by Naseem, a resident of Sector 27, from the rear side.The driver then drove it towards the pedestrian path.Passersby rushed to the rescue of the injured and the police were informed. Two ambulances shifted the injured to the GMCH, Sector 32, where Robin and Amrit were declared brought dead.The remaining three victims are undergoing treatment.The SUV driver was nabbed from the spot and taken to the Sector 34 police station.A case against the driver has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by an act endangering the life and personal safety of others) and 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder). The vehicle was impounded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rashly-driven-suv-snuffs-out-two-lives-in-chandigarh-161978
28-10-2020||---||Covid-19: One death, 67 new cases in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 27The city today saw one death due to Covid and 67 fresh cases. The UT tally now stands at 14,152.A 30-year-old man from Burail succumbed at the PGI.A total of 49 patients were discharged today, taking the total number of recoveries to 13,279.The city has 650 active cases while 223 patients have died of the virus.The UT conducted 1,155 tests in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-one-death-67-new-cases-in-chandigarh-161949
28-10-2020||---||Covid-19: At GMSH-16, Chandigarh OPDs, only 3 of 328 test positive||Chandigarh, October 27Even as Covid-19 cases are showing a downward trend in the city, the UT Health Department has been maintaining testing numbers to an average of over 600 per day by convincing residents to come forward for voluntary testing. The test positivity rate among random population has so far been quite low, indicating that the infection is under control in the city.— Arun Gupta, PRincipal Secretary (Health), UTUT shifts focusWe have shifted our focus from targeted testing to random. This has been done because not many people are willing to come to a health facility for giving samples. Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, today started testing patients coming to OPDs by counselling them to get themselves tested. Of the 328 samples collected from different OPDs, only three tested positive for the contagion.Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, Director, Health Services, UT, said, “We have started testing patients coming to OPDs by counselling them to come forward for testing. This way, we will know the positivity rate among the patients coming to the OPDs. They are sick and hence fall under the high-risk group category. The positivity rate among the random population is quite low. As many as 118 samples were collected at a temple in Sector 20 and all of them tested negative.”Besides, the department has directed that asymptomatic elderly and patients with comorbidities should be counselled for admission to hospitals instead of home isolation to prevent Covid fatalities.200 oximeters issuedThe UT Administrator said stringent checking and testing would continue in the festive season. As many as 200 pulse oximeters have been issued to each zonal head to be given to elderly comorbid patients in home isolation. The UT has made special arrangements to deploy extra teams in OPDs for Covid testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-at-gmsh-16-chandigarh-opds-only-3-of-328-test-positive-161950
28-10-2020||---||Covid-19: Panchkula breaches 7,000 mark||Panchkula, October 27The district crossed the 7,000 mark in terms of the number of Covid cases reported so far as 33 fresh infections surfaced today. The number of cumulative cases stands at 7,017.Among the fresh cases, four each were from Sector 21 and Sector 8, three each from Kalka, Sector 20 and Sector 27, two each from Nada Sahib, Sector 12-A, Sector 6 and Sector 7, and one each from Amravati Enclave, MDC, Sector 4, Pinjore, Sector 12, Sector 17, Sector 25, Sector 4 and Sector 9.The district also recorded one death today, taking the toll to 111. A 64-year-old man from Amravati Enclave, who was suffering from diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease and coronary artery disease, succumbed to the virus.As many as 6,740 patients have been cured so far. The district recovery rate is 96 per cent. There are 166 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-panchkula-breaches-7-000-mark-161951
28-10-2020||---||Youth killed, 2 hurt as car falls off bridge in Mohali||Mohali, October 27A 19-year-old youth died while his two friends were injured when a speeding car fell off a bridge on Airport Road here on Monday night.The deceased has been identified as Desraj, a resident of Balongi. Desraj used to run a paying guest accommodation in Balongi.The incident occurred around half an hour past midnight when Desraj, Pradeep, aka Pargat, and Deepak, all residents of Balongi, were going towards Mohali from Sunny Enclave in their car. The car driver, Pradeep, lost control of the vehicle when a stray animal came in front of it. The car hit the bridge on the road and fell off.The trio was taken to the Civil Hospital where doctors declared Desraj brought dead. Pradeep was later shifted to the PGI where he is undergoing treatment. Deepak was discharged today from the hospital, said the police.Amardeep Singh, SHO, Balongi police station, said, “The car fell from a height of approximately 15 feet. Desraj was sitting on the seat next to that of the driver. We have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.”The post-mortem of the victim was conducted at the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 today and the body was handed over to his family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-killed-2-hurt-as-car-falls-off-bridge-in-mohali-161952
