29-05-2020||Chandigarh||No new case of COVID-19 in Chandigarh on Friday||No fresh case of COVID-19 was reported in Chandigarh on Friday, a medical bulletin said.The number of total COVID-19 cases stands at 289 in the Union Territory.Three family members and two community contacts of a 91-year-old woman, who had contracted COVID-19 on Thursday, tested negative for the infection, the bulletin said.A total of 4,543 samples had been tested so far, and of them, 4,222 had come negative while reports of 31 were awaited, it said.A total of 96 cases are active in the city while 189 patients have so far been discharged from hospitals after they recovered from the virus.Four people have died of COVID-19 in the city, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-new-case-of-covid-19-in-chandigarh-on-friday-91668
29-05-2020||Mumbai||Vindu Dara Singh flies from Chandigarh to Mumbai, shares airport video||Vindu Dara Singh flew from Chandigarh to Mumbai on Friday morning. The actor took to Twitter to share a video from Chandigarh airport where it was raining in the morning.Sharing the video of a half-empty Chandigarh airport, Vindu tweeted: "Taking my first flight since ages #Chandigarh to #Mumbai and the airport is immaculate with all precautions! It's a joke when they say a person landed and got positive on a 2 hour flight despite mask ect just 33 on board so airlines in loss but so is the world ! Life will go on."Commenting on his tweet, a user asked him why is he travelling to Mumbai at a time when COVID-19 positive cases are spiking in the city. Replying to the comment, the actor offered an explanation.Taking my first flight since ages #Chandigarh to #Mumbai & the airport is immaculate with all precautions! It’s a joke when they say a person landed and got positive on a 2 hour flight despite mask ect just 33 on board so airlines in loss but so is the world ! Life will go on 💓 pic.twitter.com/jod6J8FBvd  He wrote: "Jahan testing zyada wahan cases zyada (where testing is being done in huge numbers, more cases are being detected) and mumbai has a lot of people living in close proximity so it will definitely have maximum tension with positive cases but it's a city that never stops and has a never say die spirit. We will rock again soon in aamchi. #Mumbai."As soon as flight operations resumed film and television celebrities have started travelling home. Earlier this week, actress Radhika Madan flew to her home in Delhi. TV actors Karanveer Mehra, Rohan Mehra, Parth Samthaan and Himansh Kohli also flew home recently. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vindu-dara-singh-flies-from-chandigarh-to-mumbai-shares-airport-video-91599
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Pictures: Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula witness rain, temperature drops||Rainfall lashed Chandigarh and its surrounding areas on Friday, leading to a drop in temperatures by a few notches and bringing a much-needed relief from the heat.Adjoining towns of Mohali in Punjab and Panchkula in Haryana also witnessed showers.A severe heatwave swept Punjab and Haryana earlier this week, with Hisar registering a high of 48 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The maximums had hovered around 43-45 degrees Celsius at many other places too.The Meteorological Department had forecast light to moderate rain or thundershowers at many places in the two states on May 29 and 30, and at isolated places thereafter in the region. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pictures-chandigarh-mohali-and-panchkula-witness-rain-temperature-drops-91579
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh's MC conducts meeting via video-conference, on agenda Rs 3 crores for sanitizers, masks||The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation is holding its monthly General House meeting through video-conferencing.The meetings were not held in March and April due to the ongoing coronavirus crisis, but after a few councillors suggested, they decided to hold the meeting via video-conferencing.Several important agendas, including the development of 13 UT villages, road recarpeting, lowering reserve price of Sector 48 booths, starting public bike-sharing system from Industrial Area and setting up city's first animal carcass incineration plant, will be taken up during the MC house meeting.Besides, the local MC will also table the agenda of spending Rs 2.82 crore to buy sanitisers, gloves, masks and PPE kits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-mc-conducts-meeting-via-video-conference-on-agenda-rs-3-crores-for-sanitizers-masks-91570
29-05-2020||Patiala||Flouting norms, union members protest without social distancing||Protests are being held in the city flouting guidelines issued by the District Magistrate office in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Members of Class Fourth Government Employees Union and PWD Field and Workshop Workers Union failed to ensure proper social distancing while protesting at the DC office today.The PWD field and Workshop Workers Union raised the matter of providing jobs to families of workers, who had died. They were also demanding promotions of field workers, which were pending. Members of the Class Fourth Government Employees Union also held a protest at the district administration office today.When contacted, SDM Chanranjit Singh said, “We have issued proper guidelines regarding preventive measures to be taken in view of the Covid-19 threat. Action can also be taken under Section 188, IPC, as the Pandemic Act has been enforced.”“Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had also gathered in numbers during a protest, but we directed them not to do so. The people are advised to strictly abide by the rules as promulgated for their own safety,” the SDM added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/flouting-norms-union-members-protest-without-social-distancing-91507
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury dips, brings relief||Theft at house in Sector 45Chandigarh: Thieves decamped with jewellery and cash from a house in Sector 45 while the family was asleep on the intervening night of May 26 and 27. According to the police, complainant Rupinder Pal Singh (64) reported that he and his family were asleep when someone entered the house and committed the theft. Singh, a property dealer, stated that they had left the rear gate of the house open by mistake. The next day, Rs 7,500, jewellery items, including two gold bangles, two rings, a chain, two diamonds, a kitty set, 10 silver coins and some documents, including a cheque book, were found stolen. The police were informed about the incident, who registered a case at the Sector 34 police station. TNSMan booked for raping 28-yr-oldChandigarh: A city resident has been booked by the police for allegedly raping a 28-year-old woman. Sources said the victim, a resident of Hallo Majra, reported that the suspect, Sonu Dhiman, used to stalk her. She alleged that she was raped by the man during the lockdown. However, she didn’t complain to the police at that time. On May 22, the suspect again arrived at her house and allegedly raped her. On Wednesday, the victim submitted a complaint following which a case was registered against the suspect at the Sector 31 police station. TNSResults of BSc, MSc declaredChandigarh: Panjab University declared the results of MSc Fashion Lifestyle & Technology (III semester), MSc (Hons) Botany (I semester), BSc (Hons) in Biophysics (I semester), Bachelor of Homeopathic Medicine and Surgery, Master of computer application (IV semester) and Master of Architecture (III semester). TNSOne booked for kidnapping minorMohali: The local police have booked an unknown man for allegedly kidnapping a minor girl on Wednesday night. The victim’s father complained to the police that his daughter went out of their home in Alipur village, but did not return. Inspector Manphul Singh said police was investigating the matter. A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 363 and 366-A of the IPC. TNSInternational WebinarChandigarh: The Centre for Police Administration, PU, organised an international webinar titled “Protecting the Front line: Prioritizing Police Wellness”. TNSYouth held with 50-gm heroinChandigarh: The crime branch of the UT police have recovered 50-gram heroin from possession of a 22-year-old youth on May 27. The suspect has been identified as Vishal, a resident of Sector 25. He was arrested near Shiv temple, Phase II, Ram Darbar. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against Vishal at Sector 31 police station. The police said the suspect had been booked in a snatching case at Sector 39 police station. TNSTwo nabbed with 24-kg poppy huskKharar: The police have claimed to recover 24-kg poppy husk from possession of two persons. The suspects have been identified as Avtar Singh, a resident of Haveli Kalan village, and Harjinder Singh, a resident of Thali Khurd. The duo was carrying the contraband in a truck. Ghauran Station House Officer Kailash Bahadur said the duo was used to bring poppy husk from Rajasthan and sell it in the area. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against Avtar and Harjinder. The suspects were produced before a local court on Wednesday, which remanded them to four-day police custody. OC2 held for not wearing maskChandigarh: Two persons were arrested for not wearing mask at Ram Darbar, Industrial Area. According to the police, Sanjay, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase I, was found roaming without a face mask. Another person, Gopiram, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase II, was roaming without a face mask at Hallo Majra. Both the suspects were arrested and later released on bail. TNS17-year-old held for raping minorPanchkula: A 17-year-old boy was apprehended by the police in connection with the rape of a minor. The incident was reported on May 12. The boy was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board and later sent to Ambala Observation Home. A case was registered under the POCSO Act at Sector 20 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mercury-dips-brings-relief-91276
29-05-2020||---||Maid found dead at employer’s house||Panchkula, May 28A 22-year-old maid from Budanpur was found dead in her employer’s house in Sector 16 under mysterious circumstances last night. The police suspect it could be a murder as the woman’s body bore injury marks on the neck.The body was sent for a postmortem to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6. It was later handed over to her family, who conducted her last rites.The police have filed a daily diary report (DDR) in this regard. An FIR is, however, yet to be registered.Brij Pal, Sector 16 chowki in-charge, said, “The police were alerted about the matter around 8.30 pm last night. We found the woman lying dead on the floor with injury marks under mysterious circumstances. She had started working here a week ago. Before that, the victim’s mother used to work as a domestic help in the house. The family belongs to Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh. Things will only be clear after the postmortem report is received.”“The employer, a woman who is in her 70s, has been living alone in the house after the death of her husband,” the police official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maid-found-dead-at-employers-house-91287
29-05-2020||---||Taxation inspector dies in road mishap||Panchkula, May 28A government official, who was riding an Activa scooter, lost his life in a road accident last evening near the Industrial Area, Phase 1, here on the Zirakpur-Shimla highway.The deceased has been identified as Mahinder Pal Kukreja, who was an excise and taxation inspector in Sector 5. The police have recovered a bag containing around Rs1 lakh from the spot.The investigating officer, ASI Rakesh Kumar, said: “The victim was going towards Kalka from Zirakpur when the incident took place around 9.30 pm.”He said, “We are checking the footage of CCTV cameras installed near the spot to know how the mishap took place. We have also recovered a kite string from the spot.”He died on the spot, said the police official. The victim’s body was handed over to his family members after conducting a post-mortem at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/taxation-inspector-dies-in-road-mishap-91251
29-05-2020||Gurnaaz Kaur||Bereft of support, theatre artistes start donation drive||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 28Bereft of any support from the government in these trying times, tricity theatre artistes have started a campaign, “Save the Artiste in the Tricity”, to seek donations and help for those whose livelihood depends on performing arts.“It’s a time of immense insecurity and uncertainty. There are people, who have spent decades in theatre, but are unable to make ends meet. Initially, several artistes’ associations collected Rs80,000 and gave it to 30 of them, but we have limitations too. So, we decided to approach government bodies for support, but no one has come forward to our rescue,” says Vijay Machal, who runs a theatre group, Mask Theatre.Crowdsourcing supportSenior artistes, including Neelam Mansingh Chowdhry, GS Channi, Saheb Singh and Aatamjit Singh, are spearheading the movement. Theatre artistes such as Vijay Manchal, Chakresh Kumar and Balkar Sidhu are also actively spreading the word on the social media. “We have approached the Ministry of Culture, Sangeet Natak Akademi, Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi (PSNA), Chandigarh Sangeet Natak Akademi (CSNA), North Zone Cultural Centre (NZCC) and even the UT Administration for help, but no one has paid any heed. It’s very disheartening. Why is there no budget for the artistes in distress?” questions Chakresh.Theatre artistes wonder which category do they fall under? “We are neither labour nor skilled labour; then who are we? If migrant workers are unemployed and need help, where are we getting work from? There should be a relief fund for us too. No one is realising that in this global pandemic, live medium of art has been hit as bad. Maybe for another one year, we’ll not be able to perform as theatre is a very intimate medium,” says Vansh Bhardwaj.Standing like a pillar for them all, Neelam Mansingh feels the government has failed artistes. “Those who earned their living through performances, workshops, street theatre and teaching, their work stopped almost three months ago. They are starving. We don’t even have an NGO, which is working for this cause. The government needs to step in. Art plays a significant role that humanises society. They should rise to the occasion. If there is no policy, they should create one,” she adds.‘Centre should help those in distress’Kamal Arora, chairman, CSNA, says he is helpless. “I understand the plight of artistes, but we have no funds. In fact, payments worth Rs6 lakh are to be made since February, but the government hasn’t sent the money yet. Things may change if the artistes meet the UT Adviser,” he says.Kewal Dhaliwal, president, PSNA, says, “I stand with the artistes. We have to create a category for those whose livelihood depends on theatre. Punjab has so many folk artistes who know nothing, but art. This needs to be discussed urgently. The Centre should send money to regional artistes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bereft-of-support-theatre-artistes-start-donation-drive-91252
29-05-2020||---||Mohali to resume  DL tests from June 1||Mohali, May 28The Regional Transport Authority (RTA), Mohali, has started online booking service for those applying for driving licence.RTA Sukhwinder Kumar said they would start conducting driving tests from June 1. He said the applicant would have to take the test as per the booking only. Anybody missing the appointment would have to re-book again.He said jumping the queue or adjusting a person without booking would not be possible. Moreover, the result of the test and processing of the licence would be initiated on the same day. He said in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, they had restricted the number of slots to 40 for each track to ensure social distancing. “Now, applicants can choose any of the tracks within the district to take the test, rather than just one earlier, the RTA said.He said regarding learner’s licence, the earlier procedure would continue. The applicant can obtain the same from any of the 500 seva kendras and RTA/SDM offices. “No late fee will be charged for renewal of documents issued under the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988, including driving licence that expired from February 2020 onwards,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-to-resume-dl-tests-from-june-1-91253
29-05-2020||---||4 air passengers found infected||Mohali, May 28An NRI, who had returned from the US on May 20, and three of the eight domestic passengers who had arrived at the Chandigarh international airport on May 25, have tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total count of Mohali to 110.Of the eight domestic passengers, seven had arrived from Mumbai, whereas one had come from Delhi. A total of 133 samples of both Mumbai and Delhi flight passengers had been collected. Meanwhile, all air passengers, who had come from Bengaluru, tested negative for the virus.The Civil Surgeon, Dr Manjit Singh, said the NRI was in quarantine at a hotel in Dera Bassi since his arrival. He had been shifted to a private hospital for treatment.He said the three domestic passengers, who had tested positive, were a woman from Zirakpur and two men from Phase I and Sector 67. They were home-quarantined and had now been shifted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital near Banur.Dr Manjit Singh said five other domestic passengers — two from Ludhiana and one each from Patiala, Barnala and Jalandhar — had also tested positive for the virus. He said health officials of the districts concerned had been informed to take further steps in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/4-air-passengers-found-infected-91254
29-05-2020||---||To resume bus service, dept wants ISBT-17 back||Chandigarh, May 28The UT Transport Department has requested the market committee of the fruit and vegetable market, Sector 26, and the local Municipal Corporation to hand over the possession of the Inter-State Bus Terminal (ISBT), Sector 17, at the earliest.A senior officer of the department said they were expecting to get back the possession of the bus stand by June 1.Mandi was shifted from Sec 26 on May 14The fruit and vegetable market was temporarily shifted from Sector 26 to the ISBT-17 on May 14 due to spurt in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in its proximity at Bapu Dham Colony.The fruit and vegetable market was temporarily shifted from Sector 26 to the ISBT-17 on May 14 due to a spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in its proximity at Bapu Dham Colony.However, the department is unlikely to get back the possession of the bus stand from June 1 as repair work is still going on at the main fruit and vegetable market in Sector 26.On shifting from the Sector 17 bus stand, Brij Mohan, vice-president, Sabzi Mandi Arhtiya Association, said their business was now getting back on track and the transport authorities were talking about vacating the premises.He said repair work was underway in the main market at Sector 26. Moreover, they were yet to receive any communication from the market committee to shift back to the Sector 26 market.After the Transport Department resumed it local bus service temporarily from the Sector 43 bus stand, the authorities wrote to the market committee, Sector 26, and the MC to give back the possession of the ISBT-17 at the earliest.In the letter, the Transport Department requested the market committee to shift the fruit and vegetable market from the Sector 17 bus stand to an appropriate place at the earliest so that they could resume the operations of local buses from Sector 17. A senior officer of the MC said maintenance and repair works were going on at the main market in Sector 26. The market would continue to function from the bus stand in Sector 17 till the repair work was completed. He said the final decision on shifting back to Sector 26 would be taken by the Administrator.Meanwhile, the Transport Department, which had written to various states for approval to start the inter-state bus service, is yet to receive consent from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/to-resume-bus-service-dept-wants-isbt-17-back-91255
29-05-2020||Amarjot Kaur---||Pay half the rent, PG owners tell students||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, May 28 Due to the ongoing economic uncertainty, owners of paying guest (PG) accommodation in city have started giving discounts to inmates, most of whom are not been living there for the past two months. While students are complaining about being asked to pay the rent, most PG owners are afraid to let go of their only source of income. A majority of the city’s PG accommodations, mostly run by senior citizens, are rented out to students. But as soon as schools, colleges and university were shut due to the lockdown, inmates returned to their hometowns. The PG owners, however, have been asking them to pay half the rent now. Vimal Verma, a student at Panjab University, was staying at a PG accommodation in Sector 37. He has been living in UP, Gorakhpur, since Holi. “We pay Rs3,000 a month. However, the owner exempted us from paying the rent for March. In April, we were asked to pay Rs1,000 and now, we are paying half the actual rent,” he said. The owner has been charging him for the luggage still in the room, he adds. “I had to leave in a rush. I didn’t know the situation will last so long,” he said. Paying Rs4,800 a month for an accommodation in Sector 34, Yukti, who was a student of SD College, said: “I left the city in March, but was supposed to come to the PG to settle the accounts, but because of the lockdown, I am stuck. Though my landlord has exempted the rent for March, he will charge me for April and May as my belongings are still there.” Following the February 22 fire tragedy at a PG accommodation in Sector 32, the UT Administration had issued new guidelines. Several PG owners had then asked their guests to vacate the rooms. “We didn’t want any trouble. So, we had asked the guests to vacate the accommodations after March,” said a PG owner in Sector 32. “A majority of the children left in a rush because of the pandemic and their belongings are still here. I can’t use the place. So, I will have to charge them for it,” said the owner. On March 29, the Ministry of Home Affairs released an order stating that the owners cannot ask for rent for a month and in case of non-payment of the rent, the tenant cannot be evicted. HS Singh, who runs a PG in Sector 41, said: “We have already let go of a month’s rent, but most PG owners haven’t. There’s no uniform policy.” SK Gupta, another PG owner at Sector 45, shared: “This is our only source of income. From the two floors, we make about Rs45,000. So, June onwards, I will charge half the rent.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pay-half-the-rent-pg-owners-tell-students-91256
29-05-2020||---||AYUSH doc derives satisfaction by contributing his bit to society||Chandigarh, May 28Doctor Ravi Kapila, an AYUSH department employee, derives satisfaction by contributing his bit to society.Till recently, he was posted at the Sood Dharamsala in Sector 22, Chandigarh, which is functioning as a Covid Care Centre (CCC) for the asymptomatic patients.The 55-year-old doctor was also a member of the Rapid Response Team at the GMSH-16.The AYUSH department doctor said his job was to assist the team of doctors looking after the patients.“From a patient’s point of view, it is difficult to be lodged in an isolated room for 14 days. It affects your psyche even if you are talking to your family members on phone and doctors take care of your health,” he said.“The major part of the treatment is instilling confidence in the patient,” Kapila added.The medical unit stationed at the dharamshala works in six-hour shifts and it is taxing physically and mentally for the health professionals to wear PPE kits without the comfort of air-conditioner.“It was a new experience for us. AYUSH doctors do not wear PPE kits in normal situations. Also, there is a satisfaction of contributing your bit for the country,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ayush-doc-derives-satisfaction-by-contributing-his-bit-to-society-91257
29-05-2020||Deepankar Sharda||University sportspersons wait  for cash awards of last session||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, May 28High hopes of hundreds of Panjab University’s meritorious sportspersons seem to have been dashed as they are still waiting to get cash awards for bringing laurels to the university in various international, national and state tournaments held in the previous session.The Directorate of Sports, Panjab University, organises its annual prize distribution function in the last week of March every year. However, due to the countrywide lockdown, the authorities did not organise the event this year. They also did not bother to transfer the prize money directly into the accounts of beneficiaries.Though officials maintained that the players would get their dues, no exact date has been issued in this regard. It has been stated that the cash prizes will be distributed during the function that will be organised after the situation improves.“All players will get the benefits. There has been no dearth of funds and all deserving will get the awards. It’s just that we are waiting for the right time to organise the function to honour our meritorious sportspersons,” said Dr Parminder Singh, Director Sports, PU.On help for players if the cash prizes were directly transferred to accounts, he said: “We all have our limitations. One thing is sure that not even a single penny will be deducted from the cash awards, which are yet to be given to the players. I must make sure that the priority of the department will be conducting the event as soon as possible after operations resume.”Last year, the department had distributed the cash prize of approximately Rs 2 crore. This year, in addition to the international, national and state achievers, those who performed in the 1st Khelo India University (Odisha) Games will also be honoured.The cash awards also become important as the PU won the overall trophy of the Khelo India Games and the prestigious MAKA Trophy.“The ministry has released the pocket money of all athletes selected under the Khelo India Scheme on May 25. In this ongoing period, the department should follow the same steps. Organising a function to honour the sportspersons should not be a priority. This cash award can help several players and their families in these tough times,” said a PU player.Another player said: “The university will reopen on June 15. Students will have their semester exams from July 1 onwards. The same trend will be followed by colleges. After the semester exams, the authorities must focus on organising future tourneys instead of planning a function, which is not recommended in such a pandemic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/university-sportspersons-wait-for-cash-awards-of-last-session-91258
29-05-2020||---||52 brought back from US sampled again in Panchkula||Panchkula, May 28 Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur has asked the Residents’ Welfare Associations in Panchkula to keep health officials informed about those arriving in their respective areas from outside the district through varied means of transport — air, train, bus, taxis and private vehicles. “You are requested to share the information of such passengers at 0172-2590000 and  9875917649 on a daily basis,” the official communication said. A total of 52 persons, who were brought back from the USA on May 19, have again been sampled after their previous report came out negative. They belong to several districts in Haryana and are currently lodged in hotels and ‘dharamshalas’ selected by the district administration. Civil Surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “We collected their samples once again to ensure they are non-infected before sending them to respective home districts.” According to officials, as many as 73 people from Haryana had arrived at Amritsar from the USA in a special flight. Of them, 21 were found positive for Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/52-brought-back-from-us-sampled-again-in-panchkula-91259
29-05-2020||---||Domestic travel: 252 in Mohali under home quarantine||Mohali, May 28  A total of 252 persons from the district, who landed at the Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL) since the beginning of domestic flights on May 25, have been put under home quarantine.  Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said on May 25, 495 passengers arrived on seven flights and out of these, 223 belonged to Punjab, including 57 from Mohali. He said on May 26, six flights arrived with 419 passengers out of which 193 were from Punjab (69 from Mohali). On May 27, 530 passengers landed at the Chandigarh airport and out of these, 228 were from Punjab, including 63 from Mohali. Today, five flights arrived with 512 passengers of whom 208 were from Punjab, including 64 from Mohali.  Dayalan said the only international flight that landed at the Chandigarh airport was a connecting one from the USA which came via Delhi. The flight had 100 passengers with 61 from Punjab, including five from Mohali.  As per the Health Department protocol, all domestic travellers belonging to Mohali district have to be put under home quarantine. Those belonging to other states and districts were sent to their respective places. Meanwhile, all international passengers have been quarantined at institutions or hotels.  Meanwhile, Indigo’s flight from Mumbai and Air India’s two flights from Delhi and Dharamsala were cancelled while Air India’s two flights from Delhi were not operational today, said Chandigarh International Airport Limited spokesman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/domestic-travel-252-in-mohali-under-home-quarantine-91260
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||PU VC hands over cheque to VP||Masks donatedChandigarh: The ABVP, Chandigarh unit, donated masks to families of the Sector 25 slum area and educated them about the importance of wearing masks. Chandigarh ABVP Secretary Ajay Sood, Panjab University (PU) Convenor Jatin Singh, Secretary Member Hrishika Raj and PU activist Avinash Yadav were present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-vc-hands-over-cheque-to-vp-91261
29-05-2020||---||‘Workers are the backbone of industry’||Mohali, May 28  Workers toiling hard day and night in factories and various industrial units are the backbone of the economic structure of Punjab and yhe state government would leave no stone unturned to ensure their welfare said the Health and Family Welfare, Labour Minister also Mohali MLA, Balbir Singh Sidhu today. He distributed ration packets among 2,500 workers and labourers of various factories in the city. The ration packets included 5 kg of atta (wheat flour), 2 kg of sugar and 1 kg of pulses.  Giving more information, the Health and Family Welfare, Labour Minister, said, “It has always been sincere endeavour of the state government to frame policies and guidelines aimed at ensuring better working conditions for industrial workers. Today’s initiative is just a small attempt to drive home the point that the government is always ready to help them in the hour of the need.” “Workers must strictly follow the guidelines regarding social distancing, wear masks, use hand sanitisers and wash hands as often as possible in order to stay safe and combat Covid-19,” Sidhu added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/workers-are-the-backbone-of-industry-91262
29-05-2020||---||Ease containment curbs, say Panchkula Sector 19 residents||Panchkula, May 28 Residents of Sector 19, a partial containment zone, have demanded relief in curbs. They apparently have to deal with the shortage of essential items and medicines. Narinder Kaur, whose house is under the containment zone, said: “We are deprived of ration and medicines. Unfortunately, nobody listens to the poor. The administration should give us some relief as the infected person from the colony has already been cured.” Particular areas in the residential colony were contained after an employee, working in a Baddi pharma company, had tested positive for the virus on May 11. He was later discharged from the Civil Hospital after getting cured of the disease. At present, there are only 17 houses under containment zone. If no positive case is reported from the colony, it will be declared as a containment-free zone after 21 days, when the last case was reported i.e. on May 11, said an official. Bhagat Singh, who is incident commander in the area, said: “It’s not true. We have deployed officials to address the concerns of people timely. It’s just that their movement is restricted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ease-containment-curbs-say-panchkula-sector-19-residents-91263
29-05-2020||---||3K migrants leave for UP, Bihar||Chandigarh, May 28 More than 3,000 migrant workers on board two ‘Shramik’ special trains departed for Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Bihar from Chandigarh railway station today. Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Social Welfare Department, UT, said one train with 1,600 passengers left for Chapra, Hajipur, Mujaffarpur and Darbhanga in Bihar at 2pm and another train with 1,502 passengers for Nazibabad, Gonda and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh left Chandigarh railway station at 5pm. He said the passengers were medically screened and provided packed lunch at Chandigarh College of Engineering Technology (CCET) in Sector-26, before they were sent to the railway station through buses where they were provided packed food and one-litre water bottle for their journey. Kandhari Beverages Private Limited provided juice/coke to every passenger on the ‘Shramik’ special trains. He said the process of sending migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and other persons who were stranded at Chandigarh was started on May 8. He said as many as 36,243 passengers have been sent by trains and 2,188 by buses to their natives states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3k-migrants-leave-for-up-bihar-91264
29-05-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo---||Domestic help struggles to make both ends meet||Tribune News Service Mohali, May 28  A domestic help, Phool Kali, does not know how to run her household affairs as she has been jobless for the past more than two months. A household at Mani Majra has not allowed her to work while at another house she worked for a bureaucrat’s family. The bureaucrat was transferred to Delhi recently. Kali said she had six members in her family and now the government had given her 5-kg rice and 1-kg each of pulses and salt. One can imagine how difficult it was for her to make both ends meet with such a small quantity of ration, Kali added. She and her family had been living at Dashmesh Nagar in Nayagaon village for the past 20 years, Kali said. “We have white coloured ration card in the name of Hari Chand, my husband. The card was made 10 years ago at Mullanpur,” Kali added. Earlier, the depot holder had told them to fill a form to get new card if they wanted ration on subsidised rates provided by the state government, Kali said.   “We filled the form and handed it over to the depot holder. We don’t know what happened to the form as curfew was imposed in the area. Other card holders are getting 10-kg atta (wheat flour),” Kali added.  “My husband was working at an electronics showroom, but after the lockdown was announced, he lost his job. When there is work, showroom owner calls him and that too once in a week. I fail to understand as how to provide food to my family and meet other expenses,” Kali said. “We have spent whatever money saved earlier on daily needs. Now, I am not sure whether I will get job again. The family at bureaucrat’s home where I worked has told me to wait for another six months till they get retransferred to the city,” Kali added. Renu Bala, DFSC, Mohali, said, “I will be able to tell the status of the family ration card only if they provide form details or Aadhaar Card number of the applicant.”  Meanwhile, after learning about Phool Kali’s plight, a city-based NGO, Joshi Foundation, immediately provided her with a basic ration kit having 10-kg flour, rice, pulses spices, etc. Most maids have lost their jobs after the imposition of the lockdown in the tricity. After relaxation in restrictions following two months, maids are getting work again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/domestic-help-struggles-to-make-both-ends-meet-91265
29-05-2020|| ---||Situation grave, structured exit plan essential: Bansal||Chandigarh, May 28 Former Union Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal lashed out at the Central Government today for its ‘failures’ during the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. “The Centre needs to have a structured exit plan, which can bring the country out of this grave situation,” he said. Bansal said, “The Central Government failed to impose the lockdown at the right time. It was too late and without proper planning.” He blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government for taking arbitrary decisions, which made the situation grave.  “Meetings of the Standing Committees should be held to deliberate on corrective action plan,” he said. Bansal said Rs20 lakh crore package offeres no relief and it does not have any provision of social security for migrants, peasants, unemployed and middle class. He said as per the 2011 Socio-Economic and Caste Census, only 11 per cent families in the rural areas are out of deprived category (89 per cent families need help). Just 5 kg of grains and 1 kg of pulses is not enough to keep them alive, he added. Bansal said the work of the Union Government seems limited to just two slogans —‘Ache Din’ and ‘Atamnirbhar’. He launched a programme called ‘Zero Hour’, to raise various issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/situation-grave-structured-exit-plan-essential-bansal-91266
29-05-2020||---||MC all set to spend Rs2.82 cr on safety gear||Chandigarh, May 28The Municipal Corporation would spend Rs2.82 crore to buy sanitisers, gloves, masks and PPE kits. The agenda regarding its approval will be tabled in the House meeting on Friday.According to the agenda, 20,000 PPE kits, 30,600 sanitisers, 3,300 gloves, and 7,200 N-95 masks, among others, would be bought. Tenders have already been called and technical evaluation is under process. It will also list the works carried out during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Along with this, fee exemption for vendors and parking lot contractors will also be tabled for approval.Issues faced during trial runOnline trial run of the MC House meet via video-conferencing was held today. A councillor said there were issues and constant monitoring needs to be done.“Mayor will have to actively monitor as to who is allowed to speak and mute others as everybody starts talking constantly. In the House, everyone is visible, but on small screen all participants are not visible simultaneously,” said a councillor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-all-set-to-spend-rs2-82-cr-on-safety-gear-91267
29-05-2020||---||‘Spurious’ seeds: SAD demands CBI inquiry||Mohali, May 28 The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA from Dera Bassi, NK Sharma, today submitted a memorandum to Ashika Jain, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Mohali, and demanded the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the alleged illegal sale of ‘spurious’ paddy seeds (PR-128 and PR-129) in the state.  The  MLAsaid both the varieties are officially developed by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), but a shop outside the PAU is selling seeds of these varieties to farmers on higher rates.  Sharma said the PAU sells these seeds at Rs70 per kg while the private shop was found selling the seeds for Rs200-Rs250 per kg and duping innocent farmers of their hard earned money.  The shop was allegedly selling seeds branded and marked as ‘Karnal Agri Seeds’, he said. The MLA said they sought the CBI probe or the inquiry should be conducted by a retired judge to unravel the truth and apprehend those behind the scam. The Additional Deputy Commissioner said as per the District Agriculture Officer, these seeds were not sold in Mohali district, but they will still conduct a probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spurious-seeds-sad-demands-cbi-inquiry-91268
29-05-2020||Amit Bathla---||Man gets 14 years in jail for raping differently abled||Tribune News Service Panchkula, May 28 The court of Additional Sessions Judge Narender Sura here on Thursday sentenced a 28-year-old man to 14 years in prison and imposed a fine of Rs 35,000 for raping a differently-abled woman.  The convict, identified as Anish Rahman, a native of Bullandshahr in Uttar Pradesh, was held guilty by the court on May 21 under Sections 376 and 325, IPC. In its order, the court stated, “The convict has committed gruesome offence with ‘highest viciousness’. Human lust had taken such a demonic form. In such cases, sympathy in any form would be misplaced and it would shake the confidence of public in the administration of criminal justice system.”  “We live in a civilised society where law and order is supreme and citizens enjoy inviolable fundamental human rights, but when these type of offences are committed, it creates ‘ripples’ in the conscience of society. Serious doubts are raised as to whether we are really living in a civilised society,” the court added. The convict through his lawyer had prayed before the court a minimum sentence as he was the sole breadwinner in the family. Kapil Gaur, the public prosecutor, had submitted before the court that the convict committed a heinous crime by raping a physically handicapped girl. So, he deserved the most harsh punishment, he added. The case On March 2, 2018, it was Holi, when the convict entered the victim’s jhuggi (hut) while her father had gone to Gurdwara Nada Sahib for getting food. He then physically and sexually assaulted her. Upon return, victim’s father tried to rescue her, but the convict hit him. Subsequently, victim’s father raised an alarm, following which the accused was arrested by the police from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-gets-14-years-in-jail-for-raping-differently-abled-91269
29-05-2020||---||91-year-old among 7 more +ve||Chandigarh, May 28Seven Covid-19 positive cases were reported from the city today, taking its tally to 289.At present, there are 96 active cases in the city. As many as 189 patients have been cured of the disease till now. The city has witnessed four deaths due to the virus.A 91-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 15 here, tested positive for Covid-19 at Max Hospital, Mohali, today. She had gone to the hospital for the treatment of femoral neck fracture. Her three family contacts and two community contacts have been sampled.The other six cases were reported from Bapu Dham Colony, taking the total count in the area to 216.Six residents belonging to two families within the same house tested positive for Covid-19. Those infected are four males, aged eight, 16, 17 and 53, and two females, aged 12 and 15. They are community contacts of an earlier positive case from the same locality.Two patients dischargedTwo more Covid-19 positive patients were discharged from Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, after defeating the virus on Thursday. Those discharged are a 24-year-old youth, who is a staff member of the GMSH-16, and a 35-year-old man, a resident of Sector 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/91-year-old-among-7-more-ve-91271
29-05-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula woman contracts virus||A 56-year-old woman from Sector 12-A, who had recently returned from the UK, and landed at Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of cases in Panchkula to 26.She was sampled in Faridabad and is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital there, said Dr Rajiv Narwal, district nodal officer for Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-woman-contracts-virus-91272
29-05-2020||Chandigarh||Tent dealers seek relief from Admn||Members of the Chandigarh Tent Dealers Society have urged the UT Administration to increase gathering in marriage from 50 persons to 100 persons, as they have incurred huge loss during the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Jagtar Singh, president of the society, said, “Our business caters to hospitality, tenting, lighting and decoration. We work closely with labourers, transporters and suppliers. Due to the lockdown, we lost on big events, including weddings, corporate and government functions. Peak wedding season from April to June is also ruined.”It is getting difficult to meet basic expenses, including rent, staff salary and and other utility bills, he said.“The upcoming wedding season (November to January) is likely to be affected as well,” he said and added that EMIs of business loan should be deferred for six months, interest on EMI should be waived, interest-free loan should be given for one year and the GST should be decreased to 5 per cent from 18 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tent-dealers-seek-relief-from-admn-91274
