29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 80 fresh COVID-19 cases, one more death||Chandigarh’s COVID-19 tally climbed to 14,292 on Thursday with 80 fresh cases, while the death toll reached 225 as one more person succumbed to the disease, according to a medical bulletin.A 21-year-old coronavirus positive woman died at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research on Thursday, the bulletin said.She was suffering from chronic kidney disease, it said.The number of active COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh stands at 665, the bulletin stated.Forty-three patients were also discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 13,402, it said.A total of 1,05,409 samples have been taken for testing so far. Of these, 90,480 samples have tested negative, while reports of 117 are awaited, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-80-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-more-death-162920
29-10-2020||Ambika Sharma||Decks cleared for acquisition of land for Chandigarh-Baddi rail line||Tribune News ServiceSolan, October 28Decks have been cleared for the construction of the much-awaited Chandigarh-Baddi rail line with the Ministry of Railways today issuing a notification for land acquisition under Section 20 A of the Railway Act, 1989.Much-awaited projectWhile a big chunk of land falls in Haryana, the last leg of 3-km stretch falls in the Baddi industrial area. Since the locals had been demanding high land award, the ambitious project had been hanging fire for years.Land awards had earlier been calculated at four times the value of the circle rates, as the locals had refused to accept anything less. The previous state government had, however, failed to accept these rates as it would have set a precedence, where all land owners across the state would have demanded such high ratesAround 38.701 hectare will be acquired in various villages, including Saraj Majra, Shitalpur, Kalyanpur, Chak-Jangi, Landewal, Kenduwal, Billanwali Gujran, Haripur Sandholi and Sandholi in the Baddi industrial area, said the competent authority for land acquisition,SC Saklani.He said it had been designated as a special railway project and land owners could file their objections with the SDM, Nalagarh, within 30 days.Sources said efforts by the Land Acquisition Officer and the SDM to convince the locals to accept the lower rates failed to bear fruit, following which the project was delayed for four years.Officials said the prevailing circle rates would be applicable for land acquisition as per the norms. As per the survey, the rail track will be laid through Surajpur Chandi-Dhamal, near the HMT at Pinjore-Lohgarh-Khera-Tanda-Joluwaal-Kona-Marrawala, and will finally touch Shitalpur in Baddi, abutting the Container Corporation of India’s depot, and will further lead to Haripur-Sandholi. Two level crossings will be provided at Nanakpur and Baddi.Since the area houses 89 per cent of the state’s industry, the construction of the rail line was a long-pending demand of investors.It will not only help the investors in addressing the issue of higher freight being charged by local transport unions, but will also help them produce goods at competitive rates. The inland container depot’s utility will also be enhanced as industrial goods will be transported directly from this area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/decks-cleared-for-acquisition-of-land-for-chandigarh-baddi-rail-line-162701
29-10-2020||---||70 head of cattle die at Panchkula's Mata Mansa Devi Godham||Panchkula, October 28Around 70 head of cattle, including cows and calves, died in a suspected case of consuming poisonous fodder at Mata Mansa Devi Godham, which is run by the Panchkula Gaushala Trust, near the Mansa Devi temple complex.The cattle died after eating the fodder on Tuesday evening, an official said.Though the exact cause of the death of such a huge number of cows is not yet known, the organisers and officials are suspecting that some devotee, who visited the shelter, may have given them foodstuff that caused food poisoning.“One thing is clear that food poisoning was not due to the fodder given to them by us. Had there been food poisoning due to fodder, the deaths would have been much higher. As fodder was served to cattle in all seven sheds, why were fatalities reported only from two particular sheds – number 1 and 2?” Dr Naresh Mittal, secretary of the trust, said.The facility has a total of seven sheds in which nearly 1,400 head of cattle are kept.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta visited the gaushala to take stock of the matter. He asked officials to investigate the incident.He was accompanied by Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, who said they had constituted a three-member committee, which would submit its report in three days. The police have collected the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the sheds to investigate the matter. Dr Anil Banwala, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Haryana, said they were inspecting fodder and water given to these animals. The samples have been sent to Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences in Hisar for forensic examination.According to Dr Banwala, they received information about the incident around 9.30 pm yesterday and a team of veterinary doctors was dispatched to the cow shelter soon after. “All animals who had fallen sick were given treatment in the sheds throughout the night. However, it was too late to revive nearly 70 of them,” he said.The carcasses have been sent for a post-mortem examination and an investigation is underway. This is the second such incident in the past two months.In August, 18 head of cattle had lost their lives after consuming poisonous fodder at a gaushala in Saketri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/70-head-of-cattle-die-at-panchkulas-mata-mansa-devi-godham-162505
29-10-2020||---||Techie nabbed with nine stolen vehicles||Chandigarh, October 28A notorious vehicle thief has been nabbed by the crime branch of the UT police.ASIs Ashok Kumar and Kanwalpal arrested the suspect, identified as Harpreet Singh, alias Smarty, from Chandan Vihar, Delhi.A total of nine vehicles, including a Jeep Compass, Innova, three Creta, one Brezza, a Swift, an i20 and an Esteem, valued around Rs1.07 crore, have been recovered from him.Harpreet is a BTech in computer science and has been stealing high-end cars. The stolen vehicles are further sold to scrap dealers in Uttar Pradesh at throwaway prices.The police said Harpreet had a tainted past and was arrested by the police of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi in vehicle theft cases many times. Presently, six cases of vehicle thefts are already under trial in a local court. In one of the cases, he has been declared a proclaimed offender.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/techie-nabbed-with-nine-stolen-vehicles-162507
29-10-2020||Sandeep Rana||Rs 48-crore multi-level parking at Sector 17 a picture of neglect||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28Non-functional hydraulic boom barriers, defunct electronic ticketing system, broken windowpane, damaged glass roof panels, illegal parking and private contractor’s construction material dumped inside. Welcome to the city’s first multi-level parking lot built at about Rs 48 crore and opened in 2016.The three-storey parking lot is a picture of neglect and is one of the fine examples of how Municipal Corporation (MC) officials never care to maintain facilities on which huge amount of taxpayers’ money is spent.A visit to the place today showed sorry state of affairs here. In place of boom barriers, a cable wire has been used at the exit point in this modern parking facility. All four boom barriers at the parking are defunct.“Spare parts of barriers have been stolen and its wiring has got damaged as there is no security during night hours. The e-ticking system is also associated with boom barriers. So, we are issuing manual slips,” shared an MC official, showing concern when asked.Interestingly, the civic body has made e-ticketing mandatory for other parking lots run by contractors.Moving ahead, one could see some roof glass panels, installed for show, lying broken. Going further, a big windowpane, broken for a long time, showed official apathy.Inside the parking area, it was found that most of it had been vacant since its inception. In the basement, construction material of a private contractor lies dumped. The place is marked for vehicles, which otherwise are parked outside parking free of cost, due to apparent mismanagement of MC officials.Many four-wheelers were parked on the roof and outside the parking lot on footpaths and both sides of the passage. On inquiring, it came to light that vehicles were parked here to avoid charges.Besides, two-wheelers were also parked on the roof meant for stationing smart city’s e-carts. It was all haphazard parking in outer areas of the parking lot.When contacted MC’s Additional Commissioner SK Jain said, “We will get defunct equipment repaired and set the system right.” When asked about taxis parked here without paying any charges, he said, “I am yet to get this checked.”The issue was highlighted in these columns on Wednesday.While slamming the ruling BJP, Leader of the Opposition Devinder Singh Babla said, “It is a big failure of the BJP. Who is responsible for spending nearly Rs 50 crore. We will strongly raise the issue in the MC House and question them.”The multi-level parking has always been in news for remaining vacant and leakage inside. Earlier, a vigilance team had inspected the lot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-48-crore-multi-level-parking-at-sector-17-a-picture-of-neglect-162508
29-10-2020||---||Snatchers on the prowl, strike thrice||Chandigarh, October 28Three snatching incidents were reported from the city yesterday. The miscreants made off with two mobile phones and a gold chain.In his complaint to the police, Satwinder Singh, a resident of Dhakoli, Zirakpur, reported that he had gone to the motor market in Sector 45 to purchase tyres for his car. The complainant was standing near his car when the mechanic was replacing the tyres.In the meantime, a miscreant came from behind and snatched his gold chain. The snatcher ran towards a motorcycle parked near the spot, where his accomplice was waiting. Both suspects then escaped from the spot. The police were informed about the incident. Cops scrutinised the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area. A case in this connection has been registered at the Sector 34 police station.In another incident, Kiran (23), a resident of New Indira Colony, reported that while she was on her way to work, a pedestrian came from behind and snatched her mobile phone and Rs500. The incident took place near a government school in Mani Majra.A case has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. The police have initiated an investigation into it.Yet another incident of snatching was reported from the Industrial Area. In his complaint to the police, Ajay Kumar, a resident of Hallo Majra village, stated that an Activa-borne miscreant snatched his mobile phone at the Industrial Area, Phase II. A case regarding the incident has been registered at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snatchers-on-the-prowl-strike-thrice-162509
29-10-2020||---||Woman dies, 60 more contract virus in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, October 28Covid-19 claimed one more life in the city, taking the toll to 224. The UT also reported 60 fresh infections, taking the tally to 14,212 today.A 60-year-old woman from Sector 16, a case of multi-organ dysfunction syndrome and hypertension, died at Fortis Hospital in Mohali.Eighty more patients have been reportedly cured, taking the number of recoveries to 13,359. The number of active cases in the city stands at 629.1 death, 67 new cases in MohaliMohali: One person died of Covid-19, while 67 new cases were reported from the district today. As many as 41 patients recovered in the past 24 hours.Among the fresh cases, 44 were from Mohali, eight from Dhakoli, seven from Gharaun, three from Dera Bassi, two each from Kharar and Kurali, and one from Lalru. The district case tally has reached 12,213, while 11,461 patients have recovered. The number of active cases is 516. With one more death, the toll has reached 236. — TNS22 infected in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district today reported 22 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 7,039. Among the fresh cases, seven were from the MDC, Sector 5, four from Sector 20, two from Sector 21 and one each from Kalka, the MDC, Sector 4, Pyarewala, Sector 11, Sector 12-A, Sector 26, Sector 27, Sector 4 and Sector 7.No death was reported. The district toll stands at 111. At least 6,759 patients have been cured, while 169 cases are still active. The recovery rate of the district is 96 per cent. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-dies-60-more-contract-virus-in-chandigarh-162510
29-10-2020||Amit Sharma||Chandigarh to get gangster Lawrence Bishnoi from Rajasthan jail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28The UT police will bring gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who is behind several heinous crimes reported from the city, on production warrant for interrogation in a bid to crack down on his gang operating in the region. Bishnoi is lodged at a jail in Rajasthan.SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said they had already applied for Bishnoi’s production warrant and soon he would be brought to the city. He said Bishnoi would be interrogated for various crimes in the city, including extortion calls made to businessmen. “We will crack down on Bishnoi’s syndicate by arresting all persons found linked to him,” the SSP said.Bishnoi’s aides arrested earlier this year had claimed that the owner of the GBP Group was also on their target. The UT police will also verify this claim during Bishnoi’s interrogation. The police have also prepared a list of around 25 to 35 persons associated with the gangster.2 gangs active in cityMajorly, the Lawrence Bishnoi gang and the Davinder Bambiha group are active in the city, following which we are getting Bishnoi and key members of the Bambiha group on production warrant. —Kuldeep Singh Chahal, SSP, UTFrom “ordering” killing from jail to making extortion calls to businessmen, Bishnoi has always kept UT cops on toes for the past few years. Bishnoi had been operating his gang from the jail.Rajbir Singh, alias Sonu Shah, a rival of the Bishnoi gang, was gunned down at his office in Burail last year. Earlier this year, shots were fired at a businessman’s house in Sector 33 and at a liquor store in Sector 9 at Bishnoi’s behest.Police sources said the Bishnoi gang had also extorted a huge sum from businessmen in the city in the past few years. However, nobody came forward to lodge a complaint. Several club owners and a leading chemist in Sector 11 had also received extortion calls from the gang.Police to bring another gangsterGangster Dilpreet Singh, alias Baba, who is among the key members of the Davinder Bambiha group, will be brought on production warrant on Thursday to probe his role in the Gurlal Brar murder case. Gurlal was shot dead outside a mall earlier this month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-get-gangster-lawrence-bishnoi-from-rajasthan-jail-162511
29-10-2020||Zirakpur||Girl comes in contact with live wire, hurt||A seven-year-old girl in Baltana came in contact with a high tension wire while playing with her friends on the balcony of the first floor of her house. The condition of the girl is stated to be serious. She was shifted to the PGI from a private hospital here.Her father Mohammad Ali said the incident occurred in the evening when the girl came in contact with the wire passing through Anand Vihar Colony in Baltana. Eyewitnesses said the girl was holding an aluminium plate, which came in contact with the wire.There is widespread anger among residents here, who alleged that in many colonies of Baltana, power lines were running low, which had resulted in many accidents earlier. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girl-comes-in-contact-with-live-wire-hurt-162512
29-10-2020||---||GMCH-32 to resume OPDs from Nov 2||Chandigarh, October 28The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, has decided to resume out patient departments (OPDs) from November 2.The departments for which the services will be restored include pulmonary medicine, radiotherapy, paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology, and psychiatry.The hospital authorities have decided to adopt the PGIMER model — appointment through tele-consultation — for resuming the OPD services.Patients examined through tele-consultation and requiring physical examination will be called to the GMCH on an appointment basis.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, acting Director of the GMCH-32, said: “Patients will be given an appointment to visit doctors in person either through tele-consultation or pre-registration, for which patients will have to register a day before visiting any OPD so that there is no chaos. We have not fixed any limit on the number of patients visiting OPD yet.”Dr Kaur added: “We will not allow patients directly into an OPD without registration.”All departments providing tele-consultation will write the date of appointment on the tele-consultation OPD cards of patients and have the same sent over to the Medical Record Department (MRD) of respective centres. The MRD will schedule the appointments as per the recommendations of the department in hourly slots and intimation about the same will be sent automatically through an SMS on the registered mobile number of the patient.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmch-32-to-resume-opds-from-nov-2-162513
29-10-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Bar assn poll: No social gathering for canvassing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28Social distancing, thermal screening to check temperature and wearing of a mask will be mandatory during the District Bar Association elections to be held on November 6.Earlier, the Bar Council had attempted to hold the elections online, but faced resistance.Advocate NK Kapil, Returning Officer for the elections, said they had made elaborate arrangements as per the Covid guidelines issued by the Centre. He said this time, the area for conducting the poll has been extended.“Besides the main hall of the Bar Association premises, a portion of the library will also be used for polling so that the social distancing norms can be adhered to. Certain changes have been made in the voting pattern too. A stamp will not be used this time and advocates have been advised to bring their own pens to cast votes. Indelible ink will also not be applied on fingers of the voters,” he said.Kapil said all guidelines such as checking of the temperature and wearing a mask would be followed during the polling.He said all members of the association were being informed about the guidelines.Meanwhile, the Punjab and Haryana Bar Council has also issued guidelines regarding conducting elections to all members of the association.Karanjit Singh, Chairman of the Bar Council, said they had asked the Returning Officers to ensure compliance with the guidelines.As per the guidelines, candidates are not allowed to do canvassing by visiting houses of the electorate. Any social gathering for canvassing purposes and hosting parties by the candidates have also been prohibited.No candidate shall print and distribute any hand bills for the purpose of canvassing. No candidate shall print any posters, paste such posts, affix hoardings or use any other such means.Karanjit Singh said the candidates may use the social media, telephone and issuing audio and video appeals for canvassing.He said any violation of these guidelines shall attract disqualification of candidature.This year, three candidates are in the fray for the post of president of the District Bar Association.A total of 19 candidates are contesting for various posts of the executive body of the Bar Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bar-assn-poll-no-social-gathering-for-canvassing-162514
29-10-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula Sector 7 community centre in a shambles||The building of the community centre in Sector 7 here is in a shambles and may collapse any time, posing a threat to the life of children, who often play around it.Residents said walls of the building were damp and had developed cracks. They said the authorities were not taking the matter seriously.Tarsem Garg, president of the Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 7, said they had raised the issue with the administration time and again, but to no avail. Neither former councillor CB Goyal looked into the matter nor did MLA Gian Chand Gupta, he said. The community centre was built in 1978 and inaugurated by then Haryana Governor Harcharan Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sector-7-community-centre-in-a-shambles-162515
29-10-2020||---||Fancy numbers’ e-auction from November 7||Chandigarh, October 28The Transport Department will conduct an e-auction of fancy registration numbers of a new series, ‘CH01-CC’, along with remaining special registration numbers of previous series, from November 7 to 9.Registration for participation in the e-auction will begin on October 29 and will continue till November 6. The e-auction will be start at 10 am on November 7 to 5 pm on November 9.Those who have purchased vehicles on the Chandigarh address are eligible to participate in the e-auction.Vehicle owners can register himself/herself on the national transport website (vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy), the link of which is also available on the Chandigarh Administration Transport Department website — www.chdtransport.gov.The detail of fee for registration for participating in the e-auction, the list of the reserve price for each special number, the details of remaining registration number of previous series and the terms and conditions for e-auction is available on Transport Department website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fancy-numbers-e-auction-from-november-7-162516
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Free Covid testing camp at Sec 22 market||A special drive was conducted to spread awareness on the measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in view of the upcoming festive season.A special camp for free on-the-spot Covid-19 testing was held at Kiran Cinema Market, Sector 22. Customers, shop owners and workers got themselves tested for free.The UT Administration, with the help of the Market Association of Sector 22, conducted various awareness activities in the market. Public announcements explaining the importance of social distancing were made by the traffic police personnel. Sanitisers were placed in front of all shop and masks were distributed. Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar and Sub-Divisional Magistrate (Central) Nazuk Kumar were present on the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/free-covid-testing-camp-at-sec-22-market-162517
29-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Appointment of Sports Director at Panjab University hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28When various sports tournaments are scheduled to be held next month, Panjab University (PU) is still considering taking permission from the MHRD to fill the post of Director, Sports.The process of appointment through the HRD is expected to take months. This will affect the functioning of the department — especially at a time when the PU is eyeing MAKA Trophy for the third consecutive year.For the time being, the charge of the Director, Sports, has been given to the Dean University Instructions (DUI), who already has his hands full of various other duties. Instead of filling the post on a promotional basis or giving the charge to a senior official, the authorities are mulling to take the longer route.Pending worksThe chair has been vacant since the death of former Director, Sports, Parminder Singh earlier this month.“The authorities are working on taking permission for the HRD Ministry to fill the post. The post will be advertised and interviews will be conducted before appointing any director. The interests of promotion, floated by many officials within the department, may have not gone well with the authorities,” said the PU spokesperson.“The authorities should have given the charge to someone from within the department. Ideally, it should be looked after by the senior most or any experienced person,” said a senior coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/appointment-of-sports-director-at-panjab-university-hangs-fire-162518
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University releases SOPs for hostels||Panjab University has released SOPs before opening hostels for eligible research scholars from November 1.Besides following basic protocols of downloading Arogya Setu App, thermal body temperature screening, sanitisation of hands and wearing a mask, it has been decided that seats of the office staff should be fixed.A circular stated: “The officials/residents should restrict their movement and staff involved in public dealing should wear face shields/mask. Employees should use intercoms/electronic media for interpersonal communication. Employees should carry their own lunch packets, refreshment and water bottles. They should avoid using office utensils or sharing lunch/utensils with others.”The circular read: “Every day, all mess workers will be monitored by the contractors for any symptoms of Covid-19 and report the same to the Warden concerned.” Research scholars will provide an undertaking or consent (available on the DSW office notice board) for availing of the hostel facility.However, hostels on the Sector 25 campus will not be opened as they have been acquired by the Administration. PhD students will adjusted in hostels on the Sector 14 campus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-releases-sops-for-hostels-162520
29-10-2020||---||Herbal, fruit garden comes up at Punjab University||Chandigarh, October 28Prof Raj Kumar, PU Vice-Chancellor, inaugurated the herbal and fruit garden at Mother Teresa Hall, Women’s Hostel No. 6, here today.Prof SK Tomar, Dean Student Welfare, Prof Sukhbir Kaur, DSW(W), and various wardens of hostels were present. The Vice-Chancellor congratulated the hostel warden, Manisha Sharma, for the initiative. He said the fruit plants might be adopted by the research scholars of the hostel. Kumar planted an Ashwgandha sapling at the garden.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/herbal-fruit-garden-comes-up-at-punjab-university-162521
29-10-2020||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh ‘apathy’ leaves para-cyclist in the lurch||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 28City-based para-cyclist Abhishek Singh Shekhu had expected to hear at least a word of appreciation, if not a job, from the UT Administration after he became the first from the city to have won the Asian Para Cycling Championship at Bahrain in 2017.However, he tried committing suicide after being unable to have a secured future despite winning a medal for the nation. He didn’t even receive the cash award, for which he had applied after winning the medal in 2017.Let's see how long they take to appreciate my efforts. —Abhishek Singh Shekhu, Para-cyclistShekhu, who lost sensation in his right leg after being afflicted with polio in childhood, turned into a professional cyclist at the age of 16. “The effort was completely mine and my familys. Just like any other player, I expected a job to secure my future and to carry forward my cycling for the nation,” said Shekhu.Just another caseNot only Shekhu but hundreds of other sportspersons are waiting to get cash awards on a par with Haryana or Punjab, as was announced by the UT. In July, the the UT decided to clear the awards in 30 days, but it apparently was another publicity stunt. In the past five years, the sports advisory committee has never been headed by any sportspersons or sports achiever. “Waiting for five years to get a cash award, what kind of message the authorities are trying to give to its sportspersons,” said an international hockey player.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-apathy-leaves-para-cyclist-in-the-lurch-162522
29-10-2020||---||Five robbers loot jewellery, cash at gunpoint in Barara||Ambala, October 28At least five unidentified robbers looted cash and jewellery worth lakhs from a shop at gunpoint in Barara today evening.As per the information, four robbers went inside the shop — Govind Jewellers — while one waited outside. Along with the owner, two employees and a couple of customers were also present in the shop when robbers entered the premises around 5 pm.An eyewitness said, “I noticed that something is happening was happening in the shop. When I reached there, I found that robbers were filling bags with jewellery and cash. There were five robbers, who were carrying arms. After looting they fired three times into the air and fled towards Ayodhya on their motorcycles.”The Barara Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), Rajnish Kumar, who reached the spot, said, “The robbers had their faces covered. Along with jewellery, they have also taken away the DVR of the CCTV. Four of them entered the shop one by one while one kept waiting outside. Teams of CIA-1, CIA Naraingarh and the Barara police station have been formed and a hunt is on to nab the suspects.”“We are obtaining footages of nearby CCTV cameras and keeping an eye on toll plazas as well. We are also getting details about old suspects, who have been involved in such acts in the past and are out on bail,” the DSP added.“There were many people outside the shop, but no one intervened. The people should at least inform the police on time if they notice something wrong so that such incidents can be averted. The shop owner is yet to give details about jewellery robbed.”The Barara police station SHO, Virender Kumar, said, “A case has been registered under Section 395, IPC, and the Arms Act. Efforts are on to trace the suspects.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-robbers-loot-jewellery-cash-at-gunpoint-in-barara-162523
29-10-2020||---||Broken road near Mohali's YPS Chowk puts commuters’ lives at risk||Mohali, October 28The stretch near YPS Chowk is in a pitiable condition for more than one year now. Commuters’ travelling to and from Mohali towards Chandigarh are greeted by a bad patch of road near Sector 51 and 52. Both sides of the road between Sector 51and 52 have suffered extensive damage and need urgent repairs.The road is uneven, potholed and damaged, putting users at inconvenience. Barricades erected at the spot make it an even more risky to commute as fast-moving vehicles change lanes.Nowadays, the Administration and the Municipal Corporation wake up only after a road accident occurs and victims’ kin sit on a dharna. Till then, we have to wait for the repair and re-carpeting work. —NK Kalia, A Sector 51 resident“This is the kind of welcome you get as you enter Chandigarh from the Mohali side where roads are supposed to be the best in the country. I have been using this road to go to my office for a long time. For the last one year, its condition has not changed,” said Tarsem Lal, an excise and taxation official, who live in Mohali.The situation is even more hazardous as one enters from Chandigarh to Mohali near the YPS Chowk. Commuters say the police raise barricades every now and then and set up pickets almost every other day, but the bad condition of the road escapes their eye every time.“It is not that the Administration or the Municipal Corporation is not aware of this bad patch of road. It is just that they are not bothered about it,” said Meenakshi Kalia, a schoolteacher who works nearby.“Nowadays, the Administration and the MC wake up only after a road accident occurs and victims’ kin sit on a dharna. Till then, we will have to wait for the repair and re-carpeting work,” said NK Kalia, a Sector 51 resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/broken-road-near-mohalis-yps-chowk-puts-commuters-lives-at-risk-162524
29-10-2020||---||Five online fraud cases registered||Chandigarh, October 28Five cases of online fraud were registered at different police stations in the city. In a complaint, Ashu, a resident of Sector 41, reported that a person cheated him of Rs 20,100 on the pretext of offering him a job.In the second incident, Sarabjit Singh, a resident of Palsora village, reported that an unknown person cheated him of Rs 85,856 on the pretext of arranging a job for him.In the third case, Ankur Murjal, a resident of Sector 37, reported that unknown person cheated Rs 1,900 from him by transferring money from his bank account.In the fourth case, another Sector 37 resident Ankit Bansal was also duped of Rs60,000 by a fraudster on the pretext of purchasing a sofa on OLX.The fifth case has been registered on the complaint of a girl, who reported that unknown person cheated Rs5,000 by transferring money from her bank account.The cyber crime investigation cell has initiated an investigation into the cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-online-fraud-cases-registered-162525
29-10-2020||---||Transparent shields, thermal scannning at 1st post-lockdown physical meeting of  MC House||Chandigarh, October 28Elaborate arrangements, including putting up transparent shields, live coverage for media and thermal screening along with sanitation, have been made for the first-ever post-lockdown physical General House meeting to be held at the Assembly Hall of the Municipal Corporation here tomorrow.According to sources, officials have been asked to place a transparent shield in front of each councillor’s seat. It will also be ensured that the hall temperature is maintained between 24°C to 30°C. Besides, the hall will be completely sanitised before the meeting. The preparations are under way on the lines of parliament sessions.Issues to be discussedEach meeting attendee will go through thermal scanning and hand sanitation at the entrance by security men along with officials. Dustbins will also be placed in the hall for proper disposal of used masks.To make social distancing possible, no media or visitors will be allowed in the Assembly hall this time. Councillors will be adjusted at two places. The media will be shifted to the conference room for live coverage while visitors’ entry has been barred.Meanwhile, in apprehension of protests, the UT SSP has been asked to ensure necessary security arrangements outside the MC building. Earlier, in the day, officials led by Additional Commissioner Anil Kumar Garg inspected arrangements at the Assembly hall.Meeting all set to be stormy affairThe House meeting is expected to be a stormy affair over issues of GPS-enabled watches for civic body employees, revision of water rates and reduction in rent of Sector 23 booths.As per the ruling BJP president, Arun Sood, these issues will be brought as the table agendas in the House. Sanitation workers, who were on a strike for four days, alleged watches show wrong location and do not want to wear them. Sood got the strike ended assuring the safai union of bringing the agenda in the House.However, MC officials argued that of the 4,000 watches, there could be a problem with one or two. It does not mean all had fault, they added.If the decision is rolled back, the MC will have to pay huge amount to the company that bought and provided watches on rent. Also, water rates were increased upto three times. The BJP wants revision of rates. The Congress and the AAP have also been targeting the ruling party over the two issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/transparent-shields-thermal-scannning-at-1st-post-lockdown-physical-meeting-of-mc-house-162526
29-10-2020||---||Insurance firms’ employees protest||Chandigarh, October 28Employees and officers under the banner of joint forum of 13 major trade unions and associations of all the four public sector general insurance companies held a centralised protest demonstration here today.The protest was held in front of the regional office of The Oriental Insurance Company Limited, Sector 17. It was the third agitation in the series of protest calls given by all the 13 unions that have now joined hands to form Joint Forum of Public Sector General Insurance Employees and Officers Association.The association has demanded negotiation on wage revision, upgrading of pension and family pension and 1995 Pension Scheme for all employees by abolishing New Pension Scheme (NPS).A number of officers and employees from all cadres, including those who walked to the venue in groups, raising slogans against the government, despite the threat of Covid-19 and maintaining proper physical distance participated in the protest.The gathering was addressed by Manjeet Singh, Rajesh Kumar, Surinder Singh, Joginder Singh and Rakesh Chopra. Speakers condemned the government and managements for not revising wages.The joint forum convenor, MK Bhatia, said such protests would be held at all regional centres of companies. A meeting of the joint forum was scheduled in Mumbai to chalk out further plan of action, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/insurance-firms-employees-protest-162527
29-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh extends Unlock 5.0 guidelines till November 30||The UT Administration has extended the Unlock 5.0 guidelines in the city till November 30.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the guidelines for reopening issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on September 30 would remain in force in the city till November 30.In an order yesterday, the MHA stated that there would be no change in the existing guidelines. However, the lockdown will continue to be implemented in containment zones till November 30.Meanwhile, the UT Administration today declared three Covid-affected areas as micro-containment zones. House number 3410 to 3420 in Sector 15, house number 501 to 508 in Sector 26 (Police Lines) and house number 755 to 769 in Sector 44-A have been declared as micro-containment zones.Curbs removed from KishangarhSudhanshu Gautam, SDM (East), today ordered the removal of restrictions from house number 805 to 809, Kishangarh, with immediate effect. The affected area was declared a micro-containment zone on October 14. The SDM said as per the protocol, the restrictions in the micro-containment zone were continued for 14 days from the last reported positive case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-extends-unlock-5-0-guidelines-till-november-30-162528
29-10-2020||Mohali||‘Take up fogging to curb mosquito menace’||Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan ordered the Health Department, the Municipal Corporation and Municipal Councils to actively take up fogging drive to curb mosquito menace.Chairing the weekly health review meeting at the District Administrative Complex, Dayalan said, “Instead of pressing each fogging vehicle into operation just once a day, they may be used twice in the morning and evening.”The Municipal Corporation has pressed into service GPS equipped fogging machines into service enabling monitoring of the speed and duration of vehicles in designated area/locality. The city is divided into four zones. Fogging is done in each zone by one machine each as per a schedule catering every sector/phase once a week. Re-fogging is done in every sector/phase of the city after eight to10 days.Besides, two shoulder-mounted machines are being used for fogging in parks, villages and settlements. These are also being used in houses of active dengue patients and their neighborhood. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/take-up-fogging-to-curb-mosquito-menace-162530
29-10-2020||Zirakpur||One more held for flesh trade in Baltana||Two incidents in ZirakpurZirakpur: Two incidents of snatching were reported from here on Wednesday. In the first incident, a miscreant snatched a purse from a girl, Daljit Kaur of Panchsheel Enclave in Bishanpura, by pointing a weapon at her and fled from the spot. The purse contained Rs5,000. At Badal Colony, a snatcher targeted a woman, Pooja. She fell down in the melee and the snatcher ran away with her purse, which had Rs1,300, an ATM card and other important documents. TNS\Hit by auto, woman diesChandigarh: In a hit-and-run case, a woman pedestrian was killed after being hit by an auto on the road separating Sector 44 and 45 on Wednesday morning. The victim has been identified as Soma, a resident of Sector 44. She was crossing the road when the auto hit her. A passerby saw the auto speeding away from the spot. However, the number of the auto could not be noted down. The police were informed and the victim rushed to the PGI, where doctors declared her brought dead. The police have registered a case at the Sector 34 police station. TNSMentally unfit girl violatedPanchkula: The police on Wednesday arrested a man for allegedly sexually assaulting a mentally challenged girl. The suspect, Dhir Singh of Dhakoli, was produced in a local court, which sent him to one-day police custody. According to the victim’s father, his daughter was allegedly raped by the suspect when he had gone out of home for work. A case was registered at the women police station. TNSWildlife rescue App launchedChandigarh: UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore today launched a mobile phone-based Application (App) for rescue of the wildlife in the city. This App works on all Android supporting phones. The Administrator said the App was launched to rescue wildlife, including snakes etc, entering human habitation and their further release into the wildlife sanctuary. Manoj Parida, Adviser to the Administrator, appreciated the initiative of the Forest Department for using technology for the benefit of wildlife as well as citizens. Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Forest & Wildlife), said with the help of this App, the location of the incident was directly communicated, thereby making it easier and faster for the department to react to such call. The link of the App is available on the website chandigarhforest.gov.in. TNSEvacuation: 152 arrive from DubaiMohali: The evacuation flight, under the Vande Bharat Mission of the Union Government to evacuate stranded Indian nationals abroad, carrying 152 passengers from Dubai, landed at the Chandigarh International Airport at Mohali on Wednesday. The Indigo operated Air Bubble flight arrived from Dubai amid Covid-19 outbreak at the local airport at 10.35 am. All repatriated persons, mostly from nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives where they will be quarantined. Health Department spokesman said no passenger was suffering from fever, cough, cold etc and all were asymptomatic for the coronavirus. TNS2-quintal plastic bags seizedMohali: The sanitation branch of the Municipal Corporation seized two quintals of plastic bags and fined offenders Rs22,000 at Phase IX and Phase XI on Wednesday. Chief sanitary inspector Harbant Singh and Sarabjit Singh led the drive. TNSUnauthorised structures razedMohali: The GMADA demolished unauthorised constructions at Sai Enclave, Guru Nanak Enclave, Khushi Enclave and other places in Jhampur village with JCB machine on Wednesday. Harpreet Singh, SDO, GMADA, led the team, which razed illegal structures. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-more-held-for-flesh-trade-in-baltana-162531
29-10-2020||---||Man tries to end life, found hurt in forest||Chandigarh, October 28A man, who works as a cook at a guest house in the PGI, was found injured under mysterious circumstances in a forest area near the petrol pump in Sector 38 (West) today. The police said he tried to commit suicide by inflicting an injury on his neck.The victim has been identified as Atul Thappa, a resident of Sector 39. His nephew Sandeep Thapa revealed that Atul was upset for the past few days. Atul had left for Sector 37 from Sector 39 to meet his daughter on Tuesday evening. However, he did not reach Sector 37.His family started looking for him and checked at hospitals, but could not locate him.In the morning, his kin found his cycle near the petrol pump following which they went to the nearby forest area where he was found lying injured. The police were informed, who visited the spot. The victim was taken to a hospital, where he is under treatment. According to the police, the victim first tried to hang himself with a tree using a belt. However, the belt broke after which he tried to slit his neck.His family has stated that he had expressed the desire to commit suicide a few days ago.The police got the spot photographed and initiated an investigation into the matter at the Maloya police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-tries-to-end-life-found-hurt-in-forest-162506
29-10-2020||New Delhi||Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh ‘best’ in keeping tabs on pollution||Among the 23 states/UTs listed in the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), only three — Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab — recorded above average PM10 readings (104 readings are required in a year) in past three years, reveals an analysis of the National Air Quality Monitoring Programme.Delhi ‘most polluted’Delhi ranked the most polluted state, followed by Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, according to Carbon Copy and Respirer Living Sciences.While this does not mean that pollution has gone down (rather it remains a concern), the rankings indicate that monitoring is better in Chandigarh, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh as compared to others on the list.Chandigarh recorded the maximum number of 136 readings. It has five monitors and witnessed a slight improvement in the PM10 level from 105 micrograms/cubic metre in 2016 to 102 in 2018.With three monitors, Himachal Pradesh recorded three-year average PM10 readings of 125.In Punjab, Jalandhar and Ludhiana have four manual monitors each, Amritsar has three, Khanna, Patiala, Dera Bassi and Naya Nangal have two each and Mandi Gobindgarh and Dera Baba Nanak have one each. Punjab’s average PM10 readings for 2016-18 remained at 107, which is higher in comparison to West Bengal, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. With Punjab at a three-year average PM10 level of 133, Himachal Pradesh 125 and Chandigarh 102, pollution levels here continue to be much higher than acceptable norm of 60 micrograms/cubic-metre. Among the 122 non-attainment cities, Ghaziabad topped with the worst three-year PM10 level at 253.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-himachal-pradesh-chandigarh-best-in-keeping-tabs-on-pollution-162598
