30-07-2020||---||Covid-19 crosses 800-mark in Mohali; 24 fresh cases surface||Mohali, July 30The coronavirus cases in Mohali district crosses the 800-mark as 20 fresh cases were reported on Thursday taking the total count to 818. Meanwhile, 15 positive patients have recovered and discharged.The persons infected with patients include 40-year-old male of Sector 97, 20-year-old female of Kumbra, 68-year-old female of Sunny Enclave, Kharar; 55-year-old male of Bhabat, 17-year-old male of Kurali, 33-year-old male of Cholta Khurd, 35-year-old male of Zirakpur, 38-year-old male of Sector 77, 36-year-old male of Sector 68, six males aged 25, 25, 17, 33, 41, 52 and 33 year female of Dera Bassi, 63-year-old male of Peermuchalla, 34-year-old male of Mullanpur, 52-year-old male of Badal Colony Zirakpur, 41-year-old female of Kharar, 27-year-old male of Siswan, 28-year-old male of Dhakoli, 55-year-old female of Zirakpur.The positive patients cured and discharged from hospital include three males aged 23, 32, 53 of Sunny enclave, Kharar; 48-year-old male of Balongi, 48-year-old male of Zirakpur, two male aged 40, 4 and a 53-year-old female of Dera Bassi, 27-year-old male of Phase 1, two males aged 20, 17 and two females aged 20, 40 of Kharar, 29-year-old female and 38-year-old male of Sohana.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that all the persons who tested positive today had been admitted to the Covid Care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur.He said as of now there are 822 positive cases out which 496 patients have cured while there were 312 active cases with 14 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-crosses-800-mark-in-mohali-24-fresh-cases-surface-120002
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 38 COVID-19 cases; UT crosses 1,000-mark||Chandigarh reports 38 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the Union Territory's toll to 1016. The city's death toll stands at 14. Over 13,000 people have tested for the deadly disease in the city. Now, Chandigarh has 355 active cases. About 12,000 have tested negative for coronavirus. Tests of 63 infections are still awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-38-covid-19-cases-ut-crosses-1-000-mark-119952
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Three drug peddlers held||DIG (Traffic) to be relieved todayChandigarh: UT DIG (Security and Traffic) Shashank Anand will be relieved from his duties in Chandigarh on July 30. Anand, a 2006-batch IPS officer, will join his new assignment in Haryana after completing his three-year tenure in Chandigarh. His relieving orders were issued by the UT Administration on Wednesday. Till the time the city gets a new SSP (Security and Traffic), the charge will be looked after by 2012-batch IPS officer Manoj Kumar Meena. Meena, who also holds the charge of SP, Crime and Headquarters, will also officiate as the SSP (Security and Traffic). TNSMystery shrouds man’s deathChandigarh: A 36-year-old man reportedly died under mysterious circumstances at Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26 here. The victim has been identified as Raju. He had a fight a few days ago during which he was injured. His family had alleged that he died due to the injuries suffered during the fight. The victim’s brother-in-law Madan claimed that a man had hit Raju on his head with a brick. Raju complained of headache and stomach ache on Wednesday following which his kin took him to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16 where doctors declared him brought dead. The body has been shifted to the mortuary and an investigation has been initiated. The victim is survived by his wife and two children. TNSImmigration agent bookedChandigarh: The UT police have booked an immigration agent for duping a man to the tune of Rs2.36 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad. According to the police, complainant Jaswinder Singh, a resident of Kharar, alleged that Sandeep of Immixpert Overseas, Sector 35, cheated him of Rs2.36 lakh. The complainant alleged that neither he was sent abroad nor his money was returned. The police have registered a case at the Sector 36 police station and initiated investigations into the matter. TNSPower union to protest on Aug 7Chandigarh: The Electrical Workmen Union under the banner of the Chandigarh Subordinate Services Federations (INTUC) will hold a silent protest on August 7 at the DC office over non-revision of salary of outsourced employees. Rakesh Kumar, general secretary of the union, said the revision of salary was due since April 1, 2020. Kumar said a meeting of the union was called on Wednesday to review the preparations of the protest. Among others, union president Kishori Lal, chairman Varinder Singh Bhist, vice-president Yashpal Sharma, federation president Charanjeet Singh Dhidhsa and general secretary Ranjit Mishra also addressed the meeting. TNS3 held for selling stolen cellphonesKurali: The police have arrested three persons and recovered 11 stolen mobile phones from their possession near the bus stand. As per preliminary investigations, the suspects used to inject drugs and snatch mobile phones from pedestrians. The suspects have been identified as Jatinder Singh, alias Goldy, a resident of Khairpur village, Jaspreet Singh, alias Soni, a resident of Badali village, and Darshan Kaur. TNSNew ADC takes charge in MohaliMohali: Rajiv Kumar Gupta took charge as new Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) of SAS Nagar at the District Administrative Complex here on Wednesday. The 2004-batch PCS officer said he would discharge his duty to the best of his abilities. The officer is a corona warrior who has just recuperated from Covid-19 and has joined the duty in SAS Nagar. Earlier, he was posted as the Additional Secretary, Power, Secretary, RTI Commission, and also held the charge of Controller, Printing & Stationery Punjab. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-drug-peddlers-held-119676
30-07-2020||Our Correspondent---||Fatehgarh Sahib reports 30 new cases||Fatehgarh Sahib, July 29 In the biggest single-day surge in the district, 30 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the district today.  The cases include 14 from Mandi Gobindgarh town, including seven police personnel and a journalist, two persons from Nandpur Kalour, five from Sirhind town, two NRIs, two from Bassi Pathana and five others from different villages. All of them have been admitted to Gian Sagar Hospital. Dr NK Aggarwal, Civil Surgeon, said the Health Department had started tracing the contacts of the positive cases and the area from where more than five cases were reported had been declared as micro-containment zone and a house-to-house survey was being conducted. He said at present, there were 116 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-reports-30-new-cases-119648
30-07-2020||Amit Bhatla||Majority of patients in Panchkula asymptomatic||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 29A majority of the active cases in Panchkula — nearly 90% — are asymptomatic, posing a challenge for health officials in curbing the spread.According to health officials, Covid-infected people with no visible symptoms may be spreading the virus in community as they roam freely.Until July 24, Panchkula had 213 active Covid patients. Of them, only 16 were symptomatic. The Civil Surgeon, Dr Jasjeet Kaur, said, “Indeed, it’s a challenge as not many people know about their status. Most people are being picked up under contact-tracing exercise. It’s a country-wide phenomenon.”On why a majority of persons were asymptomatic, she said it could be due to innate immunity. In Panchkula, most asymptomatic patients are under home isolation.“Only if there is a separate room and bathroom for the patient and a caregiver, we suggest home isolation. Those who can’t afford these necessities are kept at the Covid care centre in Barwala and the Sector 14 Government Girls’ College for at least 10 days, followed by home-quarantine,” said Kaur.Eligibility for home isolationPatients should submit an ‘undertaking’ and should be clinically assigned the status of a mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic case by the treating medical officer. Such cases should have the requisite facility at their house for self-isolation A caregiver should be available round the clock.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/majority-of-patients-in-panchkula-asymptomatic-119649
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||5K applications for admission to colleges||Till date, 5,531 applications have been received under the centralised admissions for local collages by the Director Higher Education office. For non-centralised courses, the total number of applications has increased to 6,630. Centralised courses include BCom (2,646 applications), BBA (1,166 applications), BCA (722 applications), BSc non-medical (379 applications) and BSc medical (172 applications). For BA, 3,369 applications have been received for four local government colleges. The cut-off for the courses will be decided later. The last date for submission of form for all courses is August 3 (Monday). Display of list of all applicants will take place on August 5 by 4 pm, while submission of discrepancies by applicants will be allowed till August 7 by 1pm. The list of eligible applicants will be displayed on August 8 by 4 pm. The list of colleges allotted will be displayed on August 13. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5k-applications-for-admission-to-colleges-119650
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Registrations surpass seats in Chandigarh schools||Registrations for Class XI admissions have already surpassed the number of seats in government schools. Against 12,815 seats, around 12,946 forms have been submitted and 16,542 registrations have been made.Last year, 18,575 registrations were made for admission to Class XI as against 11,065 seats. The maximum number of candidates — 9,115 — have marked humanities as their first preference, followed by 3,157 students for science and 2,243 students for the commerce stream.More than three counselings had to be conducted to adjust the students last year. This had lead to protests by parents. This year, the department maintained that since the counselling will be done online, it is unlikely that anyone will create any ruckus.The registration and online fee payment can be done till August 3 (up to 2 pm), while the common merit list will be displayed on August 7 at 11 am. Allotment of schools and streams will be displayed on August 13 at 11 am. — TNSLast year’s merit||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/registrations-surpass-seats-in-chandigarh-schools-119651
30-07-2020||---||Panel for online classes from Aug 3||Chandigarh, July 29Online classes for the ongoing undergraduate/postgraduate courses of Panjab University (PU), its affiliated colleges and regional centres may start from August 3, recommended a coordination committee constituted by the PU Syndicate to deliberate upon the issues of examination/assessment, evaluation and grades to students, entrance tests and online teaching process for the session.Further action would be taken on the bases on suggestions by the committee, said Prof RK Singla, Dean University Instructions (DUI), and committee chairperson Prof Navdeep Goyal.It has been recommended that the first semester of all undergraduate/postgraduate courses (new admissions) can begin from September 1 (tentatively). It was further recommended that the admission process for the undergraduate courses (offered by the PU teaching departments/regional centres/affiliated colleges only) wherein admission is made on the basis of merit may start in August and the online classes for such courses be started from September 1.Duration of online classesIt has been recommended that there will be four hours of teaching (per day) comprising of five periods (up to 45 minutes/an hour each) for different courses/classes.“First period (45 minutes) will be for the preparation of teaching material and arrangement of online setup by all faculty members as per the timetable. The fifth period (3 pm to 4 pm) will be for resolving queries/doubts over phone call/WhatsApp or any other mechanism as per the suitability of the teacher,” stated the committee.Guidelines for facultyIt has been recommended that for online teaching, a section would comprise maximum 80 students (PU campus/regional centres/colleges). In departments having more number of students, the dean of the faculty concerned will be authorised to take the decision regarding the strength of the students. For affiliated colleges, the issue regarding the size of a section may be decided by the college committee. A nodal officer will be designated to address the grievances of students. A development fund will be created for providing infrastructure for online education.Undertaking from studentsIt has been recommended that an undertaking may be obtained from each student that he/she will neither record any lecture nor use it at some other platform.ResultsThe results of students of all ongoing classes (UG/PG) be prepared on the basis of 50 per cent marks obtained in the internal assessment and 50 per cent in all previous semester exams. This formula would also apply to pre-PhD course work.Admission for coursesIt was unanimously approved that there would be no aptitude test for admission to BSc Fashion Technology and BA/BEd courses. The admission would be based on Class XII marks. The admission to BSc (Hons) will be on a merit basis without conducting an entrance and examination fee will be converted into counselling fee. No entrance test will be conducted for undergraduate courses.Decision on final-year exams in next meetingThe issue regarding conducting examinations of final semester students and determining the results of students, who failed in first/second semesters, will be discussed in the next meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-for-online-classes-from-aug-3-119652
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||No separate cell for suspended cop||Stating that everyone is equal before the law, Dr Sushil Kumar Garg, Special Judge, CBI, has rejected the application of the suspended Inspector, Jaswinder Kaur, for a separate cell at Burail jail.In the application, Kaur said she had been working in the Police Department for the past 20 years and had been an investigation officer in cases against several inmates of the jail and they might plan taking a revenge or harming her in any manner.The authorities were directed to produce her before the court on August 11 through video-conferencingShe was produced before the court today after completion of her police remand.The Judge stated: “I am of this considered opinion that everyone is equal before the law. No one has a special privilege. However, the Burail Jail Superintendent is directed to act as per the rules in this regard.”Jaswinder Kaur was booked by the CBI for allegedly demanding Rs5 lakh bribe from a Mani Majra resident, Gurdeep Singh, in lieu of not registering a cheating case against him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-separate-cell-for-suspended-cop-119654
30-07-2020||---||Fraudster couple lands in police net||Mohali, July 29The Mohali police have arrested a husband-wife duo for allegedly duping a large number of people on the pretext of sending them abroad in the recent past.The suspects have been identified as Sheetal Singh, alias Sonu, and Navjot Kaur, residents of Shahkot in Punjab. The couple ran an immigration firm, Child Abroad Education and Stewart Placement Services, in Phase XI here from 2014 to 2018. They duped a large number of people to the tune of over Rs1 crore on the pretext of sending them abroad.According to the police, Sonu and his wife moved to Jalandhar in 2018 after shutting down their office here. The Mohali police arrested the suspects from Jalandhar yesterday.Inspector Jagdeep Singh Brar, Station House Officer (SHO) of the Phase 11 police station, said eight cases had been registered against Sonu at the Phase XI police station only.According to sources, similar cases of cheating and fraud were also registered against the suspects at the police stations in Jalandhar and other cities. The police were also investigating whether they had a licence to run the immigration firm in Phase XI here.“In the eight FIRs against Sonu, it came to fore that he had duped people to the tune of Rs90 lakh. Several written complaints were also received against him in the past. We are investigating the case and checking his crime history by coordinating with the Jalandhar police. No recovery has been made from the couple during their arrest,” said Inspector Jagdeep Brar.According to the police, Sonu also stayed in Australia for around six months in the past. The suspects were produced before a court today, which sent them to two-day police custody.A case has been registered against them under Section 420 of the IPC and relevant sections of the Immigration Act at the Phase XI police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fraudster-couple-lands-in-police-net-119655
30-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||Charging station for e-vehicles at Sec 42 lake parking lot soon||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29Within the next three months, Chandigarh will get the first-of-its-kind charging station for electricity-run vehicles at the parking lot of new lake here in Sector 42.Work on the installation of a 800 kW solar power plant worth Rs4.5 crore has begun at the parking lot. Of the total 800 kW, 290 kW solar energy will be reserved for charging e-vehicles. Work on installation of solar plant beginsWork on the installation of a 800 kW solar power plant worth Rs4.5 crore has begun at the parking lot. Of the total 800 kW, 290 kW solar energy will be reserved for charging e-vehicles.According to an official of the Chandigarh Renewal Energy, Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST), it will be the first government project of charging station at a parking lot in the city. Another charging station has also been planned at the ISBT, Sector 43.It is yet to be decided whether the facility will be free of cost or not. “It will be decided once the facility is ready,” said an official.Debendra Dalai, CEO, CREST, said: “The work has been started at the lake. It will be completed in around three months.”He said: “We have already installed solar power plants in 81 schools. We are putting up additional solar plants in schools which have more space on the terrace”.Solar plants have been installed at all police stations, except four. “It was not feasible to install solar plants at some police stations due to trees or some other reasons,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/charging-station-for-e-vehicles-at-sec-42-lake-parking-lot-soon-119656
30-07-2020||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||CBI court grants bail to accused in graft case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29The special CBI court today granted bail to an accused who was booked for allegedly demanding bribe from a Maloya resident, Deepak Shani, on behalf of cops of the Maloya police station.On June 19, the CBI had arrested Rajat, a resident of Maloya, who acted as a middleman and demanded money from Shani on behalf of two constables and a driver of the SHO, all from the Maloya police station. The caseOn June 19, the CBI had arrested Rajat, a resident of Maloya, who acted as a middleman and demanded money from Shani on behalf of two constables and a driver of the SHO, all from the Maloya police station.After hearing arguments of counsels of both parties, the Judge allowed the bail application and ordered the accused to be released on bail after furnishing bail bond.Complainant Deepak Shani told the CBI that the policemen demanded bribe by threatening him to implicate in a false case.He alleged that on June 15, he, along with his friends, was sitting near his house in Maloya when two policemen arrived there. He ran home after seeing the police.Around 10 minutes later, Rajat came to his house and asked him to accompany him to the beat box. He alleged that two constables, Naseeb Khan and Krishan Malik, had allegedly threatened to register a case against him for selling drugs in the area.The complainant said Rajat told him that the cops would let him go if he paid a bribe of Rs20,000. Later, Rajat told him that the matter could be settled for Rs14,000. Deepak then approached the CBI and submitted a complaint against Rajat and the three cops.Gurpartap Singh Bhatti, counsel for the accused, submitted that there is no iota of evidence available with the CBI to rope him in the present case. He has not acted in the manner as alleged in the FIR. It has been further argued that the accused has not acted as a mediator for demanding bribe from the complainant on behalf of the co-accused, as alleged by the prosecution. He also argued that nothing is to be recovered from the possession of the accused.On the other hand, KP Singh, public prosecutor for the CBI, submitted that the applicant does not deserve the concession of bail as the allegations levelled against the accused are serious in nature. It has been further argued that two cops of the Maloya police station, who are co-accused in this case, are yet to be arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cbi-court-grants-bail-to-accused-in-graft-case-119658
30-07-2020||---||Chandigarh to focus on micro-level factors to contain spread||Chandigarh, July 29To prevent the further spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration will now focus on micro-level factors in the city.During a review meeting, UT Adviser Manoj Parida stated that there would be micro-containment zones after mapping of new cases coming up from various sectors and areas.“This will enable the Administration to control infection without causing hardships to the neighbouring areas,” said the Adviser.Meanwhile, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), to focus on micro-containment areas and enhance contact tracing, particularly focusing on source of infection.The Affected Area Committee, under the Deputy Commissioner and the Municipal Commissioner, will take a call on declaring any area as a micro-containment zone after considering various factors such as number of cases, area, population density and feasibility of perimeter control.Badnore directed the PGI to have regular meetings with the neighbouring states as per the protocol decided mutually so that patients could get timely treatment. He also directed the PGI authorities to start Sero testing of healthcare workers and also in certain hotspots as per their assessment. He also directed all three hospitals to enhance physical OPDs and tele-medicines.Dr G Dewan, Director Health Services, stated that they had started third round of door-to-door survey in the entire city. At present, screening was going on in Mauli Jagran area.The Administrator directed Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal to ensure strict implementation of social distancing and mask wearing norms and also check people coming from outside.Enhance contact tracing: BadnoreUT Administrator VP Singh Badnore directed Arun Kumar Gupta, Principal Secretary (Health), to focus on the micro-containment areas and enhance contact tracing, particularly focusing on source of infection.‘Ensure strict implementation of norms’The UT Administrator directed Director General of Police Sanjay Beniwal to ensure strict implementation of social distancing and mask-wearing norms and also check people coming from outside.‘Third round of door-to-door survey’Dr G Dewan, Director Health Services, stated that they had started third round of door-to-door survey in the entire city. At present, screening was going on in Mauli Jagran area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-focus-on-micro-level-factors-to-contain-spread-119659
30-07-2020||---||Mohali filling stations shut, motorists hit||Mohali, July 29Motorists were a harried lot as filling stations across the district remained shut today from 8 am to 5 pm in a tribute to the late GS Chawla, a petrol pump dealer, who ended his life in a hotel in Panchkula on July 22.The dealers also rued that they were suffering huge losses due to disparity in VAT rates in Punjab in comparison to the neighbouring states. Close to 3,500 filling stations were shut in protest against the high rate of taxes on petrol and diesel in Punjab in comparison to the neighbouring states.GS Chawla, a Mohali-based fuel pump owner, had allegedly committed suicide on July 22 after suffering losses in the business.Petrol and diesel in Mohali are costlier by Rs4.94 per litre and Rs2.63 per litre, respectively, as compared to Chandigarh. The retail price of petrol in Punjab is Rs82.35 per litre as compared to Rs77.41 in Chandigarh and Rs78.46 in Panchkula (Haryana). The rate of diesel in Punjab is Rs75.54 in comparison to Rs72.91 in Chandigarh and Rs73.54 in Panchkula.According to a dealer, Punjab imposes 33.40 per cent tax on petrol and 19.77 per cent on diesel. However, VAT rate in Chandigarh is 22.45 per cent on petrol and 14.02 per cent on diesel, while in Haryana tax on petrol and diesel is 25.25 per cent and 17.60 per cent, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-filling-stations-shut-motorists-hit-119660
30-07-2020||---||Three tiger cubs named at Chhatbir Zoo||Zirakpur, July 29On the occasion of International Tiger Day, three tiger cubs were named as Dilnoor (female) and Amar and Arjun (both males) here at Chhatbir Zoo.Tigress Diya had delivered three cubs at Chhatbir Zoo in November last year.As per the Central Zoo Authority, New Delhi, guidelines, the name of the female cub must begin with the first letter of the mother’s name (Diya). The name of the male cub should start with the first letter of the father’s name (Aman).The names of the cubs were chosen and approved by Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh in an online ceremony here today. Earlier, the CM tweeted the pictures of tigress Diya with her cubs Amar, Arjun and Dilnoor at Chhatbir Zoo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-tiger-cubs-named-at-chhatbir-zoo-119661
30-07-2020||Zirakpur||Woman takes poison, dies||The police have registered a case of dowry death after a woman in Badal Colony died after taking poison on July 27. Ruthi Singh Nina, 34, was shifted to the GMCH-32 On July 25 where she breathed her last after two days.Complainant Chitranjan Singh Nina, deceased’s father, a resident of Sambalpur, Odisha, said his daughter was married to Sumit Goel, a resident of Badal Colony, Zirakpur, in 2018. He gave dowry at the time of marriage according to his status. On July 25, he received a call that his daughter had consumed poison and was admitted to GMCH-32, Chandigarh.The deceased’s family members demanded that her husband and in-laws should be booked for beating her Ruthi and forcing her to commit suicide.Investigating Officer Harsh Mohan Gautam said the body had been handed over to her family members after conducting a post-mortem examination. A case has been registered under Section 304-B of the IPC. However, no arrest has been made so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-takes-poison-dies-119662
30-07-2020||---||Except name, nothing VIP about Zirakpur's road||Zirakpur, July 29Potholes, sewage, waterlogging, broken tiles and construction debris greet visitors to VIP Road here.Heavy vehicles, dump trucks and tractor-trailers can also be seen plying on the busy road, adding to the woes of the commuters. Residents say it has been ages since it looked like a decent road.Rain worsens situationWhenever it rains, the situation becomes precarious as water accumulates on the road. Deep potholes make driving difficult and also increase wear and tear of vehicles.“Sewer water spills on to the road here. A couple riding a two-wheeler lost balance due to the potholes and fell on the road. The expectant woman, who was riding pillion, was shifted to a clinic for first aid. The stretch from Hermitage Society to South City is in shambles,” said Vinod Puri, a resident.Residents alleged that the Zirakpur Municipal Corporation, PWD officials, sitting MLA and the ruling party have done anything to improve the situation here.Whenever it rains, the situation becomes precarious as water accumulates on the road. Deep potholes make driving difficult and also increase wear and tear of vehicles.“The authorities concerned should clear the drain, fill potholes and re-carpet the road on a regular basis,” said Charanjit Singh, a shop owner near the main market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/except-name-nothing-vip-about-zirakpurs-road-119663
30-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||30% owners yet to pay property tax in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29While the last date to pay property tax is just two days away, about 30 per cent people are yet to pay the levy in the city.Those failing to pay the tax before July 31 will have to shell out more money and may also receive notices from the Municipal Corporation.According to the civic body, about 71,000 people have paid property tax of about Rs34.38 crore. The total number of residential and commercial tax payers is 1.06 lakh. Other 41,000 property owners are either fully or partially exempted from paying the tax.Nearly 58,000 residential unit holders paid property tax of Rs10.24 crore while the cash-starved civic body received commercial tax to the tune of Rs24.34 crore from 13,500 persons.The MC had set a target of Rs48 crore tax revenue for the current fiscal. “In August, we will start issuing notices to the property tax defaulters,” said an official.If the tax is not paid despite notices, the final notice would be served on the defaulters. Those failing to pay the levy would be issued property attachment notices.In the past few years, the corporation had attached a number of commercial properties after their owners failed to deposit the tax. The MC had earlier extended the last date for tax payment due to the lockdown. It again extended the last date for depositing the tax by cheque/demand draft upto July 31.The last date for depositing property tax at Sampark counters by cheque was July 27, which was extended keeping in view heavy rush at the counters.Till July 31, tax payers will get 20 per cent rebate on residential tax and 10 per cent on commercial tax. Thereafter, there will be a fine of 25 per cent and 12 per cent interest on the tax dues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/30-owners-yet-to-pay-property-tax-in-chandigarh-119638
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Rs 30 L jewellery stolen from retired Army officer’s house||A theft has been reported from a retired Army officer’s house in Sector 33. According to a complaint, diamond and gold jewellery worth around Rs30 lakh was found missing. The theft came to light on July 27. The police have lodged a DDR at the Sector 34 police station and have initiated an investigation into the matter. The theft took place at the house of Lt Col Jagmohan Singh Bindra (retd), who is 88 years old and lives with his 80-year-old wife Lakhbir Kaur Bindra. The elderly couple’s residence also houses a maid and her family in the servant quarters.  The senior citizens have no clue as to when the theft took place. On July 27, their son, Lt Col GMS Bindra (retd), who also lives in Chandigarh, paid a visit to the house. He enquired from his mother why she was not wearing jewellery. “She told me she doesn’t feel like wearing jewellery. Then  she asked me to take out her diamond bangles continued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-30-l-jewellery-stolen-from-retired-army-officers-house-119639
30-07-2020||Chandigarh||Two held for robbing Dhanas resident||Three days after two miscreants allegedly attacked and robbed a Dhanas resident, the UT police nabbed the duo, including Vishal, a history-sheeter who has 31 cases registered against him in Chandigarh.The victim, Yogesh, had reported that on July 25, he was having a walk near his house when his neighbour, Vishal, threatened him with a knife and snatched his mobile phone. In the meantime, the second suspect, Kali, reached there and snatched Rs700 and an Aadhaar card from him. The suspects then escaped from the spot after pelting the victim with stones, who was later admitted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16.A team, led by Inspector Jasbir Singh, SHO of the Sarangpur police station, nabbed the suspects on Tuesday night. They were produced in a court and sent to judicial custody.One of them a history-sheeterVishal, a resident of Dhanas, has 31 cases registered against him. Of these, 26 cases, including of theft, snatching, burglary, hurt, rioting, robbery and under the Arms Act and the NDPS Act were registered at the Sector 11 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-for-robbing-dhanas-resident-119641
30-07-2020||---||With 44 cases, Chandigarh sees biggest single-day spike||Chandigarh, July 29The city today reported 44 new cases of Covid, which is the biggest single-day spike in the UT so far. The second highest single-day spike of 35 cases was reported on July 26.As many as 28 of the 44 new cases were contacts of Covid patients, mostly family members. Six of these cases were reported from Khuda Lahora, five from Sector 44, two from Sector 20, four from Dhanas, two each from Sectors 47 and 41, one each from Sectors 7, 42, 22, 19, and Kishangarh. Besides, contacts of patients also tested positive in Dhanas and Sector 32.Three of a family tested positive in Sector 46. Sectors 16, 23, 26, 40, 41, 42, 45, 49 and 55, Raipur Khurd, Khuda Jassu and Ram Darbar also reported a case each.Eight of those who tested positive today are over 60 years of age. The city Covid tally jumped to 978 today with 353 active cases. The UT has reported 14 Covid-induced deaths so far.Meanwhile, 12 patients were discharged today. The count of recoveries in the city has reached 611.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/with-44-cases-chandigarh-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-119642
30-07-2020||---||46 new cases take Panchkula tally to 498||Panchkula, July 29In yet another massive single-day spike, the district today saw 46 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally to 498. Four persons not belonging to the district also tested positive for the virus here.Seven persons from Taprian — six women, aged 66, 46, 40, 65, 35 and 37, and a 19-year-old youth — and eight from Nawanangar — a 22-year-old youth, two men, aged 68 and 37, two women, aged 22 and 35, a 7-month-old baby, a 12-year-old girl and a 10-year-old boy — were among those who tested positive for Covid-19 today.Three women, aged 34, 38 and 39, and three boys, aged nine, eight and 12, of Marranwala and two women, aged 45 and 23, of Virat Nagar also contracted the virus.The reports of a year-old boy, two women, aged 24 and 23, and a 14-year-old boy of Molewali also came positive.The other new patients are a 28-year-old youth of Sector 21, a 22-year-old youth and a 46-year-old man of Sector 8, a 27-year-old youth and a 58-year-old man of Chandimandir, a 24-year-old youth of Dhandardo, a nine-month-old boy of Charnia village, a 30-year-old woman of Sector 12-A, a 30-year-old man of Sector 19, a 65-year-old man of Sector 2, a 20-year-old man of Mattanwala, a 67-year-old man from Mansa Devi Complex, a 32-year-old woman of Kalka, a 55-year-old CRPF personnel, a 41-year-old man and a 52-year-old man of Sector 7, a person from Surajpur and two from an unspecified location.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/46-new-cases-take-panchkula-tally-to-498-119643
30-07-2020||Mohali||2 more PSEB officials +ve in Mohali||A day after the Controller of Examinations tested positive for Covid, two more officials of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) were found infected.The samples of an assistant secretary and a female superintendent of the board were found positive for Covid today. Besides, a 45-year-old constable posted at the Dera Bassi police station was also reported Covid positive.The district today reported 27 fresh cases of Covid, taking the tally to 798.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said some of the departments of the PSEB had been shut and samples of most employees were taken and asked to home-quarantine themselves. Public dealing at the Dera Bassi police station too was stopped, he added.Those found infected are a 36-year-old man of Kharar, a 73-year-old woman of Nayagaon, a 25-year-old youth of Bhankharpur, a 53-year-old man of Phase 1, a 22-year-old youth of Sector 70, a 37-year-old man of Sector 75, a 31-year-old man of Palm Meadows in Kharar, a 34-year-old woman of Balongi, a 31-year-old man of Tarauli, a 26-year-old youth of Sector 82, a 48-year-old man of Phase 8, a 55-year-old man of Phase 3B1, two women, aged 50 and 42, a 16-year-old girl and three youths, two of them aged 19 and the other 21, of Dhakoli, a 31-year-old woman of Zirakpur, a 32-year-old woman, a three-year-old girl and a 30-year-old man of Baltana, a 22-year-old youth and a 38-year-old woman of Dera Bassi, a 30-year-old man of Ratauli and a 66-year-old man and a 61-year-old woman of SBP, Dera Bassi.Meanwhile, 11 patients were cured of the virus and discharged from the hospital. So far, the district has reported 798 Covid cases. Of these, 481 have cured while 14 died of the disease. There are 303 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-more-pseb-officials-ve-in-mohali-119644
30-07-2020||---||Cases rising, Chandigarh may not lift night curfew in Unlock 3.0||Chandigarh, July 29In view of a sudden increase in the number of Covid cases in the city, the UT Administration may not lift the night curfew in the Unlock 3.0.In the Unlock 3.0 guidelines, which will come into effect from August 1, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has removed the restrictions on movement of individuals during the night curfew, which was being observed from 10 pm to 5 am.The UT Administration is also considering an extension in the timings of the night curfew. It may order curfew in the city from 8 pm to 5 am.However, the Administration might give a relaxation of one hour to hotels, restaurants and other eateries allowing these to operate till 9 pm, said an official.As per the MHA guidelines, the states and UTs, after assessing the situation, can prohibit certain activities outside the containment zones or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the UT would take stricter action than what was mentioned in the MHC guidelines in view of a sudden rise in Covid count. The final decision would be taken by UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, he added.Under the new guidelines, the MHA has allowed opening of yoga institutes and gymnasiums from August 5 with standard operating procedure (SOP) fixed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for ensuring social distancing and to contain the spread of Covid-19.However, schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till August 31. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will also remain shut.7 vendors arrestedChandigarh: Seven fruit and vegetable vendors were arrested for violating social distancing and obstructing public way at Dhanas. The police said the vendors had parked their carts close to each other, violating the social distancing norms. Those arrested have been identified as Rajesh, Ram Bahadur, Gevta Deen Gupta, Ram Sanjeevan, Krishan Kumar, Ram and Sonu. A case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered against them at the Sarangpur police station. They were later released on bail. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cases-rising-chandigarh-may-not-lift-night-curfew-in-unlock-3-0-119645
30-07-2020||---||WHO hails timely action in Chandigarh's Bapu Dham Colony||Chandigarh, July 29The World Health Organisation (WHO) has appreciated the UT Administration for effectively controlling Covid-19 in Bapu Dham Colony.Dr Srinivasan Selvamani, representative, WHO, called on UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore and presented his report on fight against Covid in Bapu Dham at the Punjab Raj Bhawan today. Glitches In the report, he appreciated the timely action of the Administration in containing the spread at Bapu Dham Colony. The WHO representative specifically appreciated strict perimeter control, setting up of rapid response teams and involvement of the Civil Defence as a part of the containment strategy.The efforts of the UT Administration for aggressive contact tracing and quarantine of contacts were cited as a practice that could be imitated by other states and UTs.Dr Selvamani appreciated the quick action of the Health Department in setting up a local dispensary, which was opened round the clock for screening the entire population. He appreciated the intensive sanitisation operation by the Municipal Corporation. The report praised Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar for involving volunteers to do counselling and motivation. They acted as a link between the community and the Administration.The WHO representative appreciated the success of the Administration in ensuring regular supply of essential commodities, including milk and vegetables, on the doorstep. Another innovation was availability of mobile ATM vans and supply of medicines through Rogi Kalayan Samiti.The efforts of the Municipal Corporation in garbage collection despite risk to the field staff were lauded. Community engagement and psycho-social support to the population in Bapu Dham Colony through social welfare experts, community radio and WhatsApp messages was also appreciated. The use of mass-communication media to spread awareness was a model for the entire country.However, the WHO report also found some gaps in containment of the virus. The report stated that the demarcation of containment zone and buffer zone was not done as per the Centre’s guidelines and as such, no delineation of activities could be conducted in these zones. The daily screening of population for active cases was not conducted and there was no provision for on-site sampling, stated the report. Stratification of data of the positive cases and contacts was not done for better understanding of the chain of transmission and guiding decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/who-hails-timely-action-in-chandigarhs-bapu-dham-colony-119646
30-07-2020||Naina Mishra||In July, Covid testing sees jump of 86 per cent in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29The testing for Covid-19 increased by 86 per cent in July as compared with June.With 5,535 tests, July has accounted for 41 per cent of the total tests conducted in the city so far, which is higher than the testing numbers of previous months. Around 532 positive cases also surfaced in July.The testing dipped in June with 2,967 tests, while in May, 3,564 tests were conducted. The increased testing in May was due to the surge in cases from Bapu Dham Colony. More than 1,300 tests alone were conducted in colony.The health authorities have attributed the eased testing protocols as one of the reason for residents reporting to city laboratories for testing. Arun Gupta, UT Health Secretary, said: “Now, patients don’t have to go for institutional isolation while waiting for their reports to come. Earlier, patients feared contracting infection and did not report for testing.”Gupta added: “We are also sampling the non-household contacts of Covid positive patients. Earlier, we were isolating the non-household contacts of positive cases. Last month, the average sampling per day was 100 and now, we are sampling more than 200 persons each day.”Highest positivity rate – 9.6%Every ninth person tested positive for Covid-19 out of 100 samples collected this month, which is the highest positivity rate in the past four months. The positivity rate in June was only 5.1 per cent, whereas in May and April, the rate was 5.7 per cent and 6.3 per cent, respectively.A test positivity rate is the percentage of Covid-19 tests that reported positive. A high positivity rate indicates that testing is relatively limited to people with high suspicion of Covid-19.“The positivity rate is naturally on the higher side in targeted population than the random sampling. We have conducted targeted sampling in UT after diagnosing the symptoms. The un-targeted sampling was only for foreign returnees. However, the infection rate among them is lower than the general population,” said Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-july-covid-testing-sees-jump-of-86-per-cent-in-chandigarh-119647
30-07-2020||Naina Mishra||Despite accuracy concerns, Chandigarh to introduce antigen test||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29The UT Administration is set to introduce the rapid antigen test for the first time for the diagnosis of Covid-19.According to sources, the UT will procure around 2,000 kits in the coming days. A tender has been floated on the GeM portal.The UT will use the antigen test for asymptomatic patients only. Those who test positive will be considered Covid patients. As per the ICMR advisory, symptomatic patients with negative antigen results have to go in for the RT-PCR test for confirmation. However, no RT-PCR test confirmation is required for asymptomatic individuals testing negative in the antigen test.However, the antigen test has been widely condemned for its low sensitivity as compared to the RT-PCR test. In its advisory, the ICMR said it had evaluated the antigen kits’ performance in two labs and had found its sensitivity to be 50.6 per cent and 84 per cent.Recently, the Delhi High Court had asked the Delhi Government why it was going in for the rapid antigen test, which had a high rate of false negative results, as the primary test for Covid.An official said on condition of anonymity, “The antigen test at times gives a false negative result and warrants confirmation using the RT-PCR test. Around 90 per cent of the tests had to be repeated using the RT-PCR method in line with the previous ICMR advisory.”The decision to start the rapid antigen test was taken on the advice of the PGI authorities, who apprised the UT Administrator on its feasibility.Know the difference||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-accuracy-concerns-chandigarh-to-introduce-antigen-test-119678
