30-10-2020||Chandigarh||65 new COVID-19 cases in Chandigarh||Sixty-five more people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Chandigarh on Friday, bringing the infection count to 14,351, according to a medical bulletin.No new fatality linked to COVID-19 was reported in the city on Friday and the death toll from the disease stands at 225, the bulletin said.Chandigarh has 657 active COVID-19 cases, according to the Friday’s bulletin.Sixty-seven more patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 13,469, it said.A total of 1,06,090 samples have been taken for COVID-19 testing and 91,097 of them tested negative while reports of 99 are awaited, according to the bulletin. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/65-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-163441
30-10-2020||---||49 new Covid cases surface in Mohali, toll up to 12,299||Mohali, October 30The Covid-19 tally in Mohali district climbed to 12,299 with 49 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours. No casualty was registered till Friday evening.Out of the total 49 positive cases, 30 came from Mohali urban, five each from Banur, Dera Bassi and Kharar, one each from Dhakoli and Kurali, and two from Gharuan.Meanwhile, 21 patients have been cured and discharged from hospitals in the past 24 hours. So far 11,536 patients in the district have been cured of the infection.There are 526 active cases with 236 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/49-new-covid-cases-surface-in-mohali-toll-up-to-12-299-163403
30-10-2020||Bengaluru||Kerala, Goa, Chandigarh best governed states, union territory:  PAC ranking||Kerala was adjudged the best governed state in the country while Uttar Pradesh ended at the bottom in the large states category, according to the Public Affairs Index-2020 released by the Public Affairs Centre here on Friday.In its annual report released on Friday, the city-based not-for-profit organisation, headed by former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairman K Kasturirangan, said the states were ranked on governance performance based on a composite index in the context of sustainable development.Four southern states, Kerala (1.388 PAI Index point), Tamil Nadu (0.912), Andhra Pradesh (0.531) and Karnataka (0.468) stood in the first four ranks in the large state category in terms of governance, it said.Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Bihar were at the bottom of the ranking, scoring negative points in the category. They got - 1.461, -1.201 and -1.158 points respectively.In the small state category, Goa ranked first with 1.745 points, followed by Meghalaya (0.797) and Himachal Pradesh (0.725).The worst performers who scored negative points are Manipur (-0.363), Delhi (-0.289) and Uttarakhand (-0.277), according to the PAC report.Chandigarh emerged the best governed union territory in the category of UTs with 1.05 PAI points, followed by Puducherry (0.52) and Lakshadweep (0.003). Dadar and Nagar Haveli (-0.69), Andaman, Jammu and Kashmir (-0.50) and Nicobar (-0.30) were the least performers.According to the PAC, the governance performance is analysed in the context of sustainable development defined by three pillars of equity, growth and sustainability.Speaking on the occasion, Kasturirangan said: “The evidence that PAI 2020 generates and the insights that it provides must compel us to reflect on the economic and social transition that is underway in India”. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kerala-goa-chandigarh-best-governed-states-union-territory-pac-ranking-163386
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Webinar at UIET||The Department of Information Technology, University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), organised a webinar on 'Technology Trends & Skills of the Future'. It was held under the guidance of Prof Savita Gupta, Director, UIET, and Prof Krishan Kumar, coordinator of the department.Vandhana Aggrawal, Delivery Manager, Infosys, Chandigarh, provided insights regarding the evolution of IT over the decades and created awareness on how technology effected our day-to-day life. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/webinar-at-uiet-163132
30-10-2020||---||CAT dismisses teachers’ plea to extend retirement age to 65||The Chandigarh Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) has dismissed the petition of the teaching staff of the Government College of Art, Sector 10, and the Chandigarh College of Architecture for allowing them to continue working till 65 years of age on the pattern of the colleges affiliated to the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE).Respondents CLAIMThe respondents — Chandigarh Administration and Government of India — argued that as per a notification issued in 1992 by the President of India for Chandigarh, the applicants are governed by the Punjab Civil Services Rules under which the age of retirement is 58.Currently, the retirement age of the teaching staff is 58 years for the petitioners. In an application before CAT, the petitioners said currently, their service was under the purview of the Punjab Civil Services Rules. “According to the rules, they are to be superannuated at the age of 58 years,” read their application. The applicants argued that the Centre through its various notifications and the AICTE through its regulations of 2010 and 2019 had enhanced the age of superannuation of the teaching staff to 65 years and further extendable up to 70 years.The applicants argued that the notification issued by the government in 1992 was also not applicable to them. Under the notification, the government had extended the Punjab Services Rules to the employees of the UT Administration.Meanwhile, the respondents — Chandigarh Administration and Government of India — argued that as per the notification issued in 1992 by the President of India for Chandigarh, the applicants are governed by the Punjab Civil Services Rules under which the age of the retirement is 58 years.After hearing the arguments, the court dismissed the teachers’ petition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cat-dismisses-teachers-plea-to-extend-retirement-age-to-65-163133
30-10-2020||Mohali||Firecracker traders in Kurali fear 70% dip in sales||Due to Covid-19, business of wholesale firecracker traders at the Kurali market is likely to take a hit this year.Going by the claims of wholesale dealers at the Kurali market, the sale of crackers is likely to dip by nearly 70 to 75 per cent this season.Traders believe that people were scared of Covid and were unlikely to come out to purchase firecrackers for Diwali.One of the traders, Sunder Lal and Sons of Kurali, claimed they had decided to order lesser quantity of firecrackers from the manufacturers at Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu. He said earlier, their business used to start picking up two months before Diwali with small-time firecracker sellers and retailers placing their orders in advance. He said now, with just two weeks to Diwali, they have not received any order from retailers or customers in the tricity.Balwinder Singh, president, Kurali Firecracker Dealers’ Association, said people were scared due to the pandemic.He said he had never seen such a situation in 52-year tenure as a dealer. He said there was complete slump in the market as retailers were yet to place their orders. He said they hoped to get the orders after the traders in the region received temporary licences.Traders said this year, small-time businessmen were scared of investing money in the business.The firecracker market in Kurali, which caters to retailers of several nearby towns, including Morinda, Mohali, Chandigarh, Panchkula, Ropar, Sirhind, Bassi Pathana, Fatehgarh Sahib, Kharar, Nawanshahr and some towns of Himachal Pradesh, witnesses a business of nearly Rs6 to 8 crore every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firecracker-traders-in-kurali-fear-70-dip-in-sales-163136
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Education system will change post-Covid: Research||According to a research, 85 per cent teachers believe that the education system will not be the same post- Covid-19.According to Punita Vadhera, founder and mentor of Edusensei Young Research Scholars programme and international counsellor of St Kabir Public School, the research has a dual impact.“It has been carried out by students and involved students and changes that will occur in the education and school systems after the pandemic. Research is an important component and should be explored by school students. It’s an important aspect which will take India forward and will bring awareness at the grassroots level,” said Punita.The research involved nine students — Anhat, Anushreya, anureet, Tanish, Ekamsleen, Sanya, Kesar, Karan and Saumya — from various private schools.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/education-system-will-change-post-covid-research-163138
30-10-2020||Mohali||MP Manish Tewari tells GMADA to act against builders indulging in malpractices||Due to deliberate excessive delay in possession and deficiencies in provision of basic amenities, real estate customers suffer not only from mental and financial injury, but also from brazen violation of their right to life and livelihood.Member of Parliament Manish Tewari stated this during a meeting, held to familiarise with gamut of activities that Greater Mohali Area Development Authroty (GMADA) undertakes, at PUDA Bhawan, Mohali. He was accompanied by Raminder Pal Singh Palli, chairman, Punjab Agri Export Corporation, and Pawan Dewan, chairman, Punjab Large Industrial Development Board.Advocating exemplary action against erring builders, Tewari asked GMADA officials to take stringent action against builders/developers, who take gullible citizens on a ride.He suggested hefty penalties, cancelation of licences and criminal action against builders/colonisers indulging in malpractices. He also asked officials to come up with a “Model builder buyer agreement” with an appropriate insertion of a penalty clause.“Generally agreements are craftily drafted in favour of builders, leaving people in the lurch,” added Tewari.“Lot of complaints are received against promoters/builders regarding failure to complete projects in the stipulated period, non-provision of basic amenities and deficiency in service, which are major areas of conflict between developers and buyers that need to be redressed,” said Tewari. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mp-manish-tewari-tells-gmada-to-act-against-builders-indulging-in-malpractices-163140
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Theft at house in Ram Darbar||Sec 33 resident duped of Rs22KChandigarh: A resident of Sector 33 has been duped of Rs22,500 in an online fraud. In his complaint to the police, Jazbeez Singh stated that the amount was fraudulently transferred from his bank account. Someone made three fraudulent transactions and Rs7,500 each was debited from his account on June 9, 15 and 21 this year. A case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 34 police station. TNSPharma fest at UNIVERSITYChandigarh: Placebo Club and faculty of pharmacy, Desh Bhagat University (DBU), organised a pharma fest with ‘educate before you medicate’ as the theme .The objective of the event was to highlight the role of a pharmacist, give a platform to students for interacting with each other and exchanging their views regarding the recent developments in the field of pharmacy. A declamation and ‘rangoli’ competition were organised. TNSDates for filing OF formS extendedChandigarh: Panjab University has decided to extend the last date for filing of forms/registration for BEd (General), BEd (Yoga) and BEd (Intellectual Disability) in city colleges. The last date for uploading the information on the website and generating a login/password has been extended to November 6, while the last date for depositing the fee has been extended to November 10. The last date for uploading photograph and signature has been extended to November 12. TNSResults declaredChandigarh: Panjab University has declared the results of Certificate Course in Chinese, Diploma Course in Chinese, Advanced Diploma Course in Chinese, MSc Fashion Designing semester IV, BSc(Hons), Microbiology semester VI, Master of Library Science semester II, Pre-Phd Course Work in Anthropology and MA Ancient Indian History Culture and Archeology semester IV. TNSCollege holds talk on HIVChandigarh: Red Ribbon Club of Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36, in collaboration with the NSS unit of the college, organised an interactive talk on ‘Symptoms and signs of HIV infection’. The objective of the event was to spread the spirit of ‘youth engagement for global action’ regarding HIV/AIDS and its awareness. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/theft-at-house-in-ram-darbar-163146
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||House okays rollback of 3-time hike in water tariff in Chandigarh||The MC General House today decided to roll back the water tariff hike while putting the two other contentious issues of GPS watches and reduction in the rent of Sector 23 booths on the back burner. The House decided to form committees to look into the two issues.The House decision on the water tariff hike will now be sent to the UT Administration for the final approval. The three-time increase in the tariff has already been implemented in the city. Meanwhile, Congress councillors staged a walkout over the issue.Mayor should resign: CongCongress councillors demanded that Mayor Raj Bala Malik should resign for alleged failure to deliver on development issues. Malik said, “I will not resign. I was not elected by you. We are 20 and you only five.”Earlier, politics was at its peak today as both the ruling BJP as well as the opposition Congress tabled agendas regarding the sanitation workers’ demand and the water tariff hike.The first agenda tabled by the Congress was of its demand for cancellation of a notification on the water supply by-laws. The House rejected the demand and resolved that the Administration notification cannot be cancelled.Open apni mandis: BJP to UTBJP councillors asked the UT Administration to open apni mandis. “Even clubs have opened where social distancing is not possible. Then, why not mandis?” asked councillor Arun Sood.Tempers flared over the issue of 200 per cent increase in water rates.Congress councillor Devinder Singh Babla and BJP councillor Gurpreet Dhillon had a verbal duel with one of them heard shouting, “Haath lagake toh dikha”. They relented following an intervention of some BJP councillors.The second agenda of the Congress regarding demands of safaikaramcharis was also set aside with an assurance of “not doing anything wrong” to the sanitation workers. Though Congress councillors tried to make an issue out of GPS watches and water tariff hike, the united BJP councillors made them silent, reminding them that these agendas were okayed in the MC House with their approval.While the BJP criticised the agendas tabled by the Congress, it raised the same issues in the agendas it tabled during the meeting but with a ‘different language’. The ruling party’s first tabled agenda was to review the decision on GPS watches for MC employees. Councillor Rajesh Kalia spoke about the false location shown by the watches and a huge monthly rent paid by the civic body for these gadgets.Bharatiya Janata Party councillor Arun Sood said the watches had no utility.On this, MC Commissioner KK Yadav said they had no specific complaint and there could be a default in technology, but not all devices were faulty.Later, it was resolved to form a committee to assess its merits and demerits and bring its recommendation before the House.Sector 38 motor market roadA commitment made to the Centre that a concrete road will be built in the Sector 38 motor market in 100 days of its second tenure has remained pending. Councillor Arun Sood highlighted the issue during the House meeting. “A list of works, including the Sector 38 road, was sent to the PMO, but the work is still not done,” he said.No more relief for parking contractorsThe House resolved against giving more compensation to the parking lot contractors.They were earlier given a relaxation in the monthly licence fee. They were also asked to provide all smart features by November 30.House for identifying more vending sitesThe House resolved that the MC should look for more feasible sites for vendors in the city. Councillors said viable sites should be identified for vendors, as many of them had not shifted to some sites offered to them by the MC as they did not find business there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/house-okays-rollback-of-3-time-hike-in-water-tariff-in-chandigarh-162993
30-10-2020||Panchkula||Cattle deaths at Mansa Devi Gaudham: Autopsy hints at food poisoning||The preliminary post-mortem report of 70 head of cattle, who died yesterday under mysterious circumstances at Mata Mansa Devi Gaudham, a cow shelter run by the Panchkula Gaushala Trust, has suggested that the bovines died due to food poisoning. This was stated by Dr Anil Banwala, Deputy Director, Anil Husbandry and Dairying (Haryana).Toll reaches 71One more cattle head died late on Wednesday night, toll touches 71“The report of feed and water samples sent to the Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences in Hisar will make things clear. Samples have also been sent for examination to Madhuban in Karnal,” he said.Cops rule out foul play Assistant Commissioner of Police Raj Kumar has ruled out any foul play, saying they did not find any suspicious activity while scrutinising the footage of CCTV cameras installed inside the sheds.Panel to submit report todayA three-member committee constituted to look into the matter will submit its report on Friday. Nishu Singla, CEO, Zila Parishad, Panchkula, is heading the inquiry panel, while other two members are Dr Anil Banwala, Deputy Director of Anil Husbandry Department, Haryana, and ACP Raj Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cattle-deaths-at-mansa-devi-gaudham-autopsy-hints-at-food-poisoning-163016
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh employees move High Court over delay||The UT Employees CHB Housing Welfare Society has approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking directions for time-bound implementation of the UT Employees Self-Financing Housing Scheme-2008.In a civil miscellaneous application, petitioners Phool Kumar Saini and others submitted that despite the land having been earmarked for the scheme in 2009, the project has not commenced even as more than 10 years have passed.Flats were to come up in Sector 52, 56The scheme was launched in 2008 for the employees of the UT Administration, its boards, corporations, the High Court, etc. Nearly 7,811 applications were received for the allotment of flats and 3,930 of these were accepted after a draw in 2010. Nearly Rs29 crore was deposited by the allottees. The flats were to be constructed in Sectors 52 and 56 by the CHB.On March 13 this year, the High Court had directed the Union Home Secretary to convene a meeting with the UT Adviser and the CHB Chairman to resolve the issue. Three representatives of the petitioners may also be associated in the proceedings, the court had ordered.In compliance of the order, the Union Home Secretary convened a meeting on August 25 and called upon the UT Administration to prepare a comprehensive proposal keeping in view the provisions of law, the norms for transfer of land, a decision of the Union Cabinet, directions of the High Court and the interest of the allottees. It was also decided that the proposal should also be discussed with the allottees.The petitioners stated that even as over two months had passed, the UT Administration did not start preparing the proposal, further delaying the implementation of the project and avoidable escalation in the cost.The petitioners prayed that the Administration be directed to submit a compliance report of the order dated March 13 and to prepare and submit the proposal in terms of the decision taken in the meeting held on August 25.The scheme was launched in 2008 for the employees of the UT Administration, its boards, corporations, the High Court, etc. Nearly 7,811 applications were received for the allotment of flats and 3,930 of these were accepted after a draw in 2010. Nearly Rs29 crore was deposited by the allottees. The flats were to be constructed in Sectors 52 and 56 by the CHB.In 2012, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) gave directions that land for any purpose must not be disposed of below the market value. This had enhanced the cost of the flats manifold and later, the scheme was shelved. It was revived after the employees took up the matter with MP Kirron Kher and the MHA allowed the UT Administration to transfer land to the CHB at the prevailing collector rate.The employees then moved the High Court alleging that the CHB was charging five times the initial price of flats.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-employees-move-high-court-over-delay-163046
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Private schools in Chandigarh unlikely to reopen on November 2||Private schools in Chandigarh are unlikely to resume physical classes from November 2 as they have not received the consent of the parents of the minimum 50 per cent students, the mark set by the Independent Schools Association (ISA).Govt schools can now charge entire feeThe DSE and the DEO on Thursday announced that the government schools shall collect monthly fee from classes IX and X students from October. It was clarified that annual funds had been waived for a period from April to September. It meant that schools can collect half of annual funds along with monthly fee from October onwards.The association also wanted the UT Administration to clear its stand on school fee, especially after government schools are allowed to charge it from October onwards, as they reportedly faced losses in the Covid-19 pandemic.“Till date, the response of parents is not so good. It will be tough for teachers to take both online and physical classes. We will continue with the online mode of teaching,” said HS Mamik, president, ISA.Over 78 private schools are affiliated with the ISA. Issuing standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening of schools, the office of the District Education Officer (DEO) had yesterday stated that students of classes X and XII will attend school from 9 am to 11.30 am, while classes IX and XI will be conducted from noon to 2.30 pm. It also mentioned that the written consent of parents to send their wards to school should be taken by the respective institutions before or on the day of reopening. The consent will be valid unless withdrawn by the parent. School heads were also directed to prepare a schedule to enable teachers to take both online and physical classes on the school premises.On the issue of allowing government schools to charge fee, Mamik said the rules should be equal for all. “If private schools are forbidden from charging full fee, the government schools too should follow the same. Both government and private sectors faced losses in this pandemic. While the UT Administration allowed its schools to charge fee from students, we have been forced to collect only tuition fee,” he said.“We have already submitted a representation requesting the Administration to review the restriction on charging of fee. We are yet to hear from them,” he added.UT Adviser Manoj Parida said, “Private schools can collect tuition fee. The matter of charging other fee is sub judice.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/private-schools-in-chandigarh-unlikely-to-reopen-on-november-2-163090
30-10-2020||Mohali||Prime suspect held, weapon recovered||The Zirakpur police have arrested the prime suspect who fired gunshots at the victim in a road rage incident that took place in Zirakpur recently. A 35-year-old man, Anil Kumar, a resident of Daun village in Mohali, was allegedly shot dead in the incident.The suspect has been identified as Harvinder Singh, alias Happy, a resident of Kotkapura in Punjab.Divulging details, SP Ravjot Kaur said Happy was the prime suspect in the case as he had allegedly shot the victim with his .32 revolver on the night of October 10. The suspect was arrested at a naka laid near Gurdwara Baoli Sahib in Dhakoli. The police also recovered the weapon used in the crime, along with a .315 rifle and a .12 gun, from his possession.Ravjot said the suspect would be produced before a court tomorrow for seeking his police remand. A chargesheet would be filed against him in the court. After questioning, his accomplices would also be nabbed soon. On October 10, five men riding a Fortuner on VIP Road here had an argument with the men occupying another Fortuner over the issue of overtaking the vehicle. The men in one of the vehicles asked their friends, Anil and Monty, to come to the spot. Anil, who was attending a birthday party in Zirakpur, arrived on the spot where he had an argument with the other men. Happy allegedly fired three shots at Anil, of which two hit him. The victim was rushed to a hospital where he later died.A case of murder was registered at the Zirakpur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/prime-suspect-held-weapon-recovered-163091
30-10-2020||Mohali||3 ‘tipsy’ men create ruckus, attack cops in Mohali||Three persons were arrested for creating a ruckus and attacking cops on duty in Sector 70 here last night. They were produced in a local court, which sent them to three-day police custody.The suspects, identified as Satinderpal Singh, Avneet Singh, both residents of Sector 70, and Jasmeet Singh, a resident of Sunny Enclave in Kharar, were arrested when they were allegedly creating a ruckus in front of a liquor shop. When cops on patrol duty, including Mataur SHO Inspector Rajiv Kumar, tried to stop them, the trio sped away in their car after hitting the police vehicle. After a brief chase, the cops nabbed them.The suspects again abused the policemen and even tore the uniform of a gunman of the SHO, said the police.Inspector Rajiv Kumar said, “Firstly, they hit our vehicle and then attacked us. The suspects were in an inebriated state and were hurling abuses at the police.”A case has been registered against them under Sections 307,186, 34, 353 and 506 of the IPC at the Mataur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-tipsy-men-create-ruckus-attack-cops-in-mohali-163099
30-10-2020||Panchkula||Panchkula woman duped of Rs12.20L||A 34-year-old woman from Haripur village in Sector 4 here was allegedly duped of Rs12.20 lakh by a Kalka resident on the pretext of helping her in getting a government job. The complainant, Shallu Aggarwal, told the police that she came in contact with the suspect, Ajay Kashyap, in January, 2019.Kashyap, who claimed that he had good relations with leaders, offered to help her in getting her a government job.He demanded Rs20 lakh from the victim for the deal. She paid Rs12.20 lakh to Kashyap in four instalments."The suspect took the complainant to the Civil Secretariat, Chandigarh, several times with an assurance that she will get the job soon. When the suspect failed to arrange an interview for the victim, she asked him to refund the money," according to the FIR. A case was registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-woman-duped-of-rs12-20l-163104
30-10-2020||Panchkula||At 95.79%, Panchkula recovery rate fourth highest in Haryana||At 95.79 per cent, Panchkula is among top five districts in Haryana in terms of recovery rate. With 6,780 recoveries, the district stands at number 4 spot after Ambala (97.01 per cent), Karnal (96.38 per cent) and Nuh (95.84 per cent).Only 187 active casesThe district lost its 3rd position to Nuh today only. Its recovery rate was above 96 per cent yesterday.With 39 fresh Covid cases from the district today, the infection tally rose to 7,078. Only 187 Covid-19 patients are undergoing treatment at hospitals or in home isolation in the district.On October 1, the district’s recovery rate was 85.98 per cent. The district has witnessed a dip in the number of average Covid-19 cases per day this month, as per the analysis of daily bulletins.The first 14 days in October (1 to 14) saw an average of 49 cases per day, while the next 14 days (15 to 28) of this month saw average 25 cases per day.Deaths due to Covid-19 in the district also came down this month as compared with September. The district witnessed 66 deaths last month, while it saw 45 causalities this month so far. Heath officials said the declining trend was encouraging. The officials, however, said they won’t be letting their guard down as festive season could spoil hard-won gains.No death, 39 new cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported 39 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 7,078. Ten cases were reported from Sector 20, four from Sector 7, three each from Sector 21 and 8, two each from the MDC, Sector 4, Sector 11, 12-A, 26 and 6 and one each from Devinagar, Garhi Kotaha, Haripur, Sector 17, 19, 2, 27, 28 and 4. For the second consecutive day, no death due to the virus was reported from the district. TNSDr Jasjeet Kaur, CMO, said they had a strategic plan in place to tackle the virus during and after the festive season.Over 11K samples tested since October 15The district sampled 10,103 persons for Covid-19 between October 1 and 14, while the number increased to 11,404 between October 15 and 28.On an average, the district conducted 770 Covid-19 tests daily this month. The number of samples collected was 1,400-1,500 per day when the pandemic was at its peak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-95-79-panchkula-recovery-rate-fourth-highest-in-haryana-163107
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees one death, 80 fresh cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-one-death-80-fresh-cases-163108
30-10-2020||Mohali||37 new Covid cases in Mohali||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/37-new-covid-cases-in-mohali-163110
30-10-2020||Mohali||Canter driver attacked with knife, looted||A canter driver, who reached the Zirakpur area to drop rice bags at a godown, was attacked and robbed by three unidentified persons today.The victim, who suffered injuries, has been identified as Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Chanak Chak village in Kaithal district, Haryana. A security guard of a hotel took him to a local hospital from where he was referred to the GMCH-32, Chandigarh.The police said the trio attacked Rajesh with a knife when he reached Zirakpur. The suspects also looted him of Rs6,000, a silver chain and important documents, including vehicle’s RC, driving licence, PAN card and Aadhaar card. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/canter-driver-attacked-with-knife-looted-163111
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Keep record of staff at bars, nightclubs: Badnore to police||The Punjab Governor and the UT Administrator, VP Singh Badnore, has directed the Chandigarh Police to maintain a record of the staff and bouncers deployed at nightclubs, pubs and bars. The instructions were passed to the UT DGP, Sanjay Baniwal, during the crime review meeting held yesterday.The Governor directed the DGP to make sure that antecedents of all bouncers deployed at pubs and bars were verified and their proper record maintained.The recent shooting incidents were once again discussed during the meeting. The Administrator expressed his concern over shooting incidents in Chandigarh and directed the Police Department to arrest all culprits at the earliest.Maintaining law and order near clubs is one of the major concerns for the police. Recently, two shooting incidents, including a murder, was reported outside a nightclub. In the past, bouncers’ involvement has also been detected in brawls.The UT Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Kuldeep Singh Chahal, said, “Special nakas are laid and intensive night checking is conducted near night clubs to keep a watch on anti-social elements.”The Administrator also stated that the Police Department had to be streamlined.The Adviser to UT Administrator, Manoj Parida, raised concern over rising motor vehicle thefts in the city, at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/keep-record-of-staff-at-bars-nightclubs-badnore-to-police-163113
30-10-2020||Mohali||Five arrested for duping people on pretext of sending them abroad||The police have booked seven persons, who were running an immigration firm at Phase XI and duping people on the pretext of sending them abroad.Five suspects have been arrested while two are still at large. The suspects have been identified as, Ajay, Sarika, Jasnoor, Manjit Kaur, Amrit Kaur, Kuldeep Singh and Gurtej Singh.According to the police, Manjeet Kaur and Amrit Kaur were yet to be arrested. The suspects were duping people through their immigration firm — Saksham Enterprise Visa — on the pretext of sending them abroad.The Phase XI SHO, Inspector Jagdeep Singh, said, “On getting several complaints from residents, we conducted a raid at the firm’s office today. The suspects will be produced before the court tomorrow. The two absconding suspects will also be nabbed soon. Further investigation is on.”A case has been registered against the suspects under Sections 420, 406, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code, and 13, Punjab Travel Professionals Act, 2014, at the Phase XI police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-arrested-for-duping-people-on-pretext-of-sending-them-abroad-163114
30-10-2020||Mohali||Festival season: Mohali DC orders extensive Covid testing in district||Taking no chances with probability of increase in transmission of novel coronavirus due to enhanced public meetings, interactions and social get togethers in the ongoing festival season, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan has directed the Civil Surgeon’s Office to conduct extensive sampling in the coming fortnight.“The recent dip in cases has led many to believe that Covid threat is over. All wish and pray for the same, but can’t take any chances. We can’t let Covid-19 be a spoilsport in festivities. We will not lower the guard till the virus is wiped out,” said Dayalan.Urging to be extra cautious, Dayalan appealed to the public to adhere to the safety protocol and asked shopkeepers to ensure compliance with health guidelines on their premises.He directed local health officials to organise special testing camps in markets with special focus on sweetmeat shops, eateries and illumination gadgets/electrical appliances sale outlets as maximum footfall was expected at these places in the coming days.“In the line of duty, officers and employees working in district level government departments are often in touch with the general public. People come to these offices to get their work done. In such a situation, there is a risk of spreading of virus. So, Covid-19 testing has been mandated for all government employees working in various offices of the district,” Dayalan added.“Controlling officers of district level offices have been directed to ensure compliance and submit report certifying that their staff has undergone the test by November 10. In case of more than 50 employees in an office, the Civil Surgeon Office has been directed to provide mobile van/testing team for on the spot testing,” said Dayalan. “Similarly, heads of all educational institutions are advised to get their teaching and non-teaching staff tested at the earliest,” Dayalan added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/festival-season-mohali-dc-orders-extensive-covid-testing-in-district-163115
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Brain attacks can be treated: Experts||“Interventional neuroradiology is a technical revolution to treat previously untreatable brain attacks,” said Dr Sandeep Sharma, senior consultant and head, neuro-interventional radiology, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, while speaking on the occasion of World Stroke Day today. He gave examples of stroke cases successfully treated, which were considered untreatable.Meanwhile, Abhijit Singh, zonal director, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, said, “The best way to prevent a stroke is through lifestyle changes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/brain-attacks-can-be-treated-experts-163116
30-10-2020||Mohali||Mohali Phase X/XI crossing needs urgent repair||Residents have complained that they face inconvenience due to bad condition of road and dust on the stretch around Phase XI, NIPER, Mandi Board housing complex and Phase X.Senior citizens living in the area often complain of breathing problems. Residents here alleged that the government laid sewer lines in the area, but did not repair the road after completion of the work.Naginder Singh, a retired government servant, and a resident of Phase XI, said, “A patch close to 100 metre is damaged and full ofdust and gravel. Vehicles passing through this stretch raise dust, which causes problem to the people living in nearby residential societies.”As the bad patch is at a junction, it can cause road accidents during the night time. People, who are unaware of the broken patch, are at the risk of losing control of vehicles here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-phase-x-xi-crossing-needs-urgent-repair-163119
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Average 4 cases a month before consumer panel, lawyers say awareness needed||The Consumer Commission has fined shopkeepers in approximately 40 cases for charging for carry bags during the last 10 months.While the Consumer Commission is imposing penalty and directing to pay compensation to customers for illegally charging for carry bags the menace goes on unabated.Lawyers said shopkeepers were taking undue advantage of the loopholes in the system. Average four cases a month show that not many customers are coming before the Consumer Commission.Advocate Anshuman Narula, who recently got the decision from the Consumer Commission in favour of his client, said there was a need to make consumers aware about their rights.“If shopkeepers are not stopping from charging their customers for carry bags and the enforcement authorities are turning a blind eye towards the menace then customers have no option, but to approach the consumer court,” he added.“The consumer court should also impose heavy fines on shopkeepers so that it acts as a deterrent for them,” he said. “Besides, the government should also check the menace strictly as shopkeepers are minting crores by charging for carry bags,” he added.“There is no problem for shopkeepers to pay penalty in a few cases while they earn huge amount from a large number of customers daily,” he said.In the recent case, the Consumer Commission directed Big Bazaar, (Future Retail Ltd), Elante Mall, Industrial Area, to pay Rs100 towards compensation for harassment and mental agony and Rs1,100 as litigation expenses to Ashutosh Hoshiarpuri, a resident of Sector 4, Chandigarh, who filed a case against the store for charging Rs18 for carry bag.The store was also directed to deposit Rs5,000 with the Consumer Legal Aid Account (for helping needy litigants) as punitive damage and refund the cost of carry bag to the customer.Narula, who represented Ashutosh Hoshiarpuri, said, not many people think like Hoshiarpuri, who was determined to fight against the illegal practice of paying for carry bags.Another advocate Pankaj Chandgothia said, “Shopkeepers selling carry bags are taking advantage of the fact that the Consumer Court orders apply only to a particular case and complainant. The Consumer Court cannot pass general prohibitory orders applicable to everyone and for all times.”“Moreover, only 2 per cent, which means very few persons go to court for such claims. So, shopkeepers do not mind paying penalty to such small percentage of people as they earn much more from all their customers,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/average-4-cases-a-month-before-consumer-panel-lawyers-say-awareness-needed-163120
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Covid casts shadow on PGI-Sarangpur flyover||The Covid-19 pandemic has cast its shadow on the proposed elevated road from the PGI to Sarangpur village. The project is likely to be delayed due to the shortage of funds.An official of the Engineering Department said their priority was to complete the ongoing projects in the city. It would not be easy to secure funds from the Centre during pandemic for a new project, he said, adding that the department could not carry out the work in the absence of the required funds.The Engineering Department had prepared a plan to construct a 1.75-km-long road with 1.3-km flyover to provide seamless movement of traffic between the PGI and Sarangpur after bypassing traffic bottlenecks — Khuda Jassu and Khudda Lahora villages — in the city. The four-lane elevated road will be nearly 19.1-m wide with the carriageway width of 17.5 metres.The elevated road will start from near the PGI and end near the Botanical Garden, Sarangpur, after crossing over Khudda Jassu and Khudda Lahora villages.For checking the feasibility of the project, the department had appointed a consultant to conduct a geo-technical study of the area in the first week of June and asked the firm to submit a report within a month. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the consultant had sought time to submit the report till the end of October, but the department is still waiting for it.The official said after getting the report, the department would require various clearances, including environment, before finalising the design and cost of the project.The proposed elevated road will provide congestion-free movement to people going to New Chandigarh and Baddi in Himachal Pradesh and vice versa. The road will also provide hassle-free movement to people going to the Sarangpur institutional area where a number of projects are coming up, including the extension campus of the PGIMER.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-casts-shadow-on-pgi-sarangpur-flyover-163124
30-10-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University fellows want term extended, approach Vice President||More than 30 Senators or fellows of Panjab University have now written to Chancellor Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Vice-President (VP) of India, for extending the term of the current House, which will end on October 31.After the postponement of elections twice in the past three months, the Syndics have tried their best to ensure elections or extension of the current House. They have approached the UT Administrator, Punjab Chief Minister, UT Adviser and now, the Chancellor in this regard.In today’s letter, Senators said: “The current House’s term is to end on October 31 and the elections have already been cancelled twice. As per the PU Calendar, Senate and Syndicate are the supreme governing bodies of the university. Therefore, in the interest of the university and its stakeholders, you are requested to extend the term of the present Senate till the next one is elected as per the PU Calendar.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-fellows-want-term-extended-approach-vice-president-163127
30-10-2020||---||Chandigarh begins process to procure electric buses||Chandigarh, October 29To give a new dimension to eco-friendly transport system in the city, the UT Administration will soon get a fleet of 80 electric buses.The Centre had last month sanctioned 80 electric buses for the UT under Phase-II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme.After getting green light from the Centre, the UT Administration has started the process for the procurement of the buses. Under the scheme, the Centre will provide Rs50-lakh subsidy for each bus to the seller.A senior official of the Transport Department said a fresh tender for the purchase of the buses would be floated next week.The procurement of the buses will give a major boost to the plan of the UT Administration to replace its entire fleet of ordinary buses of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) with electric buses.At present, the CTU has 514 buses — 361 buses run on local or suburban routes and 153 buses run on inter-state routes.As the buses would not emit any pollution, it would improve the quality of air in the city, added the official.Last year, when the Centre had refused to finance 40 electric buses, the UT Administration had decided to procure these buses on the basis of revenue sharing. The Administration had floated tenders for the purchase of the 40 electric buses in January, but had to suspend it as the revenue had been hit hard due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The official said the tender already floated for 40 electric buses would be part of the 80 buses sanctioned by the Central Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-begins-process-to-procure-electric-buses-163130
30-10-2020||---||Govt approves 150 MBBS seats for Gian Sagar college||Faridkot, October 29The Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER) today granted permission to Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, Banur, to admit 150 students in the MBBS course for the academic year 2020-2021. The medical college was closed three years ago due to various controversies over financial mismanagement.The DMER has allowed the college to make admissions after the Medical Council of India (MCI) and Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) had given their nod, and the college had deposited a bank guarantee of Rs 1.4 crore in favour of the Medical Education Department.Earlier, the state government had issued essentiality and an NOC to the college on August 29, 2019, and BFUHS had also allowed provisional affiliation to the college on April 28.With these 150 MBBS seats, there will be total 1,375 seats in the course in all nine medical colleges in the state. This includes 600 seats in three government medical colleges at Faridkot, Patiala and Amritsar, 100 seats in DMC, Ludhiana, 75 in CMC, Ludhiana, 150 in SGRD Medical College, Amritsar, 150 in Adesh Medical College, Bathinda, and 150 in PIMS, Jalandhar, other than 150 in Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital, for this academic session. The admission process has already been started by the BFUHS.The MCI and the Dental Council of India had withdrawn the recognition of the medical college of the Gian Sagar Educational and Charitable Trust in 2017 after the management failed in coming up with any concrete revival plan for the institute, which was facing a financial crisis. The government at that time had also shifted around 1,500 medical and dental students of the college to other medical institutions operating across the state to complete the remaining years of their courses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/govt-approves-150-mbbs-seats-for-gian-sagar-college-163131
