31-07-2020||---||Kharar Civil Hospital told to set up two-bedded antenatal room as woman allegedly delivered child in toilet||Mohali, July 31A day after a pregnant woman allegedly delivered a child in a toilet at the Kurali Civil Hospital on Thursday night, Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh on Friday instructed Senior Medical Officer Bhupinder Singh to set up a special two-bedded antenatal room near the labour room at the hospital.The Civil Surgeon said proper counselling of pregnant women held significant importance and when pregnant women wanted to go to the toilet, the hospital staff should be informed first and an attendant should be taken along.He said the pregnant woman was admitted to the hospital and went to the toilet without informing the hospital staff. The staff of the hospital rushed to the spot and the woman delivered the baby in a safe and orderly manner at the labour room in the hospital, he said.Both mother and the baby were fine, the Civil Surgeon added.Dr Singh added that the list of vacancies of doctors and other staff in the hospital had already been sent to the higher authorities for necessary action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-civil-hospital-told-to-set-up-two-bedded-antenatal-room-as-woman-allegedly-delivered-child-in-toilet-120424
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Administration declares public holiday tomorrow for Eid||Chandigarh Administration has declared a public holiday on Friday for Eid-ul-Zuha.All institutions, including industrial establishments, under the UT will remain closed under Section 25 of the Negotiable Instruments Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-declares%C2%A0public-holiday-tomorrow-for-eid-120423
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports one death, 35 new coronavirus cases||Chandigarh reported one death and 35 new coronavirus cases on Friday, officials said---developments that take the union territory’s infection tally to 1,051 with 15 deaths.A 46-year-old woman from Kajheri tested positive two days after she was brought dead to the Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16. She had no pre-existing health conditions, and was asymptomatic when she died, the UT’s medical bulletins said. She however did complain of severe and radiating abdominal pain, the bulletin said.Three of her family and four community contacts have been isolated and their swabs taken for testing, the bulletin showed.Of the remaining 34 cases, 20 were contacts of previously diagnosed cases---14 of them family members and the rest, workplace contacts.Eight of a family tested positive in Sector 32---the largest group of people testing positive in one place on Friday.Three people employed at GMSH-16 and workplace contacts of a person were among those who tested positive. Two workplace contacts of a PGI employee were also among the new cases.The UT now has 369 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-one-death-35-new-coronavirus-cases-120391
31-07-2020||Mohali||28 fresh COVID-19 cases surface in Mohali||With the surfacing of 28 new positive coronavirus cases the total count has gone up to 850 in the Mohali district.Meanwhile, 19 patients have been discharged from the hospital and active cases are 321.The persons infected with the virus include 48-year-old female of Ecogreen Derabassi, 29-year-old male of Mukandpur, 34-year-old male of Royal Farms Motia Heights, three females aged 27, 30, 32 and 60-year-old male of  Derabassi, 34-year-old female of Jawaharpur, 22-year-old female of Kumbra, 30-year-old male of Rajumajra, two males aged 27, 16 of Dhakoli, four females aged 37, 61, 15, 28 of Zirakpur, 50-year-old female of Skynet Enclave Zirakpur, 29 year male of Amardeep Nagar Derabassi, 24-year-old male, 7-year-old female of ATS Derabassi, 18-year-old male of Lalru, two males aged 48, 25 and two females aged 29, 23 of Kharar, 32-year-old male of New Chandigarh, 65-year-old male of Manakpur and 25-year-old female of Omega City Kharar.The 19 persons cured and discharged from hospital include two males aged 30 and 28 years in Zirakpur, six males aged 46, 47, 14, 11, 10, 24 and 20-year-old female of Kharar, two males aged 30, 19 of Jawaharpur, two males aged 30, 63 and 63-year-old female of Derabassi, two females aged 18, 46 and two males aged 50, 14 of Sunny Enclave Kharar and 28-year-male of Sector 70 Mohali.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that new patients have been admitted to the Covid care centre at Gian Sagar Hospital in Banur. He said all the patients were responding to the treatment well.Till now there have been 850 cases of coronavirus and out of these 515 patients have been cured and discharged from the hospital.There are 321 active cases with 14 deaths in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/28-fresh-covid-19-cases-surface-in-mohali-120382
31-07-2020||Panchkula||29 new coronavirus cases take Panchkula’s tally to 561||Panchkula reported 29 new coronavirus cases on Friday, officials said.The development takes the district tally to 561. More than half of the cases---about 291---are still active.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/29-new-coronavirus-cases-take-panchkulas-tally-to-561-120379
31-07-2020||Mohali||To curtail footfall in govt offices, Mohali district to adopt online Public Grievance Redressal System||In a bid to curtail the footfall in government offices amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Mohali district administration would be adopting an Online Public Grievance Redressal System.Deputy Commissioner, Girish Dayalan, stated this while chairing the core group meeting of officers.He said that it is in the best interest of the public, as well as public servants, that all avoidable influx of people to government offices be restrained. He said that Directorate of Governance Reforms (DGR), Punjab has developed a Public Grievance Redressal System (PGRS). It is an integrated system for grievance redressal pertaining to all government departments via a single technology interface. So, as far as possible, complaints would be entertained online through PGRS.Sharing the details of PGRS, Harkirat Channe, Assistant Commissioner (Grievances), said that PGRS is accessible to citizens via four modes – web, mobile, Sewa Kendra and a call centre. Using an online portal of PGRS, an aggrieved citizen can conveniently file a grievance and receive an assured response to his complaint.Channe said earlier every department had its own grievance redressal mechanism without a standardized workflow for redressal and no defined timeline for resolution and accountability. She said that in contrast, the PGRS has a clear, standardized workflow for grievance redressal. She added that it assigns timelines to each officer in the workflow for resolution of the grievance, enables citizens to submit their feedback on the resolution provided and allows for escalation of grievances to higher authorities.Channe said that the PGRS portal will provide a 24x7 platform to the public to communicate with the administration and added that people will be able to lodge their complaints without having to go to different offices amid the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/to-curtail-footfall-in-govt-offices-mohali-district-to-adopt-online-public-grievance-redressal-system-120362
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Unlock 3.0: Chandigarh continues night curfew, Sukhna closed on weekends||UT Administration said on Friday that it would not lift night curfew restrictions---a development that comes at a time when Chandigarh's numbers breached 1,000 coronavirus cases. The UT Administration, which issued its Unlock 3.0 guidelines two days after the central government, said night curfews will remain in force from 10 pm to 5 am. A press release issued by the UT Administration said Sukhna Lake will remain closed on weekends and entry of visitors will banned completely on Saturdays and Sundays.Odd-even system will be re-introduced in selected congested markets after fresh examination by the authorised Committee headed by Finance Secretary, UT.All markets will close by 8 pm, but restaurants and eating establishmentscan remain open upto 9:00 pm.Earlier, UT Adviser Manoj Parida said the UT would take stricter action than what was mentioned in the MHC guidelines given a sudden rise in COVID-19 count. Under the new guidelines, the MHA has allowed the opening of yoga institutes and gymnasiums from August 5 with the standard operating procedure (SOP) fixed by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for ensuring social distancing and to contain the spread of Covid-19.However, schools, colleges, and coaching institutions will remain closed till August 31. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls, and similar places will also remain shut.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unlock-3-0-chandigarh-continues-night-curfew-sukhna-closed-on-weekends-120360
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation  to dump 25K tonnes of waste at Dadu Majra ground||The MC General House today resolved to throw 25,000 metric tonnes of waste lying at the processing plant at the dumping site in Dadu Majra.It also decided to sell compost, which is processed from waste, at a counter in its MC building and through home delivery. Besides, a huge quantity of refuse-derived fuel lying at the plant will also be e-auctioned.It was decided that a committee formed in connection with the processing plant would also assess the cost involved in the operation of the plant. The plant was earlier with Jaypee Group, but following a legal battle, the corporation recently took over it.Food joints to be surveyedWhile approving that chairs and tables would be allowed outside eating joints even during the day, the House resolved to conduct a survey of these. It would be assessed how many owners put up chairs and tables and how many of them are paying a fee to the MC. After the survey, they will be asked to pay a momthly fee or face a challan.NGOs to run Maloya gaushalaThe House resolved that NGOs would be allowed to run the Maloya gaushala. “Whosoever is in the trade can apply and those found eligible will be allowed to run the gaushala,” said MC Commissioner KK Yadav at the House meeting. A councillor had said they were paying money to those running it, while some NGOs were willing to run it free of cost. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-to-dump-25k-tonnes-of-waste-at-dadu-majra-ground-120127
31-07-2020||---||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation  to rent out vacant booths||Chandigarh, July 30Having repeatedly tried its luck to dispose of its booths and shops on a leasehold basis, the local Municipal Corporation will now rent out the vacant properties, which have been lying in disuse for many years at the Sector 17/22 subway, Sector 39-D and Mauli Jagran.A rent policy will be prepared and a sub-committee formed to asses the market cost and finalise the rates. The corporation may also inculde its other vacant properties in its rent policy. This was approved by the MC General House today. This excludes 40 booths under the new overbridge at Sector 17.For these booths, the civic body has already started an e-auction process on a monthly rent. The MC House had earlier decided to auction these on a freehold basis, but did not get approval from the UT Administration. Now, the House has decided to rent these out.“Our vacant properties are in a shambles. We have spent a huge amount on constructing these, but no policy was made to dispose of these. Now, these should be rented out,” councillor and former Mayor Asha Jaswal said in the House.The Commissioner said in the next House meeting, the committee would table its report. It would asses the prevailing market rent and compile the report. All these years, the corporation has been spending on the maintenance of these booths as it has failed to find any takers for these. Buyers reportedly found the prices high and were also not in favour of leasehold property.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-to-rent-out-vacant-booths-120128
31-07-2020||Mohali||Man succumbs to injuries in hit-&-run case||In a hit-and-run, a 32-year-old migrant worker, whose bike was hit by a rashly driven SUV on Airport Road, succumbed to his injuries at the PGI late last night.  He has been identified as Satinder Sharma, a native of Bihar, who was staying in Aerocity. He was a carpenter. The incident had occurred when the victim was returning home from Zirakpur on his bike on Sunday night. As he reached Bakarpur chowk, a speeding Toyota Innova hit his bike following which he fell on the road and was injured. A passerby informed the police and noted down the registration number of the vehicle.  The police arrived at the spot and took the victim to the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 from where he was referred to the PGI where he died.  A case has been registered against the unidentified driver of the Innova at the Sohana police station. The post-mortem was conducted today and the body handed over to the victim’s family.  The investigating officer, Bir Chand said the SUV driver sped away from the spot after the mishap. He said the car driver would be arrested soon as they had the details of the registration number of the SUV. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-succumbs-to-injuries-in-hit-run-case-120129
31-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||34 more infected in Panchkula, district figure crosses 500||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 30The city saw 100 cases of Covid in just three days, the fastest so far, and crossed the 1,000 mark today with 38 fresh infections.The UT had taken 47 days to report the first 100 cases on May 4. The first case was reported on March 18. The second 100 cases were reported in 15 days and the next in 14 days.Since July 14, when the city count had crossed 600, taking only six days to report 100 cases, the situation has deteriorated.“Testing has increased, so have the positive cases. Besides, people have less fear of Covid compared to the initial days of the pandemic. Due to this, norms like wearing a mask and social distancing are not followed religiously. Moreover, a rise in cases was expected post-lockdown,” said Dr Suman Mor, chairperson, Department of Environment Studies, PU.The number of active cases in the city stood at 355 today. These belong to about 62 localities. Dhanas and Mani Majra have the maximum active case load at 36 and 35, respectively. The number of tests conducted in Dhanas is 684, Mani Majra (672), PGI campus (628), Ram Darbar (363), Dadu Majra (247), Sector 25 (362) and Sector 15 (365).Meanwhile, 38 new cases were reported today, raising the count to 1,016. Six cases were reported from Mani Majra. Four cases each were reported from Sector 40 and Dhanas and three from Sector 46. Two cases each were reported from two PGI quarters, Kishangarh, Sector 26 and Mauli Jagran. A case each surfaced in Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, Burail, Sector 38, 48, 52, 11, 15, 25, 10, 12, 33 and 39. Besides, 36 patients were discharged from the hospital today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/34-more-infected-in-panchkula-district-figure-crosses-500-120130
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||3 days on, no headway in robbery at Sector 27||Three days after the owner of a Western Union branch was robbed at his office in Sector 27 in broad daylight, the UT police are yet to make a headway in the case.Two miscreants had robbed Rs3 lakh at gunpoint from Sanjiv Kalia in the busy market.They entered Kalia’s office and looted the cash after threatening him. The robbers casually walked out of the office and fled from the spot.The police collected CCTV footage in which the robbers, one of them wearing a cap and the other a helmet, are seen walking through the Sector 27 market.A police official said they were scrutinising the records of criminals involved in robberies, who were out on bail.The police suspect that the robbers did a recce before striking. Kalia had returned after withdrawing Rs2.80 lakh from a bank in Sector 27 when the robbers arrived there. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-days-on-no-headway-in-robbery-at-sector-27-120131
31-07-2020||---||Property tax notices under lens, Gian Chand Gupta calls for probe||Panchkula, July 30Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said today that he had ordered an investigation into “arbitrary” property tax notices received by Panchkula residents, who had already paid the tax.Gupta met Urban Local Bodies Director Amit Aggarwal at the Haryana Vidhan Sabha to apprise him of the issue.The Haryana Speaker said: “I have received complaints that despite clearance, Panchkula residents are getting tax notices. The matter suggests serious discrepancies and it should be investigated by the officials concerned.”The Haryana Speaker said the property tax notices were also being served upon persons belonging to the economically weaker section and those living in Ashiana flats.“The government has exempted properties up to 50 square yards from tax. How could they ask for property tax from those living in 30 square yard area?” Gupta stated.He further instructed the officials to give two more months for the payment of the property tax.Recently, The Tribune highlighted that several residents, who have already paid property tax for the 2020-21 fiscal year, are still receiving demand notices.The Panchkula Municipal Corporation had roped in a private company to survey and maintain property tax records.‘Revise public advertisement rates’To increase the revenue of the Panchkula Municipal Corporation, Gupta directed the officials to revise the advertisement rates for public places.Gupta said due to higher rates, most advertisement spaces were lying vacant and it was irrational to fix advertisement rates in Panchkula on the lines of metropolitan cities such as Delhi and Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/property-tax-notices-under-lens-gian-chand-gupta-calls-for-probe-120133
31-07-2020||---||Colleges collect hostel booking fee||Chandigarh, July 30As the admission process for city colleges has started, access to hostels is proving to be an issue for the students and the authorities.Though the Ministry of Home Affairs has extended the closure of schools/colleges till August 31, a majority of the city colleges have started collecting minimum booking charges for hostels. “We are taking a minimal charge of Rs10, 000 for confirming the occupancy. The amount will be adjusted whenever the hostels open,” said Dr Sutapa Saryal, Dean Admissions, DAV College, Sector 10.Similarly, Dr Balraj Thapar, Principal, GGSD College, Sector 32, said the management had not taken any decision on charging the fee or mess charges, but a minimum amount had been sought from those interested in ensuring occupancy.Meanwhile, MCM DAV College, Sector 36, is charging Rs50,000 with an option to refund half the amount if hostels don’t open till December. “We are charging half of the hostel fee as booking charges, which comes down to Rs50,000. Out of this, half the amount will be reimbursed if the college hostel doesn’t open till December. We have not yet taken a call on other charges,” said Principal Nisha Bhargava.Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, and Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, have not taken any decision regarding allotting hostels; The management of Dev Samaj College said the hostels were allotted on a first-come-first-served basis. “The booking amount is charged and the rest of the amount will be charged when the hostels open,” said one of the spokespersons.Parents’ concernMeanwhile, a few parents said the colleges should reduce the hostel fee for new and old students, who paid for the mess but did not avail of the facility due to the lockdown. “The authorities should reduce the fee this year. The old students have already paid the mess charges, which should be adjusted in the year’s fee as no one availed of the facility during the lockdown,” said a parent from Himachal Pradesh, seeking anonymity.Another student added: “Considering the current financial situation, the authorities should re-structure the hostel fee for the year. The colleges are shut till August 31 and since the future is still uncertain.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/colleges-collect-hostel-booking-fee-120134
31-07-2020||---||Shopkeepers in Sector 37 protest ‘unjustified’ challans||Chandigarh, July 30 Shopkeepers in the Sector 37 market today raised slogans against the alleged high-handedness of officials of the UT Administration on issuing challans “for not wearing a mask”. Ajay Singla, a shopkeeper, alleged that officials issued a challan to his father Sumer Singh who was sitting in the shop and wearing a mask. Singla said the officials issued the challan as his father had not fully covered his nose with the mask. He begged that no customer was present in the shop and his father was sitting alone, but the officials were bent on issuing a challan. He said another shopkeeper who was cleaning his face with handkerchief was also issued a challan for not wearing a mask.  After the incidents, several shopkeepers came out of their shops and raised slogans against the officials for wrongly issuing challans.  “Under such circumstances, we even feared to eat lunch in our shop. Today, I had my lunch by sitting under the cabin,” said Singla. He said they would file a complaint with senior officials in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shopkeepers-in-sector-37-protest-unjustified-challans-120135
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board e-offices to start tomorrow||Two branches of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) have completed all preparations for the launch of e-office module from August 1. The CHB will be the first department in the city to switch to e-office.  An official said the accounts and recovery branch would be the first in the CHB to implement the module. From August 1, all files of the two branches would move online, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-e-offices-to-start-tomorrow-120137
31-07-2020||---||Sector 22 showroom sealed over violations||Chandigarh, July 30 A team of the UT Estate Office has sealed the basement and the first floor of a showroom in Sector 22 on account of misuse of the property. Central SDM Nazuk Kumar said the SCO 1004-5 was sealed as the owner had set up several small cabins in the basement leading to overcrowding. The action was initiated as the owner did not pay heed to the repeated notices issued by the Estate Office, she said.  The basement was sealed yesterday, while the first floor was sealed today. She said the action was necessitated as guidelines of the Health Department to maintain social distancing were being flouted and it was dangerous to gather a crowd at one place in view of the pandemic. She said an action would also be initiated against other showrooms violating the norms. An official of the Estate Office said the basement was being used for commercial activities such as sale and purchase and repair of mobiles, watch repair and others. Earlier, the Estate Office had carried out an inspection of the showroom and found several violations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-22-showroom-sealed-over-violations-120138
31-07-2020||Mohali||2 booked for raping minor||The police have booked two persons on the charges of abducting and raping a 16-year-old girl here. The accused have been identified as Didar Singh and Gulbagh Singh. Both are labourers in their 30s and residents of Gurdaspur. The victim’s parents told the police that their daughter was married and on July 22, she was coming to their house in the wee hours after a fight with her husband. The suspects, working as labourers on the Mohali-Kharar flyover project, abducted her and took her to a room near Jain Dispensary in Kharar. They kept her there for two days and allegedly raped her repeatedly after making her unconscious using some sedatives. They said after the victim came back home, she was very upset for a few days. Later, she narrated the incident to her parents after which they lodged a complaint with the police. A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 376-D, 328, 342 of the IPC and 4, 6 of the POCSO (Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences) Act at the Kharar City police station. The police said they were also investigating why the minor girl was married. Narinder Singh, in-charge of the Kharar City police station, said: “The medical examination of the victim was conducted today and its report is awaited. The statement of the rape victim under Section 164(5A) (a) of CrPC was recorded before the area magistrate. We will nab the accused soon.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-booked-for-raping-minor-120139
31-07-2020||---||19,048 apply for  college admissions||Chandigarh, July 30Till date, 19,048 applications have been received by the Director High Education (DHE) for admissions to various colleges during the ongoing online admission process.For centralised courses, 8,513 applications have been received, whereas for non-centralised courses, the number has gone up to 10,517 applications.A total of 5,670 applications have been received for admissions to BA for four government colleges, whereas for BCom, the number has reached 3,848.For BCA, around 1,100 students have applied so far. As many as 658 students have applied for BSc (non-medical) and 316 for BSc (medical).The last date for submission of forms for all courses is August 3 (Monday). The list of all applicants will be displayed on August 5 by 4 pm, while the submission of discrepancies by applicants will be allowed till August 7 by 1 pm. The list of eligible applicants will be displayed on August 8 by 4 pm. The list of colleges allotted to applicants will be displayed on August 13 by 5 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/19-048-apply-for-college-admissions-120140
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Food subsidy transferred to accounts||The UT Department of Food and Supplies transferred the monthly food subsidy amount directly into the bank accounts of the registered beneficiaries. For August, the registered beneficiaries under the Priority Households Category will get Rs128.64 per member per month and the registered Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) beneficiaries will get Rs900.48 per family per month. The subsidy amount is revised by the Government of India from time to time. The beneficiaries can check the details of the registered bank accounts on the department’s website www.chdfood.gov.in. For any query or complaint, beneficiaries can contact on toll-free helpline 1800-180-2068 or 1967 or 1800-180-2079. The beneficiaries can also contact the District Food and Supplies Officer  for their grievances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/food-subsidy-transferred-to-accounts-120141
31-07-2020||Sandeep Rana||Fastest 100 in 3 days, city count breaches 1K mark||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 30The city saw 100 cases of Covid in just three days and crossed the 1,000 mark today with 38 fresh infections.The UT had taken 47 days to report the first 100 cases on May 4. The first case was reported on March 18. The second 100 cases were reported in 15 days and the next in 14 days.Since July 14, when the city count had crossed 600 taking only six days to report 100 cases, the situation has deteriorated.“Testing has increased, so have the positive cases. Besides, people have lesser fear of Covid compared to initial days of the pandemic. Due to this, norms like wearing a mask and social distancing are not followed religiously. Moreover, a rise in cases was expected post-lockdown,” said Dr Suman Mor, Chairperson, Department of Environment Studies, Panjab University.The number of active cases in the city stood at 355 today. These belong to about 62 localities. Dhanas and Mani Majra have the maximum active case load at 36 and 35, respectively. The number of tests conducted in Dhanas is 684, Mani Majra (672), PGI campus (628), Ram Darbar (363), Dadu Majra (247), Sector 25 (362) and Sector 15 (365).Meanwhile, 38 cases reported today surfaced in different parts of the city. Six cases were reported from Mani Majra. Four cases each were reported from Sector 40 and Dhanas and three from Sector 46. Two cases were reported from two PGI quarters, Kishangarh, Sector 26 and Mauli Jagran. A case each surfaced in Khuda Lahora, Khuda Jassu, Burail, Sector 38, 48, 52, 11, 15, 25, 10, 12, 33 and 39.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fastest-100-in-3-days-city-count-breaches-1k-mark-120142
31-07-2020||Mohali||Mohali tally goes beyond 800||The Covid tally of Mohali district today crossed the 800 mark with 24 fresh cases taking the count to 822.Those infected include a 40-year-old man of Sector 97, a 20-year-old woman of Kumbra, a 68-year-old woman of Sunny Enclave, Kharar, a 55-year-old man of Bhabat, a 17-year-old boy of Kurali, a 33-year-old man of Cholta Khurd, a 35-year-old of Zirakpur, a 38-year-old man of Sector 77, a 36-year-old man of Sector 68, two youths, both aged 25, a 17-year-old boy, three men, aged 33, 41 and 52, and a 33-year-old woman of Dera Bassi, a 63-year-old man of Peer Muchalla, a 34-year-old man of Mullanpur, a 52-year-old man of Badal Colony, Zirakpur, a 41-year-old woman of Kharar, a 40-year-old man of Phase 10, a 27-year-old youth of Siswan, a 28-year-old youth of Dhakoli and a 55-year-old woman of Zirakpur.Civil Surgeon Manjit Singh said the district had so far reported 822 Covid cases and 496 of these had been cured. There were 312 active cases. The virus had claimed 14 lives in the district. Fifteen patients were discharged from the hospital today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-tally-goes-beyond-800-120145
31-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ex Prof NS Mann Passes away||School resolves issue with parentsChandigarh: The Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights received a complaint from parents against Saupin’s School, Sector 32, regarding threatening to disrupt the education of their children. A meeting was held on July 30 in this regard. Surita Sharma, Principal, Saupin’s School, along with others, attended the meeting. During meeting, the school authorities stated that the message was inadvertently sent to parents and the same was regretted. Parents were satisfied with the reply. TNSMan booked for defrauding wifePanchkula: A woman has alleged that her husband had withdrawn money from their joint fixed deposit account without her knowledge by forging signatures. In her complaint to the police, Annie Mahil stated, “My husband Jasmeet Mahil and mother-in-law Sohinder Kaur are not on good terms with me. I was jointly holding a fixed deposit of Rs10 lakh with my husband in HDFC Bank, Sector 25, Panchkula, which was to mature in January 2019. I discovered on October 25, 2018, that Jasmeet withdrew the amount with my forged signatures on the application.” A case was registered. TNS2 held with Rs 3.5l fake currencyAmbala: The special task force (STF) seized fake currency worth Rs3.5 lakh and arrested two men in this connection on Thursday. The suspects have been identified as Pankaj and Sagar of Ambala Cantonment. In his complaint to the police, STF sub-inspector Satnarayan stated Pankaj and Sagar were on their way to Ambala City to circulate fake currency notes in the market. The suspects were stopped at a naka near Ambala Cantonment railway station and 175 fake currency notes in the denomination of Rs2,000 each were recovered from the dashboard of the car in which they were travelling. A case was registered against the suspects. TNS2,500 PPE kits distributedPatiala: The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) gave away 2,500 PPE kits to PGIMER, Chandigarh, Punjab Bio-Technology Incubator, Mohali, and Institute of Microbial Technology Chandigarh and Forensic Science Laboratory Mohali. TNSDPS celebrates Int'l Tiger DayChandigarh: International Tiger Day is observed on July 29 every year to raise awareness about the declining population of the animal and make efforts to conserve them. An interactive session was organised for the young students of DPS. The tiny tots pledged to do their bit to save tigers from getting extinct. They enjoyed doing slogan-writing and mask-making activity in their virtual classes. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ex-prof-ns-mann-passes-away-120148
31-07-2020||Panchkula||Ad hoc delimitation panel draws flak||Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja today formed an ad hoc committee to oversee ‘wardbandi’ (delimitation of wards) of the Municipal Corporation after directions from the Urban Local Bodies Department. The formation of the panel came weeks after the Haryana Government decided to bifurcate the Panchkula Municipal Corporation (MC) paving the way for Kalka to have its own Municipal Council.The committee includes seven members.Meanwhile, the formation of panel has drawn criticism from Congress leaders. Ravinder Rawal, party leader and former president of the erstwhile Panchkula Municipal Council, said, “The formation of ad hoc committee is illegal and biased. The total number of seats of each corporation are fixed by the government on the basis of latest census figures. How can they constitute an ad hoc committee when they don’t have latest population data.”“They have included several BJP members in the committee against the law, which says members should belong to various interests,” Rawal added. While rejecting allegations, BB Singhal, a BJP leader and elected committee member, said, “All due procedure has been followed as people from all walks of life have been included in the committee.” Deputy Commissioner could not be contacted. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ad-hoc-delimitation-panel-draws-flak-120149
