31-10-2020||Chandigarh||67 new Covid cases, one more death in Chandigarh||Chandigarh on Saturday reported one more fatality due to COVID-19, which took the toll to 226, while 67 more coronavirus cases pushed the infection count to 14,418 in the Union Territory, according to a health bulletin.There are 641 active cases here as of now, it said. Eighty-two patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 13,551, as per the bulletin.It said a total of 1,07,015 samples have been taken for testing so far and of them, 91,950 tested negative while reports of 103 samples are awaited. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/67-new-covid-cases-one-more-death-in-chandigarh-163954
31-10-2020||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh ups efforts to check pollution||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30In pursuant to the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) dated August 21 this year, the UT Administration has prepared an emergency plan to control air pollution in the city.Grid-based actionThe entire city has been divided into different grids under GRAP. If the AQI increases in a particular grid, then construction or other activities can be stopped there for a limited period.-  Debendra Dalai, Director, Environment, UTAt a recent meeting, the Administration informed the NGT that for emergency preparedness, ‘Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP)’ has been developed and is being implemented.”Under the plan, graded measures are implemented on the basis of different Air Quality Index (AQI) categories, namely ‘moderate’, ‘poor’, ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’. The measures include reducing the number of vehicles, traffic management, closing of polluting industries, stopping burning in the open, stopping construction activities, intensifying public transport services, mechanised cleaning of roads, sprinkling of water and stopping the use of diesel generator sets.Debendra Dalai, Director, Environment, UT, said the city had been divided into different grids under the GRAP. Giving an example, he said: “If the AQI increases in a particular grid, then construction or other activities can be stopped there for a limited period.” Similarly, if the air pollution increases in a particular market during the festival season, then the number of vehicles could be restricted in that area with effective implementation of traffic management, he said.Dalai said there had been effective improvement in the ambient air quality of Chandigarh during the lockdown period wherein rigorous travel restrictions had been imposed.He said the overall AQI for March had been “Satisfactory” and the average AQI of the city in April fell in the category of “Good”, depicting minimal health impact.Owing to the lockdown period imposed from March 24 to May 30, major air pollution causing pollutants such as PM10 (particulate matter with diameter lower than 10 micrometre), and PM2.5 had been restricted.“This change can be attributed to restricted industrial and commercial activities, minimal vehicular congestion and zero construction activities,” he said.A similar decline could be seen in May, but due to the partial opening of lockdown, the air quality could be generally seen as “Satisfactory”, he said, adding: “If the right initiatives are taken with a bottoms-up approach, the air quality can be maintained throughout, effectively.”Experts said residents were not likely to get any relief in the coming days as the period between mid-October and Diwali was considered critical in the fight against air pollution. The air also becomes still and heavy with the weather turning cold during this period, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-ups-efforts-to-check-pollution-163752
31-10-2020||---||Chandigarh rated best in governance||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30Chandigarh has been rated the best governed Union Territory (UT) in the country in the Public Affairs Index-2020 released by the Public Affairs Centre in Bengaluru today.In the category of UT, Chandigarh emerged as the best governed with 1.05 points, followed by Puducherry (0.52) and Lakshadweep (0.003). Dadar and Nagar Haveli (-0.69), Jammu and Kashmir (-0.50) and Andaman and Nicobar Islands (-0.30) were the least performers.In the large state category, Kerala was adjudged the best governed state in the country while Uttar Pradesh ended at the bottom.In its annual report, the not-for-profit organisation, headed by former Indian Space Research Organisation Chairman K Kasturirangan, said the UTs and states were ranked on governance performance based on a composite index in the context of sustainable development defined by three pillars of equity, growth and sustainability.In the small state category, Goa ranked first with 1.745 points, followed by Meghalaya (0.797) and Himachal Pradesh (0.725).A senior UT official said the Administration had taken a number of initiatives to upgrade the infrastructure in the city to boost economic growth in the region. “Chandigarh has emerged as a regional hub in the areas of service industry, education, health, information technology, etc,” he said, adding that Chandigarh had also ranked first in India in the Human Development Index, quality of life and e-readiness. He said the UT had been rated as the ‘wealthiest town’ of India.The official said various initiatives were taken by the Administration in improving governance by involving participation of citizens in the decision-making.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-rated-best-in-governance-163753
31-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||High Court stays regular selection of medical faculty||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed that further process for regular selection of medical faculty in Mohali’s Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences would be kept in abeyance.The direction by the Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash came on a petition filed and argued against the State of Punjab and other respondents by Sukhminderjit Singh Bajwa and other petitioners through senior advocate Rajesh Garg and Rakesh Dhiman.They were seeking directions for staying the process for regular selection of medical faculty. Appearing before the Bench through video-conferencing, Garg contended the petitioners had not been permitted to join the selection process, despite specific order dated May 31 passed in the petition.“After examining the contentions of the counsel for the petitioner, we find that if it is true what is contended, then the act of completing the recruitment process without provisionally interviewing the petitioners would amount to contempt of the interim order dated May 31, 2019,” the Bench observed. It also impleaded the institute, through its director, on Garg’s request. The Bench, during the course of hearing, was told that interviews were held on October 9 and 10. The posts in various disciplines, for which an advertisement was issued on October 7, were those of professors, assistant professors and associate professors.The petitioner through Garg claimed she had already challenged the constitutional validity of a particular provision in the 2016 rules, by virtue of which she, amongst other candidates, had been made ineligible to participate in the selection.Garg added the Division Bench headed by the Chief Justice on May 30, 2019, had directed as an interim measure that the petitioner would be provisionally interviewed in case the respondents decided to proceed with the interviews.But the respondent state filed an affidavit before the High Court stating that final selections, if any, would only be made after the writ petition’s decision and that the state, at the moment, was only proceeding to recruit faculty on an ad hoc basis. But the institute advertised various faculty posts without making the petitioner participate in the selection process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-stays-regular-selection-of-medical-faculty-163754
31-10-2020||---||Two Chandigarh heritage items fetch Rs 47.51L at Paris auction||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30Two heritage furniture items from the city were sold for Rs47.51 lakh during an auction in Paris, France, on October 27.Four heritage items designed by French architect Pierre Jeanneret were to be auctioned but only two went under the hammer in the auction conducted by auction house Cornette De Saint. Two products remained unsoldThe items auctioned were a pair of “easy” armchairs in teak and wicker and a set of six “office” armchairs, also in teak and wicker.The items that remained unsold were a daybed in teak and cowhide and a pair of “advocate” armchairs.In a letter to UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, Ajay Jagga, member, Heritage Protection Cell, Chandigarh, stated that after the auction of 10 heritage items in London, the matter regarding the Paris auction was conveyed to French officials. “We will have to follow certain official procedures for taking up the matter of cultural trafficking with the French Government,” he stated.As per a list compiled by the Chandigarh Heritage Inventory Committee in 2012, there are 12,793 heritage items. A substantial number of these items is in the possession of the Government Museum and Art Gallery, Sector 10, and a huge stock of chairs and tables is at the Punjab and Haryana Civil Secretariat and Vidhan Sabha, and the Punjab and Haryana High Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-chandigarh-heritage-items-fetch-rs-47-51l-at-paris-auction-163755
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 65 new cases, no death||The city today recorded 65 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 14,351. The city did not report any death related to Covid illness.A total of 67 patients have been cured, including persons in home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic.As many as 13,469 patients have recovered from the disease so far. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-65-new-cases-no-death-163756
31-10-2020||Mohali||49 test positive in Mohali||Forty-nine fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 12,299. No fatality has been reported in the district.Of the new cases, 30 came from Mohali (Urban), five each from Banur, Dera Bassi and Kharar, two from Gharuan and one each from Dhakoli and Kurali. Meanwhile, 21 more patients have been cure. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/49-test-positive-in-mohali-163757
31-10-2020||Panchkula||Two die in Panchkula,  46 more infected||The district witnessed two more fatalities due to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 113. The tally jumped to 7,124 as 46 more persons contracted virus.The recovery rate stood at 95.7 per cent as 6,819 patients of the total 7,124 cases reported so far have been cured. Civil Surgeon Jasjit Kaur said an 88-year-old man, a resident of Sector 107, had succumbed to the virus. A 65-year-old man, a resident of Garhi Kotaha village, also died due to the disease. She said the victims had comorbidities.The fresh cases include one each from Sector 5, 7, 8, 12, 14,17, 19, 25 and 26, Devi Nagar village, Tabar and the MDC-6, two each from Sector 4 and 11 and the MDC-5, three each from Sector 2, 6, 10, 15 and 21, four each from Sector 12-A and 20 and five from Kalka. The district has so far reported 7,124 cases and 6,819 patients have been cured. There are 192 active cases with 113 deaths. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-die-in-panchkula-46-more-infected-163758
31-10-2020||---||58-yr-old man stabbed  to death in Ram Darbar||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30A 58-year-old man died while trying to save his 35-year-old son, who was attacked by some persons following an argument, at their house in Ram Darbar, Phase I, on Friday night.The victim has been identified as Attar Singh, who worked as a safai karamchari with the Health Department. Was trying to save son from attackersSources said the victim’s son Anil (35), was returning home this afternoon when he had an argument with three youths over giving way to him. As people intervened, the suspects left the spot.Police sources said the suspects later reached the victim’s house and attacked Anil.Anil’s father Attar Singh was sitting outside the house. As he tried to intervene and pacify them, the suspects stabbed him before escaping from the spot.The police reached the spot on getting information about the incident.Meanwhile, the father-son duo was rushed to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 where doctors declared Attar Singh as brought dead.A case of murder has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. The police have initiated an investigation into it.The suspects were yet to be arrested at the time of the filing of the report.Sources said the suspects were the victim’s neighbour.The victim is survived by his wife and three sons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/58-yr-old-man-stabbed-to-death-in-ram-darbar-163761
31-10-2020||---||Rough ride on road to historical Chappar Chiri memorial||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 30Residents of the historical Chappar Chiri are upset over the poor condition of a road from Mohali to the minaret in the village.The road to the Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Memorial has developed deep pits. “Riding a vehicle on this road is nothing less than a challenge. The condition worsens during rain,” said Amandeep Singh, a resident of the village.Another resident of the village, Swarn Singh, said a number of persons from Mohali used the road to visit the historic site to save their time as this was a shortcut. “The poor condition of the road leaves a bad impression among the visitors,” he said.The residents added that the Punjab Government used to organise state-level programmes at the memorial site. “During such programmes, the authorities used to fill the pits with soil before doing the patchwork. But after some days, the pits resurfaced as heavy vehicles carrying building materials like sand, bricks and stones ply on it,” said the residents.It is pertinent to mention here that whenever there is a long jam on the Mohali-Landran road, people use this road as an alternative to reach their working places in Kharar and Sangrur.“When a road leading to the historical monument is in such a condition, one can easily guess the condition of roads in other villages of the state,” said Ranjit Singh, another resident of the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rough-ride-on-road-to-historical-chappar-chiri-memorial-163762
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Man hangs self, daughter-in-law, grandson held||A daughter-in-law and a grandson of a 74-year-old man have been arrested after he allegedly committed suicide by hanging at his house in Sector 22. The victim left a suicide note blaming his kin for the extreme step.The police said the victim, identified as Desraj, had ended his life on Thursday. On finding him hanging, the victim’s son, Mahinder Singh, rushed him to the Civil Hospital, Sector 22, where doctors declared him brought dead.The police were informed about the incident following which they initiated an investigation. A police official said a suicide note was found in the victim’s clothes in which he had blamed his kin of harassing her. The victim’s daughter, Prem Lata, who resides in Delhi, also reached the city and submitted a complaint with the police, alleging that her father was harassed by her sister-in-law Seema and her 22-year-old son Rishi.Acting on the complaint, a case under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC was registered at the Sector 17 police station.Both Seema and Rishi were arrested. While Seema was sent to judicial custody, her son willbe produced before a court on Saturday.The deceased’s samples were taken for the Covid test. The autopsy will be conducted after receiving a negative Covid report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-hangs-self-daughter-in-law-grandson-held-163763
31-10-2020||---||Day after recarpeting, Patiala MC digs up road in Chhoti Baradari to lay sewer||Patiala, October 30Day after recarpeting, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has dug up a road for laying sewage pipes. Shopkeepers in the area said underground telephone lines were damaged in the exercise due to which telephone company officials also reached the spot and dug up the road further.Recurring problems of the Chhoti Baradari area have failed to subside. “The area is plagued with issues, including overflowing sewage and potholed road among others,” claimed local shopkeepers.The MC is recarpeting roads in the area since last Sunday. The road outside Mohindra Kothi was recarpeted this week, but was dug up a day after. Thereafter, a connection was laid to connect the Kothi’s pipes with the sewerage in the area.Representatives of the Chhoti Baradari Market Development Association said, “The road has been dug up within a day of recarpeting. This shows lack of coordination among the MC’s departments.”An shopkeeper said, “Two days ago the MC recarpeted the road. Later, the MC staff dug up the stretch to lay a sewage pipe. They should fill the dug up portion with sand. Today, representatives of a telephone company came and dug up the portion further as wires have been damaged in the exercise.”Former councillor Ravinderpal Singh Jonny Kohli said, “Representatives of the market association submitted an application with the MC last month stating that the sewerage connection of Mohindra Kothi should not be attached to the main sewer as pipes are of small size. Water overflows from sewage pipes, but the MC did not pay heed to their request.”When contacted, Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said she would ask officials concerned to look into the matter. “The civic body staff has recarpeted road with only one layer of bitumen. I will ask officials to inquire into the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-recarpeting-patiala-mc-digs-up-road-in-chhoti-baradari-to-lay-sewer-163766
31-10-2020||---||PUTA seeks full schedule of screening panel||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30The Panjab University Teachers Association has written to the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Raj Kumar, demanding release of the full schedule of the screening committee’s interviews for promotions under the career advancement scheme (CAS).“We are disappointed with the fact that only 15 interviews have been scheduled while there are more than 65 teachers whose cases for promotion under the CAS are pending at present. It appears that the two-day schedule for interviews has been fixed just to ensure that the dharna of the PUTA executive, scheduled for November 3, gets somehow derailed,” the representation states.“If 15 interviews can be conducted in just two days, the Vice-Chancellor could have scheduled interviews over a span of seven to eight days so that no teacher feels left out and there is no heartburning. We accept this schedule as a token while waiting for the complete schedule, covering every case of the CAS promotion, which is pending for the interview and screening till date,” the representation added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/puta-seeks-full-schedule-of-screening-panel-163767
31-10-2020||---||PU Syndics write to VC, demand physical meeting||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30A group of Panjab University (PU) Syndics have submitted a representation to the Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Raj Kumar, demanding that an immediate meeting should be convened, which had not been held in the last three months.The representation states that the last physical meeting of the PU Syndicate was convened in July. As per the past practice Syndicate meets at least once or even more in a month to take up various agendas concerning the financial, academic, administrative and other matters for approval as mandated by the university calendar.“The day to day functioning of the university and its affiliated colleges, etc has been adversely affected by non-conducting of Syndicate meeting for months altogether, especially in view of various exigencies created by the Covid-19 pandemic necessitating urgent decisions regarding examinations, admissions and important administrative, financial and other matters,” the letter read.“Your (VC) adamant attitude of calling a virtual Syndicate meeting has met with a lot of criticism and not gone down well with all of us. In your capacity as the principal executive and academic officer of this university, adhering to the statute, you would uphold the position of Syndicate as the executive government of this prestigious institution and conduct its meeting without any further delay, immediately, to discharge your duty as enshrined in the PU calendar,” the representation added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-syndics-write-to-vc-demand-physical-meeting-163769
31-10-2020||---||Protest against Chandigarh MC’s dog sterilisation drive||Chandigarh, October 30Animal rights activists of the city protested against MC’s Animal Birth Control programme at the Sector 38 SPCA today. Earlier, activists had written to the UT Administration and the Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities raising the issue of botched sterilisation surgeries of stray canines and their dislocation by the dog catching squad.Jairoop, one of the activists, said, “We want the MC to be proactive and shun lackadaisical approach especially when it comes to sterilisation of stray dogs.”Acitivists said the Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme of the UT Municipal Corporation was being condemned by residents due to rise in cases of dislocation, botched surgeries and catching of unfit dogs.In a letter to the UT and the MC, activists stated cases where already sterilised bitches were cut open for another surgery despite having a clear ear-notch. In some cases, like in Sector 7, where a sterilisation drive was conducted in the first week of October, a dog was found with its intestines exposed, said Kashish, another activist.Activists have demanded strict monitoring and auditing of the ABC programme by an independent panel and punishment for MC officials overlooking the programme along with veterinarians, who conducted surgery of the dog in Sector 7.“Also, MC’s dog catching squad should tag dogs with a number and click their pictures while loading them into a van so as to make sure that canines are released back at the same place,” added Kashish. When contacted, no MC official commented on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/protest-against-chandigarh-mcs-dog-sterilisation-drive-163770
31-10-2020||Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi delimitation map released||The Local Bodies Department today released map with redrawn boundaries of the 19 wards falling under the Dera Bassi Municipal Council (MC) for the upcoming elections.There was a huge crowd at the civic body office today to see the redrawn boundaries.According to the information, major changes had been made in all the 19 wards of the town. Meanwhile, Congress candidates expressed their satisfaction over the new map while BJP and SAD aspirants did not seem happy with the delimitation exercise.The MC Executive Officer, Jagjit Singh, said, “‘People can submit their objections and suggestions during the office hours, which will be forwarded to the Local Bodies Department.”’The Dera Bassi MLA, NK Sharma, said, “The delimitation has been done for the benefit of Congress candidates in complete disregard to the rules and regulations.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-delimitation-map-released-163771
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||Diwali festivities at Elante Mall announced||The Elante Mall has announced the 23-day long ‘Happiness wali Diwali, khushiyon wala sale’ campaign, which would have over 200 brands participate with exclusive offers and deals. The mall also announced assured prizes for people, who shop over Rs10,000 from October 31 to November 22.‘The Mighty Garuda’ is the theme that Elante Mall will be adopting during the 23 days of Diwali festivities. There will be story standees placed at major touch points across the mall to narrate the significance of the ‘Garuda’ in ‘Hindu’ mythology, the bird (a kite or an eagle), which was the ‘vahana’ (mount) of the God Vishnu. Lights and décor across the mall would bring a refreshing change in this difficult times.Anil Malhotra, executive director, hospitality and corporate affairs, Nexus Malls, said, “Diwali symbolises the spiritual victory of good over evil and knowledge over ignorance.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/diwali-festivities-at-elante-mall-announced-163772
31-10-2020||Chandigarh||‘Include 3 RWA reps in MC panel’||Welcoming the constitution of a committee by the Municipal Corporation (MC) to consider issue pertaining to mandatory use of GPS watches by sanitation workers, the City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO) requested the civic body to include at least three RWA representatives in this panel.Vinod Vashisht, convener, CFORWO, said it was necessary so that an amicable solution could be arrived at without jeopardising city’s cleanliness.“The UT needs to upgrade to five/seven-star garbage free ranking so as to come in the top-10 cleanest cities of the country,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/include-3-rwa-reps-in-mc-panel-163774
31-10-2020||---||Corpus for English, Punjabi translation work developed at Punjabi University||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 30A research scholar at Punjabi University has prepared an English and Punjabi parallel comparable corpus as part of his research work. University officials said this was the first such language resource for English and Punjabi, which would be beneficial in research practice in relation to translation work.Manpreet Singh is carrying out research under the guidance of Dr Ajit Kumar, associate professor, Department of Computer Science, Multani Mal Modi College, and Dr Vishal Goyal, professor, Department of Computer Science, Punjabi University. He is working as an assistant professor at a Jalandhar college.“The newly developed system focuses on extracting parallel data and building up a corpus. It takes two input files of English and Punjabi each and pairs similar sentences of both files as output. This will compensate for the lack of parallel data, which can be used for statistical machine translation tasks in English and Punjabi,” said Manpreet.He has collected 15 lakh sentences of the two languages from Wikipedia and official websites on language resources, which would help researchers working in the field, added Manpreet.“The software developed can be modified to be used for other language pairs as well,” said Manpreet. Dr Vishal Goyal said the tool would be useful for those, who want to do research in relation to translation from English to Punjabi and vice-versa. “Parallel corpora are the backbone of deep learning and machine learning,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/corpus-for-english-punjabi-translation-work-developed-at-punjabi-university-163775
31-10-2020||Zirakpur||Fire at grocery shop in Zirakpur's Lohgarh||A fire broke out at a grocery shop near the Lohgarh junction on the Chandigarh-Ambala highway under the Zirakpur flyover on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. Goods worth lakhs were gutted in the fire that erupted around 12:30 am.Firemen received a call at 1:18 am and rushed to the spot. Two fire tenders from Zirakpur and one each from Dera Bassi and Panchkula reached there. It took firemen an hour to bring the blaze under control.The shop owner, Sumit Kumar Mittal, claimed that products worth Rs15 to Rs20 lakh had been reduced to ashes. He added that he had freshly stocked the store in view of the festival season.Firemen, however, said they heard the sound of bursting of firecrackers at the site. The shopkeeper claimed that the firecrackers were the leftovers of Diwali last year.The shopkeeper, who has been running the establishment for the past 15 years, said, he closed the shop as usual and went home on Thursday night. At 12.30 am, he received a call about the fire in the shop. On reaching the spot, he saw smoke emanating from inside.Residents here feared that if the fire had not been brought under control, it could have spread to about two dozen shops and two banks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fire-at-grocery-shop-in-zirakpurs-lohgarh-163776
31-10-2020||---||HC orders CBI probe into Chandigarh's Sector 5 property case||Chandigarh, October 30The Punjab and Haryana High Court today directed for a time-bound CBI probe into a case revolving around a Sector 5 property. The Bench also made clear its intent to monitor the probe by keeping the matter pending and calling for a status report in the matter. The disputeThe dispute pertains to house number 17, Sector 5, originally owned by Sunder Singh, who died in 1986. The matter came under judicial spotlight after the “real owner” moved the High Court claiming that an earlier petition in the matter was filed without “his consent or without having any power of attorney from him”.The directions by the Bench of Justice Daya Chaudhary and Justice Meenakshi I. Mehta were issued during the hearing of the case through video-conferencing and detailed order in the matter was yet to be uploaded.The counsel for all parties had on October 12 submitted they had no objection to handing over the enquiry/investigation of the controversy involved in the case to the premier investigation agency.The dispute pertains to house number 17, originally owned by Sunder Singh, who died in 1986. The matter came under judicial spotlight after the “real owner” moved the High Court claiming that an earlier petition in the matter was filed without “his consent or without having any power of attorney from him”.The case has its genesis in the petition allegedly filed by one of Sunder Singh’s sons, Padamjit Singh, against the Chandigarh Administration and other respondents. Appearing before the Bench, the counsel had contended allegedly on the petitioner’s behalf that Padamjit Singh was having 50 per cent share in the property and no sale deed was ever executed at the instance of the petitioner or other co-sharer.The petitioner was residing in the USA and an email was also sent, but still no action was taken. Issuing notice of motion on the petition, the Bench had ordered maintenance of “status quo as it exists” while adjourning the hearing to August 17.As the case came up for resumed hearing, an application was moved stating that certain persons wanted to grab the property. Its owner was working with the United Nations and he was residing in the USA after retirement. The application added the writ petition had been filed without his consent.“Chetan Mittal, senior counsel for the applicant, actual owner of the property in dispute, submits that an inquiry is required to be conducted in the case and the record of the case be kept in a sealed cover so as to avoid tempering with the record,” the Bench noted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hc-orders-cbi-probe-into-chandigarhs-sector-5-property-case-163782
31-10-2020||---||CSIO celebrates foundation day||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30The Central Scientific Instruments Organisation (CSIO) celebrated its foundation day here today. Several events were organised to commemorate the occasion.An online quiz competition and an e-presentation competition were held as part of a virtual online open day to encourage, attract and motivate young students to take up science and research as a career.UT Adviser Manoj Parida inaugurated a 911 kWp solar power plant on the CSIO campus. Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests, Chandigarh, was also present on the occasion.CSIO Director Prof S Anantha Ramakrishna said: “Solar energy is going to be a major medium of energy needs, not only today but also in the times to come. Furthering the commitment of the CSIO towards clean and green energy, the solar plant, besides meeting its own energy requirements, will also feed surplus energy into the grid.”Towards this extent, the CSIO today also signed a ‘sponsored research-cum-licensing agreement for design of pristine/doped photocatalytic materials for pollutants degradation’ with Novorbis ITUS, a company providing air purification solutions. The CSIO, in collaboration with Raymold Luminaires Private Limited, also launched Ultraviolet Germicidal Irradiation (UVGI) products and systems that can effectively deactivate 99.9 per cent of infecting viruses, including coronavirus.Dr Shekhar C Mande, Director-General, Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, presided over the launch. Dr Shekhar said this would help in the development of useful products for society at large and especially the support being provided to the start-ups.Prof Ramakrishna highlighted the aims and goals of the CSIO and its contribution to the field of science and technology and gave an overview of the ongoing projects and future plans of the organisation. The annual report was also released.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/csio-celebrates-foundation-day-163783
31-10-2020||Panchkula||Woman declared PO in fraud cases arrested||A woman, who was declared a proclaimed offender by a court in gold and car loan frauds worth several lakhs, was arrested by the Panchkula police on Thursday evening.The woman has been identified as Nirmala Devi, a resident of Baddi in Solan district, Himachal Pradesh.The court had declared her a proclaimed offender after registering a case under Section 174-A of the IPC on September 1, 2020.The accused, Nirmala, along with Vijay Kumari, had taken a loan of Rs9 lakh each from the Marranwala branch of the State Bank of Patiala, now State Bank of India, after depositing 1 kg of gold at the rate of 10.70 per cent interest payable in 12 monthly instalment of Rs83,000 each. However, after taking the loan, the accused did not pay a single penny to the bank.After several visits and numerous requests, neither the borrowers nor the guarantor repaid the loan amount. Before auctioning the gold, the bank got its purity checked from a goldsmith, who found it to be fake.The Pinjore police had registered cases against the accused under Sections 406, 420 and 120-B of the IPC on June 13, 2018.In another case of fraud, Nirmala Devi and Vijay Kumari took a loan of Rs10 lakh and submitted the registration certificate (RC) of a car registered in Himachal Pradesh. While reviewing the documents, it came to fore that the RC submitted to the bank by the accused and the copy of the RC received from the Transport Department, Himachal Pradesh, were registered in different names.A case under Sections 406, 420, 120-B, 468, 471 and 201 of the IPC was registered on April 1, 2019. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-declared-po-in-fraud-cases-arrested-163784
31-10-2020||---||PGI plans to scale up elective outpatient services||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30In view of the dip in the number of Covid-19 patients, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) today stated that it would attempt to scale up elective outpatient services. Visit OPDs after appointment“The institute requests the public to come to OPDs with prior appointment only and ensure that only one attendant accompanies a patient to the OPDs. This is vital to prevent the spread of Covid infection in the community,” reads the official statement.The institute has been providing regular elective outpatient services through tele-consultation and in physical form for cancer patients, obstetrics and those requiring semi-urgent medical or surgical care.The institute also released a public notice urging residents to come to OPDs with only one attendant and prior appointment.“The institute requests the public to come to OPDs with prior appointment only and ensure that only one attendant accompanies a patient to the OPDs. This is vital to prevent the spread of Covid infection in the community,” reads the official statement.Tele-consultation will continue to remain the initial point of contact of patients and doctors.Patients will be evaluated first through tele-consultation. Only those requiring further evaluation and examination will be called to the OPDs by appointment from November 2 onwards.The date and time of appointment will be intimated to the patients through SMS. This will ensure requisite physical distancing among patients/attendants visiting the OPDs.The official statement of the PGI reads: “Overcrowding can lead to an outbreak of Covid-19 among this susceptible population. Hence, physical OPDs will be run through appointment system only and patients coming without appointment will not be entertained.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-plans-to-scale-up-elective-outpatient-services-163785
31-10-2020||---||Insurance firm fined for denying claim to Bathinda resident||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 30The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed New India Assurance Company, Patiala, to pay Rs8.66 lakh, along with 9 per cent interest per annum from the date of filing the complaint, to a Bathinda resident. It was also directed to pay a compensation of Rs 25,000 for causing mental and physical harassment to the complainant.Mohinder Singh Chaudhary (38), a resident of Bathinda, in his complaint to the consumer court, had stated that he got his Volkswagon Vento car insured with New India Assurance Company, the opposite party (OP), by paying a premium of Rs28,651. Accordingly, an insurance policy was issued by the OP, which was valid from September 3, 2016, to September 2, 2017. The car was hypothecated with Punjab National Bank.His car was stolen from Mohali on August 30, 2017. An FIR was registered at the Phase 1 police station in Mohali on August 31, 2017. After investigation, the police submitted anon-traceable report under Section 173 of the CrPC. The complainant also informed the OP about the theft of this car and submitted all requisite documents to its office.A surveyor deputed by the opposite party submitted his report, but its copy was withheld and not provided to him. Thereafter, he contacted the firm a number of times and also sent a letter, but it failed to settle the claim.The counsel for the opposite party averred the vehicle is hypothecated with Punjab National Bank, but it was not made a party in the present complaint. Though the insurance firm has not admitted the liability, it is stated that if the amount towards the loss is payable, it should be paid only to the bank. The complainant did not submit documents demanded by the opposite party. So, it closed the claim as “no claim” on February 18, 2019. The complainant filed the present complaint to pressurise the opposite party to settle the claim.Commission president Sanjiv Dutt and members Natasha Natasha Chopra and Inderjit observed that: “We feel that all three objections are vague, absurd and make no sense. It was not possible for the complainant to provide engine and chassis numbers as the registration certificate was in the car. Grounds on which the claim was denied to the complainant are flimsy and show the mala fide intention of the firm”.The forum, while allowing the complaint, directed the firm to pay Rs8.66 lakh, along with 9 per cent interest per annum from the date of filing the complaint, to the complainant. The opposite party was also told to pay a compensation of Rs25,000 to the complainant. This amount will be paid by the branch manager of insurance firm for intentionally delaying the genuine claim of the complainant. The forum also told the complainant to hand over the second key of the car to the OP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/insurance-firm-fined-for-denying-claim-to-bathinda-resident-163786
31-10-2020||---||Innova stolen from Sector 46||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 30An Innova was stolen from Sector 46. According to the police, complainant Dharmender, a resident of Ram Darbar, Phase 1, reported that an unknown person stole his vehicle from the Community Centre, Sector 46.The police were informed about the incident, following which a case was registered at the Sector 34 police station. An investigation has been initiated into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/innova-stolen-from-sector-46-163787
31-10-2020||Mohali||Woman among 5 in three-day police remand||Five persons, including a woman, arrested for duping people through their immigration firm, were sent to three-day police custody by the Mohali court today.The accused, Ajay, Jasnoor, Kuldeep Singh, Gurtej Singh and their woman accomplice, duped people through their immigration firm, “Saksham Enterprise Visa”, on the pretext of sending them abroad.The Phase 11 police had booked seven persons in this connection. Two women are yet to be arrested.Inspector Jagdeep Singh, Phase 11 SHO, said: “Today, we got three-day police remand for the suspects. Their questioning is under way and the remaining two suspects will be nabbed soon.” The five accused were arrested during a a special raid at the office yesterday. A case has been registered under Sections 420, 406, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC and 13 of the Punjab Travel Professionals Act 2014 at the Phase 11 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/woman-among-5-in-three-day-police-remand-163788
31-10-2020||Mohali||Mohali SSP urged to rein in mining mafia||Concerned over illegal mining going on in the district, Rajinder Singh Badheri, National Delegate of the All-India Jatt Mahasabha and Director, Punjab Mandi Board, urged the SSP Satinder Singh to curb the mining mafia.Badheri stated that the SSP said the police had been vigilant when the matter came to his notice and several JCB machines had been seized and legal action had been taken against the culprits.Badheri said farmers of the Majri and Kharar blocks in Mohali district were upset. People informed him that mining contractors were also disturbed by the mining mafia.He said the SSP had asked DSP Mahesh Inder Singh to coordinate with him to deal with the mining mafia with utmost readiness. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-ssp-urged-to-rein-in-mining-mafia-163789
31-10-2020||---||GMADA to take feedback on auctions||Tribune News ServiceMohali, October 30With a view to making disposal of properties more transparent, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has decided to involve the general public in the auction process.Under this endeavour, the authority has created a mail ID —feedback.eauction@gmail.com — on which people can give their feedback, ideas, comments etc. on auctions.The official spokesperson said GMADA had recently conducted an e-auction through which commercial chunks, IT industrial plots, hospital and petrol pump sites, SCOs, residential plots etc. were offered. The auction received encouraging response as properties worth Rs. 417 crore were sold which shows that the real estate sector has started witnessing an upward trend, said the spokesperson.The authority is getting queries from the general public about holding of its next e-auction. Considering this, it has created a mail ID to enable people to share their queries about the auctions. Feedback on auctions would help GMADA to plan and put up properties for auction. On the one hand it would wider public participation in the auction process, and on the other, it would help the authority to know the concerns of people related to auctions. The move would also lead to involvement of actual buyers in these auctions.The concept of e-auction was introduced in 2017 with the purpose of ensuring transparency in the sale of properties. Most of the e-auctions conducted so far yielded good results.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gmada-to-take-feedback-on-auctions-163790
