15-02-2021||World||Trump allies slam Republicans who voted to convict him in impeachment trial||Donald Trump’s allies lashed out at the Republican senators who voted to convict him in the impeachment trial touched off by last month’s Capitol insurrection, showing the challenge the party would face in breaking with the former president after his acquittal.State parties in Louisiana and North Carolina moved within hours of the trial’s conclusion to censure Republican senators who voted to convict Trump on Saturday, a sign of his following among the GOP’s rank and file. Senator Lindsey Graham said Sunday that “the Trump movement is alive and well” as he reveled in the former president’s dominance of the party after the acquittal.The North Carolina Republican Party’s central committee will meet at 8 p.m. to discuss Senator Richard Burr’s support for impeachment, spokesperson Tim Wigginton said on Monday. State party Chairman Michael Whatley said Saturday that the retiring Republican’s vote “to convict in a trial that he declared unconstitutional is shocking and disappointing.”The rebukes underscore the former president’s role as a force for Republicans, even as it’s still not clear how active he plans to be in shaping the GOP in the next election cycle and beyond.Trump has suggested he might run for president again in 2024. Even if he doesn’t make another bid for the White House, and even without his social media dominance, the former president remains an asset to candidates he backs, potentially helping to turn out GOP voters on behalf of loyalists.He also may be a threat to his Republican opponents, including some of the seven GOP senators who voted to convict the former president on Saturday, and the 10 House members who voted for his impeachment in January.Looking for RevengeTrump is said to be eager to exact revenge on those who crossed him. And conservative Republicans are already lining up to challenge Trump’s Republican foes in primaries.In Wyoming, state senator Anthony Bouchard has announced a bid to unseat Representative Liz Cheney, the third-ranked Republican in the House, who voted to impeach Trump. In a fund-raising pitch, Bouchard suggested voters return the favor. Cheney has already been censured by her state party.Another of the 10 Republicans, Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler of Washington State, drew the wrath of Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene over the weekend. The controversial first-term lawmaker from Georgia, who has touted her ties with Trump, called Herrera Beutler a “tool” for Democrats, and warned that “the Trump loyal 75 million are watching.”Some in Trump’s circle are already seeking to leverage the president’s popularity with their own campaigns for office, including former White House press secretary Sarah Sanders, who’s running to be governor of Arkansas. Graham predicted the president’s daughter-in-law, Lara Trump, may seek election to fill Burr’s seat in the Senate when he retires in 2022.‘Excited About 2022’“She represents the future of the Republican Party,” Graham said of Lara Trump on “Fox News Sunday.”The South Carolina senator said he spoke with Trump after the verdict and will travel to Florida soon for a meeting, mirroring House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy’s pilgrimage to Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach last month.“He’s ready to move on and rebuild the Republican Party. He’s excited about 2022 and I’m going to go down to talk with him next week, play a little golf in Florida,” Graham said.It would be a dangerous political mistake to sideline him, Graham said. “The most potent force in the Republican Party is President Trump,” he said. “We need Trump-plus.”While some Republicans cling fiercely to the former president, the conclusion of the impeachment trial has thrust into the open a conflict between the party’s populist and establishment wings.“We are going to have a real battle for the soul of the Republican Party over the next couple of years,” said Maryland’s Republican Governor Larry Hogan, who added on CNN that he would have voted in favor of Trump’s conviction.Balancing ActSenate GOP leader Mitch McConnell attempted to straddled the tension Saturday with a vote to acquit Trump followed minutes later by a speech excoriating the former president as “practically and morally responsible” for the Jan. 6 storming of the Capitol. Graham said McConnell had hurt the party by doing so.Republican senators Lisa Murkowski and Bill Cassidy defended their votes against Trump as doing their duty under their oaths to uphold the Constitution. They faulted Trump for insisting the election had been stolen for months and then failing to intervene even as protesters stormed the Capitol, interrupting the certification of Electoral College votes.While 68% of Americans don’t want Trump to remain a major political figure, 57% of Republican or Republican-leaning voters do, according to Pew poll taken in the aftermath of the attack.Hogan, who’s twice won office as a Republican in a heavily Democrat state, sought to seize the moment and purge the party of Trump’s influence.“There was a hostile takeover of the Republican party,” he said on NBC. “We’ve got to move on from the cult of Donald Trump and return to the basic principles that the party has always stood for.”Cassidy also sought to minimize Trump’s future grip on the party. “His force wanes,” Cassidy said on ABC’s “This Week.” “The Republican Party is more than just one person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-allies-slam-republicans-who-voted-to-convict-him-in-impeachment-trial-101613409389023.html
15-02-2021||World||The superspreaders behind top Covid-19 conspiracy theories||As the coronavirus spread across the globe, so too did speculation about its origins. Perhaps the virus escaped from a lab. Maybe it was engineered as a bioweapon.Legitimate questions about the virus created perfect conditions for conspiracy theories. In the absence of knowledge, guesswork and propaganda flourished.College professors with no evidence or training in virology were touted as experts. Anonymous social media users posed as high-level intelligence officials. And from China to Iran to Russia to the United States, governments amplified claims for their own motives.The Associated Press collaborated with the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab on a nine-month investigation to identify the people and organizations behind some of the most viral misinformation about the origins of the coronavirus.Their claims were explosive. Their evidence was weak. These are the superspreaders.FRANCIS BOYLEWHO HE IS: A Harvard-trained law professor at the University of Illinois, Boyle drafted a 1989 law banning biological weapons and has advised the nation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Palestinian Authority.Boyle has no academic degree in virology or biology but is a longstanding critic of research on pathogens. He has claimed Israeli intelligence was involved in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing; that SARS, the swine flu and Ebola have been genetically modified; and that West Nile virus and Lyme disease escaped from a U.S. biowarfare lab. He has also claimed that Microsoft founder Bill Gates “was involved” in the spread of Zika.COVID CLAIM: Boyle says the coronavirus is a genetically engineered bioweapon that escaped from a high-level lab in Wuhan, China. He maintains it shows signs of nanotechnological tinkering and the insertion of proteins from HIV, the human immunodeficiency virus. He alleges that U.S. researchers helped create it, and that thousands of doctors, scientists, and elected leaders are conspiring to hide the truth.Boyle promoted his claim in an email to a list of news organizations and personal contacts on Jan. 24, 2020. That same day, he was interviewed on a podcast called “Geopolitics and Empire.” That podcast was cited by a little-known Indian website, GreatGameIndia, and went viral, with Boyle’s comments picked up and featured in Iranian-state TV, Russian state media, and fringe websites in the U.S. and around the world. He's since repeated his claims on Alex Jones' show Infowars.EVIDENCE? Boyle bases his argument on circumstantial evidence: the presence of a Biosafety Level 4 lab in Wuhan, the fact that other viruses have escaped from other labs in the past, and his belief that governments around the world are engaged in a secret arms race over biological weapons.Biosafety Level 4 labs - or BSL4 labs - have the highest level of biosafety precautions.“It seemed to me that obviously, this came out of the Wuhan BSL 4,” Boyle told The Associated Press.A World Heath Organization team concluded it was extremely unlikely the virus escaped from the Wuhan lab, and other experts have said the virus shows no signs of genetic manipulation.___GREATGAMEINDIAWHAT IT IS: A website that was an early promoter of the theory that the coronavirus was engineered.Its Jan. 26, 2020, story on “Coronavirus bioweapon-How China Stole the Coronavirus From Canada and Weaponized It” was picked up by far-right financial blog Zero Hedge and shared to thousands of social media users before it was promoted by conservative website RedStateWatcher and received more than 6 million engagements.COVID CLAIM: GreatGameIndia claims that the virus, which has now killed more than 2 million people worldwide, was first found in the lungs of a Saudi man and then sent to labs in the Netherlands and then Canada, where it was stolen by Chinese scientists. The article relies in part on speculation from Dany Shoham, a virologist and former lieutenant colonel in Israeli military intelligence.Shoham was quoted discussing the possibility that COVID is linked to bioweapon research in a Jan. 26, 2020, article in the conservative U.S. newspaper The Washington Times. In that article, Shoham was quoted saying there was no evidence to support the idea that the virus has escaped from a lab, but GreatGameIndia did not include that context in its piece.“We do stand by our report,” said website co-founder Shelley Kasli wrote in an email. “In fact, recently Canadians released documents which corroborated our findings with Chinese scientists... A lot of information is still classified.”EVIDENCE? The coronavirus most likely first appeared in humans after jumping from an animal, a World Health Organization panel announced this month, saying an alternate theory that the virus leaked from a Chinese lab was unlikely.America's top scientists have likewise concluded the virus is of natural origin, citing clues in its genome and its similarity to SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome. Vincent Racaniello, a professor of microbiology and immunology at Columbia University, who has been studying the virus since its genome was first recorded, has said it is clear that the virus was not engineered or accidentally released.“It is something that is clearly selected in nature,” Racaniello said. “There are two examples where the sequence tells us that humans had no hand in making this virus because they would not have known to do these things.”___THE CENTRE FOR RESEARCH ON GLOBALIZATIONWHAT IT IS: The Montreal-based center publishes articles on global politics and policy, including a healthy dose of conspiracy theories on vaccines and the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. It’s led by Michel Chossudovsky, a professor emeritus of economics at the University of Ottawa and a conspiracy theorist who has argued the U.S. military can control the weather.The center publishes authors from around the world — many of whom have advanced baseless claims about the origins of the outbreak. In February, for instance, the center published an interview with Igor Nikulin suggesting the coronavirus was a U.S. bioweapon created to target Chinese people.The center’s website, globalresearch.ca., “has become deeply enmeshed in Russia’s broader disinformation and propaganda ecosystem” by peddling anti-U.S. conspiracy theories, according to a 2020 U.S. State Department report which found that seven of its supposed writers do not even exist but were created by Russian military intelligence.COVID CLAIM: While the center has published several articles about the virus, one suggesting it originated in the U.S. caught the attention of top Chinese officials.On March 12, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian retweeted an article published by the center titled: "China’s Coronavirus: A Shocking Update. Did The Virus Originate in the US?”“This article is very much important to each and every one of us,” he posted in English on Twitter. “Please read and retweet it. COVID-19: Further Evidence that the Virus Originated in the US.”He also tweeted: “It might be US army who brought the epidemic to Wuhan. Be transparent! Make public your data! US owe us an explanation.”The story by Larry Romanoff, a regular author at the center, cites several debunked theories, including one that members of the U.S. military brought the virus to China during the Military World Games in fall 2019. Romanoff concludes that it has now “been proven” that the virus originated from outside of China, despite scientific consensus that it did.EVIDENCE? The World Health Organization has concluded that the coronavirus emerged in China, where the first cases and deaths were reported. No evidence has surfaced to suggest the virus was imported into China by the U.S.Chossudovsky and Romanoff did not respond to repeated messages seeking comment. Romanoff's biography lists him as a visiting professor at Fudan University in Shanghai, but he is not listed among the university's faculty. The university did not respond to an email asking about Romanoff's employment.Romanoff's original article was taken down in the spring, but Zhao's tweet remains up.___IGOR NIKULINWHO IS HE? A four-time failed political candidate, Nikulin is prominently quoted in Russian state media and fringe publications in the west as a biologist and former weapons inspector in Iraq who served on a U.N. commission on biological and chemical weapons in the 1990s.COVID CLAIM: Nikulin argues the U.S. created the virus and used it to attack China. He first voiced the belief in a Jan. 20, 2020, story by Zvezda, a state media outlet tied to the Russian military. He appeared on Russian state TV at least 18 times between Jan. 27, 2020, and late April of that year.Once the virus reached the U.S., Nikulin changed his theory, saying “globalists” were using the virus to depopulate the earth.Nikulin has expressed support for weaponizing misinformation to hurt the U.S. in the past. On his website, he suggests claiming the U.S. created HIV as a way to weaken America from within. Russian intelligence mounted a similar 1980s disinformation campaign dubbed “Operation INFEKTION.”“If you prove and declare... that the virus was bred in American laboratories, the American economy will collapse under the onslaught of billions of lawsuits by millions of AIDS carriers around the world,” Nikulin wrote on his website.EVIDENCE? Nikulin offered no evidence to support his assertions, and there are reasons to doubt his veracity.Former U.N. weapons inspector Richard Butler, for whom Nikulin claims to have worked, said he had no memory of Nikulin, and that his story sounded “sloppily fabricated, and not credible.”No U.N. records could be found to confirm his employment.In an exchange with the AP over Facebook, Nikulin insisted his claims and background are accurate, though he said some records from U.N. work were destroyed in an American bombing during the Iraq invasion.When told that Butler didn't know him, Nikulin responded “This is his opinion."___GREG RUBINIWHO HE IS: Greg Rubini is the name of an internet conspiracy theorist who claims to have high-level contacts in intelligence and listed his location on Twitter as “classified,” until he was kicked off the platform. His posts have been retweeted thousands of times by supporters of QAnon, a conspiracy theory centered on the baseless belief that Trump is waging a secret campaign against enemies in the “deep state” and a secret sect of satanic pedophiles and cannibals.COVID CLAIM: Rubini has tweeted that Dr. Anthony Fauci created the coronavirus and that it was used as a bioweapon to reduce the world's population and undermine Trump.EVIDENCE? Rubini's doesn’t appear to be the intelligence insider that he pretends to be.Buzzfeed attempted to track down Rubini last year and determined it is the alias of a 61-year-old Italian man who has worked in marketing and music promotions. A previous version of his Twitter bio indicates he is a fan of classic rock and the films of Stanley Kubrick.Attempts to reach Rubini online and through business contacts were unsuccessful.Rubini has bristled at efforts to verify his claims. When a social media user asked: “My question to you @GregRubini is, ‘Where and what is your proof?’ Rubini responded curtly: “And my question is: why should I give it to you?”Twitter suspended Rubini's account in November 2020 for repeated violations of its policies.______KEVIN BARRETTWHO HE IS: A former lecturer on Islam at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Barrett left the university amid criticism for his claims that the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks were orchestrated by people linked to the U.S. and Israeli governments.Barrett calls himself “a professional conspiracy theorist, for want of a better term” and has argued government conspiracies were behind the 2004 Madrid bombing, the 2005 London bombing, the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing and the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting.COVID CLAIM: Barrett said he is “80%” sure coronavirus was created by elements within the U.S. government as a bioweapon and used to attack China.Iran was a secondary target, he has argued. Writing for Iran’s PressTV, he said the early outbreak in that country “suggests that the Americans and/or their partners the Israelis... may have deliberately attacked Iran.”Barrett further detailed his views during an interview with the AP.“It seemed fairly obvious to me that the first hypothesis one would look at when something as extraordinary as this COVID pandemic hits, is that it would be a US bio-war strike,” he said.EVIDENCE? Barrett cited reports that the US warned its allies in November 2019 about a dangerous virus emerging from China. Barrett said that’s long before authorities in China knew about the severity of the outbreak.Official sources have denied issuing any warning. If the U.S. did know about the virus that soon, it was likely thanks to intelligence sources within China, which may have known about the virus as early as November 2019, according to former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.___LUC MONTAGNIERWHO HE IS: Montagnier is a world-renowned virologist who won the Nobel prize in 2008 for discovering HIV.COVID CLAIM: During an April interview with the French news channel CNews, Montagnier claimed that the coronavirus did not originate in nature and was manipulated. Montagnier said that in the process of making the vaccine for AIDS, someone took the genetic material and added it to the coronavirus. Montagnier cites a retracted paper published in January from Indian scientists who had said they had found sequences of HIV in the coronavirus. AP made multiple unsuccessful attempts to contact Montagnier.EVIDENCE: Experts who have looked at the genome sequence of the virus have said it has no HIV-1 sequences. In January, Indian scientists published a paper on bioRXIV, a repository for scientific papers that have not yet been peer-reviewed or published in a traditional scientific journal. The paper said that the scientists had found “uncanny similarity of unique inserts" in COVID-19 and HIV. Social media users picked up the paper as proof that the virus was engineered. As soon as it was published, the scientific community widely debunked the paper on social media. It was later withdrawn.___SUPREME LEADER ALI KHAMENEI and HOSSEIN SALAMIWHO THEY ARE: Khamenei is the second and current Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran. He has the final say on all matters of state, including the economy, military and health divisions.Since being elected to office in 1981, Khamenei has maintained his skeptical view of the U.S. as Iran’s foremost enemy. The tensions between the two countries boiled over in 2018 when Trump pulled the U.S. out of the Iran nuclear deal and reimposed crippling sanctions. At the time, Khamenei remarked, “I said from the first day: Don’t trust America.”Hossein Salami was appointed by Khamenei as commander of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard in April 2019. He leads the country’s paramilitary force that oversees Iran’s ballistic missile program and responds to threats from both inside and outside the country.COVID CLAIM: Salami declared on March 5, 2020, that Iran was engaged in a fight against a virus that might be the product of an American biological attack. On those grounds, Salami ordered a Ground Force Biological Defense Maneuver to test the country’s ability to combat a biological attack. Beginning March 16, the Ground Force, in close collaboration with the Health Ministry, began holding nationwide biodefense drills.Khamenei was among the first and most powerful world leaders to suggest the coronavirus could be a biological weapon created by the U.S. During his annual address on March 22 to millions of Iranians for the Persian New Year, Khamenei questioned why the U.S. would offer aid to countries like Iran if they themselves were suffering and accused of making the virus.Khamenei went on to refuse U.S. assistance, saying “possibly (U.S.) medicine is a way to spread the virus more." Last month, he refused to accept coronavirus vaccines manufactured in Britain and the U.S., calling them “forbidden.” The Iranian Mission to the United Nations in New York did not respond to multiple requests for comment.EVIDENCE: There is no evidence that the U.S. created the virus or used it as a weapon to attack Iran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-superspreaders-behind-top-covid-19-conspiracy-theories-101613408790403.html
15-02-2021||World||Boris Johnson urged to open UK schools 'slowly' to avoid virus surge||The U.K. government is facing pressure from scientists and teaching unions to reopen schools slowly next month, amid fears that getting all pupils back at once could fuel a resurgence in the pandemic.Prime Minister Boris Johnson confirmed Monday that reopening schools from March 8 is the priority as the government considers how to ease virus restrictions, but said ministers have not yet decided if all age groups will return to classrooms at the same time.Given the uncertainty about how schools reopening will affect the virus reproduction rate, there’s a case for “slightly staggering” pupils’ return so the youngest go first, Mike Tildesley, a Warwick University academic who advises the government on pandemic modeling, said in a briefing Monday. “With any form of relaxation we need to approach it with an element of caution.”Johnson Aims to Ease U.K. Lockdown, With Schools Back FirstThe U.K. took a phased approach after the first lockdown in spring, so only children in the first two years and final year of primary school could go back first. But Johnson is considering ordering all age groups back on March 8, the Sunday Times reported, provided infection rates continue to fall.Johnson is due to set out his “road map” for ending lockdown in a statement on Feb. 22, and has vowed to give schools two weeks’ notice to prepare. He said Monday he wants to see “progress that is cautious and irreversible.” In a briefing, his spokesman declined to comment on details of the plan.“We are committed to fully reopening schools as soon as the public health picture allows, and it is hoped that we will be able to do this from March 8,” a spokesperson for the Department for Education said in a statement.‘Phased Return’Teachers’ unions also urged caution over the pace of school reopening. “There is no point in bringing all children back at once if this immediately causes a spike in coronavirus infection rates which forces another lockdown,” said Geoff Barton, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, adding that all options -- including a “phased return” -- should remain open.Schools in England have been closed in a third national lockdown since Jan. 5. One in six pupils may never be able to catch up on school time lost during the pandemic, Children’s Commissioner for England Anne Longfield warned Sunday.It’s also a critical part of Johnson’s push to reopen the economy, which suffered its worst hit in more than 300 years last year. Many parents have been forced to juggle jobs with helping their children with virtual lessons.The plan to reopen on March 8 was boosted Monday by a study from Warwick University which suggested that schools are not a “significant driver of outbreaks” in the community.Even so, researchers warned some measures would still be needed when schools reopen, including ensuring that parents don’t mix at pick-up and drop-off times, and that people continue to work at home wherever possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-urged-to-open-uk-schools-slowly-to-avoid-virus-surge-101613408221244.html
15-02-2021||World||Rio de Janeiro halts Covid-19 shots as vaccine supplies dry up||The Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro will halt Covid-19 vaccinations from Wednesday due to a lack of shots, city officials said on MondayVaccinations will only begin when a new lot of shots arrives, they said, with delivery not expected until next week.The halt to vaccinations illustrates the patchy nature of Brazil's vaccine rollout, which has been blighted with delays and a lack of supplies."I have received the news that new doses did not arrive," Rio's Mayor Eduardo Paes wrote on Twitter. "Today we are vaccinating 84-year-olds and tomorrow 83-year-olds. We are ready and have already vaccinated 244,852 people. We just need the vaccine to arrive ... it should come next week."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rio-de-janeiro-halts-covid-19-shots-as-vaccine-supplies-dry-up-101613407242114.html
15-02-2021||World||WHO lists AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday listed AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use, widening access to the relatively inexpensive shot in the developing world.A WHO statement said it had approved the vaccine as produced by AstraZeneca-SKBio (Republic of Korea) and the Serum Institute of India."We now have all the pieces in place for the rapid distribution of vaccines. But we still need to scale up production," said Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General.The listing by the UN health agency comes days after a WHO panel provided interim recommendations on the vaccine, saying two doses with an interval of around 8 to 12 weeks must be given to all adults, and can be used in countries with the South African variant of the coronavirus as well.The AstraZeneca/Oxford shot has been hailed because it is cheaper and easier to distribute than some rivals, including Pfizer/BioNTech's , which was listed for emergency use by the WHO late in December.Nearly 109 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and more than 2.5 million have died, according to a Reuters tally.Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-lists-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccine-for-emergency-use-101613407482705.html
15-02-2021||World||Last-minute extension of Italian ski ban dismays Mario Draghi's new allies||Allies of new Prime Minister Mario Draghi criticised on Monday one of his government's first moves - a decision to unexpectedly extend a shutdown of Italy's ski resorts just hours before the slopes had been due to re-open.After a months-long closure due to the coronavirus pandemic, Italian ski operators were poised to re-start their ski lifts on Monday, only to see their hopes dashed on Sunday evening when the health ministry said it would maintain the lockdown.Health experts said the decision was necessary because of the growing spread of the more contagious British variant of the virus. Tour operators and some of the biggest parties in Draghi's new unity government complained that the announcement had come far too late."We need to communicate in a timely fashion...Let's change tack," said Matteo Salvini, whose rightist League party has quit opposition ranks to join Draghi's administration, which was only sworn into office on Saturday.The centre-left Democratic Party (PD) was also unhappy."We are not questioning the ongoing health emergency, but they can't just shut things down hours before their reopening," PD Senate leader Andrea Marcucci said in a statement.Almost all ministers from the previous government have been replaced, but Health Minister Roberto Speranza has remained in place. He informed Draghi before announcing the ski decision, a political source said.Ski operators were stunned to hear the ban on recreational skiing had been pushed back until March 5 - close to the end of the traditional season."The timing of this move is completely absurd. We worked for two weeks, day and night, to guarantee a safe re-opening in line with the regulations," Michele Bertolini, head of the Ponte di Legno Alpine ski resort, told Reuters TV.Most ski slopes are located in the northern regions, the worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Tour operators say they risk losing billions of euros as a result of the shutdown."We had bookings, staff, everything ready to restart. Guests who were already here," said Alessandro Guerini, head of the local hoteliers' association in Ponte di Legno.Although the number of daily Covid-19 cases in Italy has fallen from a high of some 40,000 in mid-November to under 15,000 now, the infection rate is edging higher and several hundred people continue to die each day.Italy's official death toll stands at 93,577 - the second highest in Europe after Britain and seventh highest worldwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lastminute-extension-of-italian-ski-ban-dismays-mario-draghi-s-new-allies-101613405892913.html
15-02-2021||World||Anthony Fauci wins $1 million Israeli prize for 'defending science'||Dr. Anthony Fauci has won the $1 million Dan David Prize for “defending science” and advocating for vaccines now being administered worldwide to fight the coronavirus pandemic.The Israel-based Dan David Foundation on Monday named President Joe Biden's chief medical adviser as the winner of one of three prizes. It said he had earned the recognition over a lifetime of leadership on HIV research and AIDS relief, as well as his advocacy for the vaccines against COVID-19.In its statement, the private foundation did not mention former President Donald Trump, who undermined Fauci's follow-the-science approach to the pandemic. But it credited Fauci with "courageously defending science in the face of uninformed opposition during the challenging COVID crisis.”Fauci, 80, has served seven presidents and has been the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases since 1984.In recent interviews, Fauci has acknowledged that it was difficult at times to work for Trump, who repeatedly played down the severity of the pandemic, dismissed the need for mask-wearing and often touted unproven scientific remedies, including injecting disinfectant.Trump resented Fauci's flattering press coverage and reveled in calls to “Fire Fauci!” at some of his rallies. But Fauci outlasted Trump, who lost the November election.“It was very clear that there were things that were said, be it regarding things like hydroxychloroquine and other things, that really was uncomfortable because they were not based in scientific fact,” Fauci said at a recent White House briefing. He added that he took “no pleasure” in having to contradict the president.Biden's election, Fauci said, was “liberating.”The Dan David Prize, established in 2000, gives $1 million awards in three categories each year for contributions addressing the past, present and future.Fauci won the prize for achievement in the “present,” in the field of public health, the foundation said.Professors Alison Bashford, Katharine Park and Keith Wailoo, working in the field of history and health medicine, won the “Past" category. The pioneers of an anti-cancer immunotherapy, professor Zelig Eshhar, Dr. Carl June and Dr. Steven Rosenberg won the “Future" category.Foundation Director Ariel David, son of the prize founder, said this year’s laureates “have probed how humanity has dealt with sickness and pandemics throughout history; they have provided relief, guidance and leadership in dealing with current outbreaks ... and they are at the forefront of discovering new treatments that give us hope for the future in the ongoing battle against cancer and other diseases.”Previous recipients of the Dan David Prize include former U.S. Vice President Al Gore, former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, cellist Yo-Yo Ma, novelist Margaret Atwood, Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales and filmmakers Joel and Ethan Coen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anthony-fauci-wins-1-million-israeli-prize-for-defending-science-101613405164996.html
15-02-2021||World||Tougher travel rules to contain spread of Covid-19 come into force in UK||The UK's tougher new travel rules to contain the spread of COVID-19 variants came into effect from Monday, involving compulsory hotel quarantines for anyone returning to England from one of the 33 high-risk "red list" countries, which excludes India.Those arriving will have to pre-book and pay 1,750 pounds to spend 10 days quarantining in government-sanctioned hotels, covering the cost of the hotel, transport and two separate tests post-arrival. Extremely serious breaches of the new norms could result in a 10-year jail term and fines of up to 10,000 pounds.India is not among the 33 high-risk "red list" countries.However, those arriving in the UK from countries such as India, not having visited a "red list" country, must still quarantine for 10 days at home and complete two mandatory COVID-19 tests on the second and eighth day after arriving.“With the emergence of new variants, we must go further. The rules coming into force today will bolster the quarantine system and provide another layer of security against new variants at the border,” said UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock.“These new measures are important to protect our vaccination programme, which has now seen 15 million people vaccinated, we all work towards restoring normal life,” he said.Starting Monday, any UK or Irish resident who has been in a high-risk destination on the UK’s red list – comprising 33 hotspots with COVID-19 variants in circulation – will have to enter England through a designated port and have pre-booked a quarantine package to stay at one of the government’s “Managed Quarantine Facilities”.Non-residents are currently not part of the essential-only travel rules of the coronavirus lockdown.The government said it has tough measures already in place requiring all travellers into the UK, from any location, to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than three days before departure and non-UK residents from the 33 red list countries are already banned from entering Britain.New regulations equipping the Border Force and police staff with the powers needed to ensure people arriving in England conform to the new rules have also been put in place.The Border Force have the power to issue fixed penalty notices to individuals suspected of lying on their Passenger Locator Form and where necessary detain them for up to three hours.As part of the regulations, a requirement for quarantining individuals to self-isolate in their room is set out in law. There will also be a visible security presence at the Managed Quarantine Facilities to ensure that people are obeying these rules.The government has struck deals with 16 hotels so far, providing 4,963 rooms for the new quarantine system, with a further 58,000 rooms currently on standby.Passengers can book their rooms through an online portal in advance of arrival in England. Those who fail to quarantine in such hotels face fines of 5,000 to 10,000 pounds, while anyone who lies on their passenger locator form about having been in a country on the red list faces a prison sentence of up to 10 years.All hotel staff will be fully trained in COVID-secure practices, and all contractors have been instructed to ensure their facilities and services are provided in a COVID-secure way. This includes plastic shields and PPE where necessary.Heathrow Airport is one of five in England where people requiring hotel quarantine can enter the UK and is expected to receive the largest number of passengers. The other four are Gatwick, London City, Birmingham and Farnborough.The devolved regions are also following similar strict rules for arrivals from red list countries, which include countries which have shown a high occurrence of new variants of coronavirus such as South Africa.Non-essential travel remains banned under the UK’s strict lockdown to contain the very high coronavirus infection rate as the vaccination programme is accelerated. There are reports that anyone leaving the UK will soon after be questioned about their reason for travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tougher-travel-rules-to-contain-spread-of-covid-19-come-into-force-in-uk-101613404503421.html
15-02-2021||World||Biden faces pressure as US sets new course on immigration||After a weeklong bus ride from Honduras, Isabel Osorio Medina arrived in northern Mexico with the hope President Joe Biden would make it easier for people like him to get into the United States.“It seems the new president wants to help migrants,” Osorio said as he got ready to check in to a cheap hotel in downtown Tijuana before heading to the US. “They’re saying he is going to help, but I don’t know for sure how much is true or not.”The 63-year-old is among thousands of people who have come to the US-Mexico border with the hope they will be able to ask for asylum and make their way into the US now that former President Donald Trump is no longer in office.While Biden has taken some major steps in his first weeks in office to reverse Trump's hardline immigration policies, his administration hasn't lifted some of the most significant barriers to asylum-seekers.In fact, it's discouraging people from coming to the country, hoping to avoid what happened under both Trump and former President Barack Obama — border agents getting overwhelmed by migrants, including many Central Americans with children.“Now is not the time to come,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki said at a recent briefing, “and the vast majority of people will be turned away.”Secretary of State Antony Blinken struck a similar tone on Feb. 6 as he announced official steps to end Trump-era agreements with Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala that required many asylum-seekers to seek refuge in one of those countries instead of the US.“To be clear, these actions do not mean that the US border is open,” Blinken said. “While we are committed to expanding legal pathways for protection and opportunity here and in the region, the United States is a country with borders and laws that must be enforced.”That message hasn't reached everyone.More people have been arriving at an encampment in Matamoros, Mexico, a dangerous city just south of the Texas border where hundreds of asylum-seekers have been waiting under Trump's “Remain in Mexico” program.It's possible even more may come after the Biden administration announced Friday that it would slowly allow an estimated 25,000 people to enter the US as their cases are reviewed. The first wave is expected Feb. 19.Walter Valenzuela, a 37-year-old Honduran, said he had been waiting in Tijuana, across the border from San Diego, for months for a chance to either seek asylum or risk an illegal crossing.For years, asylum-seekers who met the initial threshold of demonstrating a “credible fear” of persecution in their homeland could generally stay in the US until an immigration judge decided whether they qualified for permanent residency, which can take years.Trump administration officials believed many asylum claims were fraudulent or lacked merit, submitted by people simply looking to remain in the U.S. But the issue is murky as tens of thousands flee violent gangs, natural disasters and political upheaval.The Biden administration has signed several executive orders on immigration, including allowing in more refugees and establishing a task force to find the parents of about 600 children who were separated under Trump and still haven't been reunited.But it hasn't ended a public health order Trump issued at the start of the coronavirus pandemic that allows US Customs and Border Protection to immediately expel nearly everyone, including asylum-seekers.Psaki said the government is still working to develop a “humane, comprehensive process" to evaluate people coming to the US.“Asylum processes at the border will not occur immediately,” she said. “It will take time to implement.”Alan Bersin, who held top positions dealing with border security during the Clinton and Obama administrations, warned that Biden is headed for a crisis if he releases all asylum-seekers into the United States. That would invite fraud and abuse, he said.“There’s such a pressing sense in the advocate community that is controlling the Biden immigration agenda — they want to reverse all Trump actions,” he said.Meanwhile, pressure is mounting.The number of people apprehended at the border has increased since January, though it's below some previous periods. Authorities say many are getting caught and returned multiple times.Complicating matters, a law has taken effect in Mexico that prohibits holding children in migrant detention centers, and the US has stopped sending back some families along parts of the border. CBP, which doesn't have capacity to hold families because of Covid-19, in recent weeks has released dozens of people into the US with instructions to appear in court later.Authorities fear that as word spreads of those releases, more people will come. And asylum is not the only immigration issue creating headwinds for Biden's administration.Texas and Arizona have both sued to stop Biden's 100-day deportation moratorium, which a judge temporarily put on hold. Immigration and Customs and Enforcement officers are complaining about proposed rules to focus on detaining and removing people in the country illegally who pose national security threats or have been convicted of more serious crimes.Jon Feere, a senior adviser to ICE under Trump, said such moves are part of a larger pattern that the Biden administration will come to regret.“When you send the message that you are not serious about immigration enforcement, you can’t act surprised when you see a massive influx of people that you have to manage,” he said.Raul Ortiz, deputy chief of the Border Patrol, said last week that as a liaison to the Biden transition team, he found the staff to be “very attentive” to the issues. Some had experience with surges of asylum-seekers under Obama.“This wasn’t uncharted waters," Ortiz said in an interview produced by the Border Patrol. "It wasn’t like we were starting from scratch.”The larger debate is lost on Osorio, who came to Tijuana because he heard Biden wants to help people like him. He says he intended to seek asylum based on the dangers he faced as an environmental activist protesting illegal logging in Honduras.But because he can't seek asylum at the official border crossing in San Diego, other migrants told him about a place he could try to cross illegally. He said if he encountered the Border Patrol, he would ask for asylum and see what happens.“They already told us more or less how to do it,” Osorio said. “We're going to take a look.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-faces-pressure-as-us-sets-new-course-on-immigration-101613403783193.html
15-02-2021||World||'Won't leave before time is right': NATO chief on withdrawal from Afghanistan||Taliban militants in Afghanistan must do more to meet the terms of a 2020 peace agreement with the United States to allow for any possible foreign troop withdrawal by a May deadline, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Monday.Allied defence ministers will discuss later this week whether the Taliban is making good on the peace deal, which called for militants to curb attacks and foreign troops to withdraw by May 1."We see that there is still a need for the Taliban to do more when it comes to delivering on their commitments ... to make sure that they break all ties with international terrorists," Stoltenberg said.Attacks in Afghanistan, including a bomb that killed the deputy governor of the capital Kabul in December, have prompted members of the U.S. Congress and international rights groups to call for a delay to the pullout agreed under former President Donald Trump.NATO has 9,600 troops in Afghanistan, including 2,500 Americans, training and assisting Afghan forces.Many fear that progress during two decades of foreign intervention in Afghanistan would quickly unravel, threatening gains in areas from women's rights to democracy. US lawmakers have warned that withdrawing all troops could lead to civil war.This week's defence ministers' meeting, which will take place by video conference on Wednesday and Thursday, was initially set decide on whether to go ahead with a troop pullout. The administration of new US President Joe Biden faces calls to seek a six-month delay.Four senior NATO officials told Reuters on Jan. 31 international troops would stay beyond the May deadline, despite Taliban calls for a full withdrawal."Our common goal is clear: Afghanistan should never again serve as a haven for terrorists to attack our homelands," Stoltenberg said. "While no ally wants to stay in Afghanistan longer than necessary. We will not leave before the time is right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wont-leave-before-time-is-right-nato-chief-on-withdrawal-from-afghanistan-101613402954451.html
15-02-2021||World||Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, new WTO head 'loved' despite mixed record||Twice Nigeria's finance minister and its first woman foreign minister, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala has been described as a trailblazer.The 66-year-old made more history on Monday when she was appointed as the first African and woman to head the World Trade Organization (WTO).Aside from her time in public office, the development economist also spent a quarter-century at the World Bank -- rising to be managing director and running for the top role in 2012."I think she has delivered, whether in Nigeria or in other countries where she worked," Idayat Hassan of the Centre for Democracy and Development research and advocacy group told AFP.Born in 1954 in Ogwashi Ukwu, in Delta State, western Nigeria, her father is a traditional ruler. She spent much of her life in the United States, graduating from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Harvard, where she sent her four children."She is not just liked in Nigeria, she is loved, because she is a symbol, and people are gunning for her because of what she represents for womanhood," said Hassan.'She kept quiet'Not everyone agrees her track record is impeccable."Okonjo-Iweala may have done some box-checking technocratic transparency reforms in her ministry but the fact is, nearly a billion dollars a month were going missing from oil revenues when she was finance minister," said Sarah Chayes, author of "Thieves of State", a book about corruption."I think it's a shame she is even being considered for the role," Chayes said in an interview last year."There is an appetite for this kind of good news story at a time when diversity issues are paramount, being female and black doesn't hurt."The former minister has portrayed herself as a champion against Nigeria's rampant corruption -- and says her own mother was even kidnapped over her attempts to tackle the scourge.But critics insist she should have done more to stop it while in power."At the very least, she had the opportunity to resign from office and expose the corruption," said Olanrewaju Suraju, from the Human and Environmental Development Agenda campaign group."Rather, she kept quiet and allowed high level corruption to fester under the regime, only to complain after leaving office."'Boldness, courage'Okonjo-Iweala has also brushed off claims she lacks experience as a trade minister or negotiator."I've been doing that all my life, working on trade policy issues," she said during a webinar organised by Chatham House in July."Most of all," she said, the choice for director general should go beyond technical skills, "you need boldness, courage".She was recently named the African Union's special envoy to mobilise international support for the continent's efforts to address the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic.Okonjo-Iweala has warned that growing protectionism and nationalism have been spurred on by the crisis and insists barriers need to be lowered to help the world recover."One way to ensure the adequate supply and equitable distribution of vaccines is to remove some of the barriers created by intellectual property and technology transfer laws," she wrote in April in Foreign Affairs magazine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ngozi-okonjo-iweala-new-wto-head-loved-despite-mixed-record-101613402137006.html
15-02-2021||World||Nigeria's Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala makes history as head of WTO||Three months after the Trump administration rejected her, former Nigerian finance minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala received unanimous backing on Monday to become the first woman and first African director-general of the World Trade Organization.A self-declared "doer" with a track record of taking on seemingly intractable problems, Okonjo-Iweala will have her work cut out for her at the trade body, even with Donald Trump, who had threatened to pull the United States out of the organisation, no longer in the White House.As director-general, a position that wields limited formal power, Okonjo-Iweala, 66, will need to broker international trade talks in the face of persistent US-China conflict; respond to pressure to reform trade rules; and counter protectionism heightened by the Covid-19 pandemic.In her acceptance speech at the WTO, she said that getting a trade deal at the next major ministerial meeting would be a "top priority" and also urged members to reject vaccine nationalism, according to a delegate attending the closed-door meeting.In the same speech, she described the challenges facing the body as "numerous and tricky but not insurmountable".A 25-year veteran of the World Bank, where she oversaw an $81 billion portfolio, Okonjo-Iweala ran against seven other candidates by espousing a belief in trade's ability to lift people out of poverty.She studied development economics at Harvard after experiencing civil war in Nigeria as a teenager. She returned to the country in 2003 to serve as finance minister and backers point to her hard-nose negotiating skills that helped seal a deal to cancel billions of dollars of Nigerian debt with the Paris Club of creditor nations in 2005."She brings stature, she brings experience, a network and a temperament of trying to get things done, which is quite a welcome lot in my view," former WTO chief Pascal Lamy told Reuters. "I think she's a good choice." Key to her success will be her ability to operate in the centre of a "US-EU-China triangle", he said.The endorsement of the Biden administration cleared the last obstacle to her appointment.Sweet but strongOkonjo-Iweala becomes one of the few female heads of a major multilateral body. She is expected to join the WTO's Geneva lakeside headquarters within weeks where her portrait is set to be hung beside others of men, mostly white and from rich countries.Her bright Nigerian prints are sure to stand out among the suits there where the majority of top staff are also men, like most of the delegates and ministers that walk its corridors.The Trump administration's main criticism of her was that she lacked direct trade experience compared to her main South Korean rival and even supporters say she will have to quickly get up to speed on the technicalities of trade negotiations.She has rejected this, saying that she has plenty of experience of trade plus other expertise."The qualities I have are even better," she said.Raised by academics, the mother-of-four earned a reputation for hard work and modesty amid the pomp of Nigeria's governing class, acquaintances say."She is persistent and stubborn," said Kingsley Moghalu, former deputy governor of Nigeria's central bank who worked with her when she was the country's first female finance minister.Even when her elderly mother was kidnapped in the Niger Delta, she refused to back down on a series of oil reforms, one of several incidents that earned her the nickname 'Okonjo-Wahala', Wahala meaning "trouble" in Nigerian Pidgin."People recognise that this is not someone who is going to tolerate nonsense," her son Uzodinma Iweala, a writer, told Reuters."She's a very strong woman like many African woman. There's that song 'Sweet Mother' and that's true for her but you also know that you don't cross a Sweet Mother."Reforming the unreformableThe 26-year-old WTO that Okonjo-Iweala inherits after a six-month leadership gap is partially paralysed, thanks to the Trump administration which blocked appointments to its top appeals body that acts as the global arbiter of trade disputes.But even before Trump, negotiators had struggled to clinch deals that must be agreed by consensus, with the United States and other developed WTO members arguing that developing counties, notably China, cannot cling on to exceptions and that rules need to change to reflect China's economic growth.Okonjo-Iweala who is a special envoy for the World Health Organization on Covid-19 and, until recently chair of the board of global vaccine alliance Gavi, told Reuters that trade's contribution to public health would be a priority.The WTO currently faces deadlock over an issue of waiving intellectual property rights for Covid-19 drugs, with many wealthy countries opposed.High on the to-do list will also be fisheries subsidies, the subject of the WTO's main multilateral talks that missed a deadline to conclude by end-2020.Asked about the challenges ahead, she joked that a book she wrote about fixing Nigeria's broken institutions could well apply to today's WTO: 'Reforming the Unreformable'."I feel I can solve the problems. I'm a known reformer, not someone who talks about it," she said. "I've actually done it".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nigerias-ngozi-okonjo-iweala-makes-history-as-head-of-wto-101613401560528.html
15-02-2021||World||WTO formally appoints Nigeria's Okonjo-Iweala as its first female leader||The World Trade Organization selected Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala to be the first woman and first African as its leader, tasking the former Nigerian finance minister with restoring trust in a rules-based global trading system roiled by protectionism and the pandemic.During a virtual meeting on Monday, the WTO’s 164 members unanimously selected the 66-year-old development economist to serve a four-year term as director-general.After withstanding a veto of her candidacy by the now-departed Trump administration, Okonjo-Iweala takes the helm of the Geneva-based WTO at a precarious time for the world economy and just as the organization itself is mired in a state of dysfunction.She held a previous role as chair of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization after a public sector career in international finance, including two terms as Nigeria’s finance minister and some 25 years at the World Bank. Her dual U.S. citizenship means she’s also the first American to hold the organization’s top job.Navigating the growing chasm between China and western nations -- who argue that China’s entry into the organization in 2001 failed to transform it into a market economy -- will be a key challenge.‘Deliver Soon’China’s delegation to the WTO, in a statement, said “the WTO is at its critical moment and must be able to deliver soon. The collective decision made by the entire membership demonstrates a vote of trust not only in Dr. Ngozi herself, but also in our vision, our expectation and the multilateral trading system that we all believe and preserve.”Washington and Brussels have railed against China’s massive subsidy programs, forced technology transfers and the state’s expansive influence over the Chinese economy -- policies that they say have collectively resulted in trade distortions that negatively affect the global economy.During her campaign, Okonjo-Iweala acknowledged the necessity of rebuilding trust between the US and China while trying to find areas of common interest. As a candidate, she endorsed an ongoing initiative among the US, EU and Japan aimed at developing new disciplines for industrial subsidies, state-owned enterprises and forced technology transfers.In the near term, Okonjo-Iweala may look for some early wins on issues including:This week the European Union is expected to call upon US President Joe Biden to consider a set of principals as a basis for negotiating and clarifying the WTO’s dispute settlement rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wto-formally-appoints-nigeria-s-okonjo-iweala-as-its-first-female-leader-101613400431632.html
15-02-2021||World||Taliban must do more to meet its peace deal commitments, says NATO||Taliban militants in Afghanistan must do more to meet the terms of a 2020 peace agreement and allow for any possible foreign troop withdrawal by May, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Monday."We see that there is still a need for the Taliban to do more when it comes to delivering on their commitments ... to make sure that they break old ties with international terrorists," Stoltenberg told a news conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-must-do-more-to-meet-its-peace-deal-commitments-says-nato-101613400147798.html
15-02-2021||World||Reports suggest Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine sharply reduces symptomatic cases||Pfizer-BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine appears to reduce symptomatic coronavirus infections by more than 90 per cent in the real world, according to Israeli researchers.According to CNN, the preliminary findings published on Monday suggest that the vaccine remains remarkably effective in a mass vaccination campaign -- outside the carefully controlled conditions of a clinical trial.The Clalit Research Institute analysed data on 1.2 million people, about half of whom had received the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Researchers compared patients who received the vaccine with similar individuals who hadn't.The rate of symptomatic Covid-19 -- meaning people who were infected with the coronavirus and felt sick -- decreased by 94 per cent among people who received two doses of the vaccine, according to a press release from Clalit. The rate of serious illness decreased by 92 per cent.CNN further reported that while full details of the study weren't immediately available, and the research hasn't yet been peer-reviewed. Still, the findings are consistent with data from Pfizer's own vaccine trial, which found that the vaccine conferred 95 per cent protection against symptomatic Covid-19.Researchers in the Pfizer trial randomly assigned patients to receive either the vaccine or a placebo. Then they looked to see how many people got sick in each group and found that the vaccine sharply reduced illness.The company's study was a randomised controlled trial. The Israeli study, on the other hand, was observational, meaning researchers didn't randomly pick who got the vaccine and who didn't."That can pose problems; people who choose to get vaccinated, for example, may also be more likely to take other steps to protect themselves. Researchers said they tried to account for those types of effects, however. And observational studies are important because they can offer certain insight into how well vaccines protect people under real-world conditions," CNN reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizers-covid-19-vaccine-sharply-reduces-symptomatic-cases-says-report-101613399427801.html
15-02-2021||World||In a rare verdict, Saudi woman sentenced to death for murdering Bangladeshi maid||A Saudi woman has been convicted of murdering her Bangladeshi maid by a criminal court in Saudi Arabia, in a ruling rights groups in the South Asian nation said was a rare example of an employer being found guilty of abusing a migrant worker.Ayesha Al Jizani was sentenced on Sunday to death by the court for killing Abiron Begum in March 2019, some two years after Begum went to the Gulf state in search of better paid work, a Bangladeshi government official said.Begum's relatives urged the Bangladeshi government to take action against the brokers who "tricked" Begum, 40, into taking the job in Saudi Arabia four years ago."(She) wanted to go abroad to earn more money so that she could pay for her aged parents," Ayub Ali, Begum's brother-in-law, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation."They started torturing her two weeks after she left. She would call us and cry ... we begged the brokers here to bring her back, but no one listened to us."Jizani's husband was jailed for three years for failing to help Begum access medical treatment and making her work outside the family home illegally, confirmed Ahmed Munirus Saleheen, a senior official at Bangladesh's expatriate ministry.Jizani's son was sent to a juvenile facility for seven months, Saleheen added.Bangladesh is one of the world's top exporters of labour and depends heavily on the remittances they send home to relatives.Prior to the pandemic, about 700,000 Bangladeshis used to travel abroad for jobs annually, with Saudi Arabia being the top destination despite having one of the highest recruitment fees for migrant jobseekers from the South Asian nation.Labour rights activists say the fee, which is often paid through a network of unofficial brokers, opens the door to exploitation and trafficking.Campaigners said the Saudi court's verdict against an employer was unusual."I have been working in the migration field for several years and I have never heard of such a verdict," said Shakirul Islam, head of the Ovibashi Karmi Unnayan Program, which deals with migrant rights in Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-a-rare-verdict-saudi-woman-sentenced-to-death-for-murdering-bangladeshi-maid-101613399064094.html
15-02-2021||World||Rain triggers landslide in Indonesia; 10 dead, 9 missing||Torrential rains triggered a landslide on Indonesia's main island of Java that killed at least 10 people, with rescuers digging desperately with their bare hands and farm tools on Monday to locate nine missing people, including four children, officials said.Dozens of soldiers, police and volunteers took part in the search in the village of Selopuro in East Java's Nganjuk district, National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesperson Raditya Jati said.The mud that rolled down from surrounding hills late Sunday struck at least eight houses, injuring 14 people and leaving 21 people buried under tons of mud. Two were rescued on Sunday.Rescuers on Monday found bodies buried under as much as 6 meters (10 feet) of mud and were searching for the nine people still missing, Nganjuk district chief Novi Rahman Hidayat said. Heavy equipment arrived later to help in the search.Overnight rains caused rivers to burst their banks in other districts of the province on Monday, sending nearly 1 meter (about 3 feet) of muddy water into some residential areas and forcing hundreds of people to flee from their submerged homes, Jati said.Severe flooding has been reported in many provinces in the vast archipelago nation over the past few days.Two landslides hit a village in Indonesia's West Java province last month, killing 40 people.Seasonal downpours cause frequent landslides and floods each year in Indonesia, a chain of 17,000 islands where millions of people live in mountainous areas or near fertile flood plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rain-triggers-landslide-in-indonesia-10-dead-9-missing-101613399161495.html
15-02-2021||World||Google fined $1 million for misleading French hotel rankings||Google has agreed to pay a fine of 1.1 million euros ($1.3 million) after French authorities concluded the search engine displayed “misleading” rankings for French hotels.Previously, Google used the official source Atout France as well as input from other hotel-industry websites in its algorithm to rank hotels from one to five stars.After receiving complaints from hoteliers about Google's rankings, the French government's fraud and competition agency launched an investigation in 2019 and 2020. It said it was to monitor “the nature and fairness of the information provided by the platform” across 7,500 establishments.Google said that it has now made the “necessary changes to only reflect the official French star rating for hotels on Google Maps and Search."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-fined-1-million-for-misleading-french-hotel-rankings-101613396267879.html
15-02-2021||World||Presidents' Day 2021: Here’s all you need to know about US federal holiday||The United States is on Monday celebrating Presidents’ Day, a federal holiday to honour all US presidents, past and present. The holiday is observed on the third Monday of February and is one of the holidays whose date changes in accordance with the Uniform Monday Holiday Act. On this day, the US postal services, stock market and most of the banks remain closed.The holiday was originally established to celebrate the birthday of George Washington, the first president of the United States, who was born on February 22, 1732. It was later moved to the third Monday of February under the Uniform Monday Holiday Act of 1971 in an attempt to create more three-day weekends for workers.Washington’s birthday remained an unofficial observance for most of the 19th century until a US senator from the state of Arkansas proposed a federal holiday to celebrate the occasion. In 1879, President Rutherford B Hayes signed the proposal into law to observe the holiday in the District of Columbia which was later expanded to the rest of the country.It was the first federal holiday to celebrate the life of an individual American because, at that time, the other nationally recognised federal holidays were Christmas, New Year, the Fourth of July and Thanksgiving.Read | San Francisco to strip George Washington, Abraham Lincoln from school namesWhile the holiday is now viewed as a day to celebrate all American presidents, interestingly, Presidents’ Day never falls on the actual birthday of any president. George Washington, William Henry Harrison, Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan, the four former commanders-in-chief, were born in February but their birthdays are either too early or too late to coincide with the third Monday of the month.On the occasion of President's Day, a list of more than 200 members of Indian diaspora holding highest positions worldwide will be unveiled by Indiaspora, a US-based organisation representing the community globally. The list will include top leaders in governments around the world, showcasing the achievements of the community leaders across different sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/presidents-day-2021-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-us-federal-holiday-101613395648970.html
15-02-2021||World||Covid-19: South Africa reopens its land borders as virus cases decline||South Africa has reopened its major land borders with neighboring countries after closing them last month to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 virus.At least 20 border posts reopened Monday, with officials saying steps will be taken to avoid tightly-packed crowds of travelers gathering at the immigration posts which would spread the virus.Home affairs minister Aaron Motsoaledi, who is to inspect the reopening of the Lebombo border post with Mozambique on Monday, said South Africa is working with neighboring countries to ensure simpler movements of people.Other border posts to be reopened include the Beitbridge border post with Zimbabwe and crossing points with Lesotho, Botswana, Namibia and Eswatini (formerly known as Swaziland).Before the borders were closed in January, there were reports of problems at the immigration offices, including travelers using fake Covid-19 tests.“We appeal to travelers to ensure that they have all the requisite travel documents, including valid Covid-19 tests, when they present themselves to officials at our borders," said Motsoaledi.Anyone caught at a border post with a fake Covid-19 certificate will be barred from visiting South Africa for a period of at least five years, Motsoaledi said.South Africa has seen a decline in new Covid-19 infections, leading the country to lift some of its stricter lockdown regulations like the closure of land borders.The emergence of the new 501Y.V2 variant has damaged the country's tourism with some countries and airlines restricting flights from South Africa.South Africa, with a cumulative total of nearly 1.5 million cases, including 47,000 deaths, accounts for 41% of all the confirmed cases in Africa's 54 countries, representing 1.3 billion people. After a dramatic resurgence of cases, hospitalizations and deaths in January, South Africa's Covid-19 numbers are declining, with 1,744 new infections and 78 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.The country is set to start vaccinating its front-line health workers with Johnson & Johnson vaccines later this week. South Africa scrapped its plans to start its inoculation drive with the AstraZeneca vaccine after a small study found it to be minimally effective in preventing mild-to-moderate cases against the dominant variant in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-south-africa-reopens-its-land-borders-as-virus-cases-decline-101613394414058.html
15-02-2021||World||Japan quake knocks out 20% of country's refining capacity||Japanese refiners led by the biggest, Eneos Corp, shut down a fifth of the country's crude oil refining capacity after a powerful earthquake struck northeastern Japan knocking out power, bullet train lines and injuring more than 150 people.They refinery shutdowns in the world's fourth-biggest oil importer are another potential hit after the pandemic led to the evaporation of crude demand over the last year.As much as 743,000 barrels per day (bpd) of oil-processing capacity has been idled, nearly 22% of Japan's roughly 3.4 million bpd capacity.The refineries in locations from Yokohama to Sendai near the epicentre of the 7.3-magnitude earthquake, which struck a little before midnight on Saturday, either automatically shut down or were idled immediately for checks.Eneos said on Monday it shut down its 145,000 barrel-per-day (bpd) Sendai refinery after it was hit by a large earthquake on Saturday. The company is still making checks on the refinery and does not have a restart date, the spokesman said.Eneos later said the company's 270,000 bpd Negishi refinery, had also closed and it had no date for the resumption of operations.The earthquake struck off the coast of northeastern Japan, injuring scores of people, triggering widespread power outages and causing damage across parts of northern Japan, including in Fukushima which is still recovering a decade after a bigger quake in the same area.Fuji Oil Co Ltd shut the 143,000 barrel-per-day crude distillation unit (CDU) at its Sodegaura oil refinery in Chiba, east of Tokyo, after it was hit by an earthquake on Saturday, a company spokesman said on Monday.Fuji Oil's only refinery was shut down automatically after the quake and the company plans to restart the CDU on Tuesday as no damage was found, the spokesman said.Idemitsu Kosan did not immediately respond to a request to comment on media reports it had shut down its 190,000 bpd Chiba refinery, also because of the quake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-quake-knocks-out-20-of-country-s-refining-capacity-101613392792254.html
15-02-2021||World||Power cut across Texas as snow, ice blanket southern Plains||A winter storm dropping snow and ice also sent temperatures plunging across the southern Plains, prompting a power emergency in Texas a day after conditions canceled flights and impacted traffic across large swaths of the U.S.Rotating power outages were initiated by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, or ERCOT, early Monday morning, meaning thousands went without electricity for short periods as temperatures fell into the teens near Dallas and 20s (about minus 5 degrees Celsius) around Houston.“We urge Texans to put safety first,” the council tweeted as it urged residents to reduce electricity use. ERCOT manages the flow of electric power in the state.“Traffic lights and other infrastructure may be temporarily without power,” ERCOT said.The council described the rotating outages as a “last resort to preserve the reliability of the electric system as a whole,” adding that utility transmission companies are tasked with determining how to reduce demand on the system.“Every grid operator and every electric company is fighting to restore power right now,” ERCOT President and CEO Bill Magness said in a statement.The rotating outages were expected to last throughout Monday morning.More than 1.6 million customers were in the dark as of 5 a.m. local time, according to poweroutage.us, a utility tracking site.Around 5,000 Oklahoma Gas & Electric customers were without power overnight, and Entergy Arkansas logged about 3,000 outages. Both states have much smaller populations compared to Texas.Officials in Houston had warned people to prepare for outages and hazardous roads — conditions similar to what residents might see in the wake of a Category 5 hurricane.“There (have) been numerous reports of accidents from icing recently,” National Weather Service lead forecaster Bob Oravec said Monday. “I think there's going to be a big threat today as the system pushes northeastward.”Accumulating ice between a tenth and a quarter of an inch (0.25 and 0.6 centimeters) was possible across eastern Louisiana, Mississippi, central Tennessee, Kentucky and over into the West Virginia and Ohio border region, Oravec said.Up to 12 inches (30 centimeters) of snow was expected across parts of the southern Plains into Monday, said Marc Chenard, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service's Weather Prediction Center.The region had been gearing up for the winter weather for the better part of the weekend. Texas Gov. Greg Abbott issued a disaster declaration for all of the state’s 254 counties. Abbott, Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt and Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson each activated National Guard units to assist state agencies with tasks including rescuing stranded drivers.President Joe Biden also declared an emergency in Texas in a statement Sunday night. The declaration is intended to add federal aid to state and local response efforts.More than 760 flights were canceled at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, and at Dallas Love Field most of the nearly 200 flights for Southwest Airlines, the airport’s main carrier, were canceled on Sunday.American Airlines said about 345 of their flights were canceled at DFW Airport, its hub, by early Sunday afternoon. The airline said the storm was also affecting their flights across the region, with operations reduced and canceled at airports across Texas, Oklahoma and Arkansas.The National Weather Service said Sunday that the forecast through early Tuesday calls for 8 to 12 inches (20 to 30 centimeters) of snow in central Oklahoma, and 4 to 8 inches (10 to 20 centimeters) in an area extending from eastern Texas to the Ohio Valley in the Northeast.In Memphis, Tennessee, snow started falling Sunday afternoon, and while main roads were still passable, lines formed during the day at grocery stores as people rushed to stock up.In Mississippi, sleet in Jackson and other central parts of the state left roads and bridges slick. Bill Parker, a National Weather Service meteorologist in Jackson, said up to three-quarters of an inch (2 centimeters) of ice could accumulate in central Mississippi, bringing the possibility of power outages or falling tree limbs.Parts of Kentucky and West Virginia still recovering from an ice storm last week are expected to get up to a quarter-inch (0.6 centimeters) of ice or up to 8 inches (20 centimeters) of snow by Tuesday.Meanwhile, in the Pacific Northwest, tens of thousands of people were without power after a winter storm blanketed the region with ice and snow and made travel treacherous.Through the wintry conditions Sunday, florists stayed busy for Valentine's Day.In Fort Worth, Texas, Gordon Boswell Flowers’ general manager said delivery drivers worked to wrap up deliveries before the weather worsened.“It is icy and snowing and they’re calling for more snow,” Cheri Kirkman said.Despite the weather, she said they still had some people coming in to pick up gifts. “We’ve got plenty all made up, ready to go,” Kirkman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/power-cut-across-texas-as-snow-ice-blanket-southern-plains-101613391481498.html
15-02-2021||World||Chinese couples rush to file for divorce as new stringent law kicks in||China’s new divorce law, which makes it harder for couples to split, has sent husbands and wives rushing to file applications to dissolve their marriages as they think that the new conditions complicate the process and compromise their freedom, a media report quoted lawyers as saying.Under the new law, which was implemented from last month after being passed by the National People’s Congress (NPC) last year despite criticism from the public, couples who mutually agree to dissolve their marriage must complete a month-long “cooling-off” period to reconsider their positions.After the 30 days have passed, couples can go to their local civil affairs bureau to apply a second time for their official divorce documents.Divorce lawyers have been inundated with requests from couples to file for divorce once their 30 days are over, Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post reported on Monday.In some cities such as Guangzhou, the demand for consultations with divorce lawyers is so high that scalpers are charging premium prices online to help couples secure appointments.Zhong Wen, a lawyer based in Sichuan province who specialises in divorce, says he has already received numerous phone calls from anxious clients concerned that the new law complicates their divorce and compromises their freedom to split.If one party withdraws from the agreement to divorce before the 30 days are up, the application is cancelled, leaving the other party to apply again and restart the 30-day clock, or to sue for a divorce – a costly and lengthy process.Zhong told the Post that one client was a rubber stamp away from having her divorce finalised when her husband changed his mind.He added that, even before the cooling-off period was introduced, it was easy for one party to a mutually agreed divorce to change their mind.“Now, with the (30-day) period, the divorce process is too unpredictable,” he said.Statistics show that the divorce rate in China has risen from 0.96 divorces per 1,000 people in 2000 to 3.36 in 2019, which is regarded high as compared to the countries in the Asia-Pacific region.Figures from China's Ministry of Civil Affairs show that in 2019, some 9.47 million couples got hitched, while 4.15 million couples parted ways. That's kind of a watershed as it was the first time the number of registered married couples dropped below 10 million, state-run CGTN reported.When the law was passed in May last year, Chinese citizens criticised the central government for interfering in private matters. More than 600 million comments were posted online using the hashtag “oppose divorce cooling-off period”.Officials believed the legislation would lower the divorce rate in China, which has risen rapidly and prevent “impulsive divorces” among young people.The law was passed by the National People’s Congress, China’s Parliament as part of the country's first Civil Code, which replaced several existing laws covering marriage, adoption, inheritance and property rights.Ran Keping, a law professor at Wuhan University who discussed the Civil Code with lawmakers before it was drafted, said that policymakers were unhappy with the country’s high divorce rates.“Even though the freedom to divorce is a basic right of individuals, from a societal point of view, a high divorce rate will affect (the country's) stability,” he said.The new law does not apply if a spouse files for divorce on the grounds that they are a victim of domestic violence. However, Zhong said the law would still disadvantage women, particularly those without an independent source of income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-couples-rush-to-file-for-divorce-as-new-stringent-law-kicks-in-101613390892036.html
15-02-2021||World||Malaysia defends plan to deport Myanmar nationals||Malaysia on Monday defended a plan to deport 1,200 Myanmar nationals on navy ships sent from their homeland just weeks after a coup, following criticism from the United Nations.News emerged last week the migrants would be sent home, after the Myanmar military seized power and detained civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi at the start of February.Malaysian immigration chief Khairul Dzaimee Daud said the detainees, who will be deported on February 23, are accused of offences including not having valid travel documents and overstaying their visas."It is part of our usual programme to deport illegal immigrants held at detention centres," he said in a statement, adding Malaysia sent home over 37,000 foreigners last year.He said no refugees registered with the UN or members of Myanmar's Rohingya Muslim minority are among those being deported.Rohingya, who are not recognised as citizens in Myanmar, have long suffered persecution in their mostly Buddhist homeland and hundreds of thousands fled a 2017 military crackdown to neighbouring Bangladesh.Malaysia is home to about 100,000 registered Rohingya refugees, as well as members of other communities such as the Chin and Kachin.The United Nations refugee agency said earlier they were seeking information from authorities about the deportations.But a spokeswoman added that since late 2019 they had been blocked them from accessing immigration detention centres, meaning they could not determine who should be accorded refugee status.Vulnerable people, including women and children, are among those held in the facilities, she said."If found to be in need of international protection, these individuals should not be deported to a situation where their lives or freedoms may be at risk," the spokeswoman said.Malaysian authorities were last year criticised for detaining undocumented migrants in a bid to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.Malaysia is home to millions of migrants from poorer parts of Asia who work in low-pay jobs such as construction. As well as Myanmar, they come from countries including Bangladesh and Indonesia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-defends-plan-to-deport-myanmar-nationals-101613391039037.html
15-02-2021||World||Highest level of energy emergency declared in Texas to cope with deep freeze||The state of Texas continued to reel under a deep freeze, leaving utilities scrambling to meet record power demand and forcing the state's grid operator to enforce rotating blackouts early on Monday.Apart from Texas, much of the United States from the Pacific Northwest through the Great Plains and into the mid-Atlantic states has been in the grip of bone-chilling weather over the weekend, featuring snow, sleet and freezing rain.The Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) has sought to cut power use in response to winter record of 69,150 MW on Sunday evening, more than 3,200 MW higher than the previous winter peak in January 2018.Reserves have dropped below 1,000 MW and transmission companies have been ordered to reduce demand on system, ERCOT said."Traffic lights and other infrastructure may be temporarily without power," the agency said on Twitter.ERCOT calls for rotating outages as extreme winter weather forces generating units offline. “Every grid operator and every electric company is fighting to restore power right now,” said ERCOT President and CEO Bill Magness. https://t.co/rKoWcBZSew A level three emergency notice was issued by the regulator, urging customers to limit power usage and prevent an uncontrolled system-wide outage.The National Weather Service said that an Arctic air mass had spread southwards, well beyond areas accustomed to freezing weather, with winter storm warnings posted for most of the Gulf Coast region, Oklahoma and Missouri.The storms knocked out nearly half the wind power generation capacity of Texas on Sunday.Of the 25,000-plus megawatts of wind power capacity normally available in Texas, 12,000 megawatts was out of service on Sunday morning, an ERCOT spokeswoman said.Wind generation ranks as the second-largest source of electricity in Texas, accounting for 23% of state power supplies last year behind natural gas, which served 45%, ERCOT estimates.Energy traders last week said that some 5-minute power prices in Texas approached $4,000 per megawatt hour. That compares with an Ercot North average of $26 in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/highest-level-of-energy-emergency-declared-in-texas-to-cope-with-deep-freeze-101613390338666.html
15-02-2021||World||Bangladesh sends more Rohingya refugees to new island||Bangladesh authorities sent a fourth group of Rohingya refugees from Myanmar to a newly developed island in the Bay of Bengal on Monday despite calls by human rights groups for a halt to the process.The roughly 2,000 Rohingya who had been living in the sprawling refugee camps of Cox’s Bazar were sent to Bhasan Char, an island specifically developed to accommodate 100,000 of the 1 million Rohingya who have fled from neighboring Myanmar, M. Mozammel Haque, a commander of the Bangladesh navy, told reporters.With Monday’s group, more than 7,000 refugees have moved to the island since the process started in December.The government has said the arrangement is good for the refugees and the island is designed to offer better living conditions. While human rights groups have criticized the moves and some are being forced to go against their will, the government has insisted that refugees moving to the island have done so voluntarily.More than 1 million Rohingya have fled waves of violent persecution in their native Myanmar and are currently living in overcrowded, squalid refugee camps in Cox’s Bazar district.Bangladesh has said that ultimately it is up to Myanmar to take the refugees back and has called on the international community to put pressure on Myanmar’s government to ensure their safe return.The latest relocation follows a Feb. 1 coup in Myanmar that put the military firmly back in control. The refugees living in Bangladeshi camps say they are now even more fearful to go back to Myanmar.The island surfaced only 20 years ago and was not previously inhabited. It was regularly submerged by monsoon rains but now has flood protection embankments, houses, hospitals and mosques built at a cost of more than $112 million by the Bangladesh navy.International aid agencies have opposed the relocation since it was first proposed in 2015, expressing fear that a big storm could overwhelm the island and endanger thousands of lives. But the government said the new development schemes in the island have made the island safe for living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-sends-more-rohingya-refugees-to-new-island-101613388466998.html
15-02-2021||World||Russia registers 35 ceasefire violations in Syria in 24 hours||The Russian side of the Russian-Turkish commission monitoring the implementation of the Syrian truce has registered 35 ceasefire violations over the past 24 hours, while the Turkish side has registered 13 truce breaches, the Russian Defense Ministry said on Monday."The Russian part of the representative office of the joint Russian-Turkish Commission for consideration of issues related to violations of the cessation of hostilities recorded 35 facts of opening fire (28 of them according to the Syrian side) in the provinces: Aleppo-2, Idlib-19, Latakia-12, Hama-2. The Turkish part of the representation stated 13 facts of opening fire (the Russian part of the representation confirmed - 0)," the ministry said in its daily bulletin.The ministry added that the Center for Reconciliation of Opposing Sides and Refugee Migration Monitoring in Syria carried out the humanitarian action in the last 24 hours, delivering 1,125 food kits to the residents of the provinces of Aleppo, Quneitra and Al-Hasakah.A further 61 Syrian refugees, including 18 women and 31 children, have returned from Lebanon over the past day through the Jaydet-Yabus and Tell-Kalah checkpoints, the Russian Defense Ministry said in a separate bulletin.Engineering troops from the Syrian armed forces demined 1.7 hectares (4.2 acres) of territory in the provinces of Damascus and Daraa over the past day, the ministry added. They discovered and defused 11 explosive devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-registers-35-ceasefire-violations-in-syria-in-24-hours-101613389177833.html
15-02-2021||World||Ebola outbreak in Guinea: Symptoms, modes of transmission | All you need to know||Guinea declared the latest Ebola virus disease (EVD) outbreak as an “epidemic” after seven cases of the viral infection and four related deaths were confirmed on Sunday. The confirmation of Ebola cases by the country’s national laboratory marked the first known resurgence in west Africa since an outbreak ended in 2016 after claiming more than 11,300 lives. The earlier Ebola outbreak also began in the same southeastern region where new cases have been found.Dr Matshidiso Moeti, the World Health Organization (WHO) regional director for Africa, said that the UN health agency is supporting the authorities in Guinea to bring the overall response to full speed by helping them set up testing, contact-tracing and treatment structures. “It’s a huge concern to see the resurgence of Ebola in Guinea, a country which has already suffered so much from the disease,” he added.What are the modes of transmission?The Ebola virus infects the human population through contact with blood, secretions, organs or other bodily fluids of infected animals such as fruit bats and nonhuman primates like chimpanzees, gorillas, monkeys, and forest antelope. After the spillover event, the virus spreads through human-to-human transmission via direct contact with infected blood and body fluids, which includes urine, saliva, sweat, faeces, vomit, breast milk, and semen. According to the UN health agency, humans can only spread the virus after they develop signs and symptoms of Ebola.Read | Ebola outbreak in Guinea: Why is it a huge concern? Who is 'patient zero'?What are the symptoms of EVD?The sign and symptoms of the disease may appear anywhere from 2 to 21 days after a person gets infected with the Ebola virus. The initial symptoms often include fever, fatigue, muscle pain, headache, and sore throat, which is followed by vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, both internal and external bleeding (for example, oozing from the gums, or blood in the stools). Laboratory findings of Ebola patient include low white blood cell and platelet counts and elevated liver enzymes.EVD is a rare but severe disease which often proves fatal for humans if untreated. The average case fatality rate of EVD is around 50 per cent and has varied from 25 per cent to 90 per cent in past outbreaks. The recovery depends on good supportive clinical care and the patient’s immune response.Ebola vaccineThe US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the injectable single-dose Ebola vaccine rVSV-ZEBOV in December 2019. The vaccine, manufactured by Merck, Sharp & Dohme (MSD) Corp. with financial support from the US government, is now prequalified by the WHO and licensed in eight African countries. On January 12, 2021, the four leading international health and humanitarian organisations, including the WHO and Unicef, announced the establishment of a global Ebola vaccine stockpile to ensure outbreak response. The UN health agency said that the stockpile is stored in Switzerland and ready to be shipped to countries for emergency response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ebola-outbreak-in-guinea-symptoms-modes-of-transmission-all-you-need-to-know-101613388150899.html
15-02-2021||World||Separatist movement in Catalonia shows resilience despite setbacks||The separatist movement in Spain’s northeast Catalonia has shown resilience, increasing its power in a regional election on the weekend despite years of frustrated ambitions to create a new Mediterranean nation.On the back of a record low turnout in Sunday's vote, the three main parties who want to create a Catalan state expanded their majority in the regional parliament based in Barcelona to 74 seats of the 135-seat chamber, up from 70 in 2017.The strong result for the separatists comes after their 2017 bid for a breakaway ended with several of its leaders in jail, others fleeing abroad from Spanish justice, and the entrenchment of roughly half of Catalonia that strongly supports staying in Spain.Virus fears kept many voters at home, especially in urban areas that trend toward voting for pro-union parties.The impact of the election was felt in Madrid. While the Socialists of Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez got a boost after they won the elections with the most votes, the parties on the right of Spain’s political spectrum were shaken.The far-right Vox party, with its unabashed hardline stance against Catalan secession and illegal immigration, confirmed its ascendancy by entering the Catalan parliament with an impressive 11 seats.The liberal Citizens collapsed from 36 to just 6 seats, putting its future as a party in doubt.The traditional conservatives, the Popular Party, also slid down to just three seats despite the campaign efforts of opposition leader Pablo Casado.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/separatist-movement-in-catalonia-shows-resilience-despite-setbacks-101613387552224.html
15-02-2021||World||UK rolls out hotel quarantine for 'high risk' country returnees||The UK government will on Monday introduce mandatory hotel quarantine rules for arrivals from dozens of countries deemed "high risk" for coronavirus variants, as it tries to stop new strains spreading.The new policy requires all UK citizens and permanent residents entering England from 33 countries on a wider travel ban list to self-isolate at their own expense in approved hotels for 10 days and take several Covid-19 tests.Other visitors from the countries currently on the so-called "red list", which includes all South American nations, South Africa and Portugal, are currently barred from visiting under lockdown rules.Arrivals found to have given false information about being in one of the countries 10 days before travel could receive up to 10 years in prison -- which has drawn criticism for being excessive.The government says it has signed contracts with 16 hotels so far, securing nearly 5,000 rooms near English airports, with a further 58,000 rooms on standby."The rules coming into force today will bolster the quarantine system and provide another layer of security against new variants at the border," Health Secretary Matt Hancock said in a statement on Sunday.The minister said Monday the government had resolved well publicised problems with Heathrow Airport, Britain's major aviation hub."We've been working with the airport and with the border force to make sure everybody knows the process," he told Times Radio."We've worked through all those issues with them. And it does appear to be going smoothly this morning," he added.The 11-night quarantine, costing £1,750 ($2,420, 2,000 euros), includes transport, food, accommodation and security costs, as well as other essential services and testing.Passengers must have a negative Covid-19 test result from within three days of travel, and book and pay for the package before setting off for Britain.They will then take further tests on the second and eighth days of their stays.The hotel occupants will be able to leave their rooms only in "very limited circumstances", with exercise among them but requiring "special permission" from staff or security.Anyone refusing to take tests risks a fine of between £1,000 and £2,000, while those who do not self-isolate could have to pay between £5,000 and £10,000.A limited list of exemptions from the measures include hauliers travelling from Portugal, defence personnel, government contractors and diplomatic missions.- 'Can't be easy' -Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said Sunday the new regime would provide "extra safeguarding" as Britain looks to ease strict lockdown measures next month after weeks of falling infection rates.The UK government unveiled the plans earlier this month following pressure to tighten Britain's borders amid fears that foreign virus variants could derail the country's so far successful mass vaccination programme.It has vaccinated 15 million of the most vulnerable people with a first jab, and is looking to inoculate all over-50s by May.Ministers last month scrapped the previous "travel corridors" system that allowed unchecked travel from countries with lower caseloads.The UK now requires all arrivals from non-"red list" countries to show negative Covid-19 tests and then self-isolate for 10 days at a place of their own choosing.The government said it had met with stakeholders from various sectors including aviation and hospitality before finalising its plans.Charlie Islam-Harry, manager of the St Giles Heathrow hotel, said staff would do regular welfare checks on guests during their enforced stays, adding: "It can't be easy for them to be in a bedroom for 10 days."jj/jwp/gd||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-rolls-out-hotel-quarantine-for-high-risk-country-returnees-101613385945900.html
15-02-2021||World||Junta deploys more soldiers, armoured vehicles as protests thin in Myanmar||Protesters in Myanmar kept up demands on Monday for the release of ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi and an end to military rule though crowds were smaller after the junta deployed armoured vehicles and more soldiers on the streets.Suu Kyi, detained since the February 1 coup against her elected government, had been expected to face a court on Monday in connection with charges of illegally importing six walkie-talkie radios but a judge said her remand lasted until Wednesday, her lawyer, Khin Maung Zaw, said.The February 1 coup and the arrest of Nobel peace prize winner Suu Kyi and others have sparked the biggest protests in Myanmar in more than a decade, with hundreds of thousands coming onto the streets to denounce the military's derailment of a tentative transition to democracy."This is a fight for our future, the future of our country," youth activist Esther Ze Naw said at a protest in the main city of Yangon."We don't want to live under a military dictatorship. We want to establish a real federal union where all citizens, all ethnicities are treated equally."The unrest has revived memories in the Southeast Asian nation of bloody outbreaks of opposition to almost half a century of direct army rule, which had ended in 2011, when the military began a process of withdrawing from civilian politics.Violence this time has been limited but on Sunday, police opened fire to disperse protesters at a power plant in northern Myanmar although it was unclear if they were using rubber bullets or live rounds. Two people were hurt, a reporter in the city said.As well as the demonstrations in towns and cities, the military is facing a strike by government workers, part of a civil disobedience movement that is crippling many functions of government.Armoured vehicles were deployed on Sunday in Yangon, the northern town of Myitkyina and Sittwe in the west, the first large-scale use of such vehicles since the coup.More soldiers have also been spotted on the streets to help police who have been largely overseeing crowd control, including members of the 77th Light Infantry Division, a mobile force known for its brutal campaigns against ethnic minority insurgents and against protests in the past.Crowds were smaller though it was unclear if people were intimidated by the soldiers or fatigue was setting in after 12 days of demonstrations."We can't join the protests every day," said a laid-off travel officer worker in Yangon who declined to be identified."But we won't back down ... We're just taking a break."'OUR LEADER'Earlier, more than a dozen police trucks with water cannon vehicles were deployed near the Sule Pagoda in Yangon, one of the city's main demonstration sites.Protesters also gathered outside the central bank, where they held signs calling for support for the civil disobedience movement. An armoured vehicle and several trucks carrying soldiers were parked nearby.Later, police sealed off the headquarters of Suu Kyi's party in Yangon shortly before protesters arrived and chanted slogans, a witness said.Police in the capital, Naypyitaw, detained about 20 school students protesting by a road. Images posted on social media by one of the students showed them chanting slogans as they were taken away in a police bus.Protesters then gathered outside the police station where they were being held to demand their release, media reported.Media earlier showed ranks of protesters marching in Naypyitaw with pictures of Suu Kyi with the message: "we want our leader".Suu Kyi, 75, spent nearly 15 years under house arrest for her efforts to end military rule.The judge in the capital, Naypyitaw, had spoken to Suu Kyi by video conferencing and she had asked if she could hire a lawyer, Khin Maung Zaw told Reuters.The government and army could not be reached for comment.'DESPERATION'The army has been carrying out nightly arrests and has given itself search and detention powers. At least 400 people have been detained, the group Assistance Association for Political Prisoners said.On Sunday, the military published penal code amendments aimed at stifling dissent and residents reported an internet outage after midnight on Sunday which lasted until about 9 a.m."It's as if the generals have declared war on the people," UN Special Rapporteur Tom Andrews said on Twitter."Late night raids; mounting arrests; more rights stripped away; another Internet shutdown; military convoys entering communities. These are signs of desperation."Suu Kyi's party won a 2015 election and another on November 8 but the military said the vote was fraudulent and used that complaint to justify the coup. The electoral commission dismissed accusations of fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/junta-deploys-more-soldiers-armoured-vehicles-as-protests-thin-in-myanmar-101613383299209.html
15-02-2021||World||Japan debating on response to China's new coast guard law||Amid the growing belligerence of China in the East and South China Sea following Beijing's enactment of a new coast guard law, Japan is now deliberating on an apt response to the legislation, which is poised to escalate tensions in the region.The new Chinese law allows Beijing's coast guard to use weapons against foreign ships that it sees as illegally entering its waters, sparking fear that Japanese vessels navigating around the Senkaku Islands would be targeted.A 2020 US Department of Defense report notes that over the past decade, China has more than doubled the number of large coast guard ships over 1,000 tons, from about 60 in 2010 to over 130 as of last year, writes Eric Johnson for The Japan Times.As per the new law, China's coast guard can now forcibly remove buildings constructed by other countries on territories claimed by the country and authorises the use of water cannons, handcuffs and tear gas to force a vessel to stop and be boarded.As the Senkaku islands are claimed by both Beijing and Tokyo and the South China Sea is claimed by the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam, among others, China's position is that the new law streamlines operations and that the use of force is a common practice among the other nations, including Japan and South Korea.Earlier this month, during a video meeting, Tokyo had conveyed its 'strong concerns' to China over the new law authorising military force in the waters. China must not use the legislation, in a way that goes against international law, said Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato.However, China continues to claim that the Senkaku Islands are the country's 'inherent territory'.In December last year, Toshinari Matsuo, director of the Operational Law Office at Japan's Maritime Self-Defense Force's Command and Staff College, wrote that the new law went beyond the norms established by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), reported The Japan Times.The law states that a coastal state may take the necessary steps against foreign vessels passing through its territorial waters if their passage is not innocent.Furthermore, UNCLOS allows for limited functional jurisdiction outside territorial waters, but only where territorial sovereignty is internationally recognised and not, as is the case with the Senkakus or the South China Sea, where territorial sovereignty is disputed, writes Johnson.Meanwhile, US President Joe Biden has reaffirmed the previous US policy that the Senkaku islands are covered under Article 5 of the US-Japan security treaty. However, Japan spotted Chinese government vessels inside contiguous and territorial waters near the uninhabited Senkakus for a record 333 days.With the passage of China's new law, concerns remain whether there would be enough time for Japan, under its current laws, to effectively respond to an armed attack.In the past, there was some debate about changing the law to allow the Self-Defense Forces (SDF) to respond, under specifically defined conditions, at the same time as the Japan Coast Guard or the police. But there is reportedly opposition within the transport ministry, which is in charge of the coast guard, as well as the National Police Agency, according to The Japan Times.Johnson further wrote that the move could also be politically controversial and can create tensions between the immediate need to respond to a threat and the fear that sending in armed forces could escalate a hostile situation further.In the early 2010s, China and Japan were mired in a territorial row over the Senkakus. Beijing has rapidly built up artificial islands with military infrastructure in the region, in its claim of sovereignty over almost the entire maritime region.Moreover, China has conflicting territorial claims with four of the ten members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations -- Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam -- as well as Taiwan in the South China Sea.Meanwhile, US warships carried out freedom of navigation operations in an apparent bid to challenge Chinese claims and actions in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-debating-on-response-to-china-s-new-coast-guard-law-101613382297815.html
15-02-2021||World||New Zealand receives first batch of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine: PM Jacinda Ardern||The first 60,000 doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech coronavirus vaccine arrived in New Zealand on Monday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said.The news comes as New Zealand put its most populous city of Auckland on three-day Level 3 lockdown after detecting three Covid-19 community cases, which were the more transmissible UK virus variant. The rest of the country moved to Level 2 lockdown for the same period. The restrictions will be reviewed on a 24-hour basis."I can now add and confirm that the first batch of the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine arrived in New Zealand this morning. Approximately 60,000 doses or 30,000 courses landed in Auckland," Ardern told a press conference.The shipment arrived on a Singapore Airlines flight from Belgium via Singapore."That's more than enough doses to vaccinate our frontline workforce over the coming weeks," the prime minister added.The rollout will start this Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-receives-first-batch-of-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-pm-jacinda-ardern-101613381376517.html
15-02-2021||World||Israeli strike near Syrian capital kills six Iran-backed fighters: Reports||Israel fired several missiles early on Monday targeting areas near the Syrian capital, Damascus, Syria's state news agency reported. An opposition war-monitoring group said the strikes killed six Iran-backed fighters.The SANA news agency claimed that Syrian air defenses shot down most of the missiles, which it said were fired from Syria's Israeli-occupied Golan Heights.The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an opposition war monitor with a network of activists on the ground, said the strikes hit positions of the Syrian army's Fourth Division in the mountains near the highway that links Damascus with the Lebanese capital of Beirut. It said another strike hit Syrian army positions in Kisweh, just south of Damascus.The Observatory said that of the six Iran-backed fighters killed, four were near the Damascus-Beirut highway and two in Kisweh. Weapons depots were also struck in both areas, it added.Israel has launched hundreds of strikes against Iran-linked military targets in Syria over the years but rarely acknowledges or discusses such operations.Israel views Iranian entrenchment on its northern frontier as a red line, and has repeatedly struck Iran-linked facilities and weapons convoys destined for Lebanon's militant Hezbollah group.Monday's strike was the first since February 3, when a Syrian military official said Israel fired surface-to-surface missiles at targets in southern Syria, causing only material damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-strike-near-syrian-capital-kills-six-iran-backed-fighters-reports-101613380602042.html
15-02-2021||World||End of lockdown? UK PM Johnson mulls path out after 15 million vaccinated||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will judge this week how fast England can exit Covid-19 lockdown after vaccinating 15 million of its most vulnerable people, but the health minister said death and hospital admission numbers were still too high.With nearly a quarter of the United Kingdom's population now inoculated with a first dose of a Covid vaccine in a little over two months, Johnson is under pressure from some lawmakers and businesses to reopen the shuttered economy."We've got to watch the data," Health Secretary Matt Hancock told Sky News. "Everybody wants to get out of this as quickly as we safely can, and both as quickly, but also as safely, are important.""The question is a judgement of how quickly and safely, how quickly we can do that safely. That's the judgment that we're making this week, looking at the data, ahead of the prime minister setting out the roadmap, on the 22nd," he said.The biggest and swiftest global vaccine rollout in history is seen as the best chance of exiting the Covid-19 pandemic which has killed 2.4 million people, tipped the global economy into its worst peacetime slump since the Great Depression and upended normal life for billions.Britain has vaccinated 15.062 million people with a first dose and 537,715 with a second dose, the fastest rollout per capita of any large country.VACCINE CERTIFICATESHancock said the British government was speaking to other countries across the world about giving British people certificates showing they had been vaccinated so that they could travel abroad in the future to countries that require them."There is this international work going on because if other countries require (proof of vaccination) we want to allow Brits to be able to travel to those countries," Hancock said."We'd want to be able to facilitate that sort of vaccine certification, but it isn't anything we're planning to introduce here," he said, adding that a so-called vaccine passport was not something that would be required to access services in the UK.The United Kingdom has the world's fifth-worst official death toll - currently 117,166 - after the United States, Brazil, Mexico and India.A new Covid-19 hotel quarantine system for arrivals from 33 "red list" countries, intended to limit the spread of new variants of the virus, appears to be working smoothly a few hours after it was introduced, Hancock said."As of 6.30, when I got my latest update, this is working smoothly, we've been working with the airports and with the border force to make sure everybody knows the process," Hancock told Times Radio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/end-of-lockdown-uk-pm-johnson-mulls-path-out-after-15-million-vaccinated-101613379020629.html
15-02-2021||World||Surge in Britain’s renewable power exposes grid risks||A record year for renewable power in the UK showed the need for a broader suite of green technologies to balance the grid once fossil fuels fade away entirely.Green power exceeded coal and gas generation in the country’s energy mix for the first time in 2020. While this is a step in the right direction to hit strict climate goals, technologies like nuclear, hydrogen and carbon capture are needed to compensate for when the wind doesn’t blow or the sun doesn’t shine, according to a report by Imperial College London for Drax Group Plc.Wind power produced a quarter of Britain’s electricity last year, however the climb in output lead to more than 250 million pounds ($346 million) being spent on costs where energy had to be dumped because of network constraints.Overall electricity demand in Britain fell by 6% last year, the largest year-on-year drop on record, which allowed renewable energy to contribute to a greater percentage of power generation. Fossil fuel generation dropped below 100 terra-watt hours for the first time since 1960.“The next steps we must take towards a net zero power system will be more challenging, driving out the last sources of fossil carbon will require us to go beyond just having more wind and solar power,” Dr Iain Staffell of Imperial College London said.A greater reliance on renewable energy exposes the system to greater swings in power production, with cold, cloudy and still days causing drops in output. This can lead to surges in power prices, and much higher grid balancing costs.National Grid Plc issued several warnings of tight electricity margins over winter, when demand was expected to be high and wind power output low. Systems for storing energy such as batteries can provide grid balancing services to make up for a drop in renewable power.Over the weekend, UK wind output climbed to a record of 14,031 megawatts, beating the previous record in January, according to National Grid data. Periods of strong output when there is lower demand, such as overnight or weekends, can lead to higher costs for consumers as power plants may need to be paid by the network operator to be turned off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/surge-in-britain-s-renewable-power-exposes-grid-risks-101613378867015.html
15-02-2021||World||No new community Covid-19 cases found in New Zealand since lockdown||As people in Auckland adjusted to a new lockdown on Monday, health officials said they'd found no evidence the coronavirus had spread further in the community, raising hopes the restrictions might be short-lived.New Zealand's largest city was hurriedly placed into a three-day lockdown Sunday after three unexplained virus cases were found. It's the country's first lockdown in six months and represents a setback in its largely successful efforts to control the virus.Director-General of Health Ashley Bloomfield said the negative test results since the first three were found was an encouraging start, but cautioned a fuller picture of the outbreak wouldn't emerge until Tuesday, when the results from an expanded testing regimen would be known.New Zealand also announced its first batch of vaccine had arrived. Officials said the shipment of about 60,000 doses of the vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech would initially be prioritized on border workers.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said the three community cases were of the more contagious variant first found in Britain and that genome testing hadn’t linked them to any previous known cases."This is a highly transmissible and a fast moving strain, one that requires extra care in order to stamp it out, and this is exactly what our approach entails,” Ardern said.New Zealand’s greatest vulnerability has been at the border.New cases are regularly caught among returning travelers, all of whom are required to spend two weeks in quarantine. Despite precautions, there have been several times when the virus has leaked out from the border before being controlled again, and officials are trying to determine whether that’s happened again.In the latest case, an Auckland mother, father and daughter caught the disease. Officials said the mother works at a catering company that does laundry for airlines, and they're investigating whether there is a link to infected passengers.The rest of New Zealand outside of Auckland has also had restrictions imposed for three days, including mandatory mask wearing on public transport and limiting crowd sizes to 100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-new-community-covid-19-cases-found-in-new-zealand-since-lockdown-101613378642457.html
15-02-2021||World||Private French schools at the frontline of Macron's plan to 'fight all forms of separatism'||More than three dozen police officers descended on a small private school in Paris, blocked the 92 students inside their classrooms, took photos everywhere, even inside the refrigerator, and grilled the school director in her office.“It was like they were moving in on a drug deal,” Hanane Loukili, the director and co-founder of the MHS middle and high school said, recalling the Nov. 17 scene.Loukili didn’t know it then, but a team from the Cell to Fight Radical Islam and Community Withdrawal, or CLIR, had arrived for an inspection. The dragnet sweeps schools, shops, clubs or mosques to rout out “radicalization." Within a week, a shaken Loukili informed students their school was shutting down.Loukili insists she is no radical, but such operations illustrate the extent of French efforts to fight extremism as lawmakers prepare to vote Tuesday on a bill aimed at snuffing it out.The MHS school had an unusual profile. It was secular and co-educational but allowed female Muslim students to wear headscarves in class — forbidden in public schools — and to pray during breaks. Unlike private Muslim schools in France, where headscarves are allowed, MHS did not offer religion or theology courses.Loukili and others at the school claim it was a perfect target in what some say is an uncomfortable climate for France's Muslims.Scrubbing France clean of radicals and their breeding grounds is a priority cause of President Emmanuel Macron in a nation bloodied by terror attacks, including the beheading of a teacher outside his school in a suburb outside Paris in October, followed by a deadly attack inside the basilica in Nice.The proposed legislation is intended to re-anchor secularism in a changing France, where Muslims are increasingly visible and Islam — the nation’s No. 2 religion — is gaining a stronger voice.The legislation, expected to pass the first critical vote, will also expand and facilitate the crackdown.Along with the bill, contested by some Muslims, politicians and others, such strong-arm inspections risk accentuating the climate of suspicion many Muslims feel in a country where the vast majority of Muslims don't hold extremist views.Loukili, herself a Muslim, is well aware of major problems she and her school faced linked to fire hazards, but fervently denied in an Associated Press interview, any links to radicalism by her or staff at the school, which opened in 2015.Only on Dec. 9, did Loukili learn her situation was graver than she thought. A statement from the Police Prefecture and prosecutors office suggested the closure was part of a growing push to “fight all forms of separatism” — the word coined by Macron for extremists who undermine the nation’s values in a bid to create a “counter society.”Dragnet raids like those unleashed against Loukili's school, which were initially carried out as an experiment shortly after Macron took office in 2017, have become the underside of the presidential priority, unearthing soft spots on a local level to nip Islamist radicalization in the bud. They now reach across the country, with police accompanied by education or other specialists depending on the target.In December alone, teams carried out 476 raids and closed 36 establishments of various types, according to Interior Ministry figures. Since November 2019, when the program marked its first year, 3,881 establishments have been inspected and 126 closed, mostly small businesses but also two schools, ministry figures show.One was an underground school with no windows or educational program, along with sports clubs where preaching and obligatory prayer are behind-the scenes activities. Five were closed.The proposed law and the Cell to Fight Radical Islam program, led by prefects in each region, are just part of a many-layered operation to rout out what authorities call “enemies of the Republic.” Mayors of towns considered “most impacted” by the extremist threat have been asked to sign a charter agreeing to cooperate in the hunt for radicals, like flagging potential suspects, the AP has learned.The Cell to Fight Radical Islam would also get a boost from the planned law, which would provide new legal tools to shut down facilities.“Today, we’re obliged to use administrative motives to close establishments that don’t respect the law,” said an official close to Citizenship Minister Marlene Schiappa, who oversees the Cell to Fight Radical Islam program and is also a sponsor of the proposed law, along with Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin.The official, not authorized to speak publicly, could not address the case of the MHS school. Police also would not comment.The school's problems began more than a year ago with safety concerns linked mainly to the large building where it was housed. Loukili, its director and a math teacher at the school, was ordered to close the school, to stop teaching and to not run any future educational establishment. She returns to court March 17.“I think they (accuse) us of separatism because they needed to make an example,” Loukili said, noting the school’s Paris location, its fragile finances and the leeway given to girls to wear headscarves.A mother who had to scramble to find new schools for her children after the school closed said her son is fine but her 15-year-old daughter, who insists on wearing a head scarf, had to switch to a Muslim school where the head coverings are allowed but where boys and girls are separated inside classrooms and at lunch.Her daughter, unhappy in the strict climate, “comes home with her stomach in knots,” said the woman, who asked to be identified only by her first name, Rafika, to protect her daughter.The MHS school “is a school like me, what I call the France of today,” said Rafika, a working mother who wears a head scarf. “It’s a real melting pot.”Jean-Riad Kechaou, a history teacher in the working class Paris suburb of Chelles, sees anger in his Muslim adolescent students.“It comes from this permanent stigmatization of their religion,” he said. “In the head of an adolescent of 12, 13, 14, 15 years old, everything gets mixed up and what comes out is his religion has been completely dirtied and fingers are pointed at him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/private-french-schools-at-the-frontline-of-macron-s-plan-to-fight-all-forms-of-separatism-101613375483656.html
15-02-2021||World||Tech giants 'close' to deals with Australian media||Google and Facebook are "very close" to deals with major Australian media to pay for news, a top government official said Monday, as the tech giants scramble to avoid landmark regulation.Australian Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said talks with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Google CEO Sundar Pichai had made "great progress" in resolving a standoff being closely watched around the world.Australia is poised to adopt legislation that would force digital companies to pay for news content, something that would create a global precedent and, according to Facebook and Google, wreck the way the internet works.The companies have threatened to partially withdraw services from the country if the rules become law, sparking a war of words with Canberra.But that disagreement appeared to ease Monday, with Frydenberg telling public broadcaster ABC that talks with the companies "made great progress over the course of the weekend"."I think we're very close to some very significant commercial deals," he said, "and in doing so that will transform the domestic media landscape."The agreements could be enough to see Facebook and Google avoid the most severe parts of the legislation -- including binding arbitration to ensure they are not using their online advertising duopoly to dictate terms in deals with media companies.Following Frydenberg's remarks, SevenWest Media, owner of broadcaster 7NEWS and The West Australian newspaper, announced Monday a new agreement for its content to be hosted on Google's News Showcase product.The Sydney Morning Herald reported the first major deal with a large Australian news organisation was worth more than Aus$30 million (US$23 million) a year.SevenWest chairman Kerry Stokes said it was a "great outcome" and hailed the government's work on its news media bargaining code as "instrumental in the outcome of this ground-breaking agreement".The firm will join several smaller local publishers on News Showcase, which Google said had received more than one million views since launching in Australia eight days ago.Frydenberg's comments suggest major Australian media organisations, such as Rupert Murdoch's News Corp and Nine Entertainment, could be close to reaching similar deals.A Google spokesman said the company was in discussions with publishers both "large and small" while a Facebook spokesperson said the firm had been negotiating to "land commercial deals that reflect the commercial value of news content on our platform".Peter Lewis, director of the Centre for Responsible Technology at the Australia Institute think tank, said the platforms' current willingness to negotiate showed regulation was "essential"."Any deals that Google and Facebook do will only occur because of the prospect of the bargaining code -- so it is already doing its job," he told AFP.Frydenberg hinted to local media that amendments could be made to the code before it is presented to parliament Wednesday, but his office declined to provide details.Lewis said the treasurer's discretion on what to include in the code -- such as designating which tech firms are covered -- was "a critical leverage point for the government".News groups worldwide have seen their businesses ravaged by the loss of advertising dollars that once flowed to their newspapers but are now overwhelmingly captured by the big digital platforms.Thousands of journalists' jobs have been lost and numerous outlets forced to close in Australia alone over the past decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tech-giants-close-to-deals-with-australian-media-101613373946430.html
15-02-2021||World||China's labour rights issues a threat to its trade deal with EU||Though Beijing has touted its investment pact with the European Union (EU) as a strategic breakthrough, concerns have arisen about the deal, which may not get the final approval of some European lawmakers owing to the labour rights issues in China.In the EU-China Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI) that was announced on December 30 last year, China had agreed to open some of its restricted markets to European businesses and had agreed to ratify two international conventions on forced labour. However, critics say the deal lacks enforcement measures to ensure Beijing makes meaningful improvements for workers, wrote Mimi Lau for the South China Morning Post (SCMP).The deal is expected to face intense resistance from some European lawmakers, while international unionists, who say the pact will do nothing to stop human rights abuses or protect labour rights in China, have vowed to ramp up pressure over the deal.Over the past few years, China has faced mounting criticism, including from the EU and the United States over the alleged use of Uyghurs and other ethnic minority groups in forced labour camps, mainly in the Xinjiang region.Beijing, however, has denied the claims, stating that it runs vocational training centres to combat religious extremism and terrorism, according to SCMP.The International Labour Organization (ILO) has identified eight fundamental conventions covering areas considered to be basic principles and rights at work, like forced labour, collective bargaining and the right to form trade unions.Though China, a member of the ILO has already ratified four of the less controversial conventions - on equal remuneration, discrimination, minimum age and child labour - it has not agreed to ratify two conventions on granting workers' freedom of association and protect their right to organise."...The Chinese government has denied the core labour rights of freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Independent trade unions are seen in the light of the Polish experience as an essential threat to [Communist] Party rule," said Christoph Scherrer, a professor of globalisation and politics.The EU should not be silent on human rights abuses though it may, in the short run, be unlikely to convince or push China to do things they don't want to do through a trade agreement, opined Frank Hoffer, a research fellow at the Global Labour University and a former ILO official.Mimi further wrote in her article that governments are generally reluctant to ratify conventions that require legal enactment or revision for compliance. Ratification of ILO conventions by member countries could expose them to its supervisory mechanisms for alleged failures in implementation, said Sean Cooney, an international and comparative labour law expert at the University of Melbourne."Once they have ratified conventions, countries have to defend their record. Countries with low ratifications, such as the US and China, may be wary of these processes," he said.Cooney further said that ratifying the forced labour convention could be politically controversial for China, as it requires member states to suppress any forced labour as a means of political coercion, education or as punishment for holding political views or ideologies opposed to the established political, social and economic system.It is also unlikely for China to go down the same path as Vietnam, which ratified conventions and enacted laws to allow independent worker organisations after it signed a free trade agreement with the EU in 2019.According to international law experts, the EU-China deal could lead to "incremental improvement" at best, in areas that are not completely incompatible with the nature of China's political system, reported SCMP.The deal had not resulted in any new commitments on labour rights, nor had a time frame been set for China to ratify the conventions, said Surya Deva, an associate professor at City University of Hong Kong's School of Law."Even if China ratifies these two conventions related to forced labour in the best-case scenario, there is no guarantee of their meaningful implementation," Deva said."Will it be realistic for some Uyghurs to approach a Chinese court against alleged forced labour? The harsh reality is that unless China allows independent trade unions, creates space for civil society as well as the media to monitor labour rights abuses, and establishes independent courts, the situation will not change much on the ground," he added.Deva further mentioned that the EU-China deal would have added value if it provided for an external system of monitoring and accountability for systematic labour rights violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-labour-rights-issues-a-threat-to-its-trade-deal-with-eu-101613372514108.html
15-02-2021||World||At Camp David retreat, President Biden hangs out with family, beats grandkids at Mario Kart||President Joe Biden spent his third week in office visiting the Pentagon, touring the National Institutes of Health and working on the administration’s Covid-19 response.He capped it off by beating one of his granddaughters at Mario Kart during his first presidential visit to Camp David, the historic retreat for USleaders.That’s what Camp David has traditionally offered presidents: a respite from Washington where they can shed their ties and relax with family. The compound in the Maryland mountains just 60 miles from the capital features everything from a bowling alley to an archery range.It’s been used by every president since Franklin Delano Roosevelt first went there in 1943 as a personal hideaway, and has been the site of major diplomatic negotiations and policy discussions throughout history, according to Michael Giorgione, who served as commander of Camp David for Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush and wrote the book “Inside Camp David.”With the exception of Donald Trump — he generally preferred his own private clubs — every president has used Camp David "for a personal getaway, an escape from the clamor and the noise and the likes of the White House, and really go to this exclusive mountain retreat. That’s one purpose. And the other is to bring world leaders there,” Giorgione said.When Roosevelt first arrived, the rustic retreat was ″a hide-out with little hot water and with brush growing to the windowsills,” former Associated Press White House reporter Dale Nelson wrote in his 1995 history, ″The President is at Camp David.″ Still, Roosevelt somewhat fantastically dubbed it “Shangri-La," the name of the utopian community in the popular 1933 novel “Lost Horizon.”When Dwight Eisenhower took over, he added a putting green and a new name: Camp David, after his father and his grandson.Over the years, presidents made upgrades to suit their tastes. Richard Nixon added a heated swimming pool, and George H.W. Bush installed a regulation horseshoe range. Barack Obama, known for his love of basketball, built a court.The compound also features a movie theater, skeet shooting range, horseback riding and tennis courts.“I leave my troubles outside the gate,” Lady Bird Johnson, wife of President Lyndon Johnson, once said of the camp.Biden himself told reporters before departing Washington for the compound that his main plans for the long weekend were to “just hang out with the family and do what we always do.” While presidents typically take the Marine One helicopter for the brief trip, weather forced the president to fly to Hagerstown, Maryland, via Air Force One, before taking a motorcade to the camp.His granddaughter Naomi posted on her Instagram Saturday night a clip of Biden playing the video game, captioning it, “a little rusty, but he still won (barely).”Biden took work with him, though, meeting with national security advisers on Saturday, issuing a statement on Trump’s acquittal in his impeachment trial Saturday night and signing an executive order reestablishing a White House office on religious engagement on Sunday.The compound's history includes more than just games of golf and winter sledding. It’s also played host to foreign dignitaries and has been a gathering place for diplomacy. Giorgione says the camp’s relaxed atmosphere lends itself to relationship-building.“There’s a certain feeling of going to camp as opposed to the White House, which is a little more formal, a little more stuffy if you’d say, and certain presidents find a much better connection at camp than they do at the White House,” he said.Roosevelt hosted British Prime Minister Winston Churchill there in 1943 to help lay the groundwork for the Normandy invasion, in the first visit by a foreign leader.The camp became synonymous with fevered, last-ditch diplomatic negotiations after President Jimmy Carter invited Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat there in 1978 to negotiate a peace deal. After 13 days of tense talks, the two agreed to a framework that ultimately led to peace between the two nations.Bill Clinton tried to replicate that diplomatic alchemy when he invited Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat to Camp David for Mideast peace talks in 2000. After two weeks of negotiations, the summit ended without an agreement.George W. Bush visited the camp frequently, using it to entertain an array of foreign leaders as well as for a Cabinet retreat to plot out his administration’s response to the Sept. 11 attacks.In 2012, Obama hosted the Group of Eight summit for world leaders there, after Occupy Wall Street protests made his hometown of Chicago out of the question. World leaders stayed in the compound’s 12 cabins, and could spend their free time mingling on the grounds.Trump spent little time there and didn’t host any foreign dignitaries. He once joked to a reporter: “You know how long you’d like it? For about 30 minutes.”But Giorgione said he expected that Biden, with his appreciation for diplomacy, would likely use the space to host foreign leaders after the coronavirus pandemic, which has precluded most in-person gatherings, is under control. He said when foreign leaders descend on Camp David, it can be like an “adult sleepover.”“Going to camp in the cabins creates an atmosphere where leaders are very close together. There’s no large conference room with chandeliers and coffee service. This is a homespun, rustic get-together,” he said.Attendees “walk the trails together, we go for a bike ride, we sit down at a nice table in a small conference room.”“It created this art of having to get down in each other’s personal space, and find time to legitimately talk,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-camp-david-retreat-president-biden-hangs-out-with-family-beats-grandkids-at-mariokart-101613370760516.html
15-02-2021||World||Aung San Suu Kyi detention extended as protests continue in Myanmar||Myanmar's military leaders have extended their detention of deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi, whose remand was set to expire Monday and whose freedom is a key demand of the crowds of people continuing to protest this month's military coup.Suu Kyi will now be remanded until Feb. 17, when she will likely appear in court by videoconference, according to Khin Maung Zaw, a lawyer asked by Suu Kyi’s party to represent her.Suu Kyi's extended detention is likely to further inflame tensions between the military, which seized power a Feb. 1 coup, and the protesters who have taken to the streets of cities across the Southeast Asian nation seeking the return of the government they elected.Protesters continued to gather across Myanmar on Monday following a night in which authorities cut the country’s internet access and increased the security presence in major cities seeking to curtail demonstrations.Thousands of engineers marched on the streets of Mandalay, the country’s second-largest city, chanting and holding signs that read: “Free our leader,” “Who stands with justice?” and “Stop arresting people illegally at midnight.”In Yangon, the country’s most populous city, fewer protesters gathered on Monday due to the loss of the internet and reports of military vehicles on the streets. Nevertheless, several hundred anti-coup demonstrators were outside the Central Bank of Myanmar building, where there were also military trucks full of soldiers, riot police, water-cannon trucks and armored personnel carriers.Demonstrators carried placards that read “#SupportCDM #SaveMyanmar.” CDM refers to the civil disobedience movement that has seen doctors, engineers and others in Myanmar refuse to work until the military releases elected political leaders and returns the country to civilian rule.Some protesters posed for photographs in front of military vehicles while holding red signs that said “Join in CDM.”When the military seized power, it detained Suu Kyi and members of her government and prevented recently elected lawmakers from opening a new session of Parliament. The junta, led by Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, said it stepped in because the government failed to properly investigate allegations of fraud in last year’s election, which Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party won in a landslide. The state election commission refuted that contention, saying there is no evidence to support it.An order on Sunday that appeared to be from the Ministry of Transport and Communications told mobile phone service providers to shut down internet connections from 1 a.m. to 9 a.m. Monday. It circulated widely on social media, as did a notice said to be from service provider Oredoo Myanmar containing the same details.On Sunday, ambassadors from the United States and Canada and 12 European nations called on Myanmar’s security forces to refrain from violence against those “protesting the overthrow of their legitimate government.”They condemned the arrests of political leaders and activists as well as the military’s interference with communications.“We support the people of Myanmar in their quest for democracy, freedom, peace, and prosperity,” they said in a joint statement issued late Sunday night. “The world is watching.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aung-san-suu-kyi-detention-extended-as-protests-continue-in-myanmar-101613371992872.html
15-02-2021||World||US rapper Nicki Minaj's father killed in hit-and-run||The father of rapper Nicki Minaj has died after being struck by a hit-and-run driver near New York City, police said Sunday.Robert Maraj, 64, was walking on a road in Mineola, Long Island at 6:15 pm (2315 GMT) on Friday when he was hit, Nassau County Police Department said in a statement.The driver left the scene of the accident, and Maraj was taken to hospital, where he was pronounced dead on Saturday."The investigation is ongoing," police added.The statement did not specify Maraj's relationship to Minaj, but a police spokesman confirmed he was her father.Minaj, 38, was born in Trinidad and Tobago and raised in the Queens borough of New York City.The rapper has been nominated for ten Grammy awards during her career.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-rapper-nicki-minaj-s-father-killed-in-hitandrun-101613370262682.html
15-02-2021||World||Donald Trump looks to reassert himself after impeachment acquittal as Republicans gear up for 2022 midterm elections||Donald Trump took in the win at Mar-a-Lago, surrounded by friends and family. His lawyers celebrated with hugs and smiles. One joked, "We’re going to Disney World!”Now acquitted in his second Senate impeachment trial, Trump is preparing for the next phase of his post-presidency life. Feeling emboldened by the trial's outcome, he is expected to reemerge from a self-imposed hibernation at his club in Palm Beach, Florida, and is eyeing ways to reassert his power.But after being barred from Twitter, the former president lacks the social media bullhorn that fueled his political rise. And he's confronting a Republican Party deeply divided over the legacy of his jarring final days in office, culminating in the Jan. 6 storming of the Capitol. Searing video images of the day played on loop during his impeachment trial, which ended Saturday.Trump remains popular among the GOP base, but many Republicans in Washington have cooled to him. Never before have so many members of a president's party — seven GOP senators, in his case — voted for his removal in a Senate trial.Some may work to counter efforts by Trump to support extreme candidates in next year's congressional primaries.Undeterred, friends and allies expect Trump to resume friendly media interviews after weeks of silence. He has met with political aides to discuss efforts to help Republicans try to take control of the House and Senate in the 2022 midterms elections. He remains fixated on exacting revenge on Republicans who supported his impeachment or resisted his efforts to overturn the results of the November election won by Democrat Joe Biden.“I imagine you’ll probably be hearing a lot more from him in the coming days,” senior adviser Jason Miller said.In a statement after the vote, Trump offered few clues, but was defiant as he told supporters their movement “has only just begun.”“In the months ahead I have much to share with you, and I look forward to continuing our incredible journey together to achieve American greatness for all of our people,” he said.Sen. Lindsey Graham, who spoke with Trump on Saturday night, acknowledged that Trump is “mad at some folks,” but also “ready to move on and rebuild the Republican Party” and “excited about 2022."In their conversations, Graham has stressed to Trump, who has threatened to start his own party to punish disloyal Republicans, that the GOP needs him to win.“I said, ‘Mr. President, this MAGA movement needs to continue. We need to unite the party. Trump-plus is the way back in 2022,’” Graham, R-S.C., told “Fox News Sunday.”"My goal is to win in 2022 to stop the most radical agenda I’ve seen coming out of the Democratic presidency of Joe Biden. We can’t do that without Donald Trump, so he’s ready to hit the trail and I’m ready to work with him,” Graham said.Graham said Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell, who voted to acquit but then delivered a scalding denunciation of Trump, “got a load off a chest, obviously.” Graham said later in the interview: “If you want to get something off your chest, fine, but I'm into winning."At his Palm Beach club on Saturday night, Trump was in a joyous mood as he enjoyed dinner on a patio packed with people. After a mellow last several weeks, one member described a party atmosphere not felt since before the election.Still, Trump isn't in the clear yet. No longer protected by a Justice Department opinion against the prosecution of sitting presidents, he now faces multiple, ongoing criminal investigations.In Georgia, the Fulton County district attorney has opened a criminal investigation into “attempts to influence” the election, including Trump's call to Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger demanding that the official find enough votes to overturn Biden’s victory.In New York, Attorney General Letitia James is investigating whether Trump and his company improperly inflated the value of his assets on annual financial statements in order to secure loans and obtain tax benefits. Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. continues his own investigation, which has included grand jury testimony.“He didn’t get away with anything — yet," McConnell, R-Ky., after the vote. “We have a criminal justice system in this country. We have civil litigation. And former presidents are not immune from being accountable by either one."McConnell voted to acquit Trump on the grounds the trial was unconstitutional because he is no longer in office, but insisted, “There’s no question — none — that President Trump is practically and morally responsible for provoking the events of the day."That sharp rebuke from his once-loyal defender underscores how dramatically Trump's stock has fallen in Washington since his first impeachment trial just over a year ago. But the desire to be rid of Trump is not shared across the country, where Republicans who have dared to admonish him have faced swift rebuke.Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., was forced to defend her third-in-line leadership position after she voted in favor of impeachment. On Saturday, Louisiana’s Republican Party quickly censured Sen. Bill Cassidy, one of the seven Republicans senators who voted for Trump's conviction.In an interview Sunday with ABC’s “This Week,” Cassidy seemed at peace with his decision.“I think his force wanes,” he said of Trump. “The Republican Party is more than just one person. The Republican Party is about ideas.”But how long Trump retains his grip remains an open question, especially with a slew of likely 2024 candidates now trying to take the mantle.Some, like Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan, are advocating a clean break from Trump, who ended his presidency with a record low 34% approval rating according to Gallup polling. Others have stressed the need to keep his voters engaged, perhaps with candidates who trumpet the policies Trump championed, but with a less caustic style that might win back suburban voters.In a sign of his enduring power, the Republican National Committee and other groups spent the trial sending fundraising appeals urging their followers to “Stand with Trump” and “SAVE President Trump’s Legacy,” in the words of the National Republican Congressional Committee.“Oh, time is going to take care of that some way or another," said Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, told reporters Saturday. "But remember, in order to be a leader you got to have followers. So we’re gonna find out, whoever leads. But everybody’s going to be involved. We’re a big tent.”While the Senate failed to bar Trump from running again for office, many believe he has done too much damage to be a credible candidate himself in 2024.Republican Sen. Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, who is retiring, said Trump's refusal to accept the results of the election had “very badly damaged his reputation," eclipsing his accomplishments in office.“Instead,” Toomey said, "he’ll be remembered throughout history as the president who resorted to nonlegal steps to try to hold on to power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-looks-to-reassert-himself-after-impeachment-acquittal-as-republicans-gear-up-for-2022-midterm-elections-101613368395433.html
15-02-2021||World||UK minister for COP26 in India to advance partnership on climate action||The United Kingdom’s minister responsible for the United Nations Climate Change Conference 2021 or COP26, Alok Sharma, arrived in India on Monday for talks with interlocutors and captains of industry on strengthening the bilateral partnership on climate change. Sharma, who is a Cabinet minister and holds the post of president of COP26, is on his first visit to Asia after assuming the position. During the two-day visit, he will meet senior ministers, business leaders and civil society to discuss climate issues and to prepare for the COP26 summit in November. Sharma’s visit is expected to focus on India’s progress in climate action and clean energy transition. In recent years, India has played a key role in setting up the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), which is co-chaired by the UK, and the International Solar Alliance (ISA). India’s expertise is “expected to be of great value to global discussions on a clean energy transition as part of COP preparations”, the British high commission said in a statement. Also Read | UK ‘thoroughly’ supports Biden over call for China to release Covid-19 dataDuring his meetings with business leaders, Sharma will highlight opportunities in the low carbon economy, existing commitments to achieve net-zero emissions and encourage influential businesses to promote the growing movement of corporate climate action throughout their sector and supply chain. Sharma will meet experts and young thinkers, to discuss challenges and solutions to climate change. “After a year of virtual meetings, the in-person visit signals a step-change in momentum to COP26 preparations, and reinforces Mr Sharma’s ambition to run an inclusive negotiating process that incorporates the views of all countries,” the statement said. Sharma MP said: “When it comes to climate action, India is a key partner and a global leader. Together we can make change happen – delivering real progress on reducing emissions and building global commitments. The UK and India are already a joint force for good against climate change, and we look forward to strengthening this partnership in the run up to COP26 and beyond.” British high commissioner Alex Ellis said Sharma’s visit is part of efforts to make COP26 a success and it will develop the bilateral climate partnership on clean and resilient development. “Hearing from the Indian government firsthand, as well as civil society and business, will be essential in informing the approach of the UK presidency as we work towards a comprehensive, ambitious and balanced outcome at COP26,” he added. Sharma is the third UK minister to visit India since December; he was preceded by foreign secretary Dominic Raab and trade secretary Liz Truss. The visits also paved the way for Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit later this year, during which climate cooperation will be a focus. As host of COP26, the UK has set a legally binding target to cut emissions to net-zero by 2050. Between 1990 and 2018, the UK nearly halved emissions while growing its economy by 75%, and it will completely cut coal-use in the power sector by 2025. The UK has also committed to double its international financing to £11.6 billion over the next five years, to help developing countries to take action on climate change. The UK is looking to its presidency of COP26 in 2021 and India’s presidency of G20 in 2023 to act as key platforms for implementing the Paris Agreement. The UK is also investing in India’s renewable and clean transport sectors, including through the joint Green Growth Equity Fund and multilateral funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-minister-for-cop26-in-india-to-advance-partnership-on-climate-action-101613367722245.html
15-02-2021||World||Coronavirus conspiracy shows vast reach of Chinese disinformation||It took just three months for the rumor that Covid-19 was engineered as a bioweapon to spread from the fringes of the Chinese internet and take root in millions of people’s minds.By March 2020, belief that the virus had been human-made and possibly weaponized was widespread, multiple surveys indicated. The Pew Research Center found, for example, that one in three Americans believed the new coronavirus had been created in a lab; one in four thought it had been engineered intentionally.This chaos was, at least in part, manufactured.Powerful forces, from Beijing and Washington to Moscow and Tehran, have battled to control the narrative about where the virus came from. Leading officials and allied media in all four countries functioned as super-spreaders of disinformation, using their stature to sow doubt and amplify politically expedient conspiracies already in circulation, a nine-month Associated Press investigation of state-sponsored disinformation conducted in collaboration with the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab found. The analysis was based on a review of millions of social media postings and articles on Twitter, Facebook, VK, Weibo, WeChat, YouTube, Telegram, and other platforms.As the pandemic swept the world, it was China – not Russia – that took the lead in spreading foreign disinformation about Covid-19’s origins.Beijing was reacting to weeks of fiery rhetoric from leading US Republicans, including then-President Donald Trump, who sought to rebrand Covid-19 as “the China virus.”China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs says Beijing has worked to promote friendship and serve facts, while defending itself against hostile forces seeking to politicize the pandemic.“All parties should firmly say ‘no’ to the dissemination of disinformation,” the ministry said in a statement to AP, but added, “In the face of trumped-up charges, it is justified and proper to bust lies and clarify rumors by setting out the facts.”The day after the World Health Organization designated the Covid-19 outbreak a pandemic, Zhao Lijian, a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, shot off a series of late-night tweets that launched what may be the party’s first truly global digital experiment with overt disinformation.Chinese diplomats have only recently mobilized on Western social media platforms, more than tripling their Twitter accounts and more than doubling their Facebook accounts since late 2019. Both platforms are banned in China.“When did patient zero begin in US?” Zhao tweeted on March 12. “How many people are infected? What are the names of the hospitals? It might be US army who brought the epidemic to Wuhan. Be transparent! Make public your data! US owe (sic) us an explanation!”What happened next showcases the power of China’s global messaging machine.On Twitter alone, Zhao’s aggressive spray of 11 tweets on March 12 and 13 was cited over 99,000 times over the next six weeks, in at least 54 languages, according to analysis conducted by DFRLab. The accounts that referenced him had nearly 275 million followers on Twitter – a number that almost certainly includes duplicate followers and does not distinguish fake accounts.Influential conservatives on Twitter, including Donald Trump Jr., hammered Zhao, propelling his tweets to their largest audiences.China’s Global Times and at least 30 Chinese diplomatic accounts, from France to Panama, rushed in to support Zhao. Venezuela’s foreign minister and RT’s correspondent in Caracas, as well as Saudi accounts close to the kingdom’s royal family also significantly extended Zhao’s reach, helping launch his ideas into Spanish and Arabic.His accusations got uncritical treatment in Russian and Iranian state media and shot back through QAnon discussion boards. But his biggest audience, by far, lay within China itself -- despite the fact that Twitter is banned there. Popular hashtags about his tweetstorm were viewed 314 million times on the Chinese social media platform Weibo, which does not distinguish unique views.Late on the night of March 13, Zhao posted a message of gratitude on his personal Weibo: “Thank you for your support to me, let us work hard for the motherland 💪!”China leaned on Russian disinformation strategy and infrastructure, turning to an established network of Kremlin proxies to seed and spread messaging. In January, Russian state media were the first to legitimise the theory that the US engineered the virus as a weapon. Russian politicians soon joined the chorus.“One was amplifying the other… How much it was command controlled, how much it was opportunistic, it was hard to tell,” said Janis Sarts, director of the NATO Strategic Communications Centre of Excellence, based in Riga, Latvia.Iran also jumped in. The same day Zhao tweeted that the virus might have come from the US Army, Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei announced Covid-19 could be the result of a biological attack. He would later cite that conspiracy to justify refusing Covid-19 aid from the USTen days after Zhao’s first conspiratorial tweets, China’s global state media apparatus kicked in.“Did the US government intentionally conceal the reality of Covid-19 with the flu?” asked a suggestive op-ed in Mandarin published by China Radio International on March 22. “Why was the US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases at Ft. Detrick in Maryland, the largest biochemical testing base, shut down in July 2019?”Within days, versions of the piece appeared more than 350 times in Chinese state outlets, mostly in Mandarin, but also around the world in English, French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish and Arabic, AP found.China’s Embassy in France promoted the story on Twitter and Facebook. It appeared on YouTube, Weibo, WeChat and a host of Chinese video platforms, including Haokan, Xigua, Baijiahao, Bilibili, iQIYI, Kuaishou and Youku. A seven-second version set to driving music appeared on Douyin, the Chinese version of TikTok.“Clearly pushing these kinds of conspiracy theories, disinformation, does not usually result in any negative consequences for them,” said Mareike Ohlberg, a senior fellow in the Asia Program of the German Marshall Fund.In April, Russia and Iran largely dropped the bioweapon conspiracy in their overt messaging.China, however, has carried on.In January, as a team from the World Health Organization poured through records in China to try to pinpoint the origins of the virus, MOFA spokeswoman Hua Chunying urged the US to “open the biological lab at Fort Detrick, give more transparency to issues like its 200-plus overseas bio-labs, invite WHO experts to conduct origin-tracing in the United States.”Her remarks went viral in China.China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs told AP it resolutely opposes spreading conspiracy theories. “We have not done it before and will not do it in the future,” the ministry said in a statement. “False information is the common enemy of mankind, and China has always opposed the creation and spread of false information.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-conspiracy-shows-vast-reach-of-chinese-disinformation-101613367433399.html
15-02-2021||World||As a private citizen impeachment isn't the final word on Capitol riot for Donald Trump||Donald Trump's acquittal at his second impeachment trial may not be the final word on whether he’s to blame for the deadly Capitol riot. The next step for the former president could be the courts.Now a private citizen, Trump is stripped of his protection from legal liability that the presidency gave him. That change in status is something that even Republicans who voted on Saturday to acquit of inciting the Jan. 6 attack are stressing as they urge Americans to move on from impeachment.“President Trump is still liable for everything he did while he was in office, as an ordinary citizen, unless the statute of limitations has run,” Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky said after that vote. He insisted that the courts were a more appropriate venue to hold Trump accountable than a Senate trial.“He didn’t get away with anything yet,” McConnell said. “Yet.”The insurrection at the Capitol, in which five people died, is just one of the legal cases shadowing Trump in the months after he was voted out of office. He also faces legal exposure in Georgia over an alleged pressure campaign on state election officials, and in Manhattan over hush-money payments and business deals.But Trump's culpability under the law for inciting the riot is by no means clear-cut. The standard is high under court decisions reaching back 50 years. Trump could also be sued by victims, though he has some constitutional protections, including if he acted while carrying out the duties of president. Those cases would come down to his intent.Legal scholars say a proper criminal investigation takes time, and there are at least five years on the statute of limitations to bring a federal case. New evidence is emerging every day.“They're way too early in their investigation to know,” said Laurie Levenson, a law professor at Loyola Law School and former federal prosecutor. “The have arrested 200 people, they're pursuing hundreds more, all of those people could be potential witnesses because some have said ‘Trump made me do it’."What's not known, she said, is what Trump was doing during the time of the riot, and that could be the key. Impeachment didn't produce many answers. But federal investigators in a criminal inquiry have much more power to compel evidence through grand jury subpoenas.“It’s not an easy case, but that’s only because what we know now, and that can change,” Levenson said.The legal issue is whether Trump or any of the speakers at the rally near the White House that preceded the assault on the Capitol incited violence and whether they knew their words would have that effect. That’s the standard the Supreme Court laid out in its 1969 decision in Brandenburg v. Ohio, which overturned the conviction of a Ku Klux Klan leader.Trump urged the crowd on Jan. 6 to march on the Capitol, where Congress was meeting to affirm Joe Biden's presidential election, Trump even promised to go with his supporters, though he didn’t in the end. “You’ll never take our country back with weakness,” Trump said.He also had spent weeks spinning up supporters over his increasingly combative language and false election claims urging them to “stop the steal.”Trump's impeachment lawyers said he didn't do anything illegal. Trump, in a statement after the acquittal, did not admit to any wrongdoing.Federal prosecutors have said they are looking at all angles of the assault on the Capitol and whether the violence had been incited. The attorney general for the District of Columbia, Karl Racine, has said that district prosecutors are considering whether to charge Trump under local law that criminalizes statements that motivate people to violence.“Let it be known that the office of attorney general has a potential charge that it may utilize,” Racine told MSNBC last month. The charge would be a misdemeanor with a maximum sentence of six months in jail.Trump's top White House lawyer repeatedly warned Trump on Jan. 6 that he could be held liable. That message was delivered in part to prompt Trump to condemn the violence that was carried out in his name and acknowledge that he would leave office Jan. 20, when Biden was inaugurated. He did depart the White House that day.Since then, many of those charged in the riots say they were acting directly on Trump's orders. Some offered to testify. A phone call between Trump and House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy emerged during the impeachment trial in which McCarthy, as rioters stormed the Capitol, begged Trump to call off the mob. Trump replied: “Well, Kevin, I guess these people are more upset about the election than you are.”The McCarthy call is significant because it could point to Trump’s intent, state of mind and knowledge of the rioters' actions.Court cases that try to prove incitement often bump up against the First Amendment. In recent years, federal judges have taken a hard line against the anti-riot law. The federal appeals court in Virginia narrowed the Anti-Riot Act, with a maximum prison term of five years, because it swept up constitutionally protected speech. The court found invalid parts of the law that encompassed speech tending to “encourage” or “promote” a riot, as well as speech “urging” others to riot or involving mere advocacy of violence.The same court upheld the convictions of two members of a white supremacist group who admitted they punched and kicked counter-demonstrators during the 2017 “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.It's possible federal prosecutors will decide not to bring charges, and if Trump were indicted in one of the many other separate investigations, federal prosecutors could decide justice would be done elsewhere.Atlanta prosecutors have recently opened a criminal investigation into Trump’s attempts to overturn his election loss in Georgia, including a Jan. 2 phone call in which he urged that state's secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, to “find” enough votes to reverse Biden’s narrow victory.And Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr., is in the midst of an 18-month criminal grand jury investigation focusing in part on hush-money payments paid to women on Trump’s behalf, and whether Trump or his businesses manipulated the value of assets — inflating them in some cases and minimizing them in others — to gain favorable loan terms and tax benefits.GOP Sen. Thom Tillis of North Carolina, who voted to acquit along with McConnell and 41 other Republicans, argued that because Trump is no longer in office, impeachment is not the right way to hold him to account.“The ultimate accountability is through our criminal justice system where political passions are checked and due process is constitutionally mandated. No president is above the law or immune from criminal prosecution, and that includes former President Trump.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-a-private-citizen-impeachment-isn-t-the-final-word-on-capitol-riot-for-donald-trump-101613363564105.html
15-02-2021||World||Chinese youth voice their anger at govt as inflation, inequality soars: Report||Despite China's booming economy, youngsters have taken to social media platforms like Bilibili to voice despair over skyrocketing house prices, widening inequality and rising prices of everyday goods in the country.China was the only major economy to post positive growth last year, following a quick from the COVID-19 pandemic. However, this figure fails to tell what political analysts have described as a 'serious divergence' between the booming economy and the personal prospects of ordinary people in China, writes Cissy Zhou for South China Morning Post (SCMP)As China has few outlets to express opinions, platforms like Bilibili and Weibo have become important gathering places for distressed young Chinese.According to E-House Real Estate Research Institute, China's housing price-to-income reached a 20-year high of 9.2 last year, which means that the average house price is over nine times the average income per household. This is happening despite repeated assurances from authorities that they would stabilise a price boom that started in 2008.On the other hand, food prices had risen 1.2 per cent last year, with the cost of fresh meat increasing 7.1 per cent and the price of pork up 49.7 per cent, according to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS).Vegetable prices also rose dramatically in January, with green peppers, wax gourd and cabbage increasing by more than 30 per cent, informed the Ministry of Agriculture.Meanwhile, public anger intensified on social media when central bank vice-governor Chen Yulu said that inflation is likely to see a "moderate growth" this year, wrote Zhou for SCMP."Moderate growth? So we are the boiled frogs, and you just keep heating!" said one person on Weibo."How can you glorify inflation in such a way? Moderate growth means doubling the prices!" said another Weibo user.The optimism about China's economy on social media was mostly 'Communist Party propaganda, with many other topics out of bounds due to the nation's vast online censorship system, opined Wu Qiang, an independent scholar based in Beijing."The nationalism on Chinese media is a nihilistic statism, which is to conceal inequality through empty slogans without giving real equality and political rights to the people. This is reflected in the suffering people feel in their lives," he said.He further commented that China's strong growth under state capitalism was a 'paradox' for many young people who lacked comprehensive labour rights and many work from 9 am to 9 pm, six days a week.China's private consumption accounted for about 39 per cent of GDP, which was about 30 percentage points lower than the US and Europe, as per data provided by CEIC.According to SCMP, China's relatively low household incomes and small share of employment in the services sector also hint at the divergence between the country's booming economy and the life satisfaction of the average worker."This means although China produces a large number of goods and services every year, the share actually consumed by its own residents is much lower than in other countries," said professor Xi, from Fudan University.Xi further said that his research showed the services industry made up a particularly low share of China's GDP - more than 10 percentage points lower than developing countries like India and Brazil.Though the communist nation had declared that it had officially ended poverty at the end of last year, a sense of relative poverty is becoming severe, especially between cities and rural areas.Meanwhile, Zhou reported that research published by Hao Qi at the School of Economics at Renmin University in November last year showed that the labour share of China's national income had declined from 51.4 per cent in 1995 to 43.7 per cent in 2008.Xi informed that these figures highlight that investment returns are being concentrated in the hands of a few, and most workers are getting a lower share of GDP growth than those in developed countries."This brings us back to an old question in economics and political science: what is the ultimate purpose of our economic development?" he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-youth-voice-their-anger-at-govt-as-inflation-inequality-soars-report-101613362186112.html
15-02-2021||World||Israel to allow 2,000 air travelers to enter every day||Israel's coronavirus cabinet has allowed up to 2,000 foreign air travellers to enter the country every day, the prime minister's office and the health ministry said Sunday."The ministerial cabinet has endorsed the transport minister's plan for inbound and outgoing flights ... Up to 2,000 people will be able to fly into Israel every day," a statement read.The defense ministry has been tasked with contracting hotels where arrivals will be quarantined.Israel largely closed Ben Gurion Airport, the Jewish state's main gateway, on January 25 in an effort to prevent mutant coronavirus strains from entering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-to-allow-2-000-air-travelers-to-enter-every-day-101613357357331.html
15-02-2021||World||Mexico gets over 8 lakh AstraZeneca's Covid-19 doses from India||Mexico received a shipment of 870,000 doses of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine from India on Sunday, the government said, as the country prepares to prioritize older adults in the next phase of its vaccination campaign.Mexico is also expecting shipments of Pfizer's vaccine to resume, with 494,000 doses due to arrive on Tuesday, Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard told a news conference.Sunday's shipment amounts to about 42% of the two million doses of the AstraZeneca and Oxford University vaccine the country plans to import from India, in addition to packaging it locally, the government said.Mexico and Argentina have an agreement with AstraZeneca to produce the vaccine for eventual distribution of 250 million doses in Latin America, with financial support from the foundation of Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim.Mexico, which has one of the world's highest coronavirus death tolls, started vaccinating healthcare workers in December but struggled to hit its targets amid global shortages and delays of Pfizer's vaccine.Mexico will next vaccinate adults over the age of 60, a group representing 12% of Mexico's 126 million people, between February and April."The vaccines are already available.... and they will not stop arriving so that the national vaccination plan does not stop," President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said at the news conference in the southwestern state of Oaxaca.Latin America's no. 2 economy has so far received just 1,636,350 vaccine doses, according to government data, but has agreements for millions more, including for China's CanSino and the Russian Sputnik V. Mexico received the active ingredient for 2 million doses of the CanSino vaccine on Thursday.Additionally, Mexico has secured enough vaccines to cover 20% of its population through the global COVAX facility, led by the GAVI vaccines alliance and the World Health Organization, though shipments have yet to begin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-gets-over-8-lakh-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-doses-from-india-101613354442453.html
15-02-2021||World||Boris Johnson faces calls to ease curbs as Covid-19 vaccination milestone hit||The UK recorded 15 million vaccinations against the coronavirus, a milestone that is set to increase pressure on Prime Minister Boris Johnson to begin reopening the economy.Johnson praised what he called an “extraordinary feat” and said that England had already met a target set earlier this year of immunizing the top four priority groups, including the over 70s, by Feb. 15. Wales also confirmed reaching the threshold. More than 25% of the adult population has now received at least one shot.The UK has delivered one of the most successful immunisation programs in the world, administering hundreds of thousands of vaccines each day. That’s a welcome political boost for Johnson, whose government has been slammed for its handling of the pandemic, which has claimed over 117,000 lives.But it sets the stage for a battle with Conservative members of Parliament who want the prime minister to move faster to ease a third national lockdown that has closed schools and shuttered businesses still reeling from the deepest economic slump in more than 300 years.In a letter to Johnson, a group of 63 MPs said there was “no justification” for not lifting all Covid restrictions by the end of April when the government hopes to have vaccinated everyone over the age of 50.Meanwhile for the travel industry, things are set to get tougher. Starting Monday, passengers arriving in the U.K. from coronavirus hot spots will be required to quarantine in government-managed hotel rooms for 10 days. The new rules apply to anyone who has visited any of 33 countries on a travel ban list in the previous 10 days.Priority GroupsIn a video message Sunday, Johnson hailed a “significant milestone” in the battle to bring the disease under control, with the four priority groups estimated to account for about 88% of deaths from Covid-19.The government plans to vaccinate another 17 million people by the end of April, covering 99% of those most at risk of dying from Covid-19, with all adults offered a first dose by the autumn.But while infection rates -- among the highest in Europe -- are coming down, the prime minister has stressed the need for caution. Johnson wants schools to reopen on March 8. The government will then consider relaxing outdoor recreation, followed by non-essential retail and then hospitality, according to a government official.The UK reported 10,972 new cases on Sunday, and total infections now top 4 million. That’s down from early January, when the U.K. posted a seven-day average of almost 60,000 cases a day. There were 258 new deaths.The government plans to outline a road map for exiting the current restrictions on Feb. 22.“We do need to be very careful in how we proceed,” Foreign Secretrary Dominic Raab said on Sky. “We have made good progress. We don’t want to see that unravel because we go too far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-faces-calls-to-ease-curbs-as-covid-19-vaccination-milestone-hit-101613350019430.html
15-02-2021||World||Doctors against opioid use face threats from patients across US||One patient threatened to shoot Dr. Terry Hunt if physical therapy didn't relieve his pain as effectively as opioids did. Another harassed his staff, then roamed a hospital searching for Hunt after being told he would be weaned off painkillers he had used inappropriately.Hunt was unharmed, but shaken enough to ask the central Illinois hospital system where he worked to dismiss both patients.So when he heard about Tuesday's attack at a medical clinic in Buffalo, Minnesota, that left one person dead and four injured, “the first thing I assumed is that it was something to do with pain medication,” said Hunt, who now works for the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, and a Mayo Clinic Health System facility in Red Wing, Minnesota. “It makes us ask about our own workplace: How secure are we?”Authorities said Gregory Paul Ulrich, 67, was angry about his medical treatment before he shot five workers and detonated three apparent pipe bombs at an Allina Health clinic. A police report says he had threatened a similar mass shooting in 2018, allegedly as revenge against people who he said “tortured” him with back surgeries and prescribed medication.A former roommate said Ulrich became upset when a doctor stopped prescribing painkillers, and that Ulrich also used other drugs and had untreated mental health issues. Law enforcement and the health system have not addressed the specifics of Ulrich’s treatment or medications.Doctors who treat pain say threats of violence escalated markedly in recent years as mounting legal and regulatory pressure stemming from the deadly opioid epidemic led many to prescribe alternatives and taper their patients off addictive painkillers.While some patients benefit from careful use of opioids, and doctors don't want to stigmatize them, many would be better off treating pain with other therapies, experts say. But many become addicted to the drugs that are often intended for short-term use following surgeries.“It hijacks their brain,” said Dr. Carrie DeLone, regional medical director at Penn State Health Community Medical Group. “They don't see themselves as having a problem.”Pain specialist Dr. Andrew Kolodny, a professor at Brandeis University and a founder of Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing, said patients are convinced that opioids are treating their underlying problem because if they try to go without a dose or as their previous dose wears off, “they’re feeling horrible, agonizing pain,” when it can be the withdrawal that is causing pain hypersensitivity.“It’s much easier to give the patient what they want. You write the prescription ... they walk out the door happy and there are no problems. To try and help a patient taper down ... is much harder,” Kolodny said.And when a doctor says no, things can turn ugly.“We’ve had patients waiting for doctors in parking lots to harass them. We’ve had them say ‘We’re going to shoot you’ or ‘We’re going to burn your house down,’” DeLone said.Almost half of pain specialists surveyed during a violence education session at a 2019 American Academy of Pain Medicine meeting cited opioid management as the reason they had been threatened, said Dr. W. Michael Hooten, president-elect of the organization.In response to threats, doctors have dismissed patients. But they have also installed alarm systems and panic buttons and set up exam rooms so doctors are closest to the door. Some even advocate carrying weapons, said Hooten, noting that smaller clinics are at greatest risk because they might not be able to afford security.After his 2018 threat, police took Ulrich for a mental health evaluation, and Allina took legal action to bar him from the company’s property. A restraining order prohibited Ulrich from contact with the doctor or going into the clinic and nearby Allina-run Buffalo Hospital, where he once frightened a nurse so much that a colleague hit a panic button for help.Police said they had had no recent interactions with Ulrich that would have raised alarms before the attack in Buffalo, a small city about 40 miles (65 kilometers) northwest of Minneapolis.St. Joseph County, Indiana, Prosecutor Ken Cotter said he didn't know that such threats were common until 2017, when a man shot and killed a doctor who refused to prescribe opioids to his wife. Michael Jarvis ambushed Dr. Todd Graham in a parking lot hours after the appointment, said Cotter, adding there was evidence that Jarvis also was using opioids. Jarvis took his own life soon after.Before that, “I do not recall ever reading a threat report” from a doctor, said Cotter, who said he received calls from about 20 doctors after the shooting telling him how common they were. “They took (threats) as a cost of doing business.”Cotter said about a dozen meetings were held with doctors, law enforcement officials and others to discuss how to keep doctors safe, including deescalating tense situations, but also alternatives to opioids, disposal of old medications, and tackling the addiction problems that plague their communities.“When you've got doctors calling to say we have to do something, this is... literally our whole community's crusade,” Cotter said.Kolodny, from Brandeis, said he has been compared to Hitler, threatened on Twitter, and a bag of nails was mailed to his home. Last month, protesters carried signs near his office demanding that he be fired because of his work advocating for less opioid use and helping states sue opioid manufacturers.The threats have “gotten really scary,” he said. “It’s just gotten really heated up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/doctors-against-opioid-use-face-threats-from-patients-across-us-101613349715484.html
15-02-2021||World||In one US city, coronavirus vaccines for everyone 18 and over||Most countries are still only vaccinating the elderly and healthcare workers, but one US town hit hard by the coronavirus is already offering doses to everyone age 18 and over.Central Falls -- with a population of 20,000 people in Rhode Island -- is home to a large Hispanic population, many of whom are undocumented migrants.The city is one of the most densely populated places in the United States and is one of the areas in Rhode Island worst affected by the pandemic.The small East Coast state's government recommends that vaccines are only given to high-risk groups such as frontline workers and people over age 75.But Central Falls is going its own way, opening up vaccinations to all adults."Everybody that lives or works here is a priority," Mayor Maria Rivera told AFP during a mass vaccination drive on Saturday.The pandemic spread like wildfire through Central Falls' close-knit community, where it is common for multiple families to live under the same roof.The city is more than 66 percent Latino and 13 percent Black.Central Falls has recorded the highest rate of positive cases and hospitalizations in Rhode Island.More than 3,500 cases have been reported, with 21 deaths and 190 hospitalizations as of January.The health toll has also been compounded by an economic one."At the beginning of Covid... there were so many residents that were losing their jobs, and they didn't have money and they couldn't apply for benefits," recalls Rivera.When vaccines became available in December, the city offered injections to over-75s, then over-65s, before lowering the age threshold to 50 and then slashing it to 18 in recent weeks.- 'Right thing to do -"If we don't fix the problem, where the problem is, we are just going to continue spreading this disease," said Rivera.The city was preparing to administer around 700 doses at Central Falls High School on Saturday.Mayor Rivera's team has gone door-to-door making sure residents have all the information they need, including in Spanish and Cape Verdean Portuguese."This was the first vaccination for the general public, probably the first in the nation," said Eugenio Fernandez Jr, founder of Asthenis, a pharmacy that works with low-income neighborhoods.When Suzanne Wallace, a nurse practitioner, learned about Central Fall's troubles, she knew she had to come volunteer to administer shots."It felt like it's the right thing to do," she told AFP.Dozens of locals sat on chairs more than six feet apart inside the school gymnasium, waiting to be observed after receiving their shot.Thirty-year-old Angelica Romero was among residents to get injected."I was really scared to come, to be honest with you," said Romero, whose father had just spent three months in hospital with coronavirus. Her mother had signed her up for the shot."We're really eager to have a really safe environment as much as we could for him," she told AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-one-us-city-coronavirus-vaccines-for-everyone-18-and-over-101613349597715.html
15-02-2021||World||Support grows for Capitol riot inquiry after Donald Trump acquittal||After what one called a “heartbreaking” verdict, House prosecutors who argued for Donald Trump's conviction of inciting the US Capitol riot said Sunday they had proved their case and railed against the Senate’s Republican leader and most of his colleagues for “trying to have it both ways” in acquitting the former president.A day after Trump won his second Senate impeachment trial in two years, bipartisan support appeared to be growing for an independent Sept. 11-style commission to make sure that such a horrific assault could never happen again.The end of the quick trial hardly put to rest the debate about Trump's culpability for the Jan. 6 insurrection as the political, legal and emotional fallout unfolded.More investigations into the riot were already planned, with Senate hearings scheduled later this month in the Senate Rules Committee. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., also has asked retired Army Lt. Gen. Russel Honoré to lead an immediate review of the Capitol’s security process.Lawmakers from both parties signaled on Sunday that even more inquiries were likely.“There should be a complete investigation about what happened," said Louisiana Sen. Bill Cassidy, one of seven Republicans who voted to convict Trump. "What was known, who knew it and when they knew, all that, because that builds the basis so this never happens again.”Cassidy said he was “attempting to hold President Trump accountable,” and added that as Americans hear all the facts, “more folks will move to where I was." He was censured by his state’s party after the vote, which was 57-43 to convict but 10 votes short of the two-thirds required.A close Trump ally, GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, said he looked forward to campaigning with Trump in the 2022 election, when Republicans hope to regain the congressional majority. But Graham acknowledged that Trump had some culpability for the siege at the Capitol that killed five people, including a police officer, and disrupted lawmakers' certification of Democrat Joe Biden's White House victory.“His behavior after the election was over the top,” Graham said. “We need a 9/11 commission to find out what happened and make sure it never happens again.”The Senate acquitted Trump of a charge of “incitement of insurrection” after House prosecutors laid out a case that he was an “inciter in chief” who unleashed a mob by stoking a monthslong campaign of spreading debunked conspiracy theories and false violent rhetoric that the 2020 election was stolen from him.Trump’s lawyers countered that Trump’s words were not intended to incite the violence and that impeachment was nothing but a “witch hunt” designed to prevent him from serving in office again.The conviction tally was the most bipartisan in American history but left Trump to declare victory and signal a political revival while a bitterly divided GOP bickered over its direction and his place in the party.The Republicans who joined Cassidy in voting to convict were Sens. Richard Burr of North Carolina, Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Mitt Romney of Utah, Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania.“It’s frustrating, but the founders knew what they were doing and so we live with the system that we have,” Delegate Stacey Plaskett, a House prosecutor who represents the Virgin Islands, said of the verdict, describing it as “heartbreaking.” She added: “But, listen, we didn’t need more witnesses. We needed more senators with spines.”On Sunday, several House impeachment managers sharply criticized McConnell, who told Republican senators shortly before the vote that he would acquit Trump. In a blistering speech after the vote, McConnell said the president was “practically and morally responsible for provoking the events of that day" but that the Senate's hands were tied to do anything about it because Trump was out of office. But the Senate, in an earlier vote, had deemed the trial constitutional.“It was powerful to hear the 57 guilties and then it was puzzling to hear and see Mitch McConnell stand and say not guilty and then minutes later stand again and say he was guilty of everything,” said Rep. Madeleine Dean, D-Pa. “History will remember that statement of speaking out of two sides of his mouth,” she said.Dean backed the idea of an impartial investigative commission "not guided by politics but filled with people who would stand up to the courage of their conviction.”An independent 9/11 style commission, which probably would require legislation to create, would elevate the investigation a step higher, offering a definitive government-backed accounting of events. Pelosi has expressed support for such a commission while stressing that the members who sit on it would be key. Still, such a panel would pose risks of sharpening partisan divisions or overshadowing Biden's legislative agenda.“There’s still more evidence that the American people need and deserve to hear and a 9/11 commission is a way to make sure that we secure the Capitol going forward,” said Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., and a Biden ally. “And that we lay bare the record of just how responsible and how abjectly violating of his constitutional oath President Trump really was.”The lead House impeachment manager, Rep. Jamie Raskin, D-Md., called the trial a “dramatic success in historical terms” by winning unprecedented support from GOP senators. He said the verdict didn't match the reality of the strength of evidence.“We successfully prosecuted him and convicted him in the court of public opinion and the court of history,” he said. Pointing to McConnell and other Republican senators critical of Trump but voting to acquit, Raskin said, “They’re trying to have it both ways.”Raskin and Plaskett defended the House team’s last-minute reversal not to call a witness, Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler, R-Wash. They acknowledged they were aware they might lose some GOP votes for conviction if they extended the trial much longer.Beutler's statement late Friday that Trump rebuffed a plea from House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy to call off the rioters was ultimately entered into the trial record.“I think what we did was, we got what we wanted, which was her statement, which was what she said, and had it put into the record,” Plaskett said.Cassidy and Dean spoke on ABC's “This Week,” Graham appeared on “Fox News Sunday,” Raskin was on NBC's “Meet the Press,” and Plaskett appeared on CNN's “State of the Union.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/support-grows-for-capitol-riot-inquiry-after-donald-trump-acquittal-101613349258157.html
15-02-2021||World||Joe Biden to speak at virtual meeting of world’s major economies||President Joe Biden will speak at a virtual meeting of the world’s major economies on Friday to discuss the coronavirus pandemic and global vaccination distribution, according to the White House.Biden is expected to speak about the need for a global response to the pandemic and to recommit the US. to multilateral engagement, a stark contrast from President Donald Trump, who developed an isolationist foreign policy that saw the U.S. withdraw from major global agreements and alliances. Since entering office, Biden has reversed many of Trump’s isolationist moves, including by rejoining the World Health Organization.During his appearance at the G-7 meeting Friday, Biden will emphasize the need for global coordination on vaccine production, distribution and supplies, as well as global efforts to prepare for and protect against future pandemics. And he'll speak about the need for industrialized nations to ensure their economic recovery “is inclusive and benefits all workers, including women and members of historically disadvantaged groups,” the White House said in a statement Sunday.The United States has also pledged to join the COVAX initiative, which is aimed at producing and distributing vaccines to developing countries.Biden will also take the opportunity to discuss the need to update global rules “to tackle economic challenges such as those posed by China,” the White House said. Biden has pushed for the U.S. and its allies to negotiate a new trade pact to counter China's influence in the region.The G-7 event marks Biden’s first major multilateral engagement as president, and a return to the diplomacy that characterized so much of his tenure as vice president.On the same day, Biden is set to participate in a “special edition” of the Munich Security Conference, a gathering of global leaders focused on defense. The television broadcast is taking the place of the previously scheduled conference, which was postponed due to the pandemic. As vice president, he attended the Munich Security Conference in 2009 and 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-speak-at-virtual-meeting-of-world-s-major-economies-101613348633285.html
15-02-2021||World||Big freeze threatens Texas with blackouts as markets gyrate||The arctic freeze gripping the central US is raising the specter of power outages in Texas and ratcheting up pressure on energy prices already trading at unprecedented levels.In Texas, where temperatures in Dallas are forecast to be 3 degrees Fahrenheit Monday (minus 16 Celsius), the operator of the state’s power grid warned it may need to resort to rolling blackouts as surging demand for heat strains the electrical system. While outages may occur Sunday, the risk is higher on Monday and Tuesday, when officials expect power demand in Texas to reach a record high.“We could be in emergency operations as early as tonight,” said Dan Woodfin, a senior director for the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, which runs the grid. “We would expect to be in emergency operations tomorrow through at least Tuesday morning.”About 800 daily records for cold temperatures have been set in the past week as Arctic air pushes all the way to the Gulf of Mexico, sending gyrations through energy markets. Spot prices for electricity in Texas are expected to hit the grid’s cap of $9,000 per megawatt hour. Natural gas rose to a record $600 per million British thermal units in Oklahoma. And as much as half a million barrels a day of oil output in West Texas may be impacted by well shutdowns that began on Thursday because of the extreme cold.“It is a pretty brutal air mass,” said Bob Oravec, senior branch forecaster at the U.S. Weather Prediction Center. “The cold air is entrenched across the middle part of the country. High temperatures are amazingly cold, some 50 degrees below average.”Through early Sunday, the coldest spot in the US was 25 miles east of Ely, Minnesota, where readings fell to -50 degrees Fahrenheit. As of 7 a.m. New York time, 2,653 flights around the US through Monday had been canceled, the majority in Dallas and Houston, according to FlightAware, an airline tracking service.Temperatures fell so far below forecasts in parts of the central and western U.S. that physical gas prices soared from California to the Rockies, with one hub in Cheyenne, Wyoming, reaching as high as $350 per mmBtu, according to traders who asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.Heating and power plant fuel traded for as much as $195 per mmBtu in Southern California. If day-ahead electricity prices are any indication and the weather forecasts are even partly accurate, the run-up in energy prices isn’t over.In Houston, there are long lines to refill household propane canisters. Itinerant, roadside firewood are largely out of supplies.Frozen TurbinesA mix of freezing temperatures and precipitation threatens to paralyze wind farms in Texas. That would be devastating for power plants with contracts to provide a certain amount of electricity at specific times if they need to instead buy it on the spot market to meet their obligations. At the moment, that power is exceedingly expensive.“When wind-turbine blades get covered with ice, they need to be shut down,” said Joshua Rhodes, a research associate at The University of Texas at Austin who focuses on energy.About half of Texas’s wind turbines were inoperable Sunday morning because of ice and cold. Yet those that are running are cranking out more power than forecast for this time of year, Woodfin, grid operator Ercot’s senior director, said during a briefing Sunday.Power plants that are only partially operating could be pinched by high prices, too. Projects that commit to provide 50 megawatts of energy in a given hour but only produce 20 megawatts may need to buy the difference at the market price, said Lee Taylor, chief executive officer of RESurety, a clean-energy analytics firm.Wholesale power for delivery Sunday traded at anywhere from $3,000 to $7,000 a megawatt-hour in some places, triple the records set in some places Saturday and a staggering 2,672% increase from Friday at Texas’s West hub. Average spot power prices traded around $1,500 per megawatt hour Sunday afternoon, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.“Spot prices are expected to hit $9,000 on both Monday and Tuesday,” said Brian Lavertu, a trader for Active Power Investments. “Power is going to be wild through Tuesday.”Traders said they’ve never seen electricity trade on Texas’s grid for thousands of dollars for such a sustained amount of time. They drew comparisons between this week’s price surges to the records set on the Midwest grid in 1998, and to the California energy crisis that sent power prices skyrocketing and blacked out hundreds of thousands of homes and businesses two decades ago.Among the other markets moving on the cold:Spot gas prices across the eastern US remained subdued amid milder temperatures, assessed at anywhere from $4 per to $12 per mmBtu on Friday, pricing data compiled by Bloomberg show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/big-freeze-threatens-texas-with-blackouts-as-markets-gyrate-101613348300170.html
15-02-2021||World||Fired little tear gas on govt employees to test it, says Pak minister Rashid||Days after the Pakistan police fired tear gas on protesting government employees for salary hike, Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed made light of the incident, stating that it was "necessary to test the tear gas as it had been unused for a long time".Addressing a ceremony in Rawalpindi, Ahmed said that the Islamabad police "fired a little tear gas", and it was necessary to test it since the tear gas canisters had been unused for a long time, Dawn reported."Only a little was tested, not a lot," he claimed.Rashid, who was part of the government committee, said that the "real problem" was not the tear gas shelling but the pay raise that "amounts to billions of rupees in this time of inflation [and is a burden on the] treasury", Dawn reported.The Pakistan police on February 10 fired tear gas at the government employees, who were protesting to demand an increase in their salaries and pensions.Later, people across social media erupted in anger against the Interior Minister, seeking an apology from Ahmed for his remark."In any other country, a statement like this would mean immediate firing of the minister and an apology from the government," said PML-N leader Mohammad Zubair."To the interior minister Sheikh Rasheed, people suffocating to death is a joke," tweeted filmmaker Haroon Riaz.According to a report by Samaa TV, at least 2,000 people had gathered and planned to march towards Parliament House when the police fired tear gas to stop them.Earlier, the federal ministers, including Rasheed, have said the government will fulfill demands of the protestors.However, the protesters have reiterated that the government will have to issue a notification confirming the increase in their salaries.Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) chairperson Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari and Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) (PML-N) vice president Maryam Nawaz have backed the government employees protest.In a tweet, Maryam had demanded the government to stop the "merciless torture" of the government employees."Stop this merciless torture...Do not make the innocent government employees suffer from tear gas, shelling and baton-charging. They are not enemies but poor Pakistanis who are asking for their rights," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fired-little-tear-gas-on-govt-employees-to-test-it-says-pak-minister-rashid-101613346959154.html
15-02-2021||World||Pro-Navalny 'flashlight' protests light up Russian cities||Supporters of imprisoned Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny came out to residential courtyards and shined their cellphone flashlights Sunday in a display of unity, despite efforts by Russian authorities to extinguish the illuminated protests.Navalny’s team sent photos of small groups with lit-up cellphones in cities from Siberia to the Moscow region. It was unclear how many people participated overall.No arrests were immediately reported. However, police detained nine people at a daytime demonstration in the city of Kazan calling for the release of political prisoners, according to OVD-Info, a human rights group that monitors political arrests.The group said security guards at Moscow State University recorded the names of people leaving a dormitory to take part in a flashlight rally there.When Navalny's first team urged people to come out to the cellphone protests, many responded with jokes and skepticism. After two weekends of nationwide demonstrations, the new protest format looked to some like a retreat.Yet Russian officials spent days trying to blacken the protests. Officials accused Navalny’s allies of acting on NATO’s instructions. Kremlin-backed TV channels warned that flashlight rallies were part of major uprisings around the world. State news agencies cited unnamed sources as saying a terrorist group was plotting attacks during unapproved mass protests.The suppression attempts represent a change of tactics for Russian authorities, who used ignore Navalny.Kremlin-controlled TV channels used to not report about protests called by Navalny. Russian President Vladimir Putin has never mentioned his most prominent critic by name. State news agencies referred to the anti-corruption investigator as “a blogger” in the rare stories when they did mentioning him.“Navalny went from a person whose name is not allowed to be mentioned to the main subject of discussion” on state TV, said Maria Pevchikh, head of investigations at Navalny’s Foundations for Fighting Corruption.Pevchikh credited Navalny’s latest expose for the sudden surge in attention. His foundation's two-hour video alleging that a lavish palace on Black Sea was built for Putin through corruption has been watched over 111 million times on YouTube since Jan. 19.The video went up two days after Navalny was arrested upon returning to Russia from Germany, where he spent five months recovering from a nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin. The Russian government denies involvement and claims it has no evidence that Navalny was poisoned.While the high-profile arrest and the subsequent expose were a double blow to authorities, political analyst and former Kremlin speech writer Abbas Gallyamov says that keeping Navalny and his protests off the airwaves to deprive him of additional publicity no longer makes sense.“The fact that this strategy has changed suggests that the pro-government television audience is somehow receiving information about Navalny’s activities through other channels, recognizes him, is interested in his work, and in this sense, keeping the silence doesn’t make any sense,” Gallyamov said.The weekend protests in scores of Russian cities last month over Navalny’s detention represented the largest outpouring of popular discontent in years and appeared to have rattled the Kremlin. Police reportedly arrested about 10,000 people, and many demonstrators were beaten, while state media sought to downplay the scale of the protests.TV channels aired footage of empty squares in cities where protests were announced and claimed that few people showed up. Some reports portrayed police as polite and restrained, claiming officers had helped people with disabilities cross busy streets, handed out face masks and offered demonstrators hot tea.Once the protests died down and Navalny ally Leonid Volkov announced a pause until the spring, Kremlin-backed media reported that grassroots flash mobs titled “Putin is our president” started sweeping the country. State news channel Rossiya 24 broadcast videos from different cities of people dancing to patriotic songs and waving Russian flags, describing them as a genuine expression of support for Putin.Several independent online outlets reported that instructions to record videos in support of Putin came from the Kremlin and the governing United Russia party and that people in some of the recordings were invited under false pretenses.The Russian president's spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, said the Kremlin had nothing to do with the pro-Putin videos.After Navalny's team posted its video involving the palace allegedly built for Putin, state channel Rossiya aired its own expose of Navalny. Anchor Dmitry Kiselev claimed in Germany, Navalny lived “in the luxury he so much despises.”The reporter filmed inside a house Navalny rented but failed to capture any high-end items in the two-story building, which featured several bedrooms and a small swimming pool.She pointed to “two sofas, a TV, fresh fruit on the table” in the living room and “a kitchen with a coffee machine,” and described a bedroom as “luxurious” even though it looked a a business hotel room.In recent days, official media coverage focused on the flashlights-in-courtyards protest, accusing Navalny ally Volkov of acting on instructions from his Western handlers.The political talk show “60 Minutes" devoted nearly a half-hour to the topic, calling the flashlight rally an idea from a handbook on revolutions. It aired footage of protesters shining flashlights during the 2014 Maidan protests in Ukraine, mass rallies in Belarus last summer and other uprisings.On Thursday, state news agencies Tass and RIA Novosti, citing anonymous sources, claimed that a terrorist group from Syria was training insurgents for possible terrorist attacks in Russian cities at “mass rallies.”“The Kremlin is awfully scared of the flashlight action,” because such a peaceful, light-hearted event would allow the opposition to build a rapport with new supporters who are not ready to be more visible, Volkov said in a YouTube video.He suggested the heavy-handed response to the announcement actually helped dispel skepticism about the courtyard demonstrations.“I saw many posts on social media (saying) ‘When Navalny’s headquarters announced the flashlight rally, I thought what nonsense… But when I saw the Kremlin’s reaction, I realized they were right to come up with it.’”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pronavalny-flashlight-protests-light-up-russian-cities-101613345194201.html
15-02-2021||World||Average new US coronavirus cases below 100K for 1st time in months||Average daily new coronavirus cases in the United States dipped below 100,000 in recent days for the first time in months, but experts cautioned Sunday that infections remain high and precautions to slow the pandemic must remain in place.The seven-day rolling average of new infections was well above 200,000 for much of December and went to roughly 250,000 in January, according to data kept by Johns Hopkins University, as the pandemic came roaring back after it had been tamed in some places over the summer.That average dropped below 100,000 on Friday for the first time since Nov. 4. It stayed below 100,000 on Saturday.“We are still at about 100,000 cases a day. We are still at around 1,500 to 3,500 deaths per day. The cases are more than two-and-a-half-fold times what we saw over the summer,” Dr. Rochelle Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “It’s encouraging to see these trends coming down, but they’re coming down from an extraordinarily high place.”On Saturday, the seven-day rolling average for deaths was around 2,500. That number peaked at more than 3,300 earlier in the winter, according to Johns Hopkins.The US saw a spike of more than 5,400 deaths reported Friday — nearly half from Ohio, where authorities said earlier in the week that they planned to add deaths to the state's tally over the course of a few days after discovering as many as 4,000 unreported Covid-19 fatalities.Walensky added that new variants, including one first detected in the United Kingdom that appears to be more transmissible and has already been recorded in more than 30 states, will likely lead to more cases and more deaths.“All of it is really wraps up into we can’t let our guard down,” she said. “We have to continue wearing masks. We have to continue with our current mitigation measures. And we have to continue getting vaccinated as soon as that vaccine is available to us.”The U.S. has recorded more than 27.5 million virus cases and more than 484,000 deaths, according to the Johns Hopkins data.With parents and political leaders eager to have children around the country back in school for in-person learning, it is important that people continue to observe precautions, Walensky said.“We need to all take responsibility to decrease that community spread, including mask wearing so that we can get our kids and our society back,” she said.The CDC released guidance on Friday outlining mitigation strategies necessary to reopen schools or to keep them open.Some teachers have expressed concern about returning to the classroom without having been vaccinated, but the guidelines do not say that's necessary. Dr. Anthony Fauci said on ABC’s “This Week" that it would be “optimal” if teachers were vaccinated but that other measures laid out in the 24-page document can lessen their risk.“Practically speaking, when you balance the benefit of getting the children back to school with the fact that the risks are being mitigated, if you follow the recommendations and these new guidelines from the CDC, hopefully, I think that will alleviate the concerns on both sides,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/average-new-us-coronavirus-cases-below-100k-for-1st-time-in-months-101613344985878.html
15-02-2021||World||After Trump acquittal, Republicans see 'battle for soul of party'||A day after the Senate acquitted Donald Trump in a historic second impeachment trial, America was weighing how long a shadow the former president will cast -- over his party, and over the country.The Senate on Saturday voted 57-43 to convict Trump of inciting the January 6 assault on the US Capitol.It was a stinging rebuke, with seven Republicans joining all Democrats in the most bipartisan impeachment vote ever, but it fell far short of the 67 votes needed for conviction.With Trump hinting afterward at a possible political future, even as other Republicans said it was time to move on, the stark divide facing the party was on full view.One frequent Trump critic, Republican Governor Larry Hogan of Maryland, on Sunday predicted a "real battle for the soul of the Republican Party.""This is not over," he told CNN, adding he would have voted to convict Trump.- 'Need to work with Trump' -Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana was one of the seven Republicans to vote to convict; he predicted Sunday that Trump's still-strong hold on Republicans would fade."I think his force wanes... I think our leadership will be different going forward," he told ABC's "This Week."Several Republicans, even while voting to acquit Trump, expressed dismay over his role on January 6 and in the weeks before, as he stoked anger with false claims the November election was stolen from him.But one of the former president's fiercest defenders, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, insisted Sunday that Trump, with his fervent following, retains a huge political role as the party looks ahead to the 2022 midterm elections.He called Trump the "most vibrant member of the Republican Party," adding, "We need to work with President Trump -- we can't do it without him."Despite Trump's acquittal, Democrats insisted Sunday they had achieved a moral and political victory by securing some Republican votes in the Senate trial while permanently tarring Trump's name and clearing the way for President Joe Biden to quickly advance his agenda."We clearly won in the court of public opinion," Representative Don Beyer told CNN.- Party base -Trump has flirted with the idea of running for the White House again in 2024. A conviction Saturday would have likely barred him from holding federal office again.Merely hinting at a possible run will keep him in political conversations -- and allow him to continue raising large amounts of money.Yet a number of Republicans have distanced themselves from the former president, who after all lost the election to Biden by seven million votes while also seeing his party lose control of the Senate.Several Republicans are lining up to seek the presidential nomination in 2024, and they are eager to leave him in the party's past.One of them, Nikki Haley, a former governor who served Trump as ambassador to the United Nations, was blunt in an interview posted Friday by Politico, saying Trump was increasingly isolated and had "lost any sort of political viability."But Republicans who have openly opposed Trump have faced fierce blowbacks from the party's base, and many remain fearful of his tendency to exact payback from critics.Trump has been deprived, however, of a key weapon he used against political enemies -- Twitter. It is unclear whether he can generate the same levels of enthusiasm among Republicans as he did in the past.And Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell -- who voted against conviction, saying a former president could not be impeached -- nonetheless identified another major challenge facing Trump.In a blistering attack Saturday, McConnell said "there's no question -- none -- that President Trump is practically and morally responsible for provoking the events" of January 6.He stressed that as a civilian Trump faces potential civil and criminal legal vulnerability on a range of issues, adding: "He didn't get away with anything yet."As the party's de facto leader now, McConnell seemed determined to quash any future role for Trump and try to guide Republicans back in a more traditional direction.Meantime, some members of both parties have called for creation of a bipartisan commission to examine the January 6 events -- not unlike the panel that examined the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks -- which could further tarnish Trump's reputation.Trump for now remains secluded in his Florida club.In his statement Saturday, he welcomed the verdict, denouncing the proceedings as "yet another phase of the greatest witch hunt in the history of our country."He then added: "We have so much work ahead of us, and soon we will emerge with a vision for a bright, radiant, and limitless American future."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-trump-acquittal-republicans-see-battle-for-soul-of-party-101613344652930.html
15-02-2021||World||Myanmar rattled by army movements, apparent internet cutoff||Sightings of armored personnel carriers in Myanmar’s biggest city and an internet shutdown raised political tensions late Sunday, after vast numbers of people around the country flouted orders against demonstrations to protest the military’s seizure of power.Public concern has already been heightened for the past few nights by what many charge is the military’s manipulation of criminals released from prison to carry out nighttime violence and stir up panic.Ambassadors from the United States and Canada and 12 European nations called on Myanmar's security forces to refrain from violence against those “protesting the overthrow of their legitimate government.” They condemned the arrests of political leaders and activists as well as the military’s interference with communications."We support the people of Myanmar in their quest for democracy, freedom, peace, and prosperity,” they said in a joint statement issued late Sunday night. “The world is watching.”The military seized power on Feb. 1, detaining the country's elected leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, and members of her government and preventing recently elected lawmakers from opening a new session of Parliament.The junta, led by Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, said it was forced to step in because the government failed to properly investigate allegations of fraud in last year’s election, which Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party won in a landslide. The state election commission refuted that contention, saying there is no evidence to support it.There was no official word about why armored personnel carriers traversed the streets of Yangon in broad daylight Sunday, making their way through busy traffic. As night fell, there were videos and other reports on social media of the movement of trucks packed with soldiers, and in the central city of Mandalay as well.An order that appears to be from the Ministry of Transport and Communications told mobile phone service providers to shut down internet connections from 1 a.m. to 9 a.m. Monday. It circulated widely on social media, as did a notice said to be from service provider Oredoo Myanmar containing the same details. Several users contacted through other means confirmed that access though Myanmar's broadband and mobile services were cut as scheduled.Monday holds the prospect of two flashpoints for the political standoff.Suu Kyi remains under house arrest, but a remand order holding her on a minor charge of possessing unregistered imported walkie-talkies expires Monday and a court in the capital, Naypyitaw, is supposed to take action on her case. Her freedom is a major demand of the protest movement.Khin Maung Zaw, a lawyer asked by Suu Kyi’s party to represent her, said he was uncertain if she would have a court appearance Monday, and it could be delayed by a day. He has not been able to make contact with Suu Kyi.There is also the possibility that a young woman who was shot during a demonstration last week, also in Naypyitaw, will be declared legally dead. She has been on life support in a hospital in the capital, and unofficial memorial services were held for her Sunday at protests in Yangon and Mandalay, the country’s two biggest cities.Large demonstrations were also held in Naypyitaw and far-flung corners of the country dominated by ethnic minorities.Resistance also took place in cyberspace, as a group calling itself BrotherHood of Myanmar Hackers defaced the government’s Myanmar Digital News website, replacing content on its home page with words and pictures against the military takeover.Protesters in Yangon again rallied outside the Chinese and U.S. embassies. They accuse Beijing of propping up the military regime and applaud Washington’s actions sanctioning the military. There were scattered appeals on Twitter for armed intervention by the United States.Other protesters carried signs urging people to boycott businesses linked to the military.Eight days of street demonstrations are estimated to have drawn hundreds of thousands of people to the streets despite the threat of six months’ imprisonment for violating an order banning gatherings of five or more people. The same order imposes an 8 p.m. to 4 a.m. curfew.Sunday’s activism took place after the ruling junta issued a new order suspending several basic civil liberties.The order, issued late Saturday and published Sunday in state newspapers, suspends provisions in an existing law on security and privacy protection, allowing the authorities to carry out searches and make arrests without court warrants.It also allows the interception of electronic and other communications without a warrant and permits the detention of detainees for more than 24 hours without court permission.Civil servants have been very active in the protests, and social media postings on Sunday indicated that state railway workers have joined them, with some unconfirmed claims that they have gone on strike.The public at large has been alarmed since the government last week declared an amnesty that led to the release of more than 23,000 convicts. There are many claims on social media that some have been recruited by the authorities to carry out violent activities at night in residential areas to spread panic, especially by setting fires. Some areas have responded by setting up their own neighborhood watch groups.The truth of the allegations about government-directed thugs is difficult to verify, even with videos claiming to show their activities. There is historical precedent, as the military released convicts to carry out violence and cause chaos in 1988 during a failed popular uprising against a military dictatorship.People have also been rattled by police raids carried out during curfew hours to seize individuals seen as opposed to the coup. In several cases, nearby residents rushed to the scene in such numbers that security forces abandoned their attempts to haul in their targets.The independent Assistance Association for Political Prisoners says 400 people have been detained since the coup, with 375 still being held.Detainees have included political leaders, government officials, civil servants, activists and student leaders. Medical personnel have been singled out because their community initiated the civil disobedience campaign against the military takeover and remains in its vanguard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-rattled-by-army-movements-apparent-internet-cutoff-101613344672830.html
15-02-2021||World||Trump acquitted, Biden calls it ‘sad chapter’ for democracy||Former president Donald Trump was acquitted on Saturday, with not enough senators voting to convict him of inciting the riot at the US Capitol on January 6. He will still go down in history as the only American president to have been impeached twice, and acquitted twice.The motion to convict Trump for the riot received 57 “guilty” verdicts, with seven Republicans joining all the 50 Democrats; and 43 “not guilty”, by all the remaining Republicans. A conviction, which would have barred him from holding any federal office in future, required 67 votes, or two-thirds of the 100-member chamber.“While the final vote did not lead to a conviction, the substance of the charge is not in dispute,” President Joe Biden said. “This sad chapter in our history has reminded us that democracy is fragile. That it must always be defended. That we must be ever vigilant. That violence and extremism has no place in America. And that each of us has a duty and responsibility as Americans, and especially as leaders, to defend the truth and to defeat the lies.”This was the largest bipartisan vote ever in the impeachment trial of a US president. And it reflected the growing disaffection with Trump in the party. Seven Republicans declared him guilty this time, compare to only one during his first impeachment trial in January 2020; and 10 House Republicans had voted to impeach him this time, compared to none the last time, in December 2019.Many of the Republicans who voted “not guilty” on Saturday were at pains to stress they had done so only on a technicality — that the American constitution does not provide for convicting a president who is no longer in office. They denounced him roundly for his role in inciting the insurrection. Among them was Mitch McConnell, the top Republican in the Senate, who voted “not guilty” but said in a speech that Trump was “practically and morally responsible” for the Capitol invasion.Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat, lashed out at them, telling reporters later, “What we saw in that Senate today was a cowardly group of Republicans who apparently have no options, because they were afraid to defend their job, respect the institution in which they serve.”Trump thanked his lawyers and supporters in a statement and sought to play the victim saying the trial was “yet another phase of the greatest witch hunt in the history of our Country’”. He also indicated he will be back — “soon we will emerge with a vision for a bright, radiant, and limitless American future”.The acquittal may not, however, mark the end of Trump’s legal troubles, both related to the insurrection and other ongoing cases. “President Trump is still liable for everything he did while he was in office as an ordinary citizen,” McConnell pointed to it in his floor speech explaining his vote. “He didn’t get away with anything. Yet.”A Georgia county opened a criminal investigation last week into efforts by Trump to pressure election officials in the state to overturn his defeat. New York district attorney is investigating financial dealings regarding his signature Manhattan properties, a probe that started two years ago with the payment of hush money by the Trump campaign. And the Southern District of New York has been investigating a non-public probe, according to the Trump’s former lawyer Michael Cohen.The House of Representatives had impeached Trump on January 13 on the solitary charge of inciting insurrection at the US Capitol on January 6. Incited by him, a mob of supporters had breached the seat of American democracy to prevent a joint session of Congress from verifying President Joe Biden’s election victory. Five people died in the melee, including a police officer. More than 200 people have been charged for alleged involvement since.The final conviction vote capped a day of dramatic twists and turns, starting with the decision by the impeachment House managers — nine Democratic members of the House of Representatives — to call for witnesses to testify in the trial, a surprising development that could have potentially prolonged the process for days if not weeks.But the House managers ultimately dropped the move in a deal with Trump’s lawyers, and the trial was back on track, heading speedily for the vote as was expected earlier.“We’ve offered you overwhelming and irrefutable and certainly unrefuted evidence that former president Trump incited this insurrection against us,” said Representative Jamie Raskin, the lead House manager, launching the team’s closing argument. He and other managers went over some of the evidence they had presented earlier in their case for convicting Trump and tried, but failed, to introduce new ones.Trump’s defence lawyer Michael van der Veen argued in his closing remarks, “At no point did you hear anything that could ever possibly be construed as Mr Trump encouraging or sanctioning an insurrection. He added: “The act of incitement never happened. He engaged in no language of incitement whatsoever on January 6 or any other day following the election.”The seven Republicans who voted to convict the former president are Senators Mitt Romney, Bill Cassidy, Richard Burr, Susan Collins, Lisa Murkowski, Pat Toomey and Ben Sasse. “President Trump incited the insurrection against Congress by using the power of his office to summon his supporters to Washington on January 6th and urging them to march on the Capitol during the counting of electoral votes,” Romney, who is also a former presidential candidate, said in a statement. “President Trump also violated his oath of office by failing to protect the Capitol, the vice president, and others in the Capitol. Each and every one of these conclusions compels me to support conviction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-acquitted-biden-calls-it-sad-chapter-for-democracy-101613281421903.html
