22-02-2021||World||Trump could declare himself 2024 presidential nominee in speech: Report||Former US President Donald Trump is likely to declare himself the “presumptive 2024 nominee” in his first public appearance after leaving office, according to news report by Axios.Trump is scheduled to speak at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC), an annual gathering of conservatives considered to be an essential stop over for Republicans with presidential aspirations. Aides said earlier he was expected to speak on February 28.The former president will declare himself the “presumptive” nominee and is likely to say “I may not have Twitter or the Oval Office, but I’m still in charge”, a report by Axios said, citing top Trump allies, including a long-time adviser, none of whom were identified in the report.The former president has not yet spoken about his post-White House plans in clear terms. But his aides and relatives have all pointed to a possible presidential run in 2024.“We will be back in some form,” Trump had himself said in his last remarks as president on January 20.The former president has kept a low profile since, forced primarily by the loss of his social media accounts that have remained shut since the January 6 insurrection at the US Capitol.But he has lashed out Republican leaders who are seeking to end his influence in the party, such as Mitch McConnell, the minority leader in the Senate, who has been the former president’s most outspoken critic. A tussle is under way for the control of the Republican Party with some leaders like McConnell eager to take it past Trump, and away from his divisive politics.Many others who had criticised him in the immediate aftermath of the Capitol insurrection have since fallen in line. Top House Republican Kevin McCarthy and his No 2. Steve Scalise, have both been to Mar-a-Lago, Trump’s Florida resort that is his home for him now, in a public show of support.The former president remains a dominant force in the party. Nearly 6 out of 10 registered Republicans said Trump should play a dominant role in the party, in a recent poll. And 54% said they will back him in the 2024 primary, a whopping 42 points ahead of former vice-president Mike Pence||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-could-declare-himself-2024-presidential-nominee-speechreport-101614016709079.html
22-02-2021||World||Key senators oppose Neera Tanden’s nomination as Biden’s budget czar||Indian American Neera Tanden’s chances of being confirmed as President Joe Biden’s budget chief suffered a major blow on Monday after two Republican senators, who were most likely to bail her out by compensating for the loss of support from a Democrat, announced she did not have their votes.Tanden has faced opposition for sharp and sometimes offensive remarks she made over the last four years, especially against Republicans. She has called Senator Collins “the worst”; and Senator Mitch McConnell, the top Republican, “Moscow Mitch” and “Voldemort”. Republican Senators Susan Collins and Mitt Romney have broken with the rest of party vote against the party line, and with Democrats. “Neera Tanden has neither the experience nor the temperament to lead this critical agency. Her past actions have demonstrated exactly the kind of animosity that President Biden has pledged to transcend,” Collins said in a statement.“Senator Romney has been critical of extreme rhetoric from prior nominees, and this is consistent with that position. He believes it’s hard to return to comity and respect with a nominee who has issued a thousand mean tweets, ” a spokesperson for Romney said.Tanden’s supporters had looked to them and a few others to compensate for the “No” vote announced by Senator Joe Manchin, a Democrat, last week. Tanden needs the support of all 50 Democrats in the evenly divided 100-member Senate, in the hope of getting past the line, with Vice-President Kamala Harris’s constitutionally provided tie-breaker vote. With the loss of Manchin’s support, Tanden was down to 49 Democrats, and was at the mercy of Republicans to get to 50 votes.Another Indian American, Vivek Murthy, who is Biden’s nominee for Surgeon General, could face headwinds when his starts his confirmation process on Thursday, over earnings from Covid-19 consulting work for private companies. Murthy had advised Biden’s campaign on the pandemic and joined the president-elect’s Covid-19 task force as a co-chair. He is likely to be confirmed, although narrowly.Murthy, who will appear for his confirmation as Surgeon General for a second stint, could face questions about consultancy earnings. He made $2.6 million since January 2020, in Covid-19 related consulting last year, according to ethics documents he filed himself, which were first reported by the Washington.The earnings were from Carnival Corporation’s cruise lines, which have become for a time a major Covid-19, Airbnb’s rental properties and other firms. He also made $522,650 for about three dozen speeches at a range of venues including hospitals and health insurers. Murthy had advised Biden, as a candidate, was a co-chair of the president-elect’s taskforce on the coronavirus pandemic.No senator, from either party, has raised the issue of his earnings yet. But he had a rocky confirmation the last time around, with Republicans targeting him for his position on gun violence which he considers a public health problem. He was confirmed eventually in 2014, a year and a half after being nominated.Murthy’s nomination could run into trouble with Manchin again. The senator is gun rights supporter, and he had voted against confirming him in 2014. This time, a spokesperson told the Washington Post, the senator “has not decided how he will vote”.President Biden has said he is not pulling Tanden’s nomination and said last week he was confident she will be confirmed. The White House is still backing her. “Neera Tanden is an accomplished policy expert who would be an excellent Budget Director and we look forward to the committee votes this week and to continuing to work toward her confirmation through engagement with both parties,” Jen Psaki, the spokesperson, said in a statement on Monday.Tanden has apologised for her past remarks, and repeatedly during the confirmation hearings. “I do think the last several years have been very polarizing and I apologise for my language that has contributed to that,” she said.If confirmed Tanden will become the first Indian American to hold a regular federal cabinet position. Nikki Haley had held a cabinet-rank position as ambassador to the UN in the Trump administration. That post was downgraded after her exit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/key-senators-oppose-neera-tanden-s-nomination-as-biden-s-budget-czar-101614016348889.html
22-02-2021||World||Joe Biden raised $22 million for transition, tripling Donald Trump’s total||President Joe Biden raised $22.1 million to pay for the costs of his transition, far exceeding the $6.5 million his predecessor raised four years ago, according to data released Monday by the Government Services Administration.Biden’s transition was also costlier. He spent $24.4 million through mid-February, while Trump spent $4.7 million through the same period in 2017. Trump’s total did not include any public money.Former President Donald Trump’s refusal to accept the results of the election led to a delay in releasing $6 million in public money designated for presidential transitions. The GSA waited almost three weeks after the Nov. 3 election to ascertain Biden as the apparent winner, freeing up the money and getting his team access to detailed briefing books on government agencies. Biden’s transition team raised $7.3 million between the election and the GSA releasing funds.In addition to federal funds, transition teams can also raise money from the public, with donations limited to $5,000 each. Biden’s campaign also transferred $498,400 in unused campaign funds to the transition.Biden’s transition spending included $16.7 million on payroll and $5 million on travel and events. For Trump’s transition, travel and relocation expenses totaled $1.8 million and payroll spending hit $1 million.Under federal law, transition teams are not required to report detailed information on their expenditures, but rather lump sums spent in certain categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-raised-22-million-for-transition-tripling-donald-trump-s-total-101614014446909.html
22-02-2021||World||WHO chief scientist says India's first shipment under COVAX program likely this week||The first shipment from India under COVAX, the global initiative to ensure rapid and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines for all countries, is likely to roll out this week, WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said on Monday. "Not in the next couple of months. This week. (I think) today or tomorrow, the first shipment from India, from the Serum Institute, will be going out to at least 25 or 30 countries and then we hope that this will be followed by the vaccines also that are being manufactured in India. Many countries around the world are waiting for the distribution to happen as they have been watching vaccination programmes beginning and scaling in high income countries, while their own healthcare workers and other vulnerable groups are still waiting," she said, during a virtual panel discussion. She said this in reply to question whether WHO would start rolling out the COVAX facility officially to other countries in the next couple of months. The panel discussion on 'Immunizing the World' was held during 'BioAsia-2021', the flagship annual life sciences event of the Telangana government. The role being played by India needs to be recognised and the country has risen to the occasion, expanding its huge manufacturing capacity, she said. Observing that "amazing" Research and Development is also happening in India with a lot of innovative products in clinical trials, she hoped that they would also be successful. Asked what it takes for countries to overcome the pandemic, she said it would be solidarity, global collaboration and unity. "Because, it's clear that a pandemic cannot be addressed on a country-by-country or a region-by-region basis," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-chief-scientist-says-india-s-first-shipment-under-covax-likely-this-week-101614013133961.html
22-02-2021||World||A day that will live in infamy: US nears 500,000th Covid-19 death||The United States on Monday closed in on the staggering milestone of 500,000 Covid-19 deaths just over a year to the day since the coronavirus pandemic claimed its first known US victims in Santa Clara County, California.The country had recorded more than 28 million Covid-19 cases and 499,510 lives lost as of Monday morning, according to a Reuters tally of public health data, although daily deaths and hospitalizations have fallen to the lowest level since before the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays.About 19% of total global coronavirus deaths have occurred in the United States, an outsized figure given that the nation accounts for just 4% of the world's population."These numbers are stunning," Dr. Anthony Fauci, a top infectious disease adviser to President Joe Biden told ABC News' "Good Morning America" program. "If you look back historically, we've done worse than almost any other country and we're a highly developed, rich country."The country's poor performance reflects the lack of a unified, national response last year, when the administration of former President Donald Trump mostly left states to their own devices in tackling the greatest public heath crisis in a century, with the president often in conflict with his own health experts.Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris are set to commemorate the huge loss of life due to Covid-19 later on Monday during an event at the White House that will include a speech by the president, a moment of silence and a candle lighting ceremony.Over the past 12 months, the virus has taken a full year off the average life expectancy in the United States, the biggest decline since World War Two.Sweeping through the country at the beginning of last year, the US epidemic had claimed its first 100,000 lives by May.The death toll doubled by September as the virus ebbed and surged during the summer months.Pandemic-weary Americans, like so many around the world, grappled with the mountain of loss brought by Covid-19 as health experts warned of yet another coronavirus resurgence during the upcoming fall and winter months.Americans lost mothers and fathers, husbands and wives, brothers, sisters and friends to the virus. For many, the grief was amplified by the inability to see loved ones in hospitals or nursing homes and by the physical distancing imposed by authorities to curb the spread.By December, the death toll had reached 300,000 as the United States entered a deadly post holiday season that would claim 230,000 lives in the span of less than three months.With numbers that made the appalling toll early in the pandemic pale by comparison, deaths recorded between December and February accounted for 46% of all US Covid-19 fatalities, even as vaccines finally became available and a monumental effort to inoculate the American public got under way.Despite the grim milestone, the virus appears to have loosened its grip as Covid-19 cases in United States fell for the sixth consecutive week.Fauci cautioned against complacency and urged Americans to continue public health measures such as wearing masks, physical distancing and avoiding crowds while officials race to inoculate the population, particularly with more contagious new variants of the virus circulating."We've got to be really careful and not just say 'OK we're finished now, we're through it," he told ABC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-day-that-will-live-in-infamy-us-nears-500-000th-covid-19-death-101614012196677.html
22-02-2021||World||Rockets target US embassy in Iraqi capital, says report||At least three rockets targeted the US embassy on Monday in the high-security Green Zone of Iraq's capital Baghdad, local security sources told AFP.One of them fell within the perimeter of the Green Zone but others landed in surrounding residential neighbourhoods, the security sources said.The attack is the third in a week to target Western diplomatic, military or commercial installations in Iraq after months of relative calm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rockets-target-us-embassy-in-iraqi-capital-says-report-101614012447178.html
22-02-2021||World||Teachers may play role in in-school Covid-19 transmission: US CDC||Teachers may play an important role in the transmission of Covid-19 within schools, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said on Monday, citing a study conducted in elementary schools in a Georgia school district.The report comes after researchers from the agency last month said there was little evidence that schools were spreading Covid-19 infections in the country - based in part on a study of schools in Wisconsin - easing concerns about allowing in-person learning. The Wisconsin study found significantly lower virus spread within schools compared with transmission in the surrounding communities.An investigation involving about 2,600 students and 700 staff members of a Georgia school district's elementary schools showed nine clusters of Covid-19 cases involving 13 educators and 32 students at six elementary schools, the CDC said.Of these, two clusters involved probable teacher-to-teacher transmission that was followed by teacher-to-student transmission in classrooms, the agency said in its Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.Transmission from teachers resulted in about half of 31 school-related cases, according to the investigation.The study was subject to some limitations including difficulty in determining whether coronavirus transmission happened in school or out in the local community, the agency noted.Distinguishing between the two types of transmission was particularly challenging when the 7-day average number of cases per 100,000 persons exceeded 150, the agency said.The CDC said Covid-19 vaccination of educators should be considered as an additional mitigation measure to be added when available, although not required for reopening schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/teachers-may-play-role-in-in-school-covid-19-transmission-us-cdc-101614011575593.html
22-02-2021||World||Prime minister Boris Johnson sets out plan for fully reopening UK in June||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson pledged to reopen England’s stores and outdoor hospitality from mid-April, as he set out his aim to fully restart the economy from June 21.In a statement to Parliament, Johnson set out four steps to carefully reopen the country after its lockdown, warning there would need to be at least five weeks between each to judge the impact on infections and deaths.“The threat remains substantial,” said Johnson. “It is so crucial that this road map should be cautious, but also irreversible. The end is in sight and a wretched year will give way to a spring and summer that is very different and incomparably better to the picture we see today.’Johnson is already facing pressure to move faster, after the economy endured its worst recession in more than 300 years. Government guidance asking people to work from home where possible will remain in place for another four months, and the request will be examined as part of a review of social distancing measures.The relaxation of England’s third national lockdown will begin with schools returning for all pupils on March 8, followed by outdoor gatherings of either six people or two households outdoors from March 29.From April 12 at the earliest, large sectors of the economy could reopen: non-essential shops, hairdressers and nail salons, outdoor attractions including zoos and theme parks, indoor gyms and swimming pools, and hospitality for outdoor service. Self-catered holiday accommodation would also open at this point.UK’s Timeline Out of Lockdown: When the Rules Can Be RelaxedFrom May 17 at the earliest, indoor hospitality and hotels reopen, as well as entertainment venues such as cinemas and children’s play areas. International travel could also resume from this date, although this remains subject to a government review.June 21 is the earliest date by which all limits on social contact can be lifted and the final sectors of the economy, such as nightclubs, could reopen. Each move will be taken uniformly across England.But four tests must be met before the government can move onto each step. These are:ReviewsJohnson also announced four reviews, including into whether proof of vaccines or negative tests could help people gain access to venues or workplaces. Separately, pilot tests will start in April to look at whether events can be run with larger crowd sizes and reduced social distancing.A taskforce will be set up to explore how to facilitate greater inbound and outbound travel while still managing the risk of variants, and there will be a review of social distancing measures such as face coverings.Britain’s Next Answer to Covid-19 Is to Prepare to Live With ItEngland has been under lockdown since early January, with schools closed and shops, pubs and restaurants shuttered. With cases and deaths now falling rapidly, an influential group of Conservative backbenchers wants to see all restrictions lifted by the end of April.That pressure is mounting amid falling case numbers and a significant acceleration of theUK’s vaccination program, with all adults to be offered a shot by the end of July and everyone over 50 by mid-April.One in three adults -- more than 17.5 million people -- have had a vaccine as of Sunday. Health authorities reported 9,834 new cases on Sunday, down from the peak week in January when cases averaged almost 60,000 a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prime-minister-boris-johnson-sets-out-plan-for-fully-reopening-uk-in-june-101614011259854.html
22-02-2021||World||Italy extends ban on movement between regions until late march||Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi has extended a ban on movement between the country’s 20 regions for another month -- until late March -- as his new government tries to step up a vaccination campaign to counter the pandemic.A cabinet meeting chaired by Draghi prolonged travel curbs between regions until March 27 and maintained a 10 p.m. curfew, according to a statement. The government also introduced a ban on visits between households in the highest-risk areas.Draghi has made speeding up vaccinations a priority for his administration, with a plan to draw on civil protection officials, the armed forces and volunteers. He’s aiming to kick-start an economy crippled by the pandemic as well as a year of national and regional lockdowns.The premier is weighing whether to make changes to Italy’s three-tiered system of restrictions based on regional conditions. The rules come up for renewal on March 5 as the pandemic has claimed more than 95,000 lives in a country trapped in the worst recession since World War II, with debt at almost 160% of output.“Unfortunately, given the variants circulating, it’s indispensable that we continue with the restrictions,” Health Minister Roberto Speranza told regional leaders Sunday, Ansa news agency reported.Ministers have also studied demands from regional chiefs including automatic compensation for businesses hit by closures and a review of the criteria for prompting new curbs, in order to allow more businesses to remain open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-extends-ban-on-movement-between-regions-until-late-march-101614001753382.html
22-02-2021||World||Chinese blogger detained over posts on casualties in Galwan clash||Police in the eastern Chinese city of Nanjing have detained a popular blogger over social media posts regarding military casualties of Galwan valley clash with India.The Nanjing Bureau of Public Security said on Saturday that Qiu Ziming, 38, was charged with "picking quarrels and provoking trouble", a vague crime that carries a sentence of up to 10 years in prison.Also Read: Day after PLA deaths are announced, hate messages target Indian embassyThe authorities accused him of demeaning military casualties of the border clash, South China Morning Post reported.Qiu, a former reporter with the weekly Economic Observer, had 2.5 million followers on China's Twitter-like platform Weibo when he published two posts on Friday that suggested a commander survived the clashes because he was the highest-ranking officer there.He also suggested that more Chinese soldiers might have been killed in the conflict than those disclosed by the authorities.On Friday, the Chinese military ended its months-long silence to say that four soldiers - Chen Hongjun, 33, Xiao Siyuan, 24, Wang Zhuoran, 24 and Chen Xiangrong, 18 - were killed in the conflict in the Galwan Valley in June. Their commanding officer Qi Fabao, 41, was badly wounded.Also Read: Beijing on diplomatic charge amid pullbackState media also released footage of the clash showing Qi walking with open arms towards Indian troops and trying to stop them.Earlier in February, Russian news agency TASS had claimed that 45 Chinese soldiers were killed in the clashes at the Galwan Valley.In a commentary on Saturday, state news agency Xinhua accused Qiu of "damaging the reputation of heroes, hurting nationalistic feelings and poisoning patriotic hearts" with his sensational posts.The Chinese Communist Party has long been accused of suppressing the idea that could undermine the sweeping authority.In just the past few years, the government has attempted to muzzle critics by making them disappear without a trace, ordering people to physically barge into their houses, or locking up those close to critics as a kind of blackmail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-blogger-detained-over-posts-on-casualties-in-galwan-clash-101614009397208.html
22-02-2021||World||Stormy Daniels appeal rejected by Supreme Court in defamation suit against Trump||The US Supreme Court turned away an appeal by adult film star Stormy Daniels, refusing to revive her lawsuit accusing former President Donald Trump of defaming her on Twitter.Trump’s 2018 tweet suggested that Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, was lying when she said an unknown man threatened her in a parking lot in 2011 after she agreed to cooperate with a magazine story about what she says was her sexual relationship with Trump.A federal appeals court threw out the suit, saying Clifford’s allegations fell short of meeting the standard for defamation under Texas law. The Supreme Court made no comment Monday in refusing to hear her appeal.Clifford helped prepare a sketch of the man in 2018 when she went public with her story. Trump later retweeted a post that put the sketch next to a photo of Clifford’s ex-husband with a mocking message suggesting the two men resembled each other.“A sketch years later about a nonexistent man,” Trump said in his retweet. “A total con job, playing the Fake News Media for Fools (but they know it)!”The San Francisco-based 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals said Trump’s tweet was a statement of opinion that couldn’t be grounds for a lawsuit.“Because the tweet juxtaposing the two images was displayed immediately below Mr. Trump’s tweet, the reader was provided with the information underlying the allegedly defamatory statement and was free to draw his or her own conclusions,” the three-judge panel said.Clifford’s appeal said that, because she sued in federal court, the 9th Circuit shouldn’t have applied a Texas law designed to prohibit strategic lawsuits that threaten speech rights. Trump urged the Supreme Court to reject the appeal without a hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stormy-daniels-appeal-rejected-by-supreme-court-in-defamation-suit-against-trump-101614006499454.html
22-02-2021||World||UK temporarily bans some Boeing 777s from its airspace after Denver incident||Britain temporarily banned Boeing 777 aircraft with Pratt & Whitney 4000-112 engines from entering its airspace after a jet with that type of engine shed debris over Denver, in the United States, at the weekend."After issues this weekend, Boeing B777s with Pratt & Whitney 4000-112 series engines will be temporarily banned from entering the UK airspace," UK transport minister Grant Shapps said on twitter on Monday.Britain's regulator, the Civil Aviation Authority, noted on twitter that the particular configuration is not used by any UK airlines. It is operated by airlines in the U.S., Japan and South Korea, where authorities have also stopped its use, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-temporarily-bans-some-boeing-777s-from-its-airspace-after-denver-incident-101614003670783.html
22-02-2021||World||EU prepares sanctions on four Russians over Navalny, diplomats say||European Union foreign ministers agreed on Monday to prepare sanctions on four senior Russian officials in a mainly symbolic response to the jailing of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, three EU diplomats said.Ministers reached political agreement during their meeting on Monday after France, Germany, Poland and the Baltics urged the 27-member bloc to send a message to President Vladimir Putin that debate and protest must be allowed in Russia.No names were discussed during the meeting in Brussels, but one diplomat said the head of Russia's Investigative Committee, which handles probes into major crimes, the director of prisons, the director of Russia's National Guard and the prosecutor general were to be targeted with travel bans and asset freezes.Despite calls by Navalny's closest aides for the EU to target members of Russia's business elite close to Putin, EU governments have argued in favour of targeting senior officials because such sanctions can better withstand legal challenges.Navalny was detained after returning to Russia from Germany last month and jailed on Feb. 2 for violating the terms of parole on what he says was a politically motivated conviction.Navalny had been recovering in Germany from being poisoned with a military-grade nerve agent and has accused the Kremlin of trying to kill him, a charge Moscow denies.Russia accuses the EU of meddling in its affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-prepares-sanctions-on-four-russians-over-navalny-diplomats-say-101614002350696.html
22-02-2021||World||IMF says Covid-19 might widen wealth differences in Europe||The Covid-19 pandemic is likely to widen wealth gaps in Europe unless policymakers help end the health crisis globally, support economies until the pandemic is over and invest in making economies greener, the International Monetary Fund said.In a speech to a European Parliament conference on Monday, IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva praised EU governments for putting more than 3 trillion euros in fiscal support for firms and households, including job-retention schemes that helped more than 54 million workers."But the path to recovery is ... uneven... because of the difference in starting positions, economic structure and capacity to respond, causing inequalities to grow both across and within countries," she said.She said in the 27-nation EU, countries that are traditional tourist destinations, such as Spain, Greece, and Italy, contracted more than 9% in 2020 compared to an average contraction of 6.4% across the bloc.According to IMF forecasts, by the end of 2022, per capita income for central and eastern Europe would be 3.8% below pre-crisis projections, compared with a shortfall of just 1.3% for advanced EU economies.Economists have warned that such divergence would make the economic management of the EU, including the monetary policy of the European Central Bank more difficult and would increase the risk of crises down the road."Gradual withdrawal has to follow, not precede, a durable exit from the health crisis. It matters internally, and also in terms of spillovers - a premature tightening of policy when worse-hit economies are still deeply fragile could exacerbate divergence between countries," Georgieva said.EU finance ministers want to keep the fiscal stimulus for now, but will hold talks in the second quarter on when to start shifting from the current blanket support for all businesses to more a targeted approach as the economy recovers, and how to deal with a wave of bankruptcies expected as a result.The EU agreed last year to jointly borrow 750 billion euros and spend it via grants and loans on reforms and green and digital investment that would boost potential growth of those most at risk of falling behind.Georgieva said the coordination of such green and digital investment was the most important action in the long run."Our analysis shows that this could boost global GDP over a 15-year period by about 0.7 percent each year, creating millions of new jobs," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imf-says-covid-19-might-widen-wealth-differences-in-europe-101614002876777.html
22-02-2021||World||US Supreme Court turns away Republican appeals on Presidential election rules||The US Supreme Court turned away two Republican appeals over the deadlines for mail ballots in Pennsylvania, declining to use a lingering dispute over the 2020 election to reset the rules for future presidential contests.The rebuff leaves intact a Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruling that allowed three extra days for ballots to arrive in November because of the pandemic and anticipated mail delays. Republicans said the ruling usurped the power of the state legislature in violation of the US Constitution.Republicans filed the appeals in October, seeking to help Donald Trump’s re-election bid. The Supreme Court declined to intervene before the Nov. 3 election, eventually won by Democrat Joe Biden, but three conservative justices indicated at the time they thought the state court had overstepped.The power of state judges to reshape voting rules has been a recurring theme in presidential-election litigation, playing a central role in the 2000 Bush v. Gore case and in multiple 2020 clashes. Republicans say courts are limited by a US constitutional provision that lets state legislatures set the voting rules.Pennsylvania allowed no-excuse mail-in voting for the first time in 2020. A measure passed in 2019 by the Republican-controlled state legislature and signed by the Democratic governor said those ballots had to be received by 8:00 p.m. on Election Day, Nov. 3.No Fast TrackIn extending the deadline to Nov. 6, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court pointed to a state constitutional clause that guarantees a “free and equal” election. The ruling also required elections officials to presume that any ballot received by Nov. 6 was mailed on time, even if it lacked a legible postmark.State officials said fewer than 10,000 ballots were received during the three-day period after Election Day, a small fraction of the number Trump would have needed to overturn Biden’s 80,555-vote win in the state.The Supreme Court on Oct. 28 refused to fast-track the case for a pre-election ruling. In a statement accompanying that order, Justice Samuel Alito agreed that that the issue couldn’t be resolved before the Nov. 3 election but said there was a “strong likelihood” that the Pennsylvania court ruling was unconstitutional.“The provisions of the federal Constitution conferring on state legislatures, not state courts, the authority to make rules governing federal elections would be meaningless if a state court could override the rules adopted by the legislature simply by claiming that a state constitutional provision gave the courts the authority to make whatever rules it thought appropriate for the conduct of a fair election,” Alito wrote.Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch joined Alito’s statement. Another conservative, Justice Brett Kavanaugh, expressed similar views days earlier in a Wisconsin case.Chief Justice John Roberts has split with his fellow conservatives on the issue. Although Roberts has voted to curb the power of federal judges in election litigation, he suggested in the Wisconsin case that state courts must be given latitude to apply their own constitutions.The newest justice, Amy Coney Barrett, didn’t take part when the court issued its Oct. 28 order.The court’s three liberal justices -- Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan -- have backed the power of both state and federal judges to ease voting restrictions, particularly during the pandemic.The extension was challenged by the Pennsylvania Republican Party and two leading GOP state senators, President Pro Tempore Joseph Scarnati and Majority Leader Jake Corman. In their appeal, Scarnati and Corman argued that the state court “substituted its will for the will of the General Assembly.”Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro defended the extension. He wrote that the constitutional framers “in granting state legislatures the power to prescribe election rules, did not intend to hermetically seal those legislatures from all scrutiny by the co-equal branches of state government.”The cases are Republican Party of Pennsylvania v. Degraffenreid, 20-542, and Corman v. Pennsylvania Democratic Party, 20-574.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-turns-away-republican-appeals-on-presidential-election-rules-101614005642639.html
22-02-2021||World||America's pandemic toll: In one year, half a million lives||Just one year ago, America had no idea.Life in February 2020 still felt normal. Concern was building about a mystery respiratory illness that had just been named Covid-19. There was panic buying, and a sense of trepidation. Yet it was tempered by a large dose of American optimism. The coronavirus still felt like a foreign problem, even as US authorities recorded the country’s first known death from the virus.Precisely a year later, America is hurtling toward a horrifying milestone of 500,000 deaths from Covid-19.A relentless march of death and tragedy has warped time and memory. It became easy to forget the shocking images, so many day after day, of scenes once unthinkable in a country of such wealth and power. As the year unfolded, Associated Press photographers formed a pictorial record of suffering, emotion and resilience. It shows the year that changed America.Looking back, we can see it happened in phases.——-In the beginning, the crisis felt far away.Last February, Americans still greeted each other with handshakes and commuted to work in crowded public transportation. Children were still at school in actual classrooms. Hollywood icon Tom Hanks walked the red carpet at the Oscars, not knowing a month later he and his wife would contract Covid-19. Baseball spring training drew the usual crowds, without a face mask in sight.But an ominous cruise ship with COVID-infected passengers circled off the coast of California. Within weeks, the Grand Princess - and the initial efforts by the state and the federal governments to bar it from coming ashore - became a symbol of America’s misguided belief that it could keep the disease out.Words like shutdown and social distancing were not yet part of our national vocabulary in those early days. Few of us wore masks as we stood in long lines to stockpile groceries and cleared the shelves of toilet paper.—-Heartbreak and despair arrived quickly.Nightmarish scenes we had witnessed in China and Italy reached America, and the nation snapped to attention. Nursing homes near Seattle became the sites of the first deadly US outbreak. We watched the elderly and frail suffer alone: An octogenarian with Covid-19, stretched out in a hospital bed, blowing her family a kiss through a window.The World Health Organization declared the crisis a pandemic in March, and everything from college campuses to corporate headquarters cleared out. The NCAA announced that the rite of spring for so many Americans — its college basketball tournament — would be played before largely empty arenas, and then abruptly canceled it.Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation's leading expert on infectious disease, became a household name in daily news conferences. When he estimated in March that 100,000 to 200,000 Americans could die from the virus, horror was tempered by total disbelief. President Donald Trump touted hydroxychloroquine as a “game changer” but medical experts disagreed.American hustle and bustle came to a standstill as hotspots exploded across the country. The typically jam-packed Los Angeles freeways emptied into eerie stretches of open road. The lights stayed on in Times Square but its legendary energy and crowds vanished. April felt like Armageddon in New York City; ambulances constantly blared down deserted streets, body bags were forklifted into refrigerated trucks that parked outside hospitals where they served as makeshift morgues and stark symbols of death.Aerial footage captured by AP showed another unthinkable sight: a mass grave in New York City for unclaimed bodies of Covid-19 victims. Workers in hazmat suits were seen lowering wooden coffins, stacked neatly on top of each other, into deep trenches dug in a potter’s field off the coast of the Bronx.We marveled at the heroism of healthcare workers and tried to show our gratitude; New Yorkers clapped and cheered and banged pots each night at 7 pm to honor those doctors and nurses.We mourned the nonstop trauma they absorbed on the frontlines.Afraid and exhausted, they battled to save the sick and vowed not to let victims die alone. Inside hospital rooms, where countless patients had no family to comfort them, the grim task of offering solace fell to the overworked and emotionally drained doctors, nurses and hospital chaplains. Some held back tears as they offered non-stop comfort and prayers. “There’s so much death right now, it piles up on you, it feels heavy,” said a chaplain in Georgia.——-The reality that America had become the global epicenter of modern history’s deadliest pandemic crashed into focus.Life moved online: everything from work and school to doctors appointments, birthday parties, weddings — and funerals.It became clear that no one was safe. But some were at far greater risk. Racial disparities in who contracted the virus played out across America as data showed that Black and Latino people were disproportionately affected by the virus and were disproportionately dying of it.Catching Covid-19 became just one of many concerns as the pandemic shut society, forcing businesses to close and unemployment to skyrocket. Paychecks shrank or disappeared altogether for millions, and harrowing portraits of hunger emerged across the country as Americans lined up at food banks, many for the first time in their lives.Science mixed with politics, deepening a national divide and adding to the stress of a nation overwhelmed. Protests against racial injustice sent people, most of them wearing masks, into the streets.Amid the upside-downness of life, we sought normalcy. Restaurants in some places hung their “open” signs and refused to abide by stay-at-home orders, welcoming customers willing to dine inside. Others came up with creative al fresco options. In the parking lot of one California restaurant, a couple brought their own table and even fine china to enjoy Italian takeout.——-Then came some glimmers of hope.Amid escalating loss, vaccines arrived in mid-December, kicking off the biggest vaccination effort in US history. It felt like the first good news in a doomed year. As doctors and nurses got the first shots, some cheered. Others wept, the constant trauma and sorrow merging with hope in one indescribable cathartic moment.As vaccine supply picked up — slowly — many of the country’s amusement parks and stadiums, after months vacant, reopened as vaccination mega sites.Holidays, so often a time of hope, brought more suffering. Empty chairs at family tables were a painful reminder of lost loved ones. Millions of Americans ignored official pleas to avoid travel and gatherings, making the holidays a catalyst for new infections. Surge upon surge of new cases followed Thanksgiving and then Christmas and New Year's Eve, with each day seemingly setting new records for infections.As the country and the world bid goodbye, and good riddance, to 2020 it became clear that 2021, at least the early months, would look pretty similar.Politics shifted with President Joe Biden taking over from Trump. After four years of chaos and controversy, the new president brought a jarring sense of calm to national politics. Still, vaccine delays persist, and it’s not clear if America is winning its war against the virus.The Covid-19 death toll is not stopping at 500,000, and the virus has mutated countless times, with some variants easier to spread and harder to protect against.We wonder, what will our new normal look like? Will we ever again swarm through amusement parks or pack into movie theaters or hold huge business conferences or crowd Times Square for the ball drop to mark the end of another year?The deadliest year in American history has taught us that only time will tell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/americas-pandemic-toll-in-one-year-half-a-million-lives-101614001315763.html
22-02-2021||World||Boris Johnson set to take England out of lockdown: All you need to know||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson will on Monday make a slew of announcements to gradually take the country out of the coronavirus lockdown that it has been under for over a month now. The UK was put under fresh lockdown on January 4 after new variants of coronavirus were found in parts of England.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs many as 9,834 fresh cases of the virus were reported in the country on Sunday, down from the peak week in January when cases averaged almost 60,000 a day. More than 17.5 million people have received their first dose of the vaccine.Here is all you need to know about the expected announcements that would take UK out of lockdown:1. On Monday, Johnson will tell the House of Commons that as of March 8, schools will finally reopen across England, British government officials said, according to news agency Bloomberg.2. Very limited return of outdoor social interaction will be allowed from March 29. People will be allowed to meet one-on-one to sit down for a coffee or picnic outdoors, and after-school activities outside can restart, officials said. The PM is expected to announce that outdoor gatherings of either six people or two households can take place.Also Read: U.K.’s Johnson to say all schools in England to open from March 83. Vaccines Minister Nadhim Zahawi said that the expected announcements were a part of a cautious, slow and deliberate reopening. “We have to be careful, we want it to be sustainable,” he said, according to Sky News.4. Downing Street stressed on the point that they wanted to give something to elderly and vulnerable people, now vaccinated, who have been kept apart from their families for nearly a year, officials said. However, if the Covid-19 situation were to worsen in the country, these relaxations would be pushed back and lockdown reimposed, they added.5. In an emailed statement released Sunday night, Johnson said the government would be “cautious” in its approach “so that we do not undo the progress we have achieved so far.” “Our priority has always been getting children back into school which we know is crucial for their education as well as their mental and physical wellbeing, and we will also be prioritizing ways for people to reunite with loved ones safely,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-set-to-take-england-out-of-lockdown-all-you-need-to-know-101614005362137.html
22-02-2021||World||US Supreme Court allows release of Trump tax returns||The US Supreme Court on Monday paved the way for a New York City prosecutor to obtain former President Donald Trump's tax returns and other financial records as part of a criminal investigation, a blow to his quest to conceal details of his finances.The justices rebuffed Trump's request to put on hold an Oct. 7 lower court ruling directing the former Republican president's longtime accounting firm, Mazars USA, to comply with a subpoena to turn over the materials to a grand jury convened by Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance, a Democrat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-allows-release-of-trump-tax-returns-101614004815817.html
22-02-2021||World||Explained: Iran restricts UN atomic agency to pressure West||Iran will begin restricting the ability of United Nations nuclear inspectors to monitor Tehran's nuclear program. It's part of the Islamic Republic's efforts to pressure European nations and the U.S. into providing the sanctions relief it received under its collapsing 2015 deal with world powers.Full terms of the restrictions remain unclear. But any limit on the ability of inspectors to keep track of Tehran's program raises the risks surrounding what has become one of the Middle East's most sensitive issues since then-President Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew America from the accord in 2018.Meanwhile, an interim deal reached this weekend between Tehran and the International Atomic Energy Agency allowing inspectors to continue their work for up to three months will expire in the middle of campaigning for Iran's next president. That adds uncertainty for the West on who it will see across the table in any negotiations — and what they can expect.HOW IS IRAN LIMITING INSPECTORS?Iran's parliament passed a bill in December requiring the government to limit its cooperation with the IAEA and push its nuclear program beyond the limits of the 2015 nuclear deal. After being modified by a constitutional watchdog under Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the bill became law. Iran then began enriching uranium up to 20% purity, a technical step away from weapons-grade levels, and spinning advanced centrifuges — things both barred by the deal.Iran then threatened, citing the bill, to withdraw from its “Additional Protocol” with the IAEA, a confidential agreement granting the U.N. inspectors enhanced powers to visit facilities and watch Iran's program. IAEA Director-General Rafael Grossi traveled to Iran over the weekend to negotiate.Grossi offered few details on how access was limited on his return to Vienna, though Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said the IAEA would be blocked from accessing its network of surveillance cameras at nuclear sites. The Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, Tehran's civilian nuclear agency, published a statement early Monday in Farsi clarifying that it would keep the footage for three months, then hand it over to the IAEA if granted sanctions relief."Otherwise, it will be deleted forever," the agency said.Grossi said the IAEA will continue to have the same number of inspectors on the ground. However, blocking access to IAEA cameras means the agency can't monitor Iranian actions when those inspectors aren't physically at a site.The new agreement between the IAEA and Iran also affects inspectors’ ability to conduct so-called “snap” inspections of nuclear sites, Grossi said. The director-general suggested some form of such inspections would continue to be allowed, though “not the same” as before. He didn’t elaborate further and Iran hasn’t explained the change.WHY IS IRAN DOING THIS?After facing years of what the Trump administration described as a maximum-pressure campaign, Tehran now wants to leverage its own pressure on European nations and President Joe Biden, who has said he's willing to return to the nuclear deal. The sanctions it faces lock it out of international financial markets and bar it from selling its crude oil abroad. Iran's economy has cratered in the meantime as inflation remains unchecked and its rial currency suffers. The coronavirus pandemic has only worsened those woes.So far, the first weeks of Biden's administration have seen him focus largely on U.S. domestic matters while signaling a willingness to redeploy American troops in the Mideast elsewhere to counter China and Russia. Restricting IAEA inspections, a cornerstone of ensuring Iran's nuclear program is peaceful, provides Iran a way to grab the West's attention.WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR NEGOTIATIONS?Iran insists it wants a return to the 2015 nuclear deal as is. However, provisions of the accord already have begun to expire, such as a restriction on Iran's ability to buy arms from abroad. That has worried Iran's Gulf Arab neighbors, who long have been suspicious of the Islamic Republic's regional intentions.Biden, while saying he wants to return to the deal if Iran complies with its terms, also has pledged to counter what he described as “destabilizing activities” in the region.Iran's ballistic missile program, its support of regional militias and other concerns were not part of the 2015 nuclear deal. The Obama administration at the time said it hoped the deal would lead to further agreements with Iran. Trump cited their absence in part as his decision to withdraw from the accord. Trying to bring that into negotiations — or trying to include Gulf Arab countries or Iranian archrival Israel in those talks — could derail them before they begin.WHAT ARE THE RISKS?The longer negotiations go on, the higher the likelihood the faces on Iran's side of the table will change. Iran faces a presidential election in June and a public disenchanted with President Hassan Rouhani and his allies who struck the accord. Rouhani, a cleric who is a relative moderate in Iran's theocratic government, is term limited from running again. While Khamenei has final say on all matters of state, those elected in Iran do affect the country's policy.Without success at the negotiating table, Iran could bar IAEA inspectors or withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. North Korea, which now has nuclear weapons, is the only country to ever withdraw from the treaty. Iran long has insisted its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes. However, Iran’s intelligence minister warned in February that the West could push it toward building a nuclear weapon.If Iran moves toward seeking an atomic weapon, that also could invite military action from Israel, which has twice bombed Mideast nuclear facilities in the past to block Iraq and Syria from obtaining the bomb. Already, an Iranian nuclear facility suffered a sabotage attack and a scientist was gunned down in an assault last year, incidents Tehran blamed on Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-iran-restricts-un-atomic-agency-to-pressure-west-101614000130639.html
22-02-2021||World||UN to rich nations: Don't undermine Covax vaccine program||The head of the World Health Organization pleaded with rich countries on Monday to check before ordering additional Covid-19 vaccine shots for themselves whether that undermines efforts to get vaccine shots to poorer nations.Wealthy nations have snapped up several billion vaccine doses while some countries in the developing world have little or none. European nations have given financial support to the UN-backed Covax effort to get vaccines to the world’s most vulnerable people and are considering sharing some of their own doses — though they haven't specified when.On Friday, leaders of the Group of Seven industrial powers said they would accelerate global vaccine development and deployment and support “affordable and equitable access to vaccines” and treatments for Covid-19. They cited a collective $7.5 billion from the G-7 to U.N.-backed efforts.WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus thanked the G-7 countries for their “significant” pledges. But he said after talks Monday with German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier that “even if you have the money, if you cannot use the money to buy vaccines … having the money doesn’t mean anything.”He said some rich countries’ approaches to manufacturers to secure more vaccines are “affecting the deals with Covax, and even the amount that was allocated for Covax was reduced because of this.” He didn’t name those countries or give other details.Tedros added that rich countries need to “cooperate in respecting the deals that Covax did” and make sure before they seek more vaccines that their requests don’t undermine those deals."But I don’t think they’re asking that question,” he said.Tedros, who has previously warned that the world faces a “catastrophic moral failure” if Covid-19 vaccines are not distributed fairly, said he understands the political pressures leaders in high-income countries face.They should, he added, tell voters that “the best way to protect you is not only to vaccinate you, but vaccinate the rest of the world, share the vaccine with the rest of the world.”Tedros underlined the importance of using every opportunity to step up vaccine production “because with increased production, the pie is increased, then there is a better volume to share.”“Otherwise, with shortages, sharing is difficult,” he said. “And that's exactly what's happening now.”The 27-nation European Union is among the regions where authorities face pressure over a sluggish start to vaccination efforts. The bloc secured deals last week for millions of additional vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-to-rich-nations-don-t-undermine-covax-vaccine-program-101614000778740.html
22-02-2021||World||Malaysia to build 5G network itself to speed up service launch||Malaysia will build 5G infrastructure itself instead of relying on private telecom carriers as it seeks to accelerate the roll-out of high-speed services.Companies including Telekom Malaysia Bhd. and Huawei Technologies Co. are expected to play a significant role once the work begins “as soon as possible” to have the network available by end-2021, Communications and Multimedia Minister Saifuddin Abdullah said in a group interview on Monday.“We want to be among the first Asean member states to roll out 5G deployment and not just limit ourselves to 5G test labs,” Saifuddin said. “It is very important for investment, and this is where companies like Huawei will play a very, very significant role.”The government’s decision to build the network itself was made for a simple reason that it would be faster, he said. This was after the government considered the options including issuing tenders and asking the main carriers to form a consortium, he added.Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin on Friday announced that Malaysia would invest 15 billion ringgit ($3.7 billion) over 10 years in the 5G network. The government will set up a special purpose vehicle that will own the spectrum and manage the network, he said.Malaysia is backing Huawei for its 5G development, something that has proved controversial in other nations after the previous U.S. administration of President Donald Trump barred the telecom giant from 5G, citing the risk of state-sponsored spying -- allegations the company has repeatedly denied.Under the previous government, Malaysia said it would forgo revenue from spectrum auctions and instead allocate airwaves to a consortium of carriers that would be chosen via a tender process. But in June last year, Saifuddin revoked an order to divvy up 5G airwaves among several carriers including Telekom Malaysia, citing transparency as well as technical and legal issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-to-build-5g-network-itself-to-speed-up-service-launch-101614000149678.html
22-02-2021||World||Republican Senator Susan Collins to oppose Neera Tanden's nomination||The White House said President Joe Biden stands behind Neera Tanden’s nomination as budget director, even as opposition from Republican Senator Susan Collins made Tanden’s already fraught path to confirmation even more difficult.“Neera Tanden is an accomplished policy expert who would be an excellent Budget Director and we look forward to the committee votes this week and to continuing to work toward her confirmation through engagement with both parties,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Monday, after Collins announced her opposition.Psaki’s statement was similar to the message the White House sent after Senator Joe Manchin, a West Virginia Democrat, said he too would vote against Tanden, meaning she would need support of at least one Republican to be successful in the Senate, which is divided 50-50 along party lines. Collins is one of the Senate’s most centrist Republicans, so her opposition is a significant setback for the White House.“Congress has to be able to trust the OMB director to make countless decisions in an impartial manner, carrying out the letter of the law and congressional intent,” Collins, a moderate from Maine, said in a Monday morning statement. “Neera Tanden has neither the experience nor the temperament to lead this critical agency.”Biden senior adviser Cedric Richmond told NPR Monday that the president still believed Tanden could be confirmed, despite opposition from Collins and Manchin.“You named two out of 100, so there are 98 left and we’re going to continue to make the case for her, and she’s going to continue her meetings and her outreach that she’s been doing,” Richmond said. She’s immensely qualified for the position, and the president believes in her.”Tanden, who has led the liberal think-tank Center for American Progress, faces strong Republican opposition over some of her sarcastic social media postings.Collins cited Tanden’s posts as part of the reason for her opposition.“Tanden’s decision to delete more than a thousand tweets in the days before her nomination was announced raises concerns about her commitment to transparency,” she said, adding, “Should Congress need to review documents or actions taken by OMB, we must have confidence that the Director will be forthcoming.”Collins also said Tanden’s “past actions have demonstrated exactly the kind of animosity that President Biden has pledged to transcend.”During her nomination hearing before the Senate Budget Committee, Tanden was chastised by Chairman Bernie Sanders for her past tweets and she pledged to refrain from making personal attacks -- such as those she had directed at Sanders in the past.It wasn’t enough for Collins.“I believe her overtly partisan statements will have a toxic and detrimental impact on the important working relationship between members of Congress and the next director of the Office of Management and Budget,” Collins said Monday.If Tanden’s nomination fails, that could further delay the development of Biden’s fiscal 2022 federal budget proposal, which is already behind schedule and which is the first step in the funding process for the next fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. The OMB director is also in charge of promulgating regulations and acts as a liaison between the White House and federal agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/republican-senator-susan-collins-to-oppose-neera-tanden-s-nomination-101614000232012.html
22-02-2021||World||Australia says no further Facebook, Google amendments as final vote nears||Australia will not alter legislation that would make Facebook and Alphabet Inc's Google pay news outlets for content, a senior lawmaker said on Monday, as Canberra neared a final vote on whether to pass the bill into law.Australia and the tech giants have been in a stand-off over the legislation widely seen as setting a global precedent.Other countries including Canada and Britain have already expressed interest in taking some sort of similar action.Facebook has protested the laws. Last week it blocked all news content and several state government and emergency department accounts, in a jolt to the global news industry, which has already seen its business model upended by the titans of the technological revolution.Talks between Australia and Facebook over the weekend yielded no breakthrough.As Australia's senate began debating the legislation, the country's most senior lawmaker in the upper house said there would be no further amendments."The bill as it stands ... meets the right balance," Simon Birmingham, Australia's Minister for Finance, told Australian Broadcasting Corp Radio.The bill in its present form ensures "Australian-generated news content by Australian-generated news organisations can and should be paid for and done so in a fair and legitimate way".The laws would give the government the right to appoint an arbitrator to set content licencing fees if private negotiations fail.While both Google and Facebook have campaigned against the laws, Google last week inked deals with top Australian outlets, including a global deal with Rupert Murdoch's News Corp."There's no reason Facebook can't do and achieve what Google already has," Birmingham added.A Facebook representative declined to comment on Monday on the legislation, which passed the lower house last week and has majority support in the Senate.A final vote after the so-called third reading of the bill is expected on Tuesday.Lobby group DIGI, which represents Facebook, Google and other online platforms like Twitter Inc, meanwhile said on Monday that its members had agreed to adopt an industry-wide code of practice to reduce the spread of misinformation online.Under the voluntary code, they commit to identifying and stopping unidentified accounts, or "bots", disseminating content; informing users of the origins of content; and publishing an annual transparency report, among other measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-says-no-further-facebook-google-amendments-as-final-vote-nears-101613995360436.html
22-02-2021||World||Prince Philip is 'OK', says William after hospital visit||Prince William said Monday that his grandfather, Prince Philip, is “OK” as the 99-year-old royal consort remains in a London hospital for rest and observation.William was asked about Philip when he visited a coronavirus vaccination center in eastern England.“Yes, he’s OK, they’re keeping an eye on him,” William said, and gave a wink.Philip was admitted to the private King Edward VII’s Hospital in London on Tuesday after falling ill. Buckingham Palace said the husband of Queen Elizabeth II was expected to remain in the hospital into this week for a period of “observation and rest.”Philip’s illness is not believed to be related to Cov-19. Both he and the queen, 94, received a first dose of a vaccine against the coronavirus in early January.Philip, who retired from public duties in 2017, rarely appears in public. During England’s current coronavirus lockdown, Philip, also known as the Duke of Edinburgh, has been staying at Windsor Castle, west of London, with the queen.Philip married the then-Princess Elizabeth in 1947 and is the longest-serving royal consort in British history. He and the queen have four children, eight grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-philip-is-ok-says-william-after-hospital-visit-101614000149568.html
22-02-2021||World||Sweden to probe international adoptions amid worries over illegal practices||Sweden said on Monday it would launch an investigation into how it conducted international adoptions until the 1990s amid growing concern that many children may have been taken from their biological parents illegally.Swedes have adopted about 60,000 children from around the world since the 1950s, according to the daily Dagens Nyheter, many of them from Asia and South America.Worries have been increasing, however, that some of the children may have been stolen from their parents or bought by criminal networks who then gave them up for adoption, with local authorities collaborating to provide false papers."We are going to need to investigate how adoption practices functioned in Sweden between the 1960s and the 1990s," Health and Social Affairs Minister Lena Hallengren said in an interview with the newspaper.Hallengren gave no further information about the investigation. Reports on irregularities in international adoptions have been surfacing for years.In 2018, a commission in Chile looking into policies by which thousands of children from poor families were sent abroad between 1950 and 2000 said that many had been given away without the consent of their parents.In some cases, mothers were told after they had given birth that their child had died, while in reality it had been taken to be put up for international adoption.Swedish families have adopted around 2,000 children from Chile since the 1970s.The Netherlands said this month it would freeze international adoptions after a government commission found irregularities in cases going back to the 1960s.The number of international adoptions in Sweden has been decreasing since the start of the millennium, falling to less than 400 in 2019 from about 1,000 in 2000, according to figures from the Statistics Office.In 2019, the largest number of international adoptions were from Asia. Most adoptions in Sweden are organised by non-profit organisations overseen by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sweden-to-probe-international-adoptions-amid-worries-over-illegal-practices-101613995953578.html
22-02-2021||World||‘Covid-19 crisis has a woman’s face’: UN chief spotlights discrimination during pandemic||United Nations (UN) secretary-general Antonio Guterres on Monday said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has exacerbated discrimination against women and girls as he opened the 46th session of the body's Human Rights Council (UNHRC).Guterres' speech in Geneva focused on racism, the pandemic’s impact on women and human rights, and the ongoing military coup in Myanmar."The Covid-19 pandemic has further exacerbated entrenched discrimination against women and girls. The crisis has a woman’s face," he said, highlighting the pandemic’s impact on women and also criticised countries who are using it as an excuse to crackdown on dissent.Guterres said that women have suffered higher job losses than men and pushed into poverty by greater numbers. “This is on top of already fragile socio-economic conditions due to lower incomes, the wage gap, and a lifetime of less access to opportunities, resources and protections,” he added.Another UN body, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), had earlier said that the Covid-19 crisis is drastically increasing the poverty rate for women and widening the gap between men and women who live in poverty. The UNDP estimated that by 2021, for every 100 men aged 25 to 34 living in extreme poverty, there will be 118 women, a gap that will increase to 121 women per 100 men by 2030.The secretary-general shed light on the plight of frontline workers, most of whom are women from marginalised communities. The International Labour Organization had released a report in April of 2020, estimating that globally over 70% of the healthcare workforce is made up of women, who are now facing the dual burden of working longer shifts and taking care of their families at home.He also talked about the challenges in Myanmar, where the military seized power from a democratic government."We see the undermining of democracy, the use of brutal force, arbitrary arrests, repression in all its manifestations. Restrictions of civic space. Attacks on civil society. Serious violations against minorities with no accountability, including what has rightly been called ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya population. It is all coming together in a perfect storm of upheaval," said Guterres.He also called on the Myanmar military to stop the repression immediately, saying "Coups have no place in our modern world."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-crisis-has-a-woman-s-face-un-chief-spotlights-discrimination-during-pandemic-101613999856798.html
22-02-2021||World||How Europe is fighting Covid-19: List of restrictions in various countries||Europe has been hit hard by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic with various countries in the continent reimposing strict restrictions to contain spread in the wake of the new variants of the infection emerging fast.Britain, which has been ravaged by one such variant, has imposed strict lockdown to contain its spread. However, Britain will soon reconfirm the easing of the restrictions with re-opening of the schools from March 8.Here is the list of restrictions imposed across countries in Europe:> Germany: Museums, gyms, cinemas are closed. Non-essential stores are closed until March 7. Schools in some states partially opened from Monday. The country has reported a total of over 2.3 million cases, as per John Hopkins University tracker.Also Read | India extends $100 mn line of credit for defence equipment to Mauritius> Italy: With a total of over 2.7 million cases, the country is divided into red, orange yellow and white zones of restrictions. Orange zone means bars and restaurants are closed, people are not allowed to leave towns except for work or emergencies. Theatres, cinemas and gyms are closed nationwide, while schools are partially opened in yellow zones. Presently, the country only has orange and yellow zones.> France: Restaurants, bars, theatres, cinemas, gyms, museums and galleries are shut. No lockdown but nationwide curfew from 6pm to 6am. Entry in the country with a total caseload of over 3.5 million cases from outside the EU is not allowed.> Netherlands: Curfew from 9pm to 4:30am since January 23 and will probably extend. Schools, non-essential services, bars, restaurants and bars are all shut. hairdressers and high schools are expected to open from next week. The country has reported a total of over 1.06 million cases till date.> Spain: Except Madrid, other regions in the country have strict restrictions. Curfew exists in places from 10 pm and midnight nationwide. Schools are open in the country and non-essential services might also reopen as infections decline. The total coronavirus caseload of the country stands at over 3.1 million.> Poland: Bars are closed, hotels, cinemas and theatres are operating at 50 per cent capacity. Restaurants are only allowed for takeaway service. Primary schools are open. Total Covid-19 caseload of the country is over 1.6 million.> Sweden: Public gathering of more than eight people is prohibited. Alcohol sale in bars and restaurants is not allowed after 8pm. High school students learn remotely, restrictions in international travellers. Total caseload is over 0.63 million.> Belgium: Non-essential international travel is prohibited till April 1. Work from home is mandatory wherever possible. Cafes and restaurants are also shut.Also Read | Italian ambassador killed in DR Congo attack> Austria: Tyrol province has strict measures for travel due to an outbreak of the South African coronavirus variant. A nighttime curfew exists while the total coronavirus cases are over 0.44 million.> Switzerland: First easing of restrictions to begin from next month. Restaurants and cultural venues remain closed. Total coronavirus caseload stands at over 0.54 million.> Hungary: Restaurants are closed but open for delivery and take away. Large public gatherings are prohibited. Cultural venues, secondary schools, universities are closed. An 8pm to 5am curfew exists. The total coronavirus case tally is over 0.45 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-europe-is-fighting-covid-19-list-of-restrictions-in-various-countries-101613995654049.html
22-02-2021||World||HSBC to announce exit from US retail banking, reshuffles top jobs||HSBC is set to withdraw from U.S. retail banking, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters on Monday, as Europe's biggest bank seeks to dispose of a business that has long underperformed.The exit from the U.S. consumer business will form part of the lender's strategy update due on Tuesday, as Chief Executive Noel Quinn seeks to cut costs, boost fee income and continue the lender's shift towards Asia.The sale or closure of its around 150 remaining branches in the United States, after it shuttered 80 last year, would mark the end of HSBC's struggle to turn around a business which has struggled to make inroads against incumbent domestic rivals.Ahead of the strategy update Quinn on Monday reshuffled several of his senior lieutenants.HSBC appointed Nuno Matos as chief executive of its wealth and personal banking business, while chief compliance officer Colin Bell became head of HSBC's European business.Michael Roberts was appointed CEO for the United States and Americas, while Stephen Moss will move to Dubai as head of the Middle East, North Africa and Turkey business, the bank said.In moving Moss to Dubai HSBC said it is expanding its strategic ambitions in the Middle East, suggesting the region will be a big part of the new strategy alongside an existing plan to 'pivot' more to Asia.The bank also said it is expanding the remit of Chief Financial Officer Ewen Stevenson, who will now also run the bank's transformation programme and its mergers and acquisitions plans.HSBC on Tuesday is set to report an expected plunge in annual profits reflecting the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hsbc-to-announce-exit-from-us-retail-banking-reshuffles-top-jobs-101613996410578.html
22-02-2021||World||Armenia seeks bigger Russian military presence on its border with Azerbaijan||Armenia would welcome the expansion of a Russian military base on its territory and the redeployment of some Russian forces closer to its border with Azerbaijan after a conflict with its neighbour last year, its defence minister said on Monday.Ethnic Armenian troops in the Nagorno-Karabakh region ceded swathes of territory in and around the enclave to Azerbaijan in a six-week conflict in 2020 that claimed thousands of lives.Russian peacekeeping troops are deployed in the enclave and, under a formal defence pact with Armenia, Russia has a fully-fledged military base in the city of Gyumri near the Turkish border with an estimated 3,000 troops.Russia said in November it was deploying almost 2,000 servicemen as part of the peacekeeping mission."The question of expanding and bolstering the Russian military base on the territory of Armenia has always been on the agenda," Armenian Defence Minister Vagharshak Harutyunyan told Russia's RIA news agency in an interview published on Monday."The Armenian side has always been interested in this."Harutyunyan did not say whether there were any concrete plans for a potential expansion.Armenian opposition politicians have called for the creation of a second Russian base in Armenia's southern Syunik region, wedged between Azerbaijan and the Azeri exclave of Nakhchivan.Harutyunyan said he saw no need for Russia to formally open a second military base, but said the two countries were considering deploying a military unit from the existing base to eastern Armenia, near the border with Azerbaijan.Harutyunyan did not disclose the purpose of the potential redeployment nor its exact location.Russia's Defence Ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Armenia's opposition, which has called on Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan to resign over the outcome of the conflict, planned to stage a fresh street protest on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/armenia-seeks-bigger-russian-military-presence-on-its-border-with-azerbaijan-101613998122386.html
22-02-2021||World||Queen to send TV message hours before Harry's tell-all interview||Queen Elizabeth II will appear on television to celebrate the Commonwealth on March 7 -- the same day as her grandson Harry's eagerly-anticipated but controversial interview with Oprah Winfrey will air.She will share her annual message to mark Commonwealth Day, which is on March 8 this year, in a special programme on BBC One that will replace the usual annual service, which has been cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic.Her appearance will come just hours before Harry and his wife Meghan tell the world about why they left the royal family, in a move that has reportedly angered its remaining members.Westminster Abbey, where the annual service was to have been held, said Monday the programme will also involve Harry's father Prince Charles, elder brother Prince William, and other senior royals.Harry and Meghan announced last week the "intimate" interview with the US chat show host, in which they are expected to air their grievances about how they were treated inside the family following their fairy tale wedding in 2018.Shortly after revealing the interview, Buckingham Palace announced the couple had permanently quit royal duties, just over a year after they rocked the monarchy by announcing plans to "step back" from their roles.The Queen ordered the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, as they are formally known, to relinquish their honorary titles and patronages following the confirmation that they would not be returning as working royals.The couple relocated to the United States last year, in a move dubbed "Megxit" by the British press, and have since embarked on several commercial ventures there including lucrative tie-ups with the streaming platforms Netflix and Spotify.They announced on Valentine's Day that they are expecting their second child, and also hit the headlines earlier this month when Meghan won her high-profile privacy claim against a British newspaper group for publishing a private letter that she wrote to her estranged father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/queen-to-send-tv-message-hours-before-harry-s-tell-all-interview-101613998643515.html
22-02-2021||World||Britain denounces abuses 'on industrial scale' in China's Xinjiang||Britain's foreign secretary Dominic Raab on Monday denounced torture, forced labour and sterilisations that he said were taking place against Muslim Uighurs on an "industrial scale" in China's Xinjiang region.Raab, in a recorded speech to the U.N. Human Rights Council, called for U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet or another independent expert to be given "urgent and unfettered access" to the remote western region."The situation in Xinjiang is beyond the pale," he told the Geneva forum where China is among the 47 member states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-denounces-abuses-on-industrial-scale-in-china-s-xinjiang-101613996451485.html
22-02-2021||World||UNHCR appeals for rescue of Rohingya refugees in distress in Andaman Sea||The United Nations (UN) refugee agency on Monday appealed for the immediate rescue of a group of Rohingya refugees in distress in the Andaman Sea after leaving Bangladesh about 10 days ago. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said it had received reports of an unconfirmed number of Rohingya refugees aboard a vessel in distress as of Saturday evening. The refugees apparently departed from Cox’s Bazar and Teknaf in Bangladesh about 10 days ago. “Many are in a highly vulnerable condition and are apparently suffering from extreme dehydration. We understand that a number of refugees have already lost their lives, and that fatalities have risen over the past 24 hours,” said Indrika Ratwatte, director of the UNHCR regional bureau for Asia and the Pacific. Also Read | India pushing ahead with key Kaladan transit project in MyanmarUNHCR said the vessel ran out of food and water several days ago, and that many of the people on board are ill. The vessel has reportedly been adrift since its engine broke down more than a week ago. “We have not been able to confirm the number of refugees or their precise location at this time,” Ratwatte said. “In the absence of precise information as to the refugees’ location, we have alerted the authorities of the relevant maritime states of these reports and appealed for their swift assistance, should the vessel be found in their area of responsibility for search and rescue. Immediate action is needed to save lives and prevent further tragedy,” he added. Saving lives must be the priority, and the duty to rescue persons in distress at sea should be upheld, irrespective of nationality or legal status, in line with international obligations under the law of the sea and longstanding maritime traditions, Ratwatte said. “We appeal to all governments to deploy their search and rescue capacities and promptly disembark those in distress,” he said. UNHCR said it would support governments across the region in providing humanitarian assistance and quarantine measures for those disembarked, in line with public health protocols. “The fact that refugees and migrants continue to undertake fatal journeys accentuates the need for immediate and collective regional response to search, rescue and disembarkation,” the UN agency said. Bangladesh currently has more than a million Rohingya refugees who fled Rakhine state in Myanmar in 2017 to escape a brutal crackdown by the military.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unhcr-appeals-for-rescue-of-rohingya-refugees-in-distress-in-andaman-sea-101613996901494.html
22-02-2021||World||EU slaps sanctions on 19 more Venezuelan officials||The European Union on Monday imposed sanctions on 19 more officials in Venezuela accused of undermining democracy or rights abuses in the crisis-torn South American country.EU foreign ministers targeted the 19 with asset freezes and travel bans “in view of the deteriorating situation in Venezuela following the December 2020 elections.” The main opposition parties boycotted those polls.It means that a total of 55 Venezuelan officials are now subject to EU sanctions.“The individuals added to the list are responsible, notably, for undermining the oppositions’ electoral rights and the democratic functioning of the National Assembly, and for serious violations of human rights and restrictions of fundamental freedoms,” the ministers said.They said the measures are not designed to “to have adverse humanitarian effects or unintended consequences for the Venezuelan population, and can be reversed.”Once a wealthy oil nation, Venezuela is now mired in a deep economic crisis, which critics blame on two decades of failed socialist policies that have left the nation bankrupt and its infrastructure crumbling. President Nicolás Maduro says he is under attack from the United States, which wants to oust him from power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-slaps-sanctions-on-19-more-venezuelan-officials-101613993056354.html
22-02-2021||World||Italian ambassador killed in DR Congo attack||Italy's ambassador to the Democratic Republic of Congo was killed on Monday when a UN convoy came under attack in the troubled east, DRC sources and the government in Rome said.Luca Attanasio died of his wounds after a World Food Programme (WFP) convoy came under fire near Goma, a senior diplomatic source said in Kinshasa.Two other people also died in the attack, Major Guillaume Djike, the army's spokesman in North Kivu province told AFP. Other sources said the two were the envoy's driver and bodyguard.Attanasio's death was confirmed in Rome by the Italian foreign ministry, which also said an Italian policeman died.Attanasio, who had been appointed to the DRC in early 2018, suffered "gunshot wounds to the abdomen" and was taken to a hospital in Goma in critical condition, the diplomat in Kinshasa said.The DRC's army said its troops were searching the area for the assailants.A vast country the size of continental western Europe, the DRC is grappling with numerous conflicts, especially in its remote, mineral-rich east.Scores of militias roam the four eastern provinces, many of them a legacy of wars in the 1990s that sucked in countries around central-southern Africa and claimed millions of lives.Monday's attack occurred north of Goma -- a region that includes the UNESCO-listed Virunga National Park, which has also been troubled by violence.The UN's refugee agency, the UNHCR, said last week that more than 2,000 civilians were killed in North and South Kivu and Ituri last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italian-ambassador-killed-in-dr-congo-attack-101613996011382.html
22-02-2021||World||UN chief demands immediate halt to Myanmar 'repression'||UN chief Antonio Guterres on Monday condemned the "brutal force" used by those behind Myanmar's coup and urged the military to immediately halt the repression and release prisoners.In his annual address to the UN Human Rights Council, Guterres mentioned only one country by name: Myanmar."Today, I call on the Myanmar military to stop the repression immediately," he said, speaking in a pre-recorded video message at the opening of the Geneva-based council's 46th session."Release the prisoners. End the violence. Respect human rights, and the will of the people expressed in recent elections," he said, insisting that "coups have no place in our modern world."Myanmar's authorities have gradually ratcheted up their tactics against a massive and largely peaceful civil disobedience campaign demanding the return of ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi.Saturday marked the deadliest day since the February 1 coup, with two people killed after security forces fired on a rally in Mandalay and a third man shot dead in Yangon.And the junta warned protesters against inciting people "to a confrontation path where they will suffer the loss of life."Protesters on Monday were undeterred by the warning, with tens of thousands rallying in Yangon, Myanmar's biggest city and commercial hub.Guterres had already condemned Saturday's "deadly violence", insisting in a tweet Sunday that "the use of lethal force, intimidation and harassment against peaceful demonstrators is unacceptable."Myanmar's foreign ministry hit back, accusing the UN and a number of foreign countries of "flagrant interference" in its internal affairs.The United States, Britain and Canada have all responded to the coup with sanctions targeting Myanmar's top generals.Even before the coup, army chief General Min Aung Hlaing -- who now holds legislative, executive and judicial powers -- was facing sanctions for his military's role in a brutal crackdown on the Rohingya Muslims in 2017.European Union foreign ministers will meet Monday to discuss their own measures against the regime.'Perfect storm' Since the army takeover, 640 people have been detained, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners monitoring group.Among those targeted have been railway workers, civil servants and bank staff, who have walked off their jobs as part of the anti-coup campaign."We see the undermining of democracy, the use of brutal force, arbitrary arrests, repression in all its manifestations. Restrictions of civic space," Guterres warned the council.He also condemned attacks on civil society and "serious violations against minorities with no accountability, including what has rightly been called ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya population.""The list goes on," he said."It is all coming together in a perfect storm of upheaval."The UN chief voiced his "full support to the people of Myanmar in their pursuit of democracy, peace, human rights and the rule of law."And he welcomed a resolution passed by the rights council earlier this month during a special session dedicated to the crisis in Myanmar, demanding the immediate release of Suu Kyi.That resolution was adopted without a vote by the 47-member council, but several countries including traditional allies of Myanmar's military China and Russia disassociated themselves from the consensus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-chief-demands-immediate-halt-to-myanmar-repression-101613995467494.html
22-02-2021||World||Boeing 747 cargo plane drops engine parts in Netherlands, investigation launched||An incident involving a Boeing 747-400 cargo plane that dropped engine parts after a mid-air explosion and fire over the southern Netherlands on Saturday is under investigation, the Dutch Safety Board said.The Longtail Aviation cargo plane, flight 5504, scattered small metal parts over the southern Dutch town of Meerssen, causing damage and injuring a woman shortly after take-off, Maastricht Airport spokeswoman Hella Hendriks said.The plane, which was headed from Maastricht to New York, was powered by Pratt & Whitney PW4000 engines, a smaller version of those on a United Airlines Boeing 777 involved in an incident in Denver, also on Saturday.After that incident, Boeing recommended airlines suspend operations of certain older versions of its 777 airliner powered by Pratt & Whitney 4000-112 engines, variants currently flown by five airlines.U.S. regulators announced extra inspections and Japan suspended their use while considering further action.In the Dutch incident, witnesses heard one or two explosions shortly after take-off and the pilot was informed by air traffic control that an engine was on fire, Hendriks said."The photos indicate they were parts of engine blade, but that's being investigated," she said. "Several cars were damaged and bits hit several houses. Pieces were found across the residential neighbourhood on roofs, gardens and streets."Dozens of pieces fell, she said, measuring around 5 centimetres wide and up to 25 centimetres long. The aircraft landed safely at Liege airport in Belgium, some 30 kilometres (19 miles) south of the Dutch border.Boeing referred questions to Dutch authorities."Our investigation is still in a preliminary phase, it is too early to draw conclusions," a spokeswoman for the Dutch Safety Board said on Monday.Longtail Aviation did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Europe's EASA aviation regulator said on Monday that it was aware of the Pratt & Whitney jet engine incidents, and was requesting information on the causes to determine what action may be needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boeing-747-cargo-plane-drops-engine-parts-in-netherlands-investigation-launched-101613994044476.html
22-02-2021||World||China seeks to work with US, Europe to uphold multilateralism||China, the United States and Europe should work together to uphold multilateralism, after U.S. President Joe Biden called for democracies to coordinate their approach to China, foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said at a briefing on Monday.Biden on Friday drew a sharp contrast with the foreign policy of his predecessor, Donald Trump, and urged democracies to work together to challenge abuses by autocratic states such as China and Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-seeks-to-work-with-us-europe-to-uphold-multilateralism-101613993712595.html
22-02-2021||World||Bone cancer survivor with prosthesis to join billionaire on SpaceX flight||After beating bone cancer, Hayley Arceneaux figures rocketing into orbit on SpaceX’s first private flight should be a piece of cosmic cake.St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital announced Monday that the 29-year-old physician assistant — a former patient hired last spring — will launch later this year alongside a billionaire who’s using his purchased spaceflight as a charitable fundraiser.Arceneaux will become the youngest American in space — beating NASA record-holder Sally Ride by over two years — when she blasts off this fall with entrepreneur Jared Isaacman and two yet-to-be-chosen contest winners.She’ll also be the first to launch with a prosthesis. When she was 10, she had surgery at St. Jude to replace her knee and get a titanium rod in her left thigh bone. She still limps and suffers occasional leg pain, but has been cleared for flight by SpaceX. She’ll serve as the crew’s medical officer.“My battle with cancer really prepared me for space travel,” Arceneaux said in an interview with The Associated Press. “It made me tough, and then also I think it really taught me to expect the unexpected and go along for the ride.”She wants to show her young patients and other cancer survivors that “the sky is not even the limit anymore.”“It’s going to mean so much to these kids to see a survivor in space,” she said.Isaacman announced his space mission Feb. 1, pledging to raise $200 million for St. Jude, half of that his own contribution. As the flight’s self-appointed commander, he offered one of the four SpaceX Dragon capsule seats to St. Jude.Without alerting the staff, St. Jude chose Arceneaux from among the “scores” of hospital and fundraising employees who had once been patients and could represent the next generation, said Rick Shadyac, president of St. Jude’s fundraising organization.Arceneaux was at home in Memphis, Tennessee, when she got the “out of the blue” call in January asking if she’d represent St. Jude in space.Her immediate response: “Yes! Yes! Please!” But first she wanted to run it past her mother in St. Francisville, Louisiana. (Her father died of kidney cancer in 2018.) Next she reached out to her brother and sister-in-law, both of them aerospace engineers in Huntsville, Alabama, who “reassured me how safe space travel is.”A lifelong space fan who embraces adventure, Arceneaux insists those who know her won’t be surprised. She’s plunged on a bungee swing in New Zealand and ridden camels in Morocco. And she loves roller-coasters.Isaacman, who flies fighter jets for a hobby, considers her a perfect fit.“It’s not all supposed to be about getting people excited to be astronauts someday, which is certainly cool,” Isaacman, 38, said last week. “It’s also supposed to be about an inspiring message of what we can accomplish here on Earth."He has two more crew members to select, and he plans to reveal them in March.One will be a sweepstakes winner; anyone donating to St. Jude this month is eligible. So far, more than $9 million has come in, according to Shadyac. The other seat will go to a business owner who uses Shift4Payments, Isaacman’s Allentown, Pennsylvania, credit card-processing company.Liftoff is targeted around October at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center, with the capsule orbiting Earth two to four days. He’s not divulging the cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bone-cancer-survivor-with-prosthesis-to-join-billionaire-on-spacex-flight-101613992436989.html
22-02-2021||World||Israel, Egypt may build gas pipe as they eye European market||Egypt and Israel said they may build an undersea natural-gas pipeline connecting the two countries, as they seek to collaborate on exporting the fuel to Europe.The pipeline would link Israel’s huge Leviathan field to Egypt’s liquefied natural gas plants, the countries’ energy ministries said Sunday. Egypt added that the two sides would work on a governmental framework for the pipeline.The announcement comes as nations in the eastern Mediterranean ramp up investments in offshore gas fields. Egypt is seeking to become a major hub for exporting LNG to Europe, where demand is growing as governments transition from dirtier fossil fuels such as coal and oil.The new pipeline would allow Israel to export more gas to Egypt. It can currently send 7 billion cubic meters a year through the EMG pipeline that runs to Egypt’s Sinai Peninsula.The latest agreement came as Oil Minister Tarek El-Molla made a rare visit to Israel for an Egyptian official. He met his counterpart, Yuval Steinitz, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. They discussed working with other countries to convert ships to use natural gas instead of petroleum. El-Molla also traveled to the Palestinian city of Ramallah.Chevron Corp. and other companies are separately investing hundreds of millions of dollars to help transport Israeli gas to Egypt.Egypt is increasing exports from its own fields, including Zohr. The Golar Glacier, an LNG-carrying vessel, arrived at Damietta to load 60,000 tons of the super-chilled fuel, according to a cabinet statement Sunday and ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.The tanker’s arrival marks the return of the country’s second LNG plant after an eight-year hiatus. Damietta’s restart was repeatedly delayed amid a dispute over gas supplies.Egypt has spearheaded the establishment of the East Mediterranean Gas Forum. The group, which also includes Cyprus, Greece, Israel, Italy, Jordan and the Palestinians, is meant to boost cooperation among the region’s gas producers and transit countries. Turkey, which has raised tensions by exploring for gas in contested waters, is not as yet included.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-egypt-may-build-gas-pipe-as-they-eye-european-market-101613988881354.html
22-02-2021||World||Europe-bound North African migrants found traveling among glass, toxic ash||Spanish authorities say they have found and rescued 41 migrants in the past four days who tried to reach continental Europe from North Africa, some of them hiding inside a container of discarded glass bottles and a bag of toxic ash.Among the 35 people found only on Friday trying to travel to Europe from the Spanish port of Melilla, an enclave in North Africa, four hid among bottles and other glass partially broken in pieces and with sharp edges that were destined for recycling, the Spanish Civil Guard said Monday.A video released by the police also shows another incident in which an officer first finds a motionless leg sticking out of a large plastic bag containing ash from the city's incinerator, a material that is considered highly toxic. When the agent starts removing the ash, the alleged stowaway seems to recover consciousness.The port of Melilla, where trucks and containers embark on a trip to Spain that can take up to seven hours, is together with the nearby Ceuta enclave a target for many migrants trying to reach the European mainland.Some of them try to enter the fenced area of the harbor by swimming there or by hiding in vehicles, in some cases jumping on to them when they slow down or stop at the gates of the port.The Civil Guard says that it found 11,700 people last year inside the Melilla port’s security perimeter and that in 2021 so far, the figure has reached 1,781 migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europebound-north-african-migrants-found-traveling-among-glass-toxic-ash-101613991200158.html
22-02-2021||World||PM Boris Johnson to lay out ‘cautious’ roadmap for easing UK Covid-19 lockdown||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson is to table a “cautious” roadmap in Parliament on Monday to ease the country out of the strict stay-at-home lockdown in place to control the spread of coronavirus infections.The strategy, to be finalised at a virtual Cabinet meeting, will set out the latest data on infection rates, hospitalisations and deaths, as well as early data showing the efficacy of vaccines.Based on the latest Covid-19 statistics, Johnson is expected to confirm that all schools will reopen across England from March 8 and that families and friends can begin to be reunited outdoors under a return of the “rule of six” for gatherings later in March.Members of Parliament will vote on the regulations, following which the final roadmap will kick into action in the coming weeks.“Today I’ll be setting out a roadmap to bring us out of lockdown cautiously. Our priority has always been getting children back into school which we know is crucial for their education as well as their mental and physical wellbeing, and we will also be prioritising ways for people to reunite with loved ones safely,” said Johnson, ahead of his statement in the House of Commons.“Our decisions will be made on the latest data at every step, and we will be cautious about this approach so that we do not undo the progress we have achieved so far and the sacrifices each and every one of you has made to keep yourself and others safe. We have therefore set four key tests which must be met before we can move through each step of the plan,” he said.The key tests cover four aspects: the vaccine deployment programme continues successfully; evidence shows vaccines are sufficiently effective in reducing hospitalisations and deaths in those vaccinated; infection rates do not risk a surge in hospitalisations, which would put unsustainable pressure on the National Health Service (NHS); and the assessment of the risks is not fundamentally changed by new "variants of concern”.Before proceeding to the next step, the government said it will examine the data to assess the impact of previous easements.Due to the current relatively uniform spread of the virus across the country, restrictions will be eased step-by-step across the whole of England at the same time.Downing Street said that the four tests are currently being met so the first step will proceed from March 8, at which point the top four priority cohorts for vaccinations – as determined by the independent Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) – will have received a degree of immunity, three weeks after being offered their first dose.The roadmap is described as a means to balance social and economic impacts, whilst preserving health and safety. Outdoor settings are known to be lower risk than indoor in keeping infection rates low, so outdoor activities will be opened earlier than indoor ones.The devolved administrations of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have been setting out their own roadmaps for easing lockdown, but are in most part following a similar phased approach.As part of the new roadmap, Public Health England (PHE) will publish new data on the impact of vaccines on transmission rates. Early data suggests a reduction in transmission of the virus in people who have had a vaccine.So far, more than 17.5 million people in the UK have received a vaccine dose and over the weekend the government set a new July 31 target to ensure all adults have received their jabs to protect against the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-boris-johnson-to-lay-out-cautious-roadmap-for-easing-uk-covid-19-lockdown-101613991573404.html
22-02-2021||World||China to increase recycling of renewable resources||China will speed up recycling and utilisation of renewable resources such as metals scrap in an effort to build low-carbon development and meet its carbon neutrality goal, the State Council said on Monday.The State Council, China's cabinet, urged local governments and related authorities to improve recycling system of waste and used home appliances and to establish a recycling system to increase utilisation and output rates of renewable resources such as scrap metals and plastics.China had allowed imports of high-grade copper and aluminium scrap in November 2020 and gave the approval for high-grade steel scrap imports starting 2021 to meet robust demand of the materials.The cabinet also asked to increase usages of renewable resources and "develop hydrogen energy and biomass energy... according to local conditions," it said in a statement on its website."By 2025... discharge of major pollutants will continue to decrease, carbon emission will significantly reduce," said the State Council.President Xi Jinping had promised to bring China's carbon emission to a peak within a decade and to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-increase-recycling-of-renewable-resources-101613989838249.html
22-02-2021||World||Taiwan sounds currency warning as chip demand fuels exports||Taiwan more than doubled its forecast for export growth this year, but sounded a warning that the global scramble for computer chips is going to add further upward pressure on the local dollar. Stocks and the currency gained.Exports will likely rise 9.58% this year, compared with a previous estimate of 4.59%, the statistics bureau said Saturday. Gross domestic product may expand 4.64%, more than previously expected and up from a revised 3.11% in 2020, when it was one of the few significant economies to register growth.“Our trade surplus was $58.8 billion last year,” said statistics chief Chu Tzer-ming. “We expect it to be $63.9 billion this year. This might lead to pressure on the Taiwan dollar to appreciate. Everyone should watch out for this.”Overseas demand for chips used in smartphones, artificial intelligence and high-performance computing has helped fuel an appreciation of more than 7% in the Taiwan dollar versus the greenback over the past 12 months, even as the central bank worked to slow gains.The Taiwan dollar closed little changed after strengthening as much as 1.5% Monday, largely in line with intraday gains over the past few weeks before the central bank steps in to “smooth” the gains in late trading. The benchmark Taiwan Stock Exchange index rose 0.4%While Taiwan’s projected growth for this year lags the global average of 5.4%, based on a Bloomberg survey of economists, it’s coming off a higher base. The island’s successful management of the pandemic and avoidance of lockdowns has also supported domestic consumption.Despite the currency’s gains last year, the U.S. Treasury added Taiwan to a watch list of potential currency manipulators in December, citing the island’s growing current account surplus, and urged the central bank to allow further gains. That’s leaving policy makers in a dilemma: let the Taiwan dollar gain faster, potentially hurting exporters, or risk tensions with the U.S., a key ally.“The Taiwan dollar has solid fundamental reasons to appreciate further with Taiwan’s stellar export performance,” said Gary Ng, an economist at Natixis in Hong Kong. “In addition, the central bank will try to avoid being designated a currency manipulator, and it is indeed difficult to stop the inflows driven by better economic prospects and a weaker dollar.”The government pointed to increased demand for Taiwan’s semiconductors as a key reason it upgraded the 2021 forecasts. Given the leading position of the island’s main chip manufacturers, strong external demand will boost exports, Tsai Yu-tai, director of the statistics department of the Directorate General of Budget Accounting and Statistics, said at a briefing following the release of Saturday’s data.“We upgraded our export outlook after taking January export data into consideration, plus the fact that Taiwanese businesses with facilities in China are investing more at home, and the changes in the global supply and demand,” Tsai said. “We expect this year’s export growth to be the strongest since 2017.”At the same time, the export data also underscore Taiwan’s dominance in the global chip supply chain.U.S. President Joe Biden’s top economic adviser, Brian Deese, last week sought the Taiwan government’s help in resolving the chip shortage that’s hindering U.S. automotive manufacturing. His appeal followed earlier pleas from Japanese and European officials for Taiwan’s help in ensuring supply.The world’s largest contract chipmaker, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., plans to increase capital expenditure this year to as much as $28 billion to help address the shortage. Shares in the chip giant have surged 23% this year, on top of a 60% jump in 2020, making it the world’s 10th-largest company.Taiwan’s manufacturing sector has been bolstered by the government’s largely successful handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Taiwan has consistently ranked near the top of Bloomberg’s Covid Resilience Ranking, having had just nine deaths and fewer than 1,000 cases since the beginning of the outbreak.That allowed it to avoid the strict lockdowns which brought many other economies to a halt. With a few exceptions, Taiwanese businesses, offices and schools stayed open throughout the year, and there was a boom in domestic travel as people opted to vacation at home rather than head overseas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-sounds-currency-warning-as-chip-demand-fuels-exports-101613986211151.html
22-02-2021||World||Facebook takes down pages of Myanmar state TV||Facebook took down the pages of Myanmar's state-run television on Monday, a day after the channel had warned anti-coup protesters against taking action and said that confrontation could put lives at risk."In line with our global policies, we’ve removed the MRTV and MRTV Live Pages from Facebook for repeated violations of our Community Standards, including our violence and incitement policy," said Rafael Frankel, Director of Public Policy, APAC, Emerging Markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-takes-down-pages-of-myanmar-state-tv-101613986182135.html
22-02-2021||World||Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam, other officials receive Covid-19 vaccine||Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam and other government officials received Covid-19 vaccines on Monday as the city begins its inoculation program.Lam and city’s health minister Sophia Chan were among the first people to receive their vaccines in Hong Kong, after about a million doses of the vaccine by Chinese biopharmaceutical company Sinovac Biotech arrived in the Chinese territory last week.Hong Kong is to begin its inoculation program on Friday after several delays in vaccine shipments to the city. Those who will receive priority for the vaccinations include the elderly, medical workers, caretakers at elderly homes and employees such as airline cabin crew and cross-border drivers.“We are very determined, very committed to rolling out a free and universal vaccination program for the people of Hong Kong so that we could get ourselves out of this epidemic as soon as possible,” Lam said to reporters after she was inoculated.Efforts to fight the pandemic, including the vaccination program, require the full collaboration of the people of Hong Kong, she said.A recent poll conducted by the University of Hong Kong found that respondents were distrustful of the Chinese vaccine, with only about 30% willing to accept it amid concerns about its low efficacy.In contrast, 56% of respondents were willing to take the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine.Hong Kong’s government has also ordered the Pfizer-BioNTech and AstraZeneca vaccines. So far, only the Sinovac and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines have been approved for use in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-leader-carrie-lam-other-officials-receive-covid-19-vaccine-101613987523156.html
22-02-2021||World||Europe launches space program to boost secure connections||The European Union unveiled several programs aimed at boosting the bloc’s civil, space and defense industries, including a low-earth orbit satellite infrastructure to rival Elon Musk’s Starlink network.The push will aim to provide reliable, secure and cost-effective connectivity for governmental and commercial communications, as well as high-speed broadband throughout Europe, the European Commission said on Monday.The commission said it was currently carrying out a feasibility study to specify the project’s scope and associated costs.Key Points||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-launches-space-program-to-boost-secure-connections-101613989722257.html
22-02-2021||World||Chinese Official signals overhaul of Hong Kong’s election system to ensure governance by 'patriots'||China faces a “critical and urgent” task to overhaul Hong Kong’s electoral system, Beijing’s top official for the city said, in the latest sign that authorities were mulling major changes in the coming weeks.Beijing needed to reform the city’s electoral system “to ensure that Hong Kong’s governance is firmly controlled by patriots,” Xia Baolong, director of China’s cabinet-level Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office, said in a speech Monday.Speaking to the Chinese Association of Hong Kong and Macau Studies, Xia said that to improve Hong Kong’s electoral system, “relevant legal loopholes within the framework of the Constitution and the Basic Law” need to be closed -- and that it was up to the central government to communicate those changes to the local administration.The remarks follow a number of articles and comments in Chinese state media reports, and are the latest sign that China is contemplating further curbs to Hong Kong’s already-limited democracy, where a committee of 1,200 business and political elites selects the city’s leader and Beijing retains veto power.Security LawChina has taken various steps to stamp out dissent in the former British colony since sometimes-violent protests erupted in 2019, most notably by imposing a sweeping national security law last year.Beijing also allowed the local government to disqualify lawmakers who were insufficiently patriotic. All opposition members of the Legislative Council resigned en masse after Chief Executive Carrie Lam’s administration used the new rule to kick out four lawmakers.In comments to Lam in late January, Chinese President Xi Jinping said Hong Kong should be governed by “patriots” in order to ensure the city’s stability following unprecedented unrest in 2019.Lam, speaking at a press conference on Monday, said Hong Kong needed Beijing to enact electoral reform.“The central government has its power over the political system in Hong Kong,” she said, adding that the “election arrangement plays an important part of it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-official-signals-overhaul-of-hong-kong-s-election-system-to-ensure-governance-by-patriots-101613989266033.html
22-02-2021||World||EU prepares measures against Myanmar coup leaders||European Union foreign ministers on Monday tasked the bloc's top diplomat and its executive wing with drawing up a series of measures to target those responsible for the military coup in Myanmar, as people rallied in the streets of the country's biggest city.“The European Union calls for de-escalation of the current crisis through an immediate end to the state of emergency, the restoration of the legitimate civilian government and the opening of the newly elected parliament,” the ministers said in a statement as they met in Brussels.“In response to the military coup, the European Union stands ready to adopt restrictive measures targeting those directly responsible. All other tools at the disposal of the European Union and its Member States will be kept under review,” the ministers said.Such sanctions usually involve a freeze on people's assets and a ban on them travelling to Europe.Myanmar's military junta prevented Parliament from convening on February 1. It claimed that last November's elections, won by Aung San Suu Kyi's party in a landslide, were tainted by fraud. The election commission that confirmed the victory has since been replaced by the junta.The coup was a major setback to Myanmar's transition to democracy after 50 years of army rule that began with a 1962 coup. Suu Kyi came to power after her party won a 2015 election, but the generals retained substantial power under a military-drafted constitution.Around 640 people have been arrested, charged or sentenced, with 593, including Suu Kyi and President Win Myint, still in detention, according to the independent Assistance Association for Political Prisoners.The EU ministers condemned the arrests and called for the unconditional release of the President, Suu Kyi and all those held since the coup. They also condemned the security crackdown and expressed solidarity with citizens, saying that any sanctions they impose are not aimed at ordinary people.Despite the junta's thinly veiled threat to use lethal force if people answered a call for a general strike, and roadblocks around the U.S. Embassy in Yangon, more than a thousand protesters gathered there Monday. Military trucks and riot police stood nearby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-prepares-measures-against-myanmar-coup-leaders-101613987973667.html
22-02-2021||World||Biden to revise small business loans to reach smaller, minority firms||U.S. President Joe Biden will launch changes on Monday to the main U.S. coronavirus aid program for small businesses to try to reach smaller, minority-owned firms and sole proprietors left behind in previous rounds of aid.Biden administration officials said that for two weeks starting on Wednesday, the Small Business Administration will only accept applications for forgivable Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans from firms with fewer than 20 employees to ensure that they are not crowded out by larger firms.The changes, to be formally announced by Biden on Monday, come as small business bankers say demand for Paycheck Protection loans is slowing as firms reopen.When the PPP was launched in April 2020 at the height of coronavirus lockdowns under a $3 trillion relief bill, its initial $349 billion ran out in two weeks. Congress approved another $320 billion in May, but the program expired in August with about $130 billion in unused funds.The program was re-launched on Jan. 19 with $284 billion in new funds from a coronavirus aid bill passed at the end of December, and a Biden administration official said about $150 billion of PPP money is still available.But Biden administration officials said there are still many minority and very small firms in low-income areas that have not been able to receive aid.The changes aim to make it easier for firms with no employees -- sole proprietors, independent contractors, and self-employed people such as house cleaners and personal care providers -- that could not qualify previously because of business cost deductions.The Small Business Administration will revise the rules to match the approach used to allowed small farmers and ranchers to receive aid, the businesses said.The officials said the program will also set aside $1 billion for businesses without employees in low- and moderate-income areas, which are 70% owned by women and people of color.The SBA will provide new guidance making it clear that legal U.S. residents who are not citizens, such as green card holders, cannot be excluded from the program. The Biden Administration will also eliminate exclusions that prohibit a business owner who is delinquent on student loans from participating in the program.Business owners with non-fraud felony arrests or convictions in the previous year are excluded from the program, but Biden administration officials said they will adopt bipartisan Senate proposals to remove this restriction -- unless the applicant is currently incarcerated. (Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by Jacqueline Wong)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-revise-small-business-loans-to-reach-smaller-minority-firms-101613988126165.html
22-02-2021||World||UN refugee agency calls for rescue of Rohingya adrift in Andaman sea||The United Nations (UN) refugee agency called on Monday for the immediate rescue of a group of Rohingya refugees who were adrift in their boat in the Andaman Sea without food or water, many of whom were ill and suffering from extreme dehydration.The agency said it understood some passengers had died, with fatalities rising over the weekend on a boat it said had left the coastal district of Cox's Bazar in Bangladesh about 10 days ago and had experienced engine failure."In the absence of precise information as to the refugees' location, we have alerted the authorities of the relevant maritime states of these reports and appealed for their swift assistance," the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said in a statement."Immediate action is needed to save lives and prevent further tragedy," it said, offering to support governments by providing humanitarian help and quarantine measures to those rescued.A senior Indian coast guard official told Reuters the boat has been tracked to an area off the Andaman and Nicobar islands and was reported safe, but the condition of those aboard was not known.The Rohingya are a Muslim minority that has suffered persecution in Buddhist-majority Myanmar and many have fled in rickety boats, encountering often perilous journeys in the hope of reaching Malaysia and Indonesia.Hundreds of thousands of Rohingya fled a deadly crackdown by Myanmar's security forces in 2017 and poured into neighbouring Bangladesh, where about a million live in dire conditions in sprawling refugee camps, unable to work or leave without government permission.Authorities in Bangladesh said they were unaware of any boats leaving the camps."If we had such information, we would have stopped them," said Rafiqul Islam, an additional police superintendent based in Cox's Bazar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-refugee-agency-calls-for-rescue-of-rohingya-adrift-at-andaman-sea-101613986670495.html
22-02-2021||World||About a third of Texans still facing disrupted water supplies: Report||Some 8.8 million people in Texas, about a third of the state's population, still had issues with their water supply as of Sunday evening, CNN quoted authorities as saying, after a record-breaking freeze knocked out power stations last week.Millions of Texans are still being advised to boil water before using, though all power plants were back online over the weekend and power had been restored to most homes as the weather returned to normal.Officials in Houston, the biggest city in the state, said water there was safe to use without boiling as of Sunday.The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) did not respond to a Reuters request for comment on the CNN report.Texas Governor Greg Abbott said late on Sunday that he had joined the Texas Air Guard, the Texas National Guard and the US military to distribute water."About 3.5 million bottles of water have been delivered", the governor said in a tweet.A deadly winter storm caused widespread blackouts last week across Texas, a state unaccustomed to extreme cold, killing at least two dozen people and knocking out power to more than 4 million people at its peak.Texas is also bringing in plumbers from out of state to help repair burst pipes, the governor said on Sunday. Homeowners or renters who do not have insurance may be able to seek reimbursement from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), he said.US President Joe Biden approved a major disaster declaration for Texas on Saturday that makes federal funding available to people harmed by the storm, including assistance for temporary housing and home repairs and low-cost loans.US Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez said late on Sunday that she had amassed $5 million in her fundraising efforts to help Texans hard hit by last week's winter storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/about-a-third-of-texans-still-facing-disrupted-water-supplies-report-101613985979959.html
22-02-2021||World||Volunteers in New Zealand try to rescue 40 stranded whales||Volunteers in New Zealand were trying to save 40 stranded whales Monday evening by refloating them on the high tide. Nine more whales had already died.The pod of 49 long-finned pilot whales beached themselves on Farewell Spit, a remote beach on the South Island, the Department of Conservation reported.The whales were first noticed by a tour operator on Monday morning, the department said.About 65 conservation rangers and volunteers worked throughout the day to help the whales by keeping them cool and wet until the water was deep enough to refloat them. The nonprofit whale rescue group Project Jonah was helping coordinate efforts.Farewell Spit, a sliver of sand that arches like a hook into the Tasman Sea, has been the site of previous mass strandings. Sometimes described as a whale trap, the spit’s long coastline and gently sloping beaches seem to make it difficult for whales to navigate away from once they get close.There are different theories as to why whales strand themselves, from chasing prey too far inshore to trying to protect a sick member of the group or escaping a predator.Four years ago, more than 650 pilot whales beached themselves on Farewell Spit in two separate mass strandings. More than 350 of the creatures died while about 300 were saved.Pilot whales are relatively small but can grow to over 6 meters (20 feet).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/volunteers-in-new-zealand-try-to-rescue-40-stranded-whales-101613976517779.html
22-02-2021||World||US Prez Biden to hold candle lighting ceremony in memory of Covid victims today||US President Joe Biden will deliver remarks on Monday on the lives lost to the coronavirus pandemic and will hold a moment of silence and candle lighting ceremony at sundown together with the First Lady, as well as Vice President Kamala Harris and her husband, the White House said." ... the President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and the Second Gentleman will hold a moment of silence and candle lighting ceremony at sundown in the South Portico," Biden's Monday daily guidance, released by the White House, says.According to the release, Biden will deliver remarks in the Cross Hall of the White House ahead of the candle lighting ceremony.According to the latest data from Johns Hopkins University, the United States has confirmed more than 28.1 million coronavirus cases, and the country's Covid-19 death toll stands at over 498,800. These are the highest figures of all the countries in the world.According to US media reports, the US coronavirus death toll is expected to surpass 500,000 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-prez-biden-to-hold-candle-lighting-ceremony-in-memory-of-covid-victims-today-101613984000426.html
22-02-2021||World||United States top general urges Iran restraint amid efforts to restart talks||Iran must refrain from any provocation as Washington steps up efforts to salvage the 2015 nuclear deal with Tehran, the head of US forces in the Middle East told AFP."I would think this would be a good time for everybody to behave soberly and cautiously, and see what happens," General Kenneth McKenzie said in an interview Sunday during a visit to Oman, from where he flew close to neighbouring Iran in a helicopter."I do believe we will be prepared for any eventuality, however."US President Joe Biden's administration, European powers and Iran have boosted attempts to revive a 2015 deal that has been on the brink of collapse since Donald Trump withdrew from it three years later.On Sunday after talks in Tehran, UN nuclear watchdog chief Rafael Grossi announced a "temporary solution" to allow Iranian facility inspections to continue.The four-star general, head of the US Army Central Command (Centcom) which covers the region urged Iran not to undertake any "nefarious activities" in a bid to rebuild trust."I think they would want to be recognised as a responsible member of the family of nations and a stable member in the region," McKenzie said.The US accuses Iran of destabilising the region through financial and military support for Shiite militant groups, especially in Iraq, Lebanon and Yemen.Washington also accuses Iran's elite Revolutionary Guards of disrupting maritime traffic in the strategic Strait of Hormuz, a chokepoint through which a fifth of world oil output passes.The Strait of Hormuz was the focus of the US general's visit to Oman, officially intended to make contact with the country's new chief of staff, Rear Admiral Abdallah Ben Khamis al-Raissi.On Saturday, he visited Oman's rugged peninsula at the naval base at Khassab, which controls maritime traffic in the strait from its side, flying over the sea towards the Iranian island of Qeshm."We were about 28 miles (45 kilometres) across the channel and we were looking at Qeshm island," he said."It was a hazy day, couldn't see it," he added with a grin.'Ready for anything'The visit passed off peacefully but security was tight, and the general did not rule out that Tehran would try to avenge revered Iranian general Qasem Soleimani, killed in an US drone strike in Baghdad in January 2020."I think there's still a risk that they might entertain that as a course of action," he said."Look, we constantly assess our force protection here in the region. We look at that very hard. So I'm confident that we're ready for anything."But he said he was not fearful himself that he was at risk of being attacked."I'm an old Marine general," he said. "There's been a risk for me many times in many places. I'm confident that we have good force protection measures in place."Last month, a Twitter account linked to Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei posted a call to avenge Soleimani that appeared to target former US President Donald Trump.In Iraq in recent months, several rocket attacks that Washington blames on pro-Iran factions have hit bases used by the US military.The Sultanate of Oman is a US ally, which has several air bases in the country, with the navy using the southern port of Salalah.It has often acted as a mediator between Iran and its regional enemies, and played a key role in facilitating talks involving the US that led to the 2015 nuclear deal.Oman, with a population of 4.5 million, is also a neighbour of Iran -- and international sanctions against Tehran have hit Muscat's economy by impacting trade.Oman's ruler, Sultan Haitham, ascended to the throne in January 2020 after the death of his cousin, Sultan Qaboos, modern Oman's founding father.Qaboos transformed the former Arabian Peninsula backwater into a modern nation with a staunch policy of neutrality and non-interference.Sultan Haitham has made several changes to government and reshuffled the military leadership since he came to power, but he has vowed not to change the sultanate's policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-states-top-general-urges-iran-restraint-amid-efforts-to-restart-talks-101613983659607.html
22-02-2021||World||Germany damps hopes for easing curbs as contagion rates rise||Germany needs to further slow the spread of the coronavirus before the government can consider additional steps to loosen restrictions on Europe’s largest economy, the country’s health minister said.Children in 10 of Germany’s 16 states are returning to schools and daycares for the first time in weeks on Monday, and authorities will need to evaluate the impact of the move before considering whether other curbs can be eased, Jens Spahn said on Sunday.“Once we have firm footing, we can take another step” after reopening schools and daycares, he said in an interview with ARD television.Germany’s contagion rate reached 61 per 100,000 people over seven days on Monday, the highest level in more than a week and the latest evidence that a steady decline since a peak before Christmas has ground to a halt. The number of infections is still above the target of 50 that Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government has determined to be manageable.Hairdressers are set to reopen on March 1 and further easing is tied to local seven-day incidence rates of less than 35.Amid concerns about fast-spreading variants, Germany imposed border controls with the Czech Republic and Austria’s Tirol province in mid-February. Interior Minister Horst Seehofer will seek to extend those measures this week, he told Bayerischer Rundfunk.Despite concerns about mutations, Merkel’s government is under increasing pressure to present a path out of the lockdown amid criticism over the sluggish pace of the country’s vaccine program.Spahn pleaded for patience as the country seeks to strike a balance between easing strains on the pandemic-weary public and health risks from aggressive virus strains.“I know everybody wants a three- and a six-month plan, but that’s not possible,” he said.Germany’s reproduction factor -- or R value -- rose to 1.25 on Sunday from 1.14 the day before, according to the latest report from the Robert Koch Institute, the country’s public health authority. The number means 100 infected people are estimated to spread the disease to around 125 others, and its recent rise is another sign that the slowdown in infection numbers has ground to a halt.There were 6,094 new infections in Germany in the 24 hours through Monday morning, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. This compares with almost 50,000 at the peak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-damps-hopes-for-easing-curbs-as-contagion-rates-rise-101613977207866.html
22-02-2021||World||UN human rights body opens session as Myanmar concerns loom||The U.N.’s top human rights body has opened its first and highest-level meeting of 2021, amid growing concerns on issues including the military coup in Myanmar, the arrest of opposition leader Alexei Navalny in Russia and the rights situations in countries including Ethiopia and Sri Lanka.The four-week session at the Human Rights Council starting Monday has drawn several presidents and prime ministers for its “high-level segment,” and Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, whose government has led a violent crackdown against dissent, was set to speak. The United States is set to renew its council participation after a 2 1/2-year walkout during the term of former President Donald Trump.Concerns about China’s treatment of Muslim Uighurs, a squeeze by Ethiopia’s government on the country’s Tigray region and state-sponsored violence in countries including Nicaragua were likely to face scrutiny during the session.“Every corner of the globe is suffering from the sickness of violations of human rights,” said U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.The military coup and violent crackdown on protesters in Myanmar since early February was among the most pressing issues on the council's agenda.The session, almost exclusively online, comes as the fight against Covid-19 has become a pretext by some governments to curb human rights, and worsened gender inequality and extreme poverty — even as vaccination efforts have largely been carried out in the world’s richest countries.Guterres also decried racism, discrimination, xenophobia and the “transnational threat” of white supremacy and neo-Nazi movements — saying such groups are “engaged in a feeding frenzy of hate.”“Far too often, these hate groups are cheered on by people in positions of responsibility in ways that were considered unimaginable not long ago,” he added, without elaborating.Western foreign ministers including Heiko Maas of Germany and Dominic Raab of Britain were to be joined by U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken in addressing the session. Trump had pulled the U.S. out over concerns that the council was excessively focused on Israel and had been too accepting of autocratic regimes that regularly violate human rights — citing Venezuela in particular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-human-rights-body-opens-session-as-myanmar-concerns-loom-101613983382862.html
22-02-2021||World||Sri Lanka cancels Imran Khan's speech to avoid 'clash' with India: Report||In an effort to avoid confrontation with India, Sri Lanka has cancelled a scheduled speech of Prime Minister Imran Khan in Parliament.According to a report titled 'Sri Lanka avoids clash with India by cancelling Khan's Parliament speech' by Dar Javed published in Colombo Gazette, the Colombo government cannot risk its relations with India when it is getting stuck in the Chinese debt-trap and India being the saviour for the world for distributing Covid-19 vaccines.India has recently gifted 5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccines to Sri Lanka.In past recent months, there have been anti-Muslim sentiments in Sri Lanka as Buddhist people have been protesting on issues such as animal sacrifices in mosques.It is expected that Imran Khan would have used the Muslim card during his visit to Sri Lanka. He had played the same card during his visit to Afghanistan last year.Javed said that the Pakistan Prime Minister in 2012 had supported the Taliban saying the terror activities were "holy war" that is justified by Islamic law. "He has used the United Nations General Assembly to rake up Muslim cause, which has often been perceived as interference in the internal matters of the other countries. In October 2020, he urged the Muslim-majority countries to protest after French President Emmanuel Macron expressed concerns over the murder of a teacher by an Islamist radical. He wrote to the leaders of Muslim-majority countries 'to counter the growing Islamophobia in non-Muslim states'," the author stated.Looking at the past incidents, it is evident that "giving him (Imran Khan) a platform like Parliament to speak would be like to dice with death".He would use the platform to make statements that will have "serious ramifications" for both the Buddhist people of Sri Lanka and the Rajapaksa government at the international level."The way Imran Khan responded to the requests of Sri Lankan Muslim leader's requests; it had become clear that he would rake up minority abuse issue during Parliament speech," Javed pointed.Earlier, Rishad Bathiudeen, leader of the All-Ceylon Makkal Congress, had urged the Pakistan government to intervene in the matter of forced cremation policy of the Sri Lankan government for people who died due to COVID-19. The Prime Minister publicly remarked on the issue of the burial of dead bodies in Sri Lanka.While Imran Khan seems eager to raise the issue of the treatment of Muslims in other countries, the United Nations' Commission on the Status of Women report had stated that the religious freedom in the country has continued to deteriorate.The commission further noted that the minorities in Pakistan are treated as second-class citizens. Besides, several Buddhist heritage sites in Pakistan were recently demolished.After Organisation of Islamic Cooperation refused to take up Pakistan's proposal to entertain the Kashmir issue, Imran Khan has become desperate to get support from the Muslim countries and portray himself as the champion of the Muslim world.Amid this, the refusal of the Buddhist populated country to give a platform to Imran Khan in the Parliament has left the Prime Minister red-faced and frustrated. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-cancels-imran-khan-s-speech-to-avoid-clash-with-india-report-101613981373935.html
22-02-2021||World||US reiterates support for pro-democracy protests in Myanmar||The US continues to stand with the people of Burma as they voice their aspirations for peace and democracy and it calls on the military to stop violence, release all those unjustly detained and cease attacks on journalists and activists, according to US State Department spokesperson Ned Price on Sunday (local time).Taking to Twitter, Ned Price said, "We continue to stand with the people of Burma as they voice their aspirations for peace, democracy, and rule of law. We call on the military to stop violence, release all those unjustly detained, cease attacks on journalists and activists, and respect the will of the people."US State Department Secretary Antony Blinken also said that the US stands with the people of Burma."The United States will continue to take firm action against those who perpetrate violence against the people of Burma as they demand the restoration of their democratically elected government. We stand with the people of Burma," Blinken wrote in a tweet.This comes after the Myanmar police opened fire on pro-democracy protesters in the city of Mandalay on Saturday, killing two people and wounding dozens.On February 1, Myanmar's military overthrew the government and declared a year-long state of emergency hours before the newly-elected parliament was due to convene. State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint, along with other top officials accused of election fraud, have been placed under house arrest. The coup triggered mass protests across the country.According to Sputnik, at least 150 people have suffered injuries during intense demonstrations across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-reiterates-support-for-pro-democracy-protests-in-myanmar-101613971246063.html
22-02-2021||World||China asks US to stop 'smearing' CPC, halt support to 'separatist forces' in Tibet, Hong Kong, Xinjiang||China on Monday urged the US to stop "smearing" the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) and it’s one-party political system, lift sanctions on trade and halt Washington’s backing of "separatist forces” in Taiwan, Tibet, Hong Kong and Xinjiang.In his annual speech at the Lanting Forum, focussing on China-US ties, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said the Biden administration should “adjust” the hardline policy pursued by former President Donald Trump towards Beijing to check its growing influence.“We have no intention to challenge or replace the United States. We are ready to have peaceful coexistence and seek common development with the United States,” Wang said.“Likewise, we hope the United States will respect China’s core interests, national dignity, and rights to development. We urge the United States to stop smearing the CPC and China’s political system, stop conniving at or even supporting the erroneous words and actions of separatist forces for 'Taiwan independence', and stop undermining China’s sovereignty and security on internal affairs concerning Hong Kong, Xinjiang and Tibet,” he said.“We hope that the US side will adjust its policies as soon as possible, among others, remove unreasonable tariffs on Chinese goods, lift its unilateral sanctions on Chinese companies and research and educational institutes, and abandon irrational suppression of China,” he said.The relations between China and the US are at an all time low. The two countries are currently engaged in a bitter confrontation over various issues, including trade, the origins of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the communist giant's aggressive military moves in the disputed South China Sea and human rights.US President Joe Biden who spoke to his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping for over two hours in his first phone call on February 11 later said there would be “repercussions” for China’s human rights abuses and he made the message clear to his Chinese counterpart in his talks.In a CNN town hall on February 17, Biden said he stressed to Xi during their long conversation that the US would continue to assert its role as a voice for human rights on the world stage, including at the United Nations and other international agencies.“We must speak up for human rights. It’s who we are,” the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post quoted Biden as saying.“There will be repercussions for China, and [Xi] knows that,” he said.“China is trying very hard to become the world leader and to get that moniker, and to be able to do that, they have to gain the confidence of other countries. And as long as they’re engaged in activity that is contrary to basic human rights, it’s going to be hard for them to do that,” Biden, whose administration is formulating its China policy reconfiguring the one followed by Trump, said.Biden, who met Xi a few times when both were Vice Presidents, had said earlier said that Xi lacked ‘D’ bone meaning the democratic bone highlighting the autocratic style of the Chinese President, who has emerged the most powerful leader after Mao Zedong after he took over power in 2012.After his talks with Xi, Biden also warned that if the US doesn't "get moving" on China policy, "they're going to eat our lunch."Ahead of his call with Xi, Biden announced a new Defence Department task force aimed at assessing the US military’s China strategy.Besides challenging China on various fronts, including on the origins of coronavirus, Trump launched sanctions on trade with Beijing and banned Chinese tech firms like Huawei, TikTok.In his speech, Wang said it is important to step-up dialogue and properly manage the differences between the top two economies of the world.“Given the differences between our two countries in the social system, development stage, history and culture, it is natural for us to have disagreements. What is crucial is to enhance mutual understanding through dialogue and not allow our relations to be defined by disagreements,” Wang said.“Over the past few years, the United States basically cut off bilateral dialogue at all levels. And this was one of the main reasons for the deterioration of China-US relations,” he said.He said both sides should follow up on the phone call between the two Presidents, act in the “fundamental interests of the two peoples, take a forward-looking, open-minded and inclusive attitude, and reactivate or establish dialogue mechanisms in various areas and at various levels”.They should also engage in candid dialogues on a broad range of issues to explore effective ways to manage sensitive issues, ward off risks and remove obstacles, he said.“China is, as always, open to dialogue. We stand ready to have candid communication with the US side, and engage in dialogues aimed at solving problems”, he said.Wang spoke at the Lanting Forum, a platform initiated by the Chinese Foreign Ministry to promote communication and exchanges between government, the business community, academia, media and the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-asks-us-to-stop-smearing-cpc-halt-support-to-separatist-forces-in-tibet-hong-kong-xinjiang-101613970806192.html
22-02-2021||World||UK PM Boris Johnson eyes end to lockdown as Covid-19 vaccines reach one-third of adults||Prime Minister Boris Johnson is set Monday to start unwinding England's third and -- he hopes -- final coronavirus lockdown, as a quickening UK-wide inoculation drive relieves pressure on hard-hit hospitals.In a statement to parliament, Johnson is expected to confirm the reopening of all English schools on March 8 in the first big step towards restoring normal life, nearly a year after he imposed the first stay-at-home order.The Conservative prime minister, who was accused of acting too late and relaxing curbs too early last year, says he will lay out a "cautious but irreversible" plan to ensure no more lockdowns."Today I'll be setting out a roadmap to bring us out of lockdown cautiously," he said in a Downing Street release, ahead of his House of Commons appearance and a televised news conference later Monday."Our priority has always been getting children back into school which we know is crucial for their education as well as their mental and physical well-being, and we will also be prioritising ways for people to reunite with loved ones safely."Britain is one of the countries hardest-hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, with more than 120,000 deaths.It was the first nation to begin a mass vaccination campaign, in December, but surging case numbers forced a return to lockdown in early January after an easing of curbs over Christmas.More than 17 million people have now received at least a first vaccine dose -- one-third of the adult UK population.Case numbers falling Over the weekend, the government said it would seek to offer a dose to everyone aged over 50 by mid-April, and to every other adult by the end of July, accelerating the latter timetable from September previously.Case numbers are falling again and early evidence suggests the vaccinations are reducing serious illness, after some intensive-care units were overrun last month and queues of ambulances formed outside hospitals, unable to transfer their patients.Johnson said the planned relaxations would be uniform across England, after regionalised tiers were put in place last year, but stressed that further progress would hinge on factors such as any new Covid variants.That, and proof that the National Health Service is not facing any more "unsustainable pressure", offer Johnson some flexibility against pressure from Conservative backbenchers who are pressing for a cast-iron timeline to normality by the summer.Teaching unions say meanwhile that allowing all pupils to return on the same day is "reckless", but the March 8 target is backed by the main opposition Labour party."We all want this to be the last lockdown so we've got to come out of it in a measured way, but make sure we are not back where we started in a number of weeks or months," Labour leader Keir Starmer told Sky News.'Not through this yet' Also from March 8, the government plans to allow elderly residents of care homes to receive indoor visits from one designated relative or friend, and is expected to permit limited social mixing by the public outdoors.But the full reopening of retail and pubs, and attendance at sporting events such as Premier League football, will be delayed until later."All of us understandably want to go back to normal, but it is right to be cautious," Health Secretary Matt Hancock said, noting that nearly 20,000 people remain in hospital with Covid.The devolved governments of Scotland and Wales, which administer their own health policy, are letting some younger pupils return to school this week.In Northern Ireland, the administration is resuming younger classes on March 8 but has extended its overall lockdown to April 1.John Edmunds, an epidemiologist and government advisor from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, told the BBC: "The vast majority of us are still not immune."Easing up too quickly will increase pressure, cases will increase again. We're not through this yet."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-eyes-end-to-lockdown-as-covid-19-vaccines-reach-one-third-of-adults-101613968387700.html
22-02-2021||World||China calls to reset ties with US, work together on issues like climate change, coronavirus||Senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi said on Monday the United States and China could work together on issues like climate change and the coronavirus pandemic if they repaired their damaged bilateral relationship.Wang, a Chinese state councillor and foreign minister, said Beijing stood ready to reopen constructive dialogue with Washington after relations between the two countries sank to their lowest in decades under former president Donald Trump.Wang called on Washington to remove tariffs on Chinese goods and abandon what he said was an irrational suppression of the Chinese tech sector, steps he said would create the "necessary conditions" for cooperation.Before Wang spoke at a forum sponsored by the foreign ministry, officials played footage of the "ping-pong diplomacy" of 1972 when an exchange of table tennis players cleared the way for then US President Richard Nixon to visit China.Wang urged Washington to respect China's core interests, stop "smearing" the ruling Communist Party, stop interfering in Beijing's internal affairs and stop "conniving" with separatist forces for Taiwan's independence."Over the past few years, the United States basically cut off bilateral dialogue at all levels," Wang said in prepared remarks translated into English."We stand ready to have candid communication with the U.S. side, and engage in dialogues aimed at solving problems."Wang pointed to a recent call between Chinese President Xi Jinping and US President Joe Biden as a positive step.Washington and Beijing have clashed on multiple fronts including trade, accusations of human rights crimes against the Uighur Muslim minorities in the Xinjiang region and Beijing's territorial claims in the resources-rich South China Sea.The Biden administration has, however, signalled it will maintain pressure on Beijing. Biden has voiced concern about Beijing's "coercive and unfair" trade practices and endorsed of a Trump administration determination that China has committed genocide in Xinjiang.However, Biden has also pledged to take a more multilateral approach and is keen to cooperate with Beijing on issues like climate change and persuading North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-calls-to-reset-ties-with-us-work-together-on-issues-like-climate-change-coronavirus-101613966888599.html
22-02-2021||World||Myanmar gripped by strike as anti-coup protests build||Businesses shut in Myanmar on Monday in a general strike called to oppose the military coup and thousands of protesters gathered despite a threat from authorities that confrontation could cost lives.Three weeks after seizing power, the junta has failed to stop daily protests and a civil disobedience movement calling for the reversal of the Feb. 1 coup and release of elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi."Everyone is joining this," said San San Maw, 46, at the Hledan junction in the main city of Yangon, which has become a rallying point for the protests. "We need to come out."In a country where dates are seen as auspicious, protesters noted the significance of the date 22.2.2021, comparing it to demonstrations on Aug. 8 1988 when a previous generation staged anti-military protests which were bloodily suppressed.The response of security forces this time has been less deadly, but at least three protesters have now been killed after two were shot dead in the second city of Mandalay on Saturday. One policeman died of injuries in protests, the army has said.The deaths in Mandalay did not discourage protesters on Sunday, when they turned out again in tens of thousands there and in Yangon.State-owned media MRTV warned protesters against action on Monday."Protesters are now inciting the people, especially emotional teenagers and youths, to a confrontation path where they will suffer the loss of life," it said.Htet Htet Hlaing, 22, said she was scared and had prayed before joining Monday's demonstration, but would not be discouraged."We don’t want the junta, we want democracy. We want to create our own future," she said. "My mother didn't stop me from coming out, she only said 'take care'."RESTAURANTS SHUTAs well as local stores, international chains announced closures on Monday, including Yum Brands Inc.'s KFC and delivery service Food Panda, owned by Delivery Hero. Southeast Asian company Grab stopped delivery services too, but left its taxis running.Authorities were "exercising utmost restraint", the foreign ministry said in a statement. It rebuked some foreign countries for remarks it described as flagrant interference in Myanmar's internal affairs.Several Western countries have condemned the coup and decried the violence against protesters.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Twitter the United States would continue to "take firm action" against authorities violently cracking down on opponents of the coup in the Southeast Asian country that is also known as Burma."We stand with the people of Burma," he said.Britain, Germany, Japan and Singapore have also condemned the violence and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said lethal force was unacceptable.Residents in Yangon said roads to some embassies, including the US embassy, were blocked on Monday. The diplomatic missions have become gathering points for protesters calling for foreign intervention.UN special rapporteur on human rights to Myanmar, Tom Andrews, said he was deeply concerned by the junta's warning to protesters."Unlike 1988, actions by security forces are being recorded and you will be held accountable," he said on Twitter.The army seized power after alleging fraud in Nov. 8 elections that were swept by Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD), detaining her and much of the party leadership. The electoral commission dismissed the fraud complaints.Myanmar's Assistance Association for Political Prisoners said 640 people have been arrested, charged or sentenced since the coup - including former members of government and opponents of the army takeover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-gripped-by-strike-as-anti-coup-protests-build-101613966560520.html
22-02-2021||World||Donald Trump 'offered Kim Jong Un a ride home on Air Force One'||Donald Trump offered North Korean leader Kim Jong Un a ride home on Air Force One after a summit in Hanoi two years ago, according to a new BBC documentary.Kim and Trump first engaged in a war of words and mutual threats, before an extraordinary diplomatic bromance that featured headline-grabbing summits and a declaration of love by the former US president.But no substantive progress was made, with the process deadlocked after the pair's meeting in Hanoi broke up over sanctions relief and what Pyongyang would be willing to give up in return.According to a BBC documentary, "Trump Takes on the World", the US president "stunned even the most seasoned diplomats" by offering Kim a lift home on Air Force One after the 2019 summit in Vietnam.If Kim had accepted the offer, it would have put the North Korean leader -- and probably some of his entourage -- inside the US president's official aircraft and seen it enter North Korean airspace, raising multiple security issues.In the event, Kim turned it down."President Trump offered Kim a lift home on Air Force One," Matthew Pottinger, the top Asia expert on Trump's National Security Council, told the BBC, it reported at the weekend."The president knew that Kim had arrived on a multi-day train ride through China into Hanoi and the president said: 'I can get you home in two hours if you want.' Kim declined."For his first summit with Trump in Singapore in 2018, Kim hitched a ride on an Air China plane, with Beijing keen to keep North Korea -- whose existence as a buffer state keeps US troops in the South well away from China's borders -- firmly within its sphere of influence.During the Singapore summit, Trump gave Kim a glimpse inside his presidential state car -- a $1.5 million Cadillac also known as "The Beast" -- in a show of their newly friendly rapport.But last month Kim said the US was his nuclear-armed nation's "biggest enemy", adding that Washington's "policy against North Korea will never change" no matter "who is in power".North Korean official media have yet to refer to Joe Biden -- who beat Trump in last year's election -- by name as US president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-offered-kim-jong-un-a-ride-home-on-air-force-one-101613965684138.html
22-02-2021||World||Louisiana gun store shooting: Attacker kills 2, customers, staff shoot him down||A person entered a gun store and shooting range in a New Orleans suburb and fatally shot two people Saturday, prompting customers and staff to open fire on the shooter, a sheriff said. The shooter also died.The shooting happened around 2:50 p.m. at the Jefferson Gun Outlet in the suburb of Metairie, according to a release from the Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office.Sheriff Joseph Lopinto said the shooter initially struck two people inside, and then several other people — whether employees or store customers — opened fire on the shooter, both inside and outside of the building. Outside the building a man could be seen afterward behind yellow police tape yelling “Where is my son?”Guns and ammunition are sold in the front of the outlet that faces a main thoroughfare through Jefferson Parish. Customers who want to frequent the gun range generally go around to the side entrance of the building. Staff who work there often wear a sidearm.Lopinto said two other people also were hit by gunfire and were hospitalized in stable condition. He said there were multiple shooters.“We’re trying to put it all together,” the sheriff said during a short briefing with journalists.None of the dead or wounded were immediately identified and details remained unclear.Tyrone Russell and Wanetta Joseph were both in a conceal-and-carry course at the store when they heard what they both described as rapid firing. They said the gunfire sounded much louder than the usual muffled shooting that they are used to hearing inside the shooting range.“We heard the gunshots and the screaming,” said Russell. “When the police came, they escorted us out. I could see glass everywhere … It was just like a really scary scene.”“It got extremely loud, like a bomb almost,” said Joseph, who hid with other students under a table — not knowing if there were multiple shooters or if one was near the classroom. One instructor stayed with the students while two others left the room and headed toward the sound of gunfire.Russell said that when he was led out, he could see a guy “laid out” in the parking lot not far from his car, which was struck by bullets. He described seeing shattered glass, bullet casings strewn about the store.Caution tape surrounded the business to keep onlookers from getting close to the scene, where ambulances and numerous law enforcement vehicles had converged. A neighboring Taco Bell eatery had been evacuated.Authorities remained at the scene as night fell.Metairie is a major suburb of New Orleans, about 5 miles (8 kilometers) west of the city's iconic French Quarter, in the neighboring jurisdiction of Jefferson Parish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/metairie-gun-store-shooting-attacker-kills-2-customers-staff-shoot-him-down-101613960959775.html
22-02-2021||World||'We're going to beat Covid-19': Joe Biden after visiting Pfizer vaccine plant||After visiting the Pfizer manufacturing plant in Michigan, US President Joe Biden on Sunday (local time) thanked the company's workers for their tireless efforts and said because of their hard work Americans are going to beat Covid-19.Taking to Twitter, Biden wrote, "On Friday, I visited Kalamazoo, Michigan to tour a Pfizer manufacturing plant. I had an opportunity to see the COVID-19 vaccine production process up close and thank the workers for their tireless efforts - because of their hard work we're going to beat COVID-19."On Friday (local time) Biden visited a factory in Kalamazoo, where he met with lab workers and learned about the process behind creating one of the two Covid-19 vaccines that are being widely used across the country to inoculate Americans, reported The Hill."I came here because I want the American people to understand the extraordinary, extraordinary work that's being done to undertake the most difficult operational challenges this nation has ever faced," said Biden.However, it marked just the second time Biden had travelled outside the Washington, DC, area since taking office, The Hill reported. world||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/were-going-to-beat-covid-19-joe-biden-after-visiting-pfizer-vaccine-plant-101613960986050.html
22-02-2021||World||China calls for reset in Sino-US relations with Biden administration||Senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi called on the administration of U.S. President Joe Biden to work with Beijing to reopen dialogue between the two countries to restore a bilateral relationship damaged under the presidency of Donald Trump.Wang, a Chinese state councillor and foreign minister, said the Trump administration's actions to suppress and contain China inflicted immeasurable harm, and called on Washington to remove tariffs on Chinese goods and abandon what he said was an irrational suppression of the Chinese tech sector.Wang also urged Washington to respect China's core interests, stop interfering in Beijing's internal affairs and stop "conniving" with separatist forces for Taiwan's independence."Over the past few years, the United States basically cut off bilateral dialogue at all levels," Wang said in prepared remarks translated into English."We stand ready to have candid communication with the U.S. side, and engage in dialogues aimed at solving problems."Wang pointed to a recent call between Chinese President Xi Jinping and Biden as a positive step.The comments come with the bilateral relationship at its lowest in decades. Washington and Beijing have clashed on multiple fronts including trade, accusations of human rights crimes against the Uighur Muslim minorities in Xinjiang region and Beijing's territorial claims in the resources-rich South China Sea.The Biden administration has, however, signalled it will maintain pressure on Beijing. Biden has voiced concern about Beijing's "coercive and unfair" trade practices and endorsed of a Trump administration determination that China has committed genocide against Muslim minorities in the far western region of Xinjiang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-calls-for-reset-in-sino-us-relations-with-biden-administration-101613960838464.html
22-02-2021||World||Myanmar junta 'threatens' protesters ahead of proposed general strike today||A call for a Monday general strike by demonstrators in Myanmar protesting the military’s seizure of power has been met by the ruling junta with a thinly veiled threat to use lethal force, raising the possibility of major clashes.The call for a general strike was made Sunday by the Civil Disobedience Movement, a loosely organized group leading resistance to the army’s Feb. 1 takeover. It asked people to gather together for the Five Twos — referring to the digits in Monday’s date — to make a “Spring Revolution.”State television broadcaster MRTV late Sunday carried a public announcement from the junta, formally called the State Administration Council, warning against the general strike.“It is found that the protesters have raised their incitement towards riot and anarchy mob on the day of 22 February. Protesters are now inciting the people, especially emotional teenagers and youths, to a confrontation path where they will suffer the loss of life,” it said in an English language text shown onscreen. The spoken announcement in Burmese said the same thing.Another part of the statement blamed protesters whose numbers allegedly included criminal gangs for violence at demonstrations, with the result that “the security force members had to fire back.” Three protesters have been shot dead so far.The protest movement has embraced nonviolence and only occasionally gotten into shoving matches with police and thrown bottles at them when provoked.In Yangon, the country’s biggest city, trucks cruised the streets Sunday night blaring announcements that people should not attend protests Monday and must honor a ban on gatherings of five or more people. The ban was issued shortly after the coup but not enforced in Yangon, which for the past two weeks has been the scene of large daily demonstrations.Many social media postings ahead of the scheduled nightly 1 a.m. cutoff of internet access service said security forces had set up roadblocks at strategic points in the city, including bridges and on streets leading to foreign embassies. Information on Twitter accounts that have proven reliable in the past said internet blocking, usually lasting until 9 a.m., would be extended to noon in Yangon.The ominous signs of potential conflict drew attention outside Myanmar, with the U.S. reiterating that it stood with the people of Myanmar.Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Twitter the U.S. would take firm action "against those who perpetrate violence against the people of Burma as they demand the restoration of their democratically elected government.”“We call on the military to stop violence, release all those unjustly detained, cease attacks on journalists and activists, and respect the will of the people,” spokesman Ned Price said on Twitter.Earlier Sunday, crowds in Myanmar’s capital attended a funeral for the young woman who was the first person confirmed to have been killed in the protests, while demonstrators also mourned two other protesters who were shot dead on Saturday.Mya Thwet Thwet Khine was shot in the head by police on Feb. 9, two days before her 20th birthday, at a protest in Naypyitaw, and died Friday.Mourners lined the entrance to a cemetery in the city as the hearse carrying her body arrived and was taken to a crematorium where more people had gathered. They silently raised their hands in three-fingered salutes — a sign of defiance and resistance adopted from neighboring Thailand — as the black and gold vehicle rolled slowly past.Inside the crematorium hall, the lid on Mya Thwet Thwet Khine’s coffin was partially removed to allow a last glimpse of her head resting on a bed of red and white roses before she was cremated. Members of the crowd outside chanted “Our uprising must succeed!”Protests against the coup and the ousting of the nation’s leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, occurred elsewhere around the country Sunday.Demonstrators turned out in force in Mandalay, the country’s second-biggest city, where security forces shot dead two people on Saturday near a dockyard where the authorities had been trying to force workers to load a boat. The workers, like railway workers and truckers and many civil servants, have joined the civil disobedience campaign against the junta.The shooting broke out after neighborhood residents rushed to the Yadanabon dock to try to assist the workers in their resistance. One of the victims, described as a teenage boy, was shot in the head and died immediately, while another was shot in the chest and died en route to a hospital.The authorities have continued arrests that began on the day of the coup, when Suu Kyi and members of the government were detained. According to the independent Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, 640 people have been arrested, charged or sentenced, with 593, including Suu Kyi and President Win Myint, still in detention.The junta prevented Parliament from convening Feb. 1, claiming the elections last November, won by Suu Kyi's party in a landslide, were tainted by fraud. The election commission that affirmed the victory has since been replaced by the junta, which says a new election will be held in a year’s time.The coup was a major setback to Myanmar’s transition to democracy after 50 years of army rule that began with a 1962 coup. Suu Kyi came to power after her party won a 2015 election, but the generals retained substantial power under the constitution, which had been adopted under a military regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-junta-threatens-protesters-ahead-of-proposed-general-strike-today-101613960003031.html
22-02-2021||World||United will temporarily stop flying some Boeing 777 planes after engine failure||United Airlines said late Sunday it will immediately halt all flights by its fleet of 24 Boeing 777 airplanes with the same type of engine involved in Saturday's emergency landing in Denver.The announcement came after the Federal Aviation Administration said it would require stepped-up inspections of 777 aircraft with Pratt & Whitney PW4000 series engines after the right engine failure on United Flight 328.United said it will continue discussions with US regulators "to determine any additional steps that are needed to ensure these aircraft meet our rigorous safety standards and can return to service."The FAA had said it expected the new inspection would require some planes to be temporarily taken out of service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-will-temporarily-stop-flying-some-boeing-777-planes-after-engine-failure-101613956778785.html
22-02-2021||World||US coronavirus death toll approaches milestone of 500,000||The US stood Sunday at the brink of a once-unthinkable tally: 500,000 people lost to the coronavirus.A year into the pandemic, the running total of lives lost was about 498,000 — roughly the population of Kansas City, Missouri, and just shy of the size of Atlanta.The figure compiled by Johns Hopkins University surpasses the number of people who died in 2019 of chronic lower respiratory diseases, stroke, Alzheimer's, flu and pneumonia combined.“It's nothing like we have ever been through in the last 102 years, since the 1918 influenza pandemic,” the nation's top infectious disease expert, Dr Anthony Fauci, said on CNN's “State of the Union”.The US virus death toll reached 400,000 on January 19 in the waning hours in office for President Donald Trump, whose handling of the crisis was judged by public health experts to be a singular failure.The first known deaths from the virus in the US happened in early February 2020, both of them in Santa Clara County, California. It took four months to reach the first 100,000 dead. The toll hit 200,000 deaths in September and 300,000 in December. Then it took just over a month to go from 300,000 to 400,000 and about two months to climb from 400,000 to the brink of 500,000.Joyce Willis of Las Vegas is among the countless Americans who lost family members during the pandemic. Her husband, Anthony Willis, died on December 28, followed by her mother-in-law in early January.There were anxious calls from the ICU when her husband was hospitalised. She was unable to see him before he died because she, too, had the virus and could not visit.“They are gone. Your loved one is gone, but you are still alive,” Willis said. “It's like you still have to get up every morning. You have to take care of your kids and make a living. There is no way around it. You just have to move on.”Then came a nightmare scenario of caring for her father-in-law while dealing with grief, arranging funerals, paying bills, helping her children navigate online school and figuring out how to go back to work as an occupational therapist.Her father-in-law, a Vietnam vet, also contracted the virus. He also suffered from respiratory issues and died on February 8. The family isn't sure if COVID-19 contributed to his death.“Some days I feel OK and other days I feel like I'm strong and I can do this," she said. “And then other days it just hits me. My whole world is turned upside-down.”The global death toll was approaching 2.5 million, according to Johns Hopkins.While the count is based on figures supplied by government agencies around the world, the real death toll is believed to be significantly higher, in part because of inadequate testing and cases inaccurately attributed to other causes early on.Despite efforts to administer coronavirus vaccines, a widely cited model by the University of Washington projects the US death toll will surpass 589,000 by June 1."People will be talking about this decades and decades and decades from now,” Fauci said on NBC's “Meet The Press”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-coronavirus-death-toll-approaches-milestone-of-500000-101613955167059.html
22-02-2021||World||US aviation body orders emergency inspection following Denver incident||US aviation regulators ordered emergency inspections of fan blades on the type of engine that failed Saturday over suburban Denver, spraying metal debris over a wide area.Federal Aviation Administration officials ordered the inspections after examining the hollow fan blade that failed, triggering the failure Saturday, the agency said in an emailed statement. Japan’s Civil Aviation Bureau ordered operators of the Boeing Co. 777 involved in Saturday’s incident to halt operations, according to the FAA.Meanwhile, Japan’s transport ministry on Sunday ordered ANA Holdings and Japan Airlines to ground Boeing 777 planes they operate following the Denver engine failure. ANA operates 19 planes and JAL 13 with Pratt & Whitney’s PW4000 engine that saw a failure with United Airlines plane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/faa-orders-emergency-inspections-after-denver-jet-incident-101613952504683.html
22-02-2021||World||Farooq Abdullah asks Centre to speak to Pakistan if terrorism has to be abated||National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah on Sunday requested the Central government to speak to Pakistan while underscoring that terrorism still exists."It is true that terrorism still exists. They are wrong when they say that it has ended. If we want to end terrorism, then we must speak to our neighbours. I remember Vajpayee's remark that friends can be changed but not neighbours," Abdullah told ANI."I appeal to them (Central government) to speak to them (Pakistan) to find a way as they spoke to China and they (PLA troops) started withdrawing (from LAC)," he added.Earlier, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh asserted that the disengagement process by India and China in eastern Ladakh has been 'completed' after nine rounds of diplomatic and military level talks between the two countries.20 Indian soldiers and unspecified numbers of Chinese soldiers were killed in the Galwan Valley clash in June last year. India and China are in a standoff in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), following aggressive border skirmishes by the Chinese army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/farooq-abdullah-asks-centre-to-speak-to-pakistan-if-terrorism-has-to-be-abated-101613954203886.html
22-02-2021||World||Activist Malcolm X's family calls to reopen investigation into his murder||The daughters of prominent Black activist Malcolm X have called to reopen the investigation into his murder in light of new testimony implicating the New York police and the FBI."Any evidence that provides greatest insight into the truth behind that terrible tragedy should be thoroughly investigated," said Ilyasah Shabazz, one of Malcolm X's six daughters, during a press conference on Saturday.Considered alongside Martin Luther King Jr as one the most influential African Americans in history, Malcolm X was an outspoken Muslim advocate of Black rights, although critics said he preached racism and violence.He was gunned down during a public speaking appearance in New York in February 1965.When contacted Sunday by AFP, a spokesman for the Manhattan district attorney said the office's "review" of the case is "active and ongoing."During the press conference, a letter written by former New York police officer Raymond Wood, now deceased, was read out, in which he accused the NYPD and FBI of being complicit in the killing.According to his cousin, Wood, who was Black and worked as an undercover operative, claimed to have approached Malcolm X's entourage on orders from his higher-ups.Wood said he set up two of the activist's bodyguards, who were arrested only a few days before the murder.On February 21, 1965 -- 55 years ago to the day -- El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz, Malcolm X's Muslim name, sans the two bodyguards, was shot dead by three gunmen as he prepared to give a speech in the Audubon Ballroom, a theater in Harlem, in the north of Manhattan.Wood, who did not want his testimony to become public until after his death, maintained that the New York police department and the FBI kept certain aspects of the case secret.In February 2020, after the Netflix release of the docuseries "Who Killed Malcolm X?", Manhattan district attorney Cyrus Vance asked his teams to review the case in order to determine whether or not the investigation should be reopened.When contacted Sunday by AFP, the New York police said it had released "all available records relevant to that case" to the DA's office.The NYPD "remains committed to assist with that review in any way," a spokesperson said.The FBI's New York office did not respond to AFP's request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/activist-malcolm-x-s-family-calls-to-reopen-investigation-into-his-murder-101613952495518.html
