27-02-2021||World||As Mexico's largest migrant camp empties, new tents spring up along border||Mexican authorities hope most of the asylum seekers living in a major encampment on the border will be allowed to enter the United States by the end of next week, according to a Mexican government source.The migrant camp in Matamoros, Mexico, just across the river from Brownsville, Texas, is currently home to just under 700 migrants, according to the U.N. refugee agency (UNHCR). The majority are asylum seekers who have been waiting in Mexico as their cases wind through U.S. courts under a program implemented by former President Donald Trump.One week ago, President Joe Biden's administration began permitting members of the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP) program to enter the United States to pursue their court cases.UNHCR spokeswoman Silvia Garduño said 27 people crossed the border from Mexico on Thursday and 100 on Friday, and that the agency hopes to continue this pace in the coming days.The agency, along with the International Organization for Migration, is in charge of the logistics of registering and transporting migrants from the camp to the United States.The Mexican government source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told Reuters the goal was for 500 migrants in the Matamoros camp to enter the United States by the end of next week.Mexican authorities did not immediately respond to requests for comment. U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) referred Reuters to a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) statement that said the registration process "will be done as quickly as possible."In Matamoros, asylum seekers expressed optimism."We've just received news that tomorrow we're leaving!" said Honduran asylum seeker Josue Cornejo in a video recorded inside the camp on Friday evening, which also shows his wife and daughters wiping away tears.But as one tent city begins to empty in northeastern Mexico, another has sprung up on the other side of the country. In Tijuana, migrants encouraged by the news that some asylum seekers were being allowed to enter the United States have begun to camp out near the El Chaparral port of entry, across the border from San Diego, California. Advocates say about 50 tents have been put up in recent days.Biden, a Democrat, is balancing pressure from immigration advocates to unwind the hardline immigration policies of his predecessor with concerns about rising numbers of migrants arriving at the U.S.-Mexico border in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. To handle an anticipated rise in crossings, CBP said in a statement on Friday that it planned to open a facility in Eagle Pass, Texas.Plans for the new facility come after CBP announced on Feb. 9 the opening of another temporary facility in Donna, Texas, to handle border processing while the agency's permanent center in McAllen is renovated.Under U.S. law, children who arrive at the border without parents or legal guardians have to be transferred quickly out of border patrol facilities and into government-run shelters overseen by the Department of Health and Human Services.Separately, HHS is also scrambling to cope with the influx of new arrivals by opening emergency shelters and trying to speed releases of migrant kids to sponsors in the United States."There are no good choices here," Biden told reporters on Friday. "The only other options are to send kids back, which is what the prior administration did."Most migrants caught at the border, including families and individual adult asylum seekers, are still being rapidly expelled at the border under a Trump-era health rule in place since last March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-mexico-s-largest-migrant-camp-empties-new-tents-spring-up-along-border-101614449647701.html
27-02-2021||World||Covid-19 crisis leaves tribes without US recognition at higher risk||Rachel Lynne Cushman is used to getting calls from Chinook Nation members worried about losing housing or having their power shut off. Since Covid-19 hit, they come in daily.Cushman is secretary-treasurer for the group of tribes whose rural, ancestral lands are based in one of Washington state's poorest counties. While they mostly have been spared from the health effects of the coronavirus, the pandemic has taken a significant economic toll.“We’re doing the best we can,” Cushman said. “But the reality is we don’t have the resources to help.”Unlike federally recognized tribes, the Chinook Nation doesn't have a political relationship with the United States, which would make it eligible for federal coronavirus relief funding for state, local and tribal governments. Hundreds of tribes lack the designation, which they say leaves them struggling to help their members and less equipped to combat a pandemic that's disproportionately affected Native Americans and other people of color.The 574 federally recognized tribes shared in $8 billion from a massive coronavirus relief package approved last March. They have used the money to provide meals, personal protective equipment, cleaning supplies, Covid-19 testing, business support, housing relief and more. Another bill that passed in December gives those tribes another year to spend the money and includes funding for vaccines, testing and housing assistance for federally recognized tribes.The Chinook Nation — consisting of the Lower Chinook, Clatsop, Willapa, Wahkiakum and Kathlamet tribes — received some federal funding through a local nonprofit for small tribes to distribute food to elders and help with electricity bills, tribal council chairman Tony A. (Naschio) Johnson said. But even paired with grants, he said it's a drop in the bucket.“It’s completely unfair for our neighbors to get millions of dollars, and for us to get some trickle-down, if anything,” Johnson said. “That’s not to say that other tribes shouldn’t be getting funding; we just need funding, too.”The path to federal recognition is long, complicated and expensive, requiring deep anthropological and genealogical research and extensive documentation proving that the tribe is distinct from others and has continuously operated since the 1900s. The process can cost millions of dollars.Five tribes were recognized under the Obama administration and seven tribes under the Trump administration, the latest being the Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians of Montana, according to the Interior Department.Tribes have received the designation through treaties, acts of Congress or by applying to the Interior Department. With it, tribal land is protected from being sold, their governments are recognized as sovereign, and they share in federal funding for things like public safety, education and health.The Chinook Nation's quest for federal recognition started with hiring lawyers to fight for land rights in 1899. The tribe was recognized in 2001, but the status was revoked 18 months later after the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs ruled that it failed to prove it had consistently existed as a tribe through history.The revocation was traumatic, said Johnson, who cut his hair in a traditional sign of mourning. He said he sometimes looks back at a letter he wrote to his children about the bright future ahead and wants to scream.They're still battling for the status and got a boost from a U.S. judge who ruled about a year ago that a ban on the tribe reapplying for federal recognition was unjustified.Meanwhile, the Fernandeño Tataviam Band of Mission Indians, a tribe in Los Angeles County without a land base, has raised $2.6 million to build a case. It's among six tribes based in California, Florida, Michigan and New Mexico whose petitions are being considered by the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs.Five more tribes in Louisiana, North Carolina and California are seeking federal recognition but haven't completed their paperwork yet.The Los Angeles-area tribe's 900 members are facing job losses and food insecurity, tribal President Rudy Ortega said.The problems are not unlike what federally recognized tribes and others are facing in the pandemic, he said, but his tribe has additional roadblocks to financial help. Grant funding has helped, but applying for the money has become more arduous after 10 tribal government employees were laid off, Ortega said.“We do the best with what we have, but we wish we had more because we can’t fulfill everyone’s needs on our own,” he said.The tribe is recognized by California, but that doesn't guarantee government funding. While it can open access to state funding, state recognition is mostly seen as a stepping stone to federal recognition.In the meantime, the tribe's leaders are asking members for help delivering food and donating money for emergency rental assistance, Covid-19 testing and protective equipment. Other than that, much of the tribe's funding comes from grants and an online store.Likewise, efforts within the Chinook Nation to combat the pandemic haven't gone far enough, tribal leaders say. While they have taken strict Covid-19 precautions, including canceling big events and encouraging people to socially distance, there was little to prepare the tribe for the economic effects.Tribal leaders expanded a distribution system for those most in need and invested in a traditional foods program. They distributed two to five fish per household each week last summer, and processed elk and bear that volunteers offered for tribal refrigerators.But Johnson, the tribal chairman, said what they need most is federal status and funding, which members have been fighting for through letter-writing efforts and social media campaigns.“With federal recognition, that’s how we’re going to change the future of our community,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-crisis-leaves-tribes-without-us-recognition-at-higher-risk-101614447742748.html
27-02-2021||World||Global growth to be hit if IP norms not waived to deal with Covid-19: India||India on Saturday said if members of the WTO would fail to deliver on a proposal on waiving certain intellectual property obligations to deal with Covid-19 pandemic, it would impact global growth and livelihood. In October 2020, India and South Africa submitted a proposal suggesting a waiver for all WTO (World Trade Organization) members on the implementation, application and enforcement of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. "If we fail in the next one or two quarters or not delivering on that, let me tell you that it is not the question of equity, we are coming in the way of global growth and livelihood. It is not that we are coming in the way of life. "It is a very simple economics that for a commercial interest of let us say USD 30 to USD 40 billion of annual vaccine output of few companies, we are coming in the way of USD 6-7 trillion of global GDP output in one year," Indian Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the WTO, Brajendra Navnit, said at the Asia Economic Dialogue. Developed and rich nations are opposing the proposal. Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal had recently stated that on one hand, the developed countries talk about supporting each other and multilateral fight against Covid-19 pandemic, but on the other hand, they are looking at protecting the interests of a few companies. The minister has added that the world is fighting the pandemic which could potentially cost USD 9 trillion to the world economy. Further, Navnit said that it does not make any sense that on one side countries are providing USD 1 trillion or USD 1.5 trillion worth of fiscal stimulus, but on the other hand they are not willing to compensate for design a remuneration for IP rights' holder and expand the manufacturing by just putting USD 30-40 billion in bucket. Speaking at the event, Xolelwa Mlumbi-peter, Ambassador and Permanent Representative of South Africa to the WTO, said that IP should not become a barrier to access affordable medicines. Suggesting for holding frequent meetings of political leadership at WTO, the Ambassador said: "I strongly feel that diplomats and bureaucrats have taken over the system and they want to keep the political leadership slightly away". He added that the general council of the WTO has totally taken over the mandate of MC (ministerial conference), which is the highest decision making body of the WTO. He added that members can go ahead and start having more frequent interactions with political leadership "because most of the calls have to be taken by them and it can not be settled by diplomats sitting in Geneva". Geneva-based WTO deals with global trade and adjudicates trade disputes among member countries. Further, he added that the members should moderate their expectations from the 12th MC, expected later this year. On special and differential treatment, João Aguiar Machado, Ambassador and Permanent Representative of EU to WTO, said that there is need to have a frank and open debate on the issue. "We cannot pretend that developing countries want to be integrated into the multilateral trading system while at the same time sitting at the margins of that system," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-growth-to-be-hit-if-ip-norms-not-waived-to-deal-with-covid-19-india-101614445725854.html
27-02-2021||World||Mars facts: What do we know about the Red planet so far? How does it compare with Earth?||Several countries, including India and the United States, are continuously working on their Mars mission to explore habitability and seek signs of life on the Red planet. Earlier this month, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration safely landed its Perseverance rover in the Jezero Crater, determined as an ancient lakebed that formed billions of years ago.According to Nasa’s Mars exploration program, the crater was filled with water to form a deep lake, which dried up as the climate of the planet changed. Perseverance rover will be used to explore the rocks of the ancient lake bed and return samples through future missions. While it’s too cold and dry for life to exist today on the Martian surface, humans want to learn whether life ever existed on the Red planet.How does Mars compare with Earth?The atmosphere of Earth primarily consists of nitrogen and oxygen while the Martian atmosphere has mostly carbon dioxide. Earth has only one moon, the natural satellite revolving around the planet, while Mars has two moons - Phobos and Deimos - which are extremely small in size as compared to that of Earth’s.It would take more than six identical Mars to fill the volume of Earth, which also impacts the gravitational force observed in the Martian atmosphere. If a person weighs 100 kilograms on Earth, the individual would weigh around 38 kilograms on Mars, given the gravitational force on the Red planet is 0.375 times of Earth.While the scientists are still exploring the exact structure of Mars, the core of the Red planet may be similar to Earth’s, according to Nasa. Martian atmosphere is 99 per cent less dense than Earth's and the average temperature is -81 degrees Fahrenheit, extremely low when compared to Earth's.Read | High-definition, zoomable view of Mars captured by Nasa's Perseverance roverHere are some of the other parameters:Average speed in orbiting SunEarth - 93 million milesMars - 142 million milesDiameterEarth - 7,926 milesMars - 4,220 milesLength of YearEarth - 365.25 daysMars - 687 Earth daysLength of DayEarth - 23 hours 56 minutesMars - 24 hours 37 minutesTilt of AxisEarth - 23.5 degreesMars - 25 degrees||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mars-facts-what-do-we-know-about-red-planet-how-does-it-compare-with-earth-101614445259770.html
27-02-2021||World||FDA set to approve J&J’s single-dose Covid vaccine, the third for US||The US drugs regulator is set to grant emergency use authorisation to Johnson & Johnson’s Covid-19 vaccine as public health officials warned of a “very concerning” upward shift in new infections and deaths and said “now is not the time to relax restrictions”.After a “positive” outcome of a meeting of an advisory committee of independent experts on the Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine on Friday, the US Food and Drug Administration said it had told the company it will “rapidly work toward finalisation and issuance of an emergency use authorisation.”The authorisation, expected over the weekend, will add a third vaccine to the US fight against the Covid-19 epidemic, which has killed more than 510,000 Americans and infected nearly 28.5 million, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker. The US is by far the worst hit by the pandemic.Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna’s are the other two vaccines, which have been in use since December. But they are both two-dose vaccines, requiring primer and booster shots. Johnson & Johnson’s, on the other hand, is a single-dose vaccine, and is easier to store and transport.According to papers submitted by Johnson & Johnson earlier this month for emergency use authorisation, its vaccine has demonstrated an efficacy level of 66% overall; 72% in the United States and 57% in South Africa, which is dealing with a highly contagious strain of the virus. It has been more effective — 86% — against severe forms of Covid-19 in the US, and 82% against severe disease in South Africa, reducing the risk of hospitalisation and death.The third vaccine comes amid warnings by public health officials of an upward shift in the pandemic. After consistent decline in infections and cases since early January, “the latest data suggests that these declines may be stalling, potentially levelling off at, still, a very high number”, said Rochelle Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), at a White House briefing on Covid-19 on Friday.“We at CDC consider this a very concerning shift in the trajectory. The most recent seven-day average of cases -- approximately 66,350 -- is higher than the average I shared with you on Wednesday. In fact, cases have been increasing for the past three days compared to the prior week,” she said, adding, “Now is not the time to relax restrictions.”Walensky also said the impact of the new variants of the virus are beginning to be seen now. And she warned: “We may be done with the virus, but clearly, the virus is not done with us. We cannot get comfortable or give in to a false sense of security that the worst of the pandemic is behind us -- not now; not when mass vaccination is so very close -- when what we need to prevent this is truly imminent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fda-set-to-approve-j-j-s-single-dose-covid-vaccine-the-third-for-us-101614441729737.html
27-02-2021||World||Barbed wire, concrete barriers: Growing tension in Minneapolis as trial looms in Floyd death||Barbed wire and concrete barriers surround the courthouse where the former Minneapolis police officer charged with killing George Floyd will soon go on trial, a sign of the deep uneasiness hanging over a city literally set ablaze almost a year ago in the anger over his death.Mayor Jacob Frey and Gov. Tim Walz, both Democrats, were sharply criticized for failing to move faster to stop last summer's looting and destruction, which included the torching of a police station. Anything less than a murder conviction for Derek Chauvin is likely to test them — and the city — once again.Jury selection begins March 8 with opening statements March 29. Floyd, who was Black, died May 25 after Chauvin, who was white, pressed his knee on Floyd’s neck while he was handcuffed and pleading that he couldn’t breathe. Chauvin faces second-degree murder and manslaughter charges; three other fired officers go on trial in August.Thousands of people took to the streets of Minneapolis after Floyd's death. Many demonstrated peacefully. But for several nights, the unrest spiraled into violence, with stores looted and set ablaze along the Lake Street commercial artery that included the 3rd Precinct police station, which was home to the officers who arrested Floyd. The station itself was eventually abandoned by police and burned by rioters. Some nervous neighborhoods formed watch groups, setting up checkpoints and sometimes armed patrols. The violence finally subsided after National Guard troops arrived in sufficient numbers.As the city moves to make the courthouse virtually impenetrable, some people worry about what might happen elsewhere if Chauvin is acquitted.Elias Usso's pharmacy on Lake Street had been open less than a year when it was destroyed by fire and water. He blames Chauvin personally for what he considers “the murder of an innocent man” as well as the destruction that followed — estimated at more than $350 million in Minneapolis alone.“One police officer did that,” Usso said. “Something has to change.”His Seward Pharmacy has reopened with help from donors. In between vaccinating customers against Covid-19, Usso — an Ethiopian immigrant and a Black man — talked of still feeling the emotional turmoil over Floyd's death and the unrest, and his concerns about the trial.“I don’t know what’s going to happen to my business. We’re waiting to see," Usso said. "But I will continue to give service to our neighbors and delivering prescriptions to grandma and grandpa. If something happens, we’re going to continue."Frey said more than 3,000 law enforcement officers from across the state and Minnesota National Guard soldiers will be at the ready when the case goes to the jury, expected in late April or early May.Frey last week declared that Minneapolis remains “open for business,” and said people should go about their lives as usual.But the security going up around the Hennepin County courthouse, City Hall and the jail — all in the heart of downtown — is extraordinary. It includes three rings of concrete barriers, two topped by chain-link fencing with a trough in between filled with coils of razor wire. The innermost fence is topped with barbed wire, and ground-floor windows at all three buildings are boarded up.Protest leaders are on edge, too. They accuse authorities of creating a police state downtown that could trample their freedoms of speech and assembly.“It's not going to dissuade us from protesting. We're determined to let our voices be heard," said Linden Gawboy, an activist with the Twin Cities Coalition 4 Justice 4 Jamar, which formed after the police killing of Jamar Clark in Minneapolis in 2015.It's not just the courthouse that's barricaded. The state Capitol in St. Paul has been ringed with temporary fencing ever since last summer's unrest. Inside, lawmakers have squabbled for weeks over providing extra state money for security during the trials, though Walz and other officials say they'll manage one way or another.“There’s going to be very high emotion on all sides of this, and we’ll be prepared,” Walz said.Julie Ingebretsen, owner of a Scandinavian food and gift market on Lake Street that was founded by her Norwegian grandfather, said she's not boarding up, though she expects some will in the miles-long commercial corridor that includes many immigrant- and minority-run businesses. Some have never taken down the plywood that they put up last summer.While Ingebretsen's Nordic Marketplace was looted and vandalized, she said she was fortunate that her store wasn't burned. She said she feels “cautiously optimistic” now because of personal outreach efforts by Police Chief Medaria Arradondo and other city officials, and their assurances that plenty of police and Guard members will be standing by.“We're celebrating our 100th anniversary this year, so we have every intention of celebrating another 100, and not going anywhere," Ingebretsen said. “We are totally committed to keeping moving forward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/growing-tension-in-minneapolis-as-trial-looms-in-george-floyd-s-death-101614439596545.html
27-02-2021||World||Undocumented immigrants should be vaccinated without ICE fear: Biden||US President Joe Biden on Friday (local time) ensured that undocumented immigrants will be able to receive the Covid-19 vaccine without fear of being targeted by US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)."I want to make sure they are able to get vaccinated and so they are protected from Covid without the ICE or anyone interfering," The Hill quoted Biden as saying during an interview with Univision."They should... not be arrested for showing for being able to get a vaccination," Biden added.The President also plans to make sure undocumented immigrants have food as his $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief proposal increases funding for nutrition assistance.The comments follow an announcement from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) earlier this month that said the ICE was not conducting enforcement activities at or near Covid-19 vaccination sites, The Hill reported."It is a moral and public health imperative to ensure that all individuals residing in the United States have access to the vaccine," the agency had said in a statement."DHS is committed to ensuring that every individual who needs a vaccine can get one, regardless of their immigration status," the agency had added.However, the US House of Representatives has approved Biden's $1.9 trillion coronavirus aid package by a majority of votes.The bill now requires approval in the Senate and the signature of Biden before it can enter into force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/undocumented-immigrants-should-be-vaccinated-without-ice-fear-biden-101614438054690.html
27-02-2021||World||Sunak plots tax raid to plug UK deficit, risking Tory rage||Rishi Sunak can do self-restraint. After an addiction to drinking full-strength Coca-Cola resulted in seven fillings to his teeth, he rationed himself to a single Coke a week.When he comes to deliver his budget on Wednesday, the chancellor of the exchequer faces a battle to persuade his colleagues of the need to turn down the flow of government spending, and to address the painful hole in the public finances, approaching 400 billion pounds ($558 billion).The question he’s still grappling with is how to pay the bill. Will he raise taxes, hitting the wealthy and clawing back profits from the few businesses that made them, as some suggest? Or will he prepare the ground for cuts to public spending? Or will he instead signal that the pain of cuts and taxes will have to come, but just not yet?Sunak’s answers will shape his own fortunes, the Conservative government’s political identity, and the U.K. economy’s chances of making a full recovery from its deepest recession for 300 years.“We went big, we went early, but there is more to come and there will be more to come in the budget. But there is a challenge,” with public finances and “I want to level with people about the challenge,” Sunak told the Financial Times in an interview Friday. In common with finance ministers around the world, Sunak poured out vast sums of taxpayers’ cash to save jobs and businesses when coronavirus forced the government to shut shops and restaurants and confine people to their homes.Now that Prime Minister Boris Johnson has laid out his “road map” for a cautious four-month lifting of the lockdown, Sunak is reconciled to keeping that flow of support going for as long as the restrictions are in place.That will mean extending the 54 billion-pound furlough wage support program, along with cuts to business rates and sales tax at least until the end of June. This won’t be a surprise to Sunak’s colleagues and will please many, but not all, Conservative members of Parliament on Wednesday.But it runs against the grain of his instincts as a small-state Conservative, and many of his colleagues are also deeply uneasy about the economic policy their Tory government finds itself pursuing. The prospect of hiking taxes – including potentially a sharp rise in business levies – to pay the bill is particularly hard for most Tories to swallow.In recent weeks, the chancellor has been working assiduously to canvass his colleagues’ views in an effort to understand what he’s up against and tailor his messages to match. Some MPs report being invited to four or five Zoom calls with Sunak in the run-up to his budget.“Rishi was very open, very listening, really cared about what we were saying,” said Alexander Stafford, one of the new Tory MPs elected in December 2019. “We all know there are going to be cuts or tax rises. My hope is none of that falls too hard at the moment. We’re not out of the woods yet.”Others put it more bluntly. “If he were to raise taxes, it would undermine everything we’ve done to get businesses to this stage,” said Andrew Bridgen. “No society can ever tax its way to prosperity.”Among the details emerging on the plan, Sunak will pledge 22 billion pounds for a previously proposed infrastructure bank to boost the country's green economy, the Telegraph reported Saturday. The bank will offer a range of products, including equity, loans and guarantees, to support projects in sectors such as renewable energy, carbon capture and storage and transportation, the paper said. He's also expected to announce the launch of a fund that would channel up to 375 million pounds into fast-growing tech start-ups, the Financial Times reported.What Else Will Be in Sunak’s Budget?Steve Baker, a Tory who sits on the Treasury committee and will interrogate Sunak on his choices, said the government’s priority must be to create better-paid jobs for people in the months ahead. “I just don’t see how raising taxes promotes more, better, higher paying jobs for the public,” he said.The pandemic has fundamentally challenged the Tory party’s sense of what it stands for. In the past, Conservatives have flirted with privatizing state healthcare, cut welfare payments, and slashed taxes for high earners.Yet Johnson’s team now paints itself as the champions of the National Health Service while pumping up social security and weighing options to raise levies on capital gains.The influx of more than 100 new Conservative Members of Parliament in 2019, many of them representing northern seats prised from the left-wing Labour Party for the first time in decades, has changed the makeup of the party in Westminster.There’s less clamor for fiscal prudence than in years gone by, and there’s certainly no appetite for the return of the austerity policies pursued over much of the last decade by Tory-led administrations.Historically low interest rates mean there also isn’t pressure from the bond markets on the chancellor to rein in his spending immediately. While the country’s debt has ballooned during the crisis, the cost of servicing it has actually fallen.Yet Sunak sees big risks in doing nothing to address the U.K.’s pandemic-ravaged public finances. Even if he delays most of the difficult decisions until the next budget in the fall, or even next year, many of his colleagues expect he won’t be able to put off the pain any further.Bond markets are signaling that Sunak’s borrowing costs may only get higher. Interest rates on gilts in financial markets have risen a half percentage point in the past month for securities maturing in six years and beyond. The yield on the Treasury’s benchmark 10-year gilt reached 0.836% on Friday, the highest since March 2020 when the pandemic began spreading widely in Europe. Every 1 percentage-point increase in interest rates adds 25 billion pounds to the U.K.’s cost of servicing its debt, Sunak told the FT.“We all know that the markets can turn very, very quickly,” Harriet Baldwin, a Conservative who traded bonds during a market rout in 1994. “Although the situation is very favorable at the moment, it’s not necessarily always going to be the case. He’s got a tricky tightrope to walk.”Observers praise Sunak for his work ethic and attention to detail, and the chancellor himself has said he likes to start his day with a workout, either on a treadmill, in the gym, or on a stationary bicycle, before getting to his desk at 7:45 a.m.The truth is, no amount of sweat or preparation can guarantee Sunak’s policies will succeed. The biggest factor in determining whether Britain’s economy is permanently scarred or recovers quickly lies beyond the chancellor’s control: the pandemic itself.If, despite a fast and apparently effective vaccination program, Johnson’s government cannot keep a grip on coronavirus, the U.K.’s plan to reopen the economy on a cautious timetable of dates over the next four months will be at risk. So too will party unity.“All hell will break loose if the dates are challenged or they slip back,” said Indiana-born Joy Morrissey, who was elected under Johnson’s leadership in 2019. “These dates are the last possible dates everyone is going to accept.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sunak-plots-tax-raid-to-plug-uk-deficit-risking-tory-rage-101614437696977.html
27-02-2021||World||Myanmar ambassador to UN fired after he urged to reverse military coup: Report||Myanmar's UN Ambassador Kyaw Moe Tun has been fired, state television said on Saturday, a day after he urged the United Nations to use "any means necessary" to reverse the Feb. 1 military coup.Kyaw Moe Tun had told the UN General Assembly he was speaking on behalf of the ousted civilian government of elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi.State television, MRTV, said he had "betrayed the country and spoken for an unofficial organization which doesn't represent the country and had abused the power and responsibilities of an ambassador".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-ambassador-to-un-fired-after-he-urged-to-reverse-military-coup-report-101614437172849.html
27-02-2021||World||Sri Lanka's end to forced cremations of Covid-19 dead on hold: official||Sri Lanka's decision to end forced cremations and allow the burial of those who succumbed to Covid-19 will take some time to be implemented as the necessary guidelines have not been issued so far, a top health official said on Saturday.Amidst mounting international criticism, Sri Lanka has revised a controversial mandatory order to cremate the bodies of Covid-19 victims, which denied minority communities, including Muslims, their religious rights.The government on Thursday revised a gazette notification issued in April last year. The new notification allowed both burials and cremations.For 10 months, the Muslim and Christian minorities in the country and international rights groups lobbied the government to end the policy of forced cremations."This will take some time as guidelines on many aspects need to be determined and issued," said the top health official Asela Gunawardena.The Sri Lankan government was resisting calls to allow burials citing health concerns. It cited the opinion of some experts who claimed that the burial of Covid-19 victims would contaminate the water table, thereby spreading the pandemic further.The country had earlier come under intense criticism from rights groups, including the UNHRC, over the cremation order.They said it failed to respect the religious feelings of the victims and their family members, especially of the Muslims, Catholics and some Buddhists.The cremation of bodies is forbidden in Islam.The decision to end forced cremations followed the visit of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan.The Muslim minority leaders, who met Khan, said the decision to allow burials was linked to Sri Lanka seeking the support of the Organisation of Islamic Countries (OIC) at the ongoing UN Human Rights Council session in Geneva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-s-end-to-forced-cremations-of-covid-19-dead-on-hold-official-101614436567513.html
27-02-2021||World||Bangladeshi writer, detained over anti-govt social media posts, dies in jail||Bangladeshi writer Mushtaq Ahmed who was detained last year over social media posts that were critical of the country's government has died in jail, officials and family members said on Friday.According to The New York Times (NYT), Ahmed's death inside prison is raising alarms about the country's crackdown on dissent. He was among 11 people who were charged for spreading social media content, including cartoons, that alleged mismanagement and corruption in Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's response to the pandemic last year.They were charged for "posting rumors against the Father of the Nation, the war of independence."His case was brought under Bangladesh's Digital Security Act, a 2018 law that gives the Bangladeshi government wide-ranging powers to search, fine and arrest anyone who violates its vague tenets, including violating "the solidarity, financial activities, security, defense, religious values or public discipline of the country."The Asian Human Rights Commission said it had documented the arrest of 138 people last year -- journalists, students and political activists -- for criticizing Hasina's government.NYT further reported that the writer was held in the high-security Kashimpur prison and was denied bail six times. Rights organizations demanded an investigation into his death and called for the repeal of the Digital Security Act, which also includes measures to protect against cybercrimes and attacks.Mohammad Gias Uddin, the senior superintendent of the jail where Ahmed was held, said the writer had lost consciousness on Thursday evening and was taken to the prison hospital. He was pronounced dead on arrival when prison guards later took him to a larger medical facility in the nearby city Gazipur.Doctors at the prison reported that Ahmed "never complained about his health issues," Uddin told NYT that Ahmed "used to take pills for gastric and headache."Nafeesur Rahman, Ahmed's cousin and also a physician, said he had been present during the autopsy. "I have not found any injury mark anywhere on his body," adding that he found his cousin's heart to be enlarged and that his blood pressure was very low when he lost consciousness.In one of his posts on Facebook before his arrest last May, Ahmed compared the country's health minister to a cockroach. In another, he wrote, "When a society laments the loss of an economy more than the loss of human life, it doesn't need a virus, it's already sick."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladeshi-writer-detained-over-anti-govt-social-media-posts-dies-in-jail-101614436962963.html
27-02-2021||World||Internet disruption reported in southeast Iran amid unrest||Iran’s impoverished southeast experienced wide disruptions of internet service over the past week, internet experts said Saturday, as unrest gripped the remote province after a string of fatal border shootings.Several rights groups reported in a joint statement that authorities shut down the mobile data network in the restive provinces of Sistan and Baluchistan, calling the disruptions an apparent “tool to conceal” the government’s harsh crackdown on protests convulsing the area.The reports of internet interference come as Iranian authorities and semi-official news agencies increasingly acknowledge the turmoil challenging local authorities in the southeast — a highly sensitive matter in a country that seeks to repress all hints of political dissent.For three days starting Wednesday, the government shut down the mobile data network across Sistan and Baluchistan, where 96 percent of the population accesses the internet only through their phones, rights groups said, crippling the key communication tool. Residents reported a restoration of internet access early Saturday.“This is Iran’s traditional response to any kind of protest,” Amir Rashidi from Miaan Group, a human rights organization that focuses on digital security in the Middle East, told The Associated Press on Saturday. “Shutting down the internet to block news and pictures getting out makes (authorities) feel more comfortable opening fire.”The week saw a series of escalating confrontations between police and protesters. Crowds with light arms and grenade launchers descended on Kurin checkpoint near Iran’s border with Pakistan on Thursday, Abouzar Mehdi Nakhaie, the governor of Zahedan, the provincial capital, said in comments carried by Iran’s semi-official ISNA news agency. One policeman was killed, he added.Earlier this week, protesters attacked the district governor’s office and stormed two police stations in the city of Saravan, outraged over the shootings of fuel smugglers trying to cross back into Iran from Pakistan on Monday. The government said at least two people were killed in the border shootings and ensuing clashes. Many rights activists in the area reported higher death tolls without offering evidence.Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman, Saeed Khatibzadeh, vowed Friday to investigate the deaths. Officials insisted that calm had returned to the streets.The Iranian government previously has cut off internet access and cellphone service in tense times. In the fall of 2019, for instance, Iran imposed a near nationwide internet blackout as anti-government protests sparked by an increase in fuel prices roiled the capital of Tehran and other cities. Hundreds were reportedly killed in the crackdown nationwide.NetBlocks, which monitors worldwide internet access, called the reports of disruption “credible,” but couldn’t provide verification.Given that authorities targeted the mobile network and not the landline, the disruption likely wouldn’t appear on regular network data, said Mahsa Alimardani, researcher at Article 19, an international organization that fights censorship. The area already suffered from unreliable internet connections."This targeted shutdown was very intentional because they knew the realities of this province,” where people are poor and buy cheap phones as opposed to computers, Alimardani said.Sistan and Baluchistan Province is one of most unstable and least developed parts of Iran. The relationship between its predominantly Sunni residents and Iran’s Shiite theocracy long has been fraught. The Baluchis of Iran make up the ranks of a low-level violent insurgency involving several militant groups, including those demanding more autonomy for the region.The area also lies on a major trafficking route for drugs and petrol, which is highly subsidized in Iran and a key source of income for smugglers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/internet-disruption-reported-in-southeast-iran-amid-unrest-101614432260833.html
27-02-2021||World||Plunging Covid-19 test demand may leave US with supply glut||Just five weeks ago, Los Angeles County was conducting more than 350,000 weekly coronavirus tests, including at a massive drive-thru site at Dodger Stadium, as health workers raced to contain the worst Covid-19 hotspot in the U.S.Now, county officials say testing has nearly collapsed. More than 180 government-supported sites are operating at only a third of their capacity.“It’s shocking how quickly we’ve gone from moving at 100 miles an hour to about 25,” said Dr. Clemens Hong, who leads the county’s testing operation.After a year of struggling to boost testing, communities across the country are seeing plummeting demand, shuttering testing sites or even trying to return supplies.The drop in screening comes at a significant moment in the outbreak: Experts are cautiously optimistic that Covid-19 is receding after killing more than 500,000 people in the U.S. but concerned that emerging variants could prolong the epidemic.“Everyone is hopeful for rapid, widespread vaccinations, but I don’t think we’re at a point where we can drop our guard just yet,” said Hong. “We just don’t have enough people who are immune to rule out another surge.”U.S. testing hit a peak on Jan. 15, when the country was averaging more than 2 million tests per day. Since then, the average number of daily tests has fallen more than 28%. The drop mirrors declines across all major virus measures since January, including new cases, hospitalizations and deaths.Officials say those encouraging trends, together with harsh winter weather, the end of the holiday travel season, pandemic fatigue and a growing focus on vaccinations are sapping interest in testing.“When you combine all those together you see this decrease,” said Dr. Richard Pescatore of the health department in Delaware, where daily testing has fallen more than 40% since the January peak. “People just aren’t going to go out to testing sites.”But testing remains important for tracking and containing the outbreak.L.A. County is opening more testing options near public transportation, schools and offices to make it more convenient. And officials in Santa Clara County are urging residents to “continue getting tested regularly,” highlighting new mobile testing buses and pop-up sites.President Joe Biden has promised to revamp the nation’s testing system by investing billions more in supplies and government coordination. But with demand falling fast, the country may soon have a glut of unused supplies. The U.S. will be able to conduct nearly 1 billion monthly tests by June, according to projections from researchers at Arizona State University. That’s more than 25 times the country’s current rate of about 40 million tests reported per month.With more than 150 million new vaccine doses due for delivery by late March, testing is likely to fall further as local governments shift staff and resources to giving shots.“You have to pick your battles here,” said Dr. Jeffrey Engel of the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists. “Everyone would agree that if you have one public health nurse, you’re going to use that person for vaccination, not testing.”Some experts say the country must double down on testing to avoid flare-ups from coronavirus variants that have taken hold in the U.K., South Africa and other places.“We need to use testing to continue the downward trend,” said Dr. Jonathan Quick of the Rockefeller Foundation, which has been advising Biden officials. “We need to have it there to catch surges from the variants.”Last week, Minnesota began urging families to get tested every two weeks through the end of the school year as more students return to the classroom.“To protect this progress, we need to use all the tools at our disposal,” said Dan Huff, an assistant state health commissioner.But some of the most vocal testing proponents are less worried about the declines in screening. From a public health viewpoint, testing is effective if it helps to quickly find the infected, trace their contacts and isolate them to stop the spread. In most parts of the U.S., that never happened.Over the holiday season, many Americans still had to wait days to receive test results, rendering them largely useless. That’s led to testing fatigue and dwindling interest, said Dr. Michael Mina of Harvard University.“It doesn’t exactly give you a lot of gratifying, immediate feedback,” Mina said. “So people's willingness or interest in getting tested starts to go down.”Still, U.S. test manufacturers continue ramping up production, with another 110 million rapid and home-based tests expected to hit the market next month.Government officials long assumed this growing arsenal of cheap, 15-minute tests would be used to regularly screen millions of students and teachers as in-person classes resume. But recent guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention don't emphasize testing, describing it as an “additional layer” of protection, behind basic measures like masking and social distancing.Even without strong federal backing, educational leaders say testing programs will be important for marshaling public confidence needed to fully reopen schools, including in the fall when cases are expected to rise again.“Schools have asked themselves, justifiably, ‘Is the juice worth the squeeze to set up a big testing effort?’” said Mike Magee, CEO of Chiefs for Change, a nonprofit that advises districts in more than 25 states. “Our message to the school systems we work with is: ‘Yes, you need to stand up comprehensive testing because you’re going to need it.’"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/plunging-covid-19-test-demand-may-leave-us-with-supply-glut-101614435516972.html
27-02-2021||World||Russian scientists say Sputnik V performs well against Covid mutations||A Russian trial testing the effectiveness of revaccination with the Sputnik V shot to protect against new mutations of the coronavirus is producing strong results, researchers said on Saturday.Last month President Vladimir Putin ordered a review by March 15 of Russian-produced vaccines for their effectiveness against new variants spreading in different parts of the world."(A) recent study carried out by the Gamaleya Centre in Russia showed that revaccination with Sputnik V vaccine is working very well against new coronavirus mutations, including the UK and South African strains of coronavirus," said Denis Logunov, a deputy director of the centre, which developed the Sputnik V shot.Results of the trial are expected to be published soon, but this was the first indication of how the tests are going. No further details were available yet.So-called viral vector shots - such as Sputnik V and a shot developed by AstraZeneca - use harmless modified viruses as vehicles, or vectors, to carry genetic information that helps the body build immunity against future infections.The revaccination used the same Sputnik V shot, based upon the same adenovirus vectors. The trial indicated this did not impact effectiveness, Logunov said in a statement to Reuters.Some scientists have raised the possible risk that the body also develops immunity to the vector itself, recognising it as an intruder and trying to destroy it.But developers of Sputnik V disagreed this would pose long-term problems."We believe that vector-based vaccines are actually better for future revaccinations than vaccines based on other platforms," Logunov said.He said that the researchers found that antibodies specific to the vectors used by the shot - which could generate an anti-vector reaction and undermine the work of the shot itself - waned "as early as 56 days after vaccination".This conclusion was based on a trial of a vaccine against Ebola developed earlier by the Gamaleya Institute using the same approach as for the Sputnik V shot.Vector immunity is not a new issue but has come under renewed scrutiny as companies including Johnson & Johnson anticipate regular Covid-19 vaccinations, like annual influenza shots, may be needed to combat new variants of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-scientists-say-sputnik-v-performs-well-against-covid-mutations-101614431096724.html
27-02-2021||World||Capitol rioters tell court Donald Trump 'summoned' them to instigate Jan 6 riots||The “Trump-made-me-do-it” defense is already looking like a longshot.Facing damning evidence in the deadly Capitol siege last month — including social media posts flaunting their actions — rioters are arguing in court they were following then-President Donald Trump's instructions on Jan. 6. But the legal strategy has already been shot down by at least one judge and experts believe the argument is not likely to get anyone off the hook for the insurrection where five people died, including a police officer.“This purported defense, if recognized, would undermine the rule of law because then, just like a king or a dictator, the president could dictate what’s illegal and what isn’t in this country," US District Judge Beryl Howell said recently in ordering pretrial detention of William Chrestman, a suspected member of the Kansas City-area chapter of the Proud Boys. “And that is not how we operate here.”Chrestman’s attorneys argued in court papers that Trump gave the mob “explicit permission and encouragement” to do what they did, providing those who obeyed him with “a viable defense against criminal liability.”“It is an astounding thing to imagine storming the United States Capitol with sticks and flags and bear spray, arrayed against armed and highly trained law enforcement. Only someone who thought they had an official endorsement would even attempt such a thing. And a Proud Boy who had been paying attention would very much believe he did,” Chrestman’s lawyers wrote.Trump was acquitted of inciting the insurrection during his second impeachment trial, where Democrats made some of the same arguments defense attorneys are making in criminal court. Some Republican lawmakers have said the better place for the accusations against Trump is in court, too.Meanwhile, prosecutors have brought charges against more than 250 people so far in the attack, including conspiracy, assault, civil disorder and obstruction of an official proceeding. Authorities have suggested that rare sedition charges could be coming against some. Hundreds of Trump supporters were photographed and videotaped storming the Capitol and scores posted selfies inside the building on social media, so they can’t exactly argue in court they weren’t there. Blaming Trump may be the best defense they have.“What’s the better argument when you’re on videotape prancing around the Capitol with a coat rack in your hand?” said Sam Shamansky, who’s representing Dustin Thompson, an Ohio man accused of stealing a coat rack during the riot.Shamansky said his client would never have been at the Capitol on Jan. 6 if Trump hadn’t “summoned him there.” Trump, he added, engaged in a “devious yet effective plot to brainwash” supporters into believing the election was stolen, putting them in the position where they “felt the the need to defend their country at the request of the commander in chief.”“I think it fits perfectly,” he said of the defense. “The more nuanced question is: Who is going to buy it? What kind of jury panel do you need to understand that?”While experts say blaming Trump may not get their clients off the hook, it may help at sentencing when they ask the judge for leniency.“It could likely be considered a mitigating factor that this person genuinely believed they were simply following the instructions of the leader of the United States,” said Barbara McQuade, a former US attorney in Michigan who's now a professor at the University of Michigan Law School.It could also bolster any potential cases against the former president, experts say.“That defense is dead on arrival,” said Bradley Simon, a New York City white-collar criminal defense attorney and former federal prosecutor. “But I do think that these statements by defendants saying that they were led on by Trump causes a problem for him if the Justice Department or the attorney general in D.C. were to start looking at charges against him for incitement of the insurrection.”While the legal bar is high for prosecuting Trump in the Capitol siege, the former president is already facing a lawsuit from Democratic Rep. Bennie Thompson that accuses him of conspiring with extremist groups to prevent Congress from certifying the election results. And more lawsuits could come.Trump spread baseless claims about the election for weeks and addressed thousands of supporters at a rally near the White House before the Capitol riot, telling them that they had gathered in Washington "to save our democracy." Later, Trump said, “I know that everyone here will soon be marching over to the Capitol building to peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard.”A lawyer for Jacob Chansley, the shirtless man who wore face paint and a hat with horns inside the Capitol, attached a highlighted transcript of the Trump's speech before the riot to a court filing seeking Chansley's release from custody. The defense lawyer, Albert Watkins, said the federal government is sending a “disturbingly chilling message” that Americans will be prosecuted “if they do that which the President asks them to do.”Defense lawyers have employed other strategies without better success. In one case, the judge called a defense attorney’s portrayal of the riots as mere trespassing or civil disobedience both “unpersuasive and detached from reality.” In another, a judge rejected a man’s claim that he was “duped” into joining the anti-government Oath Keepers group and participating in the attack on the Capitol.Other defendants linked to militant groups also have tried to shift blame to Trump in seeking their pretrial release from jail. An attorney for Jessica Watkins said the Oath Keepers member believed local militias would be called into action if Trump invoked the Insurrection Act to stay in office. Watkins disavowed the Oath Keepers during a court hearing on Friday, saying she has been “appalled” by fellow members of the far-right militia.“However misguided, her intentions were not in any way related to an intention to overthrow the government, but to support what she believed to be the lawful government,” her lawyer wrote.Meanwhile, a lawyer for Dominic Pezzola, another suspected Proud Boy, “acted out of the delusional belief that he was a ‘patriot’ protecting his country." Defense attorney Jonathan Zucker described Pezzola as “one of millions of Americans who were misled by the President's deception.”“Many of those who heeded his call will be spending substantial portions if not the remainder of their lives in prison as a consequence," he wrote. “Meanwhile Donald Trump resumes his life of luxury and privilege."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/capitol-rioters-tell-court-donald-trump-summoned-them-to-instigate-jan-6-riots-101614433231427.html
27-02-2021||World||Iran expects 250,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine from China||Iran's Health Ministry says the country expects to receive 250,000 doses of the Sinopharm vaccine from China on Saturday.Alireza Raisi, deputy health minister, says the country will receive doses of other vaccines, including from India, in the “near future” as the country struggles to fight the worst outbreak of the pandemic in the Middle East.This month, Iran imported 120,000 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine from Russia. Reports have said Iran has purchased a total of 2 million doses.Iran in December began human trials on the first vaccine manufactured in the country, which is expected to be distributed in the spring. The country is also working on a joint vaccine with Cuba.Iran plans to import some 17 million doses of vaccine from the international COVAX program and millions more from individual countries.Health Ministry spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari put Iran's death toll from COVID-19 at 59,980 after 81 more died from the disease since Friday.Lari says 7,975 new confirmed cases have brought the total to more than 1.6 million in a country with a population of more than 83 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-expects-250-000-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-from-china-101614432201487.html
27-02-2021||World||Biden’s Covid relief plan: Here’s who could be eligible for $1,400 direct payments||The US House of Representatives early Saturday approved a $1.9 trillion stimulus plan in a partisan vote as the Republicans unanimously opposed the bill. If passed in Senate, the coronavirus relief plan, pushed by President Joe Biden, would provide the third round of federal stimulus checks to millions of American households. The other key elements of the bill include unemployment benefits until the end of August, monthly benefits to parents of children under the age of 18, and $70 billion for testing of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and vaccinations.Under the subtitle “promoting economic security”, the sprawling bill proposes $1,400 payments to individuals who fall under a certain income threshold. The payments would go to individuals and their dependents and for the first time, dependents age 17 or older could become eligible.Individuals with up to $75,000 adjusted gross income for that taxable year will be eligible for full payments. Apart from such individuals, married couples, who jointly file the return, earning up to $150,000 and heads of household earning up to $112,500 will qualify for the payments.People with income above the threshold will receive smaller payouts. The phaseout of payments is capped at $100,000 for single filers, $150,000 for heads of household and $200,000 for married couples. The House Ways and Means Committee has suggested basing the payments on either 2019 or 2020 tax returns.Read | What is Biden's $1.9 trillion Covid relief bill passed by the US HouseThe first two rounds of stimulus checks - $1,200 for the first round and $600 for the second - also had an income threshold. In the earlier rounds, individuals with income of up to $75,000 and married couples filing jointly with up to $150,000 income were eligible for the full payments. The phaseout in the first round of payment stood at $99,000 for single people and $198,000 for married couples, while $87,000 for a single person and $174,000 for married couples in the second round.Those eligible Americans who didn’t receive the previous stimulus payments can claim the amount in the 2020 federal tax return as a recovery rebate credit. In order to ensure beneficiaries receive the amount sooner, they need to file the return as early as possible and set up a direct deposit account that is linked directly to their bank account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-covid-relief-plan-here-s-who-could-be-eligible-for-1-400-direct-payments-101614431557718.html
27-02-2021||World||Archaeologists uncover ancient ceremonial carriage near Pompeii||Archaeologists have unearthed a unique ancient-Roman ceremonial carriage from a villa just outside Pompeii, the city buried in a volcanic eruption in 79 AD.The almost perfectly preserved four-wheeled carriage made of iron, bronze and tin was found near the stables of an ancient villa at Civita Giuliana, around 700 metres (yards) north of the walls of ancient Pompeii.Massimo Osanna, the outgoing director of the Pompeii archaeological site, said the carriage was the first of its kind discovered in the area, which had so far yielded functional vehicles used for transport and work, but not for ceremonies."This is an extraordinary discovery that advances our understanding of the ancient world," Osanna said, adding that the carriage would have "accompanied festive moments for the community, (such as) parades and processions".The culture ministry called it "a unique find, without any precedent in Italy".Pompeii, 23 km (14 miles) southeast of Naples, was home to about 13,000 people when it was buried under ash, pumice pebbles and dust as it endured the force of an eruption equivalent to many atomic bombs.About two-thirds of the 66-hectare (165-acre) ancient town has been uncovered. The ruins were not discovered until the 16th century and organised excavations began in about 1750."Pompeii continues to amaze us with its discoveries and it will do so for many years, with 20 hectares still to be dug up," said Culture Minister Dario Franceschini.A rare documentation of Greco-Roman life, Pompeii is one of Italy's most popular attractions and a UNESCO World Heritage Site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/archaeologists-uncover-ancient-ceremonial-carriage-near-pompeii-101614430024744.html
27-02-2021||World||Italy tightens Covid-19 curbs in several regions as cases pick up||Italy's government on Saturday ramped up restrictions in five of the country's 20 regions in an effort to head off a rise in Covid-19 cases as scientists warned of a growing prevalence of highly contagious new variants.Italy has established a four-tier colour-coded system (white, yellow, orange and red) which allows for measures to be calibrated according to infection levels, with assessments revised every week.For the first time since the end of January, two regions -- Basilicata and Molise -- were shunted into the strictest red zone. This means bars and restaurants must be shuttered, movement severely restricted and all but essential shops closed.Three regions moved from yellow to orange zones: Lombardy and Piedmont, which are centred on the wealthy northern cities of Milan and Turin respectively, and the central coastal region of Marche.In these areas restaurants and bars are closed except for take-aways and people are not allowed to leave their towns except for emergencies, work and health reasons.The island of Sardinia became the first region to be named a white zone, with only minimal restrictions.Saturday's decision means that as of Monday, when it becomes effective, two regions will be classified as red, nine as orange, eight as yellow and one as white.On Friday the health ministry signalled a continued rise in infections, with 20,499 new daily cases, up from 19,886 the day before. Over the last five days, new cases have increased by 35% by comparison with the same period last week.Italy also reported 253 coronavirus-related deaths on Friday against 308 the day before. Deaths always lag the rise in cases."Many outbreaks are due to the (new) variants. I am concerned about the progress of the epidemic. We must keep up our guard and we must intervene promptly and strongly where needed," said Gianni Rezza, a senior health ministry adviser.On Friday, in one of his first decisions in managing the health crisis since taking office earlier this month, Prime Minister Mario Draghi named Fabrizio Curcio as the new head of the Civil Protection Agency replacing Angelo Borrelli.No reason was given for Borrelli's removal.Along with regional restrictions, gyms remain closed virtually nationwide and opening hours for bars and restaurants are limited. Such curbs will almost certainly be confirmed until after Easter.Looking to instil some optimism, Culture Minister Dario Franceschini said the government was considering reopening cinemas and theatres in low-risk yellow areas from March 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-tightens-covid-19-curbs-in-several-regions-as-cases-pick-up-101614431421803.html
27-02-2021||World||What is Biden's $1.9 trillion Covid relief bill passed by the US House||The US House of Representatives on Saturday passed President Joe Biden's quintessential Covid-19 relief package worth $1.9 trillion.The major legislative priority for the Biden administration comes days after the coronavirus toll in the US crossed the 500,000 mark.Also Read | US in delicate balancing act as Saudi prince spared sanctionsHere is what all you need to know about the bill:> The bill was approved in the US House with a final vote tally of 219-212 as two democrats voted against the bill-Kurt Schrader of Oregon and Jared Golden of Maine, as reported by CNN. Majorly, the Democratic party has supported the bill and believe it to be a critical step for saving families and local governments devastated by the coronavirus pandemic.> The bill will come into force after the approval in the Senate and the US President Joe Biden's signature on it.> The stimulus package involves a payment of $1,400 to individuals making less than $75,000 annually.> Payment of $400 per week as an unemployment supplement through August 29. The programs will be extended to make millions of more Americans eligible for jobless benefits.> The child tax credit will also be expanded as per the bill to offer families up to $3,600 per child a year.> For the vaccination drive, $20 billion is earmarked for Covid vaccination distribution, $50 billion for testing and tracing contacts.> The bill also includes $350 billion for state, local and tribal government relief, $25 billion for rent payment assistance and $170 billion for K-12 schools and higher education institutions for aid to students and cover reopening costs.Also Read | Private hospitals can't charge more than ₹200 per dose of vaccine: Report> The bill includes a contentious $15 per hour federal minimum wage which the Senate parliamentarian is anticipated to not allow under the reconciliation which the Senate Democrats are using to pass the bill with a simple majority vote. In this case, the bill will go back to the US House before Biden can sign it for execution.Vice President Kamala Harris and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi have appeared determined to include the increased federal minimum wage. The House will "absolutely" pass the Covid relief bill if it returns from the Senate without the hike in the minimum wage. The Democrats will try to pass the wage increase through a separate plan if needed, Pelosi was quoted as saying by CNBC. "We will not rest until we pass the $15 minimum wage," Pelosi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-is-biden-s-1-9-trillion-covid-relief-bill-passed-by-the-us-house-101614426344240.html
27-02-2021||World||Putin critic Navalny transferred from a Moscow detention centre||Russian opposition figure Alexey Navalny has been transferred from a Moscow detention centre to a penal colony, according to state media.Navalny remains behind bars after a Russian court partially rejected his appeal over a two-and-a-half-year prison sentence handed down earlier this month.A Moscow court had sent Russian President Vladimir Putin's biggest critic to prison for more than two-and-a-half years. CNN reported the verdict was announced after a heated hearing in which the Kremlin critic ridiculed claims he broke his parole conditions while in a coma and denounced Russia's leader as "Putin the poisoner."According to CNN, the exact location and name of the penal colony were not revealed but Alexander Kalashnikov of Russia's Federal Penitentiary Service (FSIN) told reporters: "According to the court's decision, he left to where he currently should be. Everything is done within the framework of the law and the current legislation."Kalashnikov added Navalny will be kept in "absolutely normal conditions."On Thursday, Navalny's lawyers had told CNN he had been moved from Matrosskaya Tishina detention centre in Moscow but no details had been provided to Navalny's team or his family on where he was being moved to.Vadim Kobzev, one of Navalny's lawyers, had told CNN on Friday that he still did not know which penal colony his client had been taken to. He said that according to Russian law, prison services have up to 10 days to inform Navalny's family where he has been moved to.Marina Litvinovich of Moscow's Public Monitoring Commission (ONK), which observes the treatment of prisoners, told CNN that the Putin critic is due to be sent to a "general regime" penal colony, the most common type of prison in Russia.Litvinovich said prisoners are not usually kept in cells but sleep in dormitories and are divided into groups. She added prisoners can work if they choose to do so.The Putin critic was previously handed a three-and-a-half-year suspended sentence in the 2014 case along with five years of probation. He had to spend five months in Germany recovering from Novichok poisoning before his return to Moscow on January 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-critic-navalny-transferred-from-a-moscow-detention-centre-101614431366899.html
27-02-2021||World||Donald Trump, the dominant force at conservative conference||A conference dedicated to the future of the conservative movement turned into an ode to Donald Trump as speakers declared their fealty to the former president and attendees posed for selfies with a golden statue of his likeness.As the Republican Party grapples with deep divisions over the extent to which it should embrace Trump after losing the White House and both chambers of Congress, those gathered at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday made clear they are not ready to move on from the former president — or from his baseless charges that the November election was rigged against him.“Donald J. Trump ain’t going anywhere,” said Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, one of several potential 2024 presidential contenders who spoke at the event, being held this year in Orlando to bypass Covid-19 restrictions.Trump on Sunday will be making his first post-presidential appearance at the conference, and aides say he will use the speech to reassert his power.The program underscored the split raging within the GOP, as many establishment voices argue the party must move on from Trump to win back the suburban voters who abandoned them in November, putting President Joe Biden in the White House. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and others worry Trump will undermine the party’s political future if he and his conspiracy theories continue to dominate Republican politics.But at the conference, speakers continued to fan disinformation and conspiracy theories about the 2020 election, with panels dedicated to amplifying false claims of mass voter fraud that have been dismissed by the courts, state election officials and Trump’s own administration.Indeed, Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., another potential 2024 hopeful, drew among the loudest applause and a standing ovation when he bragged about challenging the election certification on Jan. 6 despite the storming of the Capitol building by Trump supporters trying to halt the process.“I thought it was an important stand to take," he said.Others argued the party would lose if it turned its back on Trump and alienated the working-class voters drawn to his populist message.“We cannot — we will not — go back to the days of the failed Republican establishment of yesteryear,” said Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, who outlined a new Trumpian GOP agenda focused on restrictive immigration policies, opposition to China and limiting military engagement.“We will not win the future by trying to go back to where the Republican Party used to be,” echoed Florida Sen. Rick Scott, who chairs the fundraising committee tasked with electing Republicans to the Senate. “If we do, we will lose the working base that President Trump so animated. We’re going to lose elections across the country, and ultimately we’re going to lose our nation."Scott is dismissing pressure on him to “mediate between warring factions on the right” or “mediate the war of words between the party leaders." He has refused to take sides in the bitter ongoing fight between Trump and McConnell, who blamed Trump for inciting the deadly Capitol riot but ultimately voted to acquit him at his impeachment trial earlier this month.“I’m not going to mediate anything," he said, criticizing those who “prefer to fan the flames of a civil war on our side” as “foolish” and “ridiculous."But in speeches throughout the day, the GOP turmoil was front and center. Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., lit into Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney, the No. 3 House Republican, who has faced tremendous backlash for her vote to impeach Trump for inciting the Capitol riot.And as the program was wrapping up, Trump issued a statement endorsing Max Miller, a former staffer who has now launched a campaign challenging Ohio Rep. Anthony Gonzalez, another Republican who voted in favor of impeachment.Kimberly Guilfoyle, a former Fox News Channel host and Trump Jr.'s girlfriend, offered a pointed message to those who stand in opposition to the former president, who will not arrive at the conference until Sunday but was present in spirit in the form of a large golden statue erected in a merchandise show booth, where attendees could pose for pictures with it.“We bid a farewell to the weak-kneed, the spineless and the cowards that are posing in D.C. pretending that they’re working for the people,” she said. “Let’s send them a pink slip straight from CPAC.”Trump Jr., who labeled the conference “TPAC” in honor of his father, hyped the return of his father and the “Make America Great Again” platform to the spotlight.“I imagine it will not be what we call a ‘low-energy’ speech," he said. “And I assure you that it will solidify Donald Trump and all of your feelings about the MAGA movement as the future of the Republican Party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-the-dominant-force-at-conservative-conference-101614429424629.html
27-02-2021||World||Texas’s power market is $1.3 billion short after energy crisis||Texas’s grid operator needs to come up with $1.3 billion to pay power plants for energy they supplied during last week’s historic blackouts, raising the prospect it may require a state bailout.The Electric Reliability Council of Texas, which manages most of the state’s grid, said it’s still waiting on more than $2 billion in payments from retail power providers and others after a deep winter freeze caused energy prices to skyrocket. The grid operator, known as Ercot, managed to cover part of that debt by transferring $800 million in revenues from another market but remains $1.3 billion short, according to a notice.If Ercot can’t come up with the rest, the debt could end being shared by everyone in the market -- even consumers. That may prompt lawmakers to step in and make up the difference, said Evan Caron, chief strategy officer of energy technology firm ClearTrace and a former Ercot trader.“Someone is going to need to pay,” Caron said in an interview. “I’ve never seen anything like this before.”Ercot did not immediately respond to an inquiry into whether it plans to ask for a state bailout.The shortfall comes after this month’s Arctic blast knocked nearly half of the state’s power generating capacity offline, causing electricity prices to jump to $9,000 a megawatt-hour and leaving some buyers unable to pay. The crisis plunged more than 4 million homes and businesses into darkness for days. Dozens died in the cold.The $1.3 billion shortfall that Ercot now faces is unprecedented, said Adam Sinn, power trader and owner of Aspire Commodities LLC.“In the past I have only seen a million-dollar shortfall -- so a billion dollar one is not even in the ballpark,” Sinn said.In addition to managing the grid, Ercot is a middleman for transactions between power plant owners and retail energy providers that buy their electricity. Under typical conditions, those transactions are settled every day. But the organization warned Wednesday that several retailers were in “payment breach” and that more could default. As a result, some generators haven’t been paid in full.“If there are massive bankruptcies among utilities, then there might be a need for a state intervention of some sort, like a bailout,” said Michael Webber, a professor at the University of Texas at Austin who serves as chief science and technology officer at French utility Engie SA. “The total tally will certainly be higher than $2 billion, and no one knows what the ultimate consequences will be because this is new territory for us.”Two public utilities told Texas lawmakers during hearings Friday that Ercot owed them money for power they produced during the crisis.“We are concerned that because of potential bankruptcy of retail providers we will not be paid,” said Terry Naulty, assistant general manager of Denton Municipal Electric.Several retail electricity providers, including Young Energy LLC and Spark Energy Inc., are disputing Ercot charges they incurred for so-called ancillary services, which help the grid operator maintain reliability on the system.Because the real-time price of electricity was set at $9,000-a-megawatt-hour for several days during the grid emergency, the cost of ancillary services skyrocketed, costing some companies tens of millions of dollars. Some retailers have asked the Public Utility Commission of Texas to waive their obligation to pay those charges while their challenges are ongoing.Freepoint Commodities LLC has also appealed to the commission, saying they intend to challenge Ercot’s ancillary service charges and are concerned the grid operator lacks the liquidity to return any successfully disputed payments.On Friday, the grid operator announced it would cover part of the shortfall with $800 million in congestion revenues, money generated from trading bottlenecks on the grid that is supposed to be returned to consumers. Using congestion revenues will likely hit retailer margins, according to Caron.“They are going to have to figure out how to recoup those margins and if they are still alive and standing after this, anticipate the fixed-rate price contracts to go up for customers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texass-power-market-is-1-3-billion-short-after-energy-crisis-101614427583620.html
27-02-2021||World||WWII plane flypast marks UK Covid hero Capt. Tom Moore's funeral||A World War II-era plane flew Saturday over the funeral service of Captain Tom Moore, in honor of the veteran who single-handedly raised millions of pounds for Britain's health workers by walking laps in his backyard.Soldiers performed ceremonial duties at the service for the 100-year-old, whose charity walk inspired the nation and raised almost 33 million pounds ($46 million). Captain Tom, as he became known, died Feb. 2 in the hospital after testing positive for Covid-19.Just eight members of the veteran's immediate family attended Saturday's private service, but soldiers carried his coffin to a crematorium and formed a ceremonial guard. The family has urged well-wishers to stay at home as the country remains in lockdown.A version of the song “Smile," recorded by singer Michael Buble, was to be played at the funeral.Moore, who served in India, Burma and Sumatra during WWII, set out to raise a modest 1,000 pounds for Britain’s National Health Service by walking 100 laps of his backyard by his 100th birthday. But his quest went viral, catching the imagination of millions stuck at home during the first wave of the pandemic.His positive attitude — “Please always remember, tomorrow will be a good day” became his trademark phrase — inspired the nation at a time of crisis, and Prime Minister Boris Johnson described him as a “hero in the truest sense of the word.″He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in July in a socially distanced ceremony at Windsor Castle, west of London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wwii-plane-flypast-marks-uk-covid-hero-capt-tom-moore-s-funeral-101614429806629.html
27-02-2021||World||White House to ignore Trump's speech ahead of conservative conference||President Joe Biden's White House has made it clear it plans to ignore Donald Trump's speech on Sunday to a conservative conference in Florida, where the former president is expected to go on the attack against his successor."Our focus is certainly not on what President Trump is saying" at the Conservative Political Action Conference, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters.It's a strategy that has worked before, political veterans and historians say."Biden is obeying an old political rule, which is 'Never get in the way of a train wreck'," said Bob Shrum, former Democratic strategist and director of the Center for Political Future at University of Southern California.Biden's approval ratings in Gallup polls have remained above 55% since he took office on Jan. 20, and support for the White House's $1.9 trillion Covid-relief package is higher."Why should somebody with a 60 percent approval rating be fighting with someone with a 33 percent approval rating?," Shrum said. "It just doesn’t make any sense."Democratic strategist Steve Elmendorf agreed."One of Biden’s great strengths in the campaign was he focused on the future ... he is doing exactly what he needs to do which is talk about Covid and the economy," Elmendorf said.Meanwhile, Republicans are at loggerheads over how to deal with Trump's legacy.Several of the seven Republican senators who voted to convict Trump on an impeachment charge over the deadly riot at the US Capitol have faced censure votes at home.Others, like House minority leader Kevin McCarthy, have taken great pains to walk back initial criticism of Trump's role on January 6, when he urged his supporters to march on the Capitol."The Republicans are having a fight with themselves about Donald Trump," Elmendorf said. "We should let them have it and stay out of it."On Sunday, Trump is expected to signal a run in 2024 and put Republicans who supported his impeachment on notice, while accusing Biden of opening the doors to immigrants.The White House plans to shrug."Well, we’re not looking to former President Trump or any of his advisers as a model for how we're approaching immigration," Psaki said.Some say any truly incendiary remarks on Sunday or afterwards deserve a federal government response, however."Anything that says that threatens the constitutional order is going to be beyond the pale and there are going to be, in effect, certain red lines that if Trump goes over them, that Biden will feel compelled to say something," said David Gergen, a former adviser to Presidents Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton."The more Biden is able to hold back, the more important it will be when he unloads on Trump if he decides to do that," Gergen said.But there's little reason to comment on Trump otherwise, Princeton political history professor Julian Zelizer said.Biden "is on the cusp of a major stimulus relief package that is enormously popular so why allow the former president to take the people’s eyes off of that? I just don’t think there is any incentive for him to do it," Zelizer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-to-ignore-trump-s-speech-ahead-of-conservative-conference-101614427549522.html
27-02-2021||World||US in delicate balancing act as Saudi prince spared sanctions||US President Joe Biden's decision not to sanction Saudi Arabia's crown prince over journalist Jamal Khashoggi's murder has frustrated campaigners, underscoring Washington's delicate balancing act as it seeks to avoid a diplomatic rupture.Washington on Friday released a long-delayed intelligence report that accused Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of approving Khashoggi's 2018 murder in Istanbul, drawing a rebuke from Riyadh, which strongly rejected the assessment.The public censure of the prince and a slew of US sanctions on dozens of Saudi officials marks a sharp departure from the policy of former president Donald Trump, who sought to shield the kingdom's de facto ruler.But Washington did not slap any direct sanctions on Prince Mohammed, known by his initials MBS, with Secretary of State Antony Blinken explaining that Biden wants to "recalibrate" but not "rupture" its relations with Riyadh, a longstanding Middle East partner."This is not the Saudi smack-down that many hoped for," said Varsha Koduvayur, a research analyst at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a conservative Washington think-tank.It indicates "Biden's overall Saudi stance: put values at the heart of US foreign policy, emphasise human rights, and reverse the transactional approach of last four years (under Trump) -- while preserving the relationship," Koduvayur added.Call for sanctionsThe Washington-based campaign group Freedom House said it was "disappointing and frustrating that the US is yet unwilling to act on its own intelligence" and impose sanctions on the Saudi prince."We expect nothing less than justice for Jamal Khashoggi and all of Saudi Arabia's brave dissidents," said the New York-based Human Rights Foundation, which produced "The Dissident", a critically acclaimed documentary on the journalist's murder."The United States and the European Union must urgently place sanctions on MBS himself."The intelligence report -- which had been withheld after being completed under Trump -- said it was "highly unlikely" that Khashoggi's murder could have taken place without his green light.The killing of Khashoggi, a Washington Post columnist and critic of Prince Mohammed, also fits a pattern of "the crown prince's support for using violent measures to silence dissidents abroad", it added.But Saudi observers dismissed the highly anticipated report, with Ali Shihabi, a government adviser close to the kingdom's royal court, saying the "thin" assessment lacked a "smoking gun".Soon after the report was made public, the Arabic hashtag "We are all MBS" began trending on Twitter, with pro-government cyber armies tweeting in support of the Saudi heir apparent.Preserving tiesBiden had pledged during his campaign to make the kingdom a "pariah" after it got a free pass under Trump, but observers say he is instead adopting a middle path.While scrutinising human rights, his new administration is expected to work to preserve a valuable security partnership while it moves to reboot nuclear talks with Riyadh's arch-enemy Tehran.Biden also needs to deal with the top crude producer on the highly fraught issues of energy, counterterrorism, and efforts to end the conflict in Yemen."The Biden foreign policy team is comprised of seasoned experts who are not so naive as to think that they can achieve their goals in the Middle East without dealing with a Saudi state that still anchors, though in a less totalising way, both oil and security in the Gulf," said Kristin Diwan of the Arab Gulf States Institute in Washington."For this reason, they have ruled out the sanctioning of Mohammed bin Salman, preserving space to deal with the Saudi state and its top leadership."Still, Washington on Friday announced the "Khashoggi Act" that will ban entry into the US of foreigners who threaten dissidents and placed 76 Saudis on the blacklist, in what could serve as a strong deterrent.Biden also appears to have steered away from his predecessor's transactional relationship with the kingdom, an important buyer of US military hardware.Recent official statements from Washington have called Saudi Arabia a "security partner", instead of what the Trump administration highlighted as an "ally".In an apparent snub earlier this week, Biden insisted on making his first Saudi phone call to 85-year-old King Salman, even as Saudi pro-government supporters insisted that his son, Prince Mohammed, was the kingdom's day-to-day ruler."Washington realises that MBS could go on to rule Saudi Arabia for the next half century, so it cannot afford to completely alienate him," a Western diplomat told AFP."But it is also making clear that it will no longer give him a free pass."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-in-delicate-balancing-act-as-saudi-prince-spared-sanctions-101614426662856.html
27-02-2021||World||Bangladesh under 'no obligation' to accept stranded Rohingya refugees: Minister||Bangladesh is under "no obligation" to shelter 81 Rohingya Muslim refugees adrift for almost two weeks on the Andaman Sea and being assisted by neighbouring India, said Bangladesh foreign minister A.K. Abdul Momen.India's coast guard found the 81 survivors and eight dead crammed onto a crippled fishing boat and were trying to arrange for Bangladesh to take them, Indian officials said on Friday.But Momen told Reuters late on Friday that Bangladesh expects India, the closest country, or Myanmar, the Rohingyas' country of origin, to accept them."They are not Bangladesh nationals and in fact, they are Myanmar nationals. They were found 1,700 km (1,100 miles) away from the Bangladesh maritime territory and therefore, we have no obligation to take them," said Momen, who is in the United States."They were located 147 km (91 miles) away from Indian territory, 324 km (201 miles) away from Myanmar," he said by phone, adding other countries and organisations should take care of the refugees.Indian foreign ministry officials did not respond to requests for comment.External Affairs Ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday that India was "in discussions with the Government of Bangladesh to ensure their safe and secure repatriation."India's foreign ministry did not respond to requests for comment on whether it would accept the refugees onto Indian soil.One senior Indian official, who declined to be named as he was not authorized to discuss the matter with media, said India planned to help the refugees with food and water, but it was not planning to take them ashore.New Delhi did not sign the 1951 Refugee Convention, which spells out refugee rights and state responsibilities to protect them. Nor does it have a law protecting refugees, though it currently hosts more than 200,000, including some Rohingya.More than 1 million Rohingya refugees from predominantly Buddhist Myanmar are living in teeming camps in Muslim-majority Bangladesh, including tens of thousands who fled after Myanmar's military conducted a deadly crackdown in 2017.Traffickers often lure Rohingya refugees with promises of work in Southeast Asian countries like Malaysia.The United Nations refugee agency, UNHCR, expressed alarm this week over the missing boat.India on Thursday said around 47 of the occupants of the boat are in possession of ID cards issued to them by the UNHCR office in Bangladesh, stating that they are displaced Myanmar nationals.NO 'GLOBAL CONTRACT' TO AID REFUGEESThe refugees have been drifting in international waters after leaving southern Bangladesh on Feb. 11 in the hope of reaching Malaysia.On Saturday, they were under the aid and surveillance of India as officials were holding talks to return them to Bangladesh, said the senior Indian official who is not authorised to speak to the media.The boat, which sailed from the massive Cox's Bazar refugee camp, was carrying 56 women, eight girls, 21 men and five boys.Many of the survivors, according to Indian officials, were sick and suffering from extreme dehydration, having run out of food and water after the boat's engine failed four days into their journey."Has Bangladesh been given the global contract and responsibility to take and rehabilitate all the Rohingya or boat people of the world?" Momen said. "No, not at all."Momen said the UNHCR should also take responsibility as many people on the boat hold ID cards from the UNHCR office in Bangladesh."If (the refugees) are UNHCR card holders, why did they allow traffickers to take their card holders to adrift on the high sea leading to death?"UNHCR officials were not immediately reachable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-under-no-obligation-to-accept-stranded-rohingya-refugees-minister-101614424388529.html
27-02-2021||World||Iran says US air strikes in Syria encourage terrorism in the region||Friday's US air strikes against Iran-backed militias in eastern Syria encourage terrorism in the region, Iran’s top security official, Ali Shamkhani, said on Saturday.Washington said the strikes on positions of the Kataib Hezbollah (KH) paramilitary group along the Iraq border were in response to rocket attacks against US targets in Iraq.“America’s recent action strengthens and expands the activities of the terrorist Daesh (Islamic State) in the region,” Shamkhani, the Secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security council, said in remarks to visiting Iraqi Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein.“The attack on anti-terrorist resistance forces is the beginning of a new round of organized terrorism,” the semi-official Nour News quoted him as saying.Hussein, on his second visit to Iran in a month, later met with his Iranian counterpart Mohammad Javad Zarif.Hussein is in Iran “to discuss regional developments, including ways to balance relations and avoid tension and escalation” with Iranian officials, according to an Iraqi foreign ministry statement.An Iraqi militia official close to Iran said the strikes killed one fighter and wounded four. US officials said they were limited in scope to show President Joe Biden’s administration will act firmly while trying to avoid a big regional escalation.Shamkhani said “we will confront the US plan to revive terrorism in the region”, but did not elaborate.The air strikes targeted militia sites on the Syrian side of the Iraqi-Syrian frontier, where groups backed by Iran control an important crossing for weapons, personnel and goods.Western officials and some Iraqi officials accuse Iranian-backed groups of involvement in deadly rocket attacks on US sites and personnel in Iraq over the last month.Washington and Tehran are seeking maximum leverage in attempts to save Iran’s nuclear deal reached with world powers in 2015 but abandoned in 2018 by then-President Donald Trump, after which regional tensions soared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-says-us-air-strikes-in-syria-encourage-terrorism-in-the-region-101614422846546.html
27-02-2021||World||US Democrats reintroduce legislation to prevent future Muslim bans||As many as 140 Democratic lawmakers have reintroduced a legislation in the US Congress to prevent future Muslim bans and prohibit discrimination on the basis of religion.The Muslim travel ban, introduced by former US President Donald Trump, targeted several Muslim-majority nations and restricted the entry of people from Iran, North Korea, Syria, Libya, Yemen, Somalia and Venezuela. President Joe Biden ended the Muslim ban on his day one in the office last month.In the House of Representatives, the National Origin-Based Antidiscrimination for Nonimmigrants (NO BAN) Act was reintroduced on Friday by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler and Judy Chu, while in the Senate it was done by Senator Chris Coons.Indian-American lawmakers Ami Bera, Ro Khanna, Pramila Jayapal and Raja Krishnamoorthi are among those who are supporting the bill.The legislation strengthens the Immigration and Nationality Act to prohibit discrimination on the basis of religion, and restores the separation of powers by limiting overly broad executive authority to issue future travel bans.“When the Trump Administration issued its xenophobic Muslim ban, it was immediately apparent that it was unconstitutional, discriminatory, and morally reprehensible,” said Nadler.“I am grateful that President Biden took bold action on day one to repeal this ban and reunite families, but we cannot risk the possibility of any future President reinstating this heinous policy,” he said.The Muslim ban was a hateful stain on the United States. Inspired only by bigotry and not any genuine national security concerns, the ban served only to separate families while stoking bigotry, xenophobia, and Islamophobia, said Congresswoman Judy Chu.“However, we cannot risk letting prejudice become policy again. That is why I am once again introducing the NO BAN Act to update our laws. By requiring actual evidence of a threat before there can be any such broad based bans like this, the NO BAN Act ensures that future presidents will not be able to ban people solely because of their religion,” she said.Senator Coons said, “we have turned the page on the tragic Muslim ban, but now we must write the next chapter – one in which no president can act through fear and prejudice to discriminate against a community of faith.”“The Muslim ban senselessly upended lives and cut off thousands of Americans from their loved ones. Only through an act of Congress can we ensure that such a discriminatory and overreaching action by a president never happens again. The NO BAN Act reasserts not only the role of Congress under our system of checks and balances, but also the proud American legacy of welcoming immigrants and refugees,” he said.“The Muslim ban is a stain on our nation’s history— a direct violation of our basic principles of equality under the law and religious freedom,” said Congresswoman Ilhan Omar.“Thankfully, President Biden ended this hateful ban on day one of his presidency. But we must ensure that no president can ever ban a group of people from this country based solely on their religion or nationality."We must ensure that mothers will not be separated from their children, that brothers and sisters will not be torn apart— and that people around the world have a shot at the American Dream. I’m proud to work with my colleagues to place the Muslim ban in the dustbin of history where it belongs,” Omar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-democrats-reintroduce-legislation-to-prevent-future-muslim-bans-101614421942345.html
27-02-2021||World||‘Hate to say this’: Pilot reported UFO sighting, FBI ‘aware’ of incident||An American Airlines pilot, on a flight from Cincinnati to Phoenix last weekend, was heard reporting “a long cylindrical object” that flew just over his plane. An aviation blog Deep Black Horizon published the audio of a radio transmission intercept from American Airlines flight 2292, indicating that the pilot reported an unidentified flying object (UFO) on February 21.“Do you have any targets up here? We just had something go right over the top of us - I hate to say this but it looked like a long cylindrical object that almost looked like a cruise missile type of thing - moving really fast right over the top of us," the pilot can be heard saying in the audio MP3 file titled “UFO”, published by the blogger.The blogger, Steve Douglass, told The Arizona Republic that he intercepted the radio transmission accidentally while trying to pick another aircraft with a radio scanner. He used flight tracking websites Flight 24 and Flight Aware to establish the exact position of the plane and found out that it was “over the northeast corner of New Mexico west of Clayton” at an altitude of 37,000 feet.Purported AUDIO of American Airlines flight crew witnessing a "long cylindrical" UFO over New Mexico. Allegedly from yesterday (Feb 21). @Aviation_Intel has the full developing story at @thedrive - https://t.co/V5WwThMrxQ#ufotwitter pic.twitter.com/p125Y50yjiRead | CIA documents on UFOs unexpectedly made available to downloadThe Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) later released a statement confirming the report but added that air traffic controllers of the aviation agency did not see any object in the area on their radarscopes. “A pilot reported seeing an object over New Mexico shortly after noon local time on Sunday, Feb. 21, 2021. FAA air traffic controllers did not see any object in the area on their radarscopes,” FAA said in a statement.A spokesperson for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) said that the agency is “aware of the reported incident.” “While our policy is to neither confirm nor deny investigations, the FBI works continuously with our federal, state, local, and tribal partners to share intelligence and protect the public. Anyone who is aware of suspicious or criminal activity should contact their local law enforcement agency or the FBI,” Frank Connor, spokesperson for the federal agency, told CBS News.In April 2020, the US department of defense released three declassified videos that showed US Navy pilots encountering what appeared to be UFOs. Following the declassification of videos, the US Navy released seven incident reports on the series of encounters between Navy pilots and UAP. Earlier this year, the documentation by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) on UFOs were made available for download.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hate-to-say-this-pilot-reported-ufo-sighting-fbi-aware-of-incident-101614420361471.html
27-02-2021||World||Prince Harry says British press was destroying his mental health||Britain's Prince Harry said in a rare one-on-one interview that he left royal life because the British press was "destroying" his mental health, and revealed he watches "The Crown."Harry gave an intimate insight into his young family's new life in Los Angeles during an open-top bus tour of the city with "The Late Late Show" host James Corden."We all know what the British press can be like, and it was destroying my mental health," said Harry, who relocated to the United States with wife Meghan Markle last year."I was, like, this is toxic. So I did what any husband and what any father would do. I need to get my family out of here."Harry and Markle's shock announcement in January 2020 that they were stepping back from royal duties rocked Britain's royal family, with British newspapers dubbing it "Mexit."Earlier this month, Buckingham Palace announced that the couple had permanently quit royal duties following a one-year review of the new arrangement.Queen Elizabeth II ordered the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, as they are formally known, to relinquish their honorary titles and patronages."It was never walking away," Harry, 36, told Corden. "It was stepping back rather than stepping down. It was a really difficult environment."Harry has long had a difficult relationship with Britain's tabloids, blaming press intrusion for contributing to his mother Princess Diana's death in a car crash in 1997.Earlier this month, Markle won a high-profile privacy claim against Associated Newspapers for publishing a private letter that she wrote to her estranged father.Harry said he was "more comfortable" with the portrayal of the royal family in the hit Netflix series "The Crown" than he is with newspaper stories written about him and his family."They don't pretend to be news. It's fictional," Harry said of the show."It's loosely based on the truth. Of course, it's not strictly accurate, but it gives you a rough idea about what that lifestyle, what the pressures of putting duty and service above family and everything else, what can come from that."Harry, who remains sixth in line to the throne, revealed that he would like to see actor Damian Lewis play him in future series.The prince admitted during the relaxed chat that it was the first time he had ever been on an open-top bus.Harry and Corden visited the house from hit 1990s US TV series "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air." They voice-called Markle, who referred to Harry as "Haz."Harry said that he had Zoomed with the Queen and Prince Philip so they could see their great-grandson Archie.The prince revealed that Archie's first word was "crocodile" and that the Queen had sent Archie a waffle maker for Christmas.Harry also described evenings at their Santa Barbara home."Depending on how the day's been and how busy it's been, we do Archie's tea, give him a bath, read him a book, put him down, go downstairs."Meg might cook a meal, might order a takeaway, go upstairs sit in bed, turn the TV on, watch some Jeopardy, maybe watch a little bit of Netflix," the prince said.The release of the interview comes a week before Harry and Markle's controversial interview with Oprah Winfrey will air.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-harry-says-british-press-was-destroying-his-mental-health-101614418678522.html
27-02-2021||World||16 million Yemenis going hungry, 5 million on the brink of famine: UN aid chief||Ahmadiya Juaidi's eyes are wide as she drinks a nutrition shake from a large orange mug, her thin fingers grasping the handle. Her hair is pulled back and around her neck hangs a silver necklace with a heart and the letter A.Three weeks ago the 13-year-old weighed just nine kilograms (20 pounds) when she was admitted to al-Sabeen hospital in Yemen's capital Sanaa with malnutrition that sickened her for at least the past four years. Now she weighs 15 kilograms."I am afraid when we go back to the countryside her condition will deteriorate again due to lack of nutritional food. We have no income," her older brother, Muhammad Abdo Taher Shami, told Reuters.They are among some 16 million Yemenis - more than half the population of the Arabian Peninsula country - that the United Nations says are going hungry. Of those, five million are on the brink of famine, UN aid chief Mark Lowcock warns.On Monday the United Nations hopes to raise some $3.85 billion at a virtual pledging event to avert what Lowcock says would be a large-scale "man-made" famine, the worst the world will have seen for decades.More than six years of war in Yemen - widely seen as a proxy conflict between Saudi Arabia and Iran - have sent the impoverished country spiralling into what the United Nations describes as the world's largest humanitarian crisis.Some 80% of Yemenis need help, with 400,000 children under the age of five severely malnourished, according to UN data. For much of its food, the country relies on imports that have been badly disrupted over the years by all warring parties."Before the war Yemen was a poor country with a malnutrition problem, but it was one which had a functioning economy, a government that provided services to quite a lot of its people, a national infrastructure and an export base," Lowcock told reporters. "The war has largely destroyed all of that."Also read: UK urges UN resolution for pause in conflicts for Covid-19 jabs"In the modern world famines are basically about people having no income and then other people blocking efforts to help them. That's basically what we've got in Yemen," he added.HUNGER VS PANDEMICA Saudi Arabia-led military coalition intervened in Yemen in 2015 after the Iran-allied Houthi group ousted the country's government from Sanaa. The Houthis say they are fighting a corrupt system. The people's suffering has been worsened by an economic and currency collapse, and by the Covid-19 pandemic.UN officials are trying to revive peace talks, and new US President Joe Biden has said Yemen is a priority, declaring a halt to US support for the Saudi-led military campaign and demanding the war "has to end."Twelve aid groups, including Oxfam, Save the Children and Care International, have warned that 2.3 million children under the age of five in Yemen will go hungry this year if governments do not step up their funding on Monday.Muhsin Siddiquey, Oxfam's country director in Yemen, recounted a conversation with an 18-year-old woman, displaced by the conflict and living in a camp in northern Yemen."She said that the coronavirus pandemic gives us two cruel choices: either we stay home and we die from hunger, or we go out and then die from the disease," Siddiquey told Reuters.Official figures vastly underestimate the spread of Covid-19 in Yemen, according to the United Nations and aid agencies.In 2018 and 2019, the United Nations prevented famine due to a well-funded aid appeal, which included large donations from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait.In 2020 the United Nations only received just over half the $3.4 billion it needed, which Lowcock said was largely due to smaller contributions from Gulf countries. He urged them to pledge generously for 2021 and pay quickly.The United Arab Emirates said on Friday it would pledge $230 million for 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/16-million-yemenis-going-hungry-5-million-on-the-brink-of-famine-un-aid-chief-101614406979753.html
27-02-2021||World||Use "any means necessary" to stop military coup: Kyaw Moe Tun to UN||Myanmar's UN envoy urged the United Nations to use "any means necessary" to stop a military coup there, making a surprise appeal on behalf of the ousted government as police cracked down on anti-junta protesters.The Southeast Asian country has been in crisis since the army seized power on Feb. 1 and detained elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi and much of her party leadership, alleging fraud in a November election her party had won in a landslide.Uncertainty has grown over Suu Kyi's whereabouts, as the independent Myanmar Now website on Friday quoted officials of her National League for Democracy (NLD) party as saying she had been moved this week from house arrest to an undisclosed location.The coup has brought hundreds of thousands of protesters to Myanmar's streets and drawn condemnation from Western countries, with some imposing limited sanctions.More protests were planned for Saturday, including a march in the main city of Yangon by members of ethnic minorities. But police were out in force early, detaining several people as they began to congregate, witnesses said.Also read: India has highest stake in Rohingyas' return to Myanmar: India at UNGAMyanmar's Ambassador Kyaw Moe Tun told the UN General Assembly he was speaking on behalf of Suu Kyi's government and appealed to the body "to use any means necessary to take action against the Myanmar military and to provide safety and security for the people"."We need further strongest possible action from the international community to immediately end the military coup, to stop oppressing the innocent people ... and to restore the democracy," he told the 193-member group, receiving applause as he finished.Kyaw Moe Tun appeared emotional as he read the statement on behalf of a group of elected politicians that he said represented the legitimate government.Delivering his final words in Burmese, the career diplomat raised the three-finger salute of pro-democracy protesters and announced "our cause will prevail".Reuters was not immediately able to contact the army for comment.Also read: Myanmar police crack down on protests; one woman killed: ReportsOpponents of the coup hailed Kyaw Moe Tun as a hero and flooded social media with messages of thanks."The people will win and the power-obsessed junta will fall," one protest leader, Ei Thinzar Maung, wrote on Facebook.UN special envoy on Myanmar Christine Schraner Burgener pushed the United Nations for a collective "clear signal in support of democracy", telling the General Assembly no country should recognise or legitimise the junta.China's envoy did not criticize the coup and said the situation was Myanmar's "internal affairs", saying it supported diplomacy by Southeast Asian countries, which protesters fear could give credibility to the ruling generals.Singapore said violence against unarmed civilians was inexcusable.'LOSS OF RIGHTS'A lawyer acting for Suu Kyi, Khin Maung Zaw, told Reuters he had also heard from NLD officials that she had been moved from her home in the capital, Naypyitaw, but could not confirm it. Authorities did not respond to a request for comment.The lawyer said he had been given no access to Suu Kyi ahead of her next hearing on Monday, adding: "I'm concerned that there will be a loss of rights to access to justice and access to legal counsel".Protesters have taken to the streets daily for over three weeks demanding the release of Suu Kyi, 75, and recognition of the result of last year's election.Riot police broke up protests in Yangon, the second city of Mandalay, Naypyitaw and other towns on Friday, firing rubber bullets, stun grenades and shots into the air in some places, witnesses said. Several people were hurt.Military chief General Min Aung Hlaing says authorities were using minimal force. Nevertheless, at least three protesters have died. The army says a policeman was also killed.At least 771 people are under detention or have outstanding charges that have been laid against them since the coup, according to Myanmar's Assistance Association for Political Prisoners.Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace laureate and daughter of Myanmar's independence hero, spent nearly 15 years under house arrest under previous juntas. She faces charges of illegally importing six walkie-talkie radios and of violating a natural disaster law by breaching coronavirus protocols.The army has promised an election but not given a date. It has imposed a one-year state of emergency.The question of an election is at the centre of a diplomatic effort by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), of which Myanmar is a member. Indonesia has taken the lead, but coup opponents fear the efforts could legitimise the junta.ASEAN foreign ministers plan to hold a meeting on Myanmar soon, regional diplomats said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/use-any-means-necessary-to-stop-military-coup-kyaw-moe-tun-to-un-101614398043547.html
27-02-2021||World||'Religiosity fostering rise in terrorism': Pakistan experts||Terrorist attacks are on the rise in Pakistan amid a growing religiosity that has brought greater intolerance, prompting one expert to voice concern the country could be overwhelmed by religious extremism.Pakistani authorities are embracing strengthening religious belief among the population to bring the country closer together. But it's doing just the opposite, creating intolerance and opening up space for a creeping resurgence in terrorism, said Mohammad Amir Rana, executive director of the independent Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies."Unfortunately, instead of helping to inculcate better ethics and integrity, this phenomenon is encouraging a tunnel vision” that encourages violence, intolerance and hate, he wrote recently in a local newspaper. “Religiosity has begun to define the Pakistani citizenry.”Terrorism in Pakistan has spiked: In the past week alone, four vocational school instructors who advocated for women’s rights were traveling together when they were gunned down in a Pakistan border region. A Twitter death threat against Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai attracted an avalanche of trolls. They heaped abuse on the young champion of girls education, who survived a Pakistani Taliban bullet to the head. A couple of men on a motorcycle opened fire on a police check-post not far from the Afghan border killing a young police constable.In recent weeks, at least a dozen military and paramilitary men have been killed in ambushes, attacks and operations against militant hideouts, mostly in the western border regions.A military spokesman this week said the rising violence is a response to an aggressive military assault on militant hideouts in regions bordering Afghanistan and the reunification of splintered and deeply violent anti-Pakistan terrorist groups, led by the Tehreek-e-Taliban. The group is driven by a radical religious ideology that espouses violence to enforce its extreme views.Gen. Babar Ifitkar said the reunified Pakistani Taliban have found a headquarters in eastern Afghanistan. He also accused hostile neighbor India of financing and outfitting a reunified Taliban, providing them with equipment like night vision goggles, improvised explosive devises and small weapons.India and Pakistan routinely trade allegations that the other is using militants to undermine stability and security at home.Security analyst and fellow at the Center for International Security and Cooperation, Asfandyar Mir, said the reunification of a splintered militancy is dangerous news for Pakistan."The reunification of various splinters into the (Tehreek-e-Taliban) central organization is a major development, which makes the group very dangerous," said Mir.The TTP claimed responsibility for the 2012 shooting of Yousafzai. Its former spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan, who mysteriously escaped Pakistan military custody to flee to the country, tweeted a promise that the Taliban would kill her if she returned home.Iftikar, in a briefing of foreign journalists this week, said Pakistani military personnel aided Ehsan's escape, without elaborating. He said the soldiers involved had been punished and efforts were being made to return Ehsan to custody.The government reached out to Twitter to shut down Ehsan's account after he threatened Yousafzai, although the military and government at first suggested it was a fake account.But Rana, the commentator, said the official silence that greeted the threatening tweet encouraged religious intolerance to echo in Pakistani society unchecked.“The problem is religiosity has very negative expression in Pakistan,” he said in an interview late Friday. “It hasn’t been utilized to promote the positive, inclusive tolerant religion.”Instead, successive Pakistani governments as well as its security establishments have exploited extreme religious ideologies to garner votes, appease political religious groups, or target enemies, he said.The 2018 general elections that brought cricket star-turned-politician Imran Khan to power was mired in allegations of support from the powerful military for hard-line religious groups.Those groups include the Tehreek-e-Labbaik party, whose single-point agenda is maintaining and propagating the country's deeply controversial blasphemy law. That law calls for the death penalty for anyone insulting Islam and is most often used to settle disputes. It often targets minorities, mostly Shiite Muslims, who makeup up about 15% of mostly Sunni Pakistan's 220 million people.Mir, the analyst, said the rise in militancy is a complicated conundrum. It has benefited from state policies that have been either supportive or ambivalent toward militancy as well as from sustained exposure of the region to violence. Most notable are the protracted war in neighboring Afghanistan and the simmering tensions between hostile neighbors India and Pakistan, two countries that possess a nuclear weapons' arsenal.Mir and Rana both pointed to the Pakistani government's failure to draw radical thinkers away from militant organizations, as groups that seemed at least briefly to eschew a violent path have returned to violence and rejoined the TTP.Iftikar said the military has stepped up assaults on the reunited Pakistani Taliban, pushing the militants to respond, but only targets they can manage, which are soft targets.But Mir said the reunited militants pose a greater threat.“With the addition of these powerful units, the TTP has major strength for operations across the former tribal areas, Swat, Baluchistan, and some in Punjab,” he said. “Taken together, they improve TTP’s ability to mount insurgent and mass-casualty attacks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/religiosity-fostering-rise-in-terrorism-pakistan-experts-101614417274427.html
27-02-2021||World||Highlights of the Covid-19 relief bill advancing in Congress||The House passed a USD 1.9 trillion pandemic relief package early Saturday, 219-212, that includes USD 1,400 checks for most Americans and billions of dollars for schools, state and local governments and businesses.Republicans are overwhelmingly against the bill, raising concerns that the spending is vastly more than necessary and designed to advance policy priorities that go beyond helping Americans get through the pandemic. Democrats and President Joe Biden counter that a robust aid package is necessary to prevent a long and painful recovery from the pandemic.The Democrats' goal is to have Covid-19 relief approved by mid-March, when extra unemployment assistance and other pandemic aid expires. The Senate, which Democrats control with a tie-breaking vote from the vice president, will consider the bill next.A look at some highlights of the legislation:MORE CHECKSThe legislation provides a rebate that amounts to USD 1,400 for a single taxpayer, or USD 2,800 for a married couple that files jointly, plus USD 1,400 per dependent. Individuals earning up to USD 75,000 would get the full amount as would married couples with incomes up to USD 150,000.The size of the check would shrink for those making slightly more with a hard cut-off at USD 100,000 for individuals and USD 200,000 for married couples.Some Republicans want to cut the size of the rebate as well as the pool of Americans eligible for it, but Biden has insisted on USD 1,400 checks, saying “that's what the American people were promised.” The new round of checks will cost the government an estimated USD 422 billion.BIGGER TAX BREAK FOR HOUSEHOLDS WITH KIDSUnder current law, most taxpayers can reduce their federal income tax bill by up to USD 2,000 per child. The package moving through the House would increase the tax break to $3,000 for every child age 6 to 17 and USD 3,600 for every child under the age of 6.The legislation also calls for the payments to be delivered monthly instead of in one lump sum. If the secretary of the Treasury determines that isn't feasible, then the payments are to be made as frequently as possible.Also, families would get the full credit regardless of how little they make in a year, even just a few hundred dollars, leading to criticism that the changes would serve as a disincentive to work. Add in the USD 1,400 per individual checks and other items in the proposal, and the legislation would reduce the number of children living in poverty by more than half, according to an analysis from the Center on Poverty and Social Policy at Columbia University.AID TO STATES AND CITIESThe legislation would send USD 350 billion to state and local governments and tribal governments. While Republicans in Congress have largely objected to this initiative, Biden's push has some GOP support among governors and mayors.Many communities have taken hits to their tax base as millions of people have lost their jobs and as people stay home and avoid restaurants and stores to prevent getting Covid-19. Many areas have also seen expenses rise as they work to treat the sick and ramp up vaccinations.But the impact varies from state to state and from town to town. Critics say the funding is not appropriately targeted and is far more than necessary with billions of dollars allocated last spring to states and communities still unspent.AID TO SCHOOLSThe bill calls for USD 130 billion in additional help to schools for students in kindergarten through 12th grade. The money would be used to reduce class sizes and modify classrooms to enhance social distancing, install ventilation systems and purchase personal protective equipment. The money could also be used to increase the hiring of nurses, counselors and to provide summer school.Spending for colleges and universities would be boosted by USD 40 billion, with the money used to defray an institution's pandemic-related expenses and to provide emergency aid to students to cover expenses such as food and housing and computer equipment.AID TO BUSINESSESThe bill provides another round of relief for airlines and eligible contractors, USD 15 billion, so long as they refrain from furloughing workers or cutting pay through September. It's the third round of support for airlines.A new program for restaurants and bars hurt by the pandemic would receive USD 25 billion. The grants provide up to $10 million per entity with a limit of USD 5 million per physical location. The grants can be used to cover payroll, rent, utilities and other operational expenses.The bill also provides another USD 7.25 billion for the Paycheck Protection Program, a tiny fraction of what was allocated in previous legislation. The loans are designed to help borrowers meet their payroll and operating costs and can potentially be forgiven.AID TO THE UNEMPLOYEDExpanded unemployment benefits from the federal government would be extended, with an increase from USD 300 a week to USD 400 a week. That's on top of what beneficiaries are getting through their state unemployment insurance program.HEALTH CAREThe bill provides money for key elements of the Biden administration's Covid-19 response, while also trying to advance longstanding Democratic priorities like increasing coverage under the Obama-era Affordable Care Act.On “Obamacare,” it dangles a fiscal carrot in front of a dozen states, mainly in the South, that have not yet taken up the law's Medicaid expansion to cover more low-income adults.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/highlights-of-the-covid-19-relief-bill-advancing-in-congress-101614416716821.html
27-02-2021||World||'Cannot bury the dead': Amnesty report describes Axum massacre in Ethiopia||Soldiers from Eritrea systematically killed “many hundreds” of people, the large majority men, in a massacre late November in the Ethiopian city of Axum in the Tigray region, Amnesty International said Friday. The new report echoed the findings of an Associated Press story last week and cited more than 40 witnesses.As pressure on Ethiopia increased over what might be the deadliest massacre of the Tigray conflict, the prime minister’s office announced that “humanitarian agencies have now been provided unfettered access to aid in the region.” It added that the government “welcomes international technical assistance to undertake the investigations (into alleged abuses) as well as invites the potential to collaborate on joint investigations.”And yet the government alleged the Amnesty report relied on “scanty information," and said the human rights group should have visited the Tigray region. Amnesty said it requested permission from the government in December and never received a response.“As you know, no independent human rights monitors have been allowed in the region since the conflict began,” spokesman Conor Fortune said in an email to the AP.Crucially, the head of the government-established Ethiopian Human Rights Commission, Daniel Bekele, says the Amnesty findings “should be taken very seriously.” The commission's own preliminary findings “indicate the killing of an as yet unknown number of civilians by Eritrean soldiers” in Axum, its statement said.The Amnesty report describes the soldiers gunning down civilians as they fled, lining up men and shooting them in the back, rounding up “hundreds, if not thousands” of men for beatings and refusing to allow those grieving to bury the dead.Over a period of about 24 hours, “Eritrean soldiers deliberately shot civilians on the street and carried out systematic house-to-house searches, extrajudicially executing men and boys," the report released early Friday says. "The massacre was carried out in retaliation for an earlier attack by a small number of local militiamen, joined by local residents armed with sticks and stones.”The “mass execution” of Axum civilians by Eritrean troops may amount to crimes against humanity, the report says, and it calls for a United Nations-led international investigation and full access to Tigray for human rights groups, journalists and humanitarian workers. The region has been largely cut off since fighting began in early November.Ethiopia’s federal government has denied the presence of soldiers from neighboring Eritrea, long an enemy of the Tigray region’s now-fugitive leaders, and Eritrea’s government dismissed the AP story on the Axum massacre as “outrageous lies.” Eritrea's information minister, Yemane Gebremeskel, on Friday said his country “is outraged and categorically rejects the preposterous accusations” in the Amnesty report.But even senior members of the Ethiopia-appointed interim government in Tigray have acknowledged the Eritrean soldiers’ presence and allegations of widespread looting and killing.Ethiopia said the “alleged incident” in Axum “will have to be thoroughly investigated.”And Ethiopia's ambassador to Belgium, Hirut Zemene, told a webinar on Thursday that the alleged massacre in November was a “very highly unlikely scenario” and “we suspect it's a very, very crazy idea.”No one knows how many thousands of civilians have been killed in the conflict between Ethiopian and allied forces and those of the Tigray regional government, which had long dominated Ethiopia’s government before Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed took office in 2018. Humanitarian officials have warned that a growing number of people might be starving to death as access, while improving, remains restricted.“Hostilities must cease immediately,” the European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said in a statement in response to the Amnesty International report, adding that “the level of suffering endured by civilians, including children, is appalling."The presence of Eritrean soldiers in Tigray has brought some alarm. The United States has repeatedly urged Eritrea to withdraw its soldiers and cited credible reports of “grave” human rights abuses. On Wednesday it asked, “Does the Eritrean military have sufficient control over its troops to prevent them from committing human rights abuses?”Witnesses of the massacre in Axum told Amnesty International that Ethiopian and Eritrean soldiers jointly took control of the city but the Eritreans carried out the killings and then conducted house-to-house raids for men and teenage boys.Bodies were left strewn in the streets after the events of Nov. 28 and 29, witnesses said.“The next day, they did not allow us to pick the dead. The Eritrean soldiers said you cannot bury the dead before our dead soldiers are buried,” one woman told Amnesty International. With hospitals looted or health workers having fled, some witnesses said a number of people died from their wounds because of lack of care.“Gathering the bodies and carrying out the funerals took days. Most of the dead appear to have been buried on 30 November, but witnesses said that people found many additional bodies in the days that followed,” the new report says.After obtaining permission from Ethiopian soldiers to bury the dead, witnesses said they feared the killings would resume any moment, even as they piled bodies onto horse-drawn carts and took them to churches for burial, at times in mass graves.The AP spoke with a deacon at one church, the Church of St. Mary of Zion, who said he helped count the bodies, gathered victims’ identity cards and assisted with burials. He believes some 800 people were killed that weekend around the city.After being left exposed for a day or more, the bodies had begun to rot, further traumatizing families and those who gathered to help.The new report says satellite imagery shows newly “disturbed soil” beside churches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cannot-bury-the-dead-amnesty-report-describes-axum-massacre-in-ethiopia-101614415971021.html
27-02-2021||World||Indian American Arora Akanksha, 34, running for UN chief||Arora Akanksha, a 34-year-old staff member who works as an audit coordinator for the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), has announced her candidacy for UN secretary-general and is set to be the only candidate running against incumbent António Guterres. Although she has no national backing for her candidacy yet, Akanksha launched her grass-roots campaign called UNOW on Twitter and other social media platforms on February 9.Akanksha said that her opponent Guterres has failed as the secretary general of the United Nations. “He’s failed as a leader in reforming the institution. He’s failed as a leader to refugees; he was leading the refugee agency before coming here, so he knows the plight of refugees. He knows their pain, hope, better than most of us, because he served them. Yet when he came, he didn’t make any decision to prioritise resources to them,” she said.Who is Arora Akanksha?Born in the northern state of Haryana, Akanksha moved with her family to Saudi Arabia when she was six years old. She studied at York University in Toronto, Canada, where she received a bachelor’s degree in administrative studies. She also has a master’s degree in public administration from Columbia University. Akanksha also holds an Overseas Citizenship Of India (OCI) and a Canadian passport, although she hasn’t asked either country for an official endorsement.Read more: US senator bats for including India in Trans-Pacific PartnershipShe was recruited by the UN to help with the financial reforms of the organisation and was also responsible for updating financial regulations and rules of the UN as well as managing the internal and external audits at UNDP.‘United Nations is risk-averse’Akanksha, who is self-financing her campaign according to one of her campaign videos, said that during her work at the UN she has become increasingly disillusioned with the inability of the UN to create change and the organisation is not fulfilling its original mission as stated in the UN Charter.“I had been part of the reforms team for two years, and I had access to the upper echelon of our leadership,” Akanksha said, adding that she saw “how they are so risk-averse…”‘Half of the world population is under 30’Despite her lack of experience in foreign and government affairs, Akanksha is unafraid as she feels that her age will play to her advantage. “I think something we have to realise is half of the world population is under 30 right now,” she said.“So you would want a leader who knows what it’s like to be in that age group to be suffering, not having the economic freedom to do everything you want, not having the ability to get the opportunities that you deserve. If you want to see different results, you have to do things differently,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/haryana-woman-under-34-arora-akanksha-indian-american-running-for-un-chief-101614412913070.html
27-02-2021||World||Myanmar police crack down on protests; one woman killed: Reports||Police cracked down in Myanmar on Saturday to prevent opponents of military rule gathering and one woman was shot and killed, media reported, after the country's U.N. envoy urged the United Nations to use "any means necessary" to stop a Feb. 1 coup.Myanmar has been in turmoil since the army seized power and detained elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi and much of her party leadership, alleging fraud in a November election her party won in a landslide.Uncertainty has grown over Suu Kyi's whereabouts, as the independent Myanmar Now website on Friday quoted officials of her National League for Democracy (NLD) party as saying she had been moved this week from house arrest to an undisclosed location.The coup has brought hundreds of thousands of protesters to Myanmar's streets and drawn condemnation from Western countries, with some imposing limited sanctions.Police were out in force in the main city of Yangon and elsewhere on Saturday, taking up positions at usual protest sites and detaining people as they congregated, witnesses said. Several media workers were detained.Three domestic media outlets said a woman was shot and killed in the central town of Monwya. Police there were not immediately available for comment.Earlier, a protester in the town said police had fired water cannon as they surrounded a crowd."They used water cannon against peaceful protesters - they shouldn't treat people like that," Aye Aye Tint told Reuters from the town.In Yangon, despite the police presence, people came out to chant and sing, then scatter into side streets as police advanced, firing tear gas, setting off stun grenades and firing guns into the air, witnesses said.Similar scenes played out in the second city of Mandalay and several other towns, including Dawei in the south, witnesses and media said.Among those detained at a Mandalay protest was Win Mya Mya, one of only two Muslim members of parliament for the NLD, media said.Junta leader General Min Aung Hlaing has said authorities were using minimal force. Nevertheless, at least three protesters have died in the weeks of turmoil. The army says a policeman was also killed.'PREVAIL'At the U.N. General Assembly, Myanmar's Ambassador Kyaw Moe Tun said he was speaking on behalf of Suu Kyi's government and appealed for "any means necessary to take action against the Myanmar military and to provide safety and security for the people"."We need further strongest possible action from the international community to immediately end the military coup ... and to restore the democracy," he said.Kyaw Moe Tun appeared emotional as he read the statement on behalf of a group of elected politicians that he said represented the legitimate government.Delivering his final words in Burmese, the career diplomat raised the three-finger salute of pro-democracy protesters and announced, "Our cause will prevail."Reuters was not immediately able to contact the army for comment.Coup opponents hailed Kyaw Moe Tun as a hero and flooded social media with messages of thanks. U.N. Special Rapporteur Tom Andrews said he was overwhelmed as he watched the ambassador's "act of courage"."It's time for the world to answer that courageous call with action," Andrews said on Twitter.China's envoy did not criticise the coup and said the situation was part of Myanmar's "internal affairs". China supported diplomacy by southeast Asian countries, he said.But in more bad news for the generals who have traditionally shrugged off outside pressure, Australia's Woodside Petroleum Ltd said it was cutting its presence in Myanmar over concern about rights violations and violence by security forces."Woodside supports the people of Myanmar and we hope to see a peaceful journey to democracy," the company said.'LOSS OF RIGHTS'A lawyer for Suu Kyi, Khin Maung Zaw, told Reuters he had also heard that she had been moved from her home in the capital, Naypyitaw, but could not confirm it. Authorities did not respond to a request for comment.The lawyer said he had been given no access to Suu Kyi ahead of her next hearing on Monday and he was concerned about her access to justice and legal counsel.Nobel Peace laureate Suu Kyi, 75, spent nearly 15 years under house arrest during military rule. She faces charges of illegally importing six walkie-talkie radios and of violating a natural disaster law by breaching coronavirus protocols.The army has promised an election but not given a date. It has imposed a one-year state of emergency.The question of an election is at the centre of a diplomatic effort by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, of which Myanmar is a member.Indonesia has taken the lead but coup opponents fear the effort could legitimise the junta and what they see as its bid to annul the November election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-police-crack-down-on-protests-one-woman-killed-reports-101614415858807.html
27-02-2021||World||New Zealand's largest city Auckland back under coronavirus lockdown||New Zealand's Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Saturday that the country's biggest city, Auckland, will go into a seven-day lockdown from early morning on Sunday after a new local case of the coronavirus of unknown origin emerged.This comes two weeks after Auckland's nearly 2 million residents were plunged into a snap three-day lockdown when a family of three were diagnosed with the more transmissible UK variant of the new coronavirus that causes Covid-19.Health officials, who could not immediately confirm how the person got infected, said genome sequencing of the new infection was under way.The patient developed symptoms on Tuesday and is regarded as having been potentially infectious since Sunday, officials said. The person has visited several public venues during that period."Based on this, we are in the unfortunate but necessary position to protect Aucklanders again," Ardern said, announcing the lockdown.Health authorities were trying to find out whether the new case was linked to the earlier February cluster, now at 12 infections.The lockdown, with Level 3 restrictions, will allow people to leave home only for essential shopping and essential work, Ardern said. Public venues will remain closed. Restrictions in the rest of the country will be tightened to Level 2 restrictions, including limits on public gatherings.New Zealand, one of the most successful developed nations in controlling the spread of the pandemic, has seen just over 2,000 cases of the coronavirus since the start of the pandemic.A marquee Twenty20 cricket clash in Auckland between New Zealand and Australia, scheduled for Friday, will be played in Wellington without crowds, said New Zealand Cricket.The new restrictions also complicated the America's Cup Event yacht race scheduled to start on March 6 in Auckland's harbour. America's Cup Event said on Twitter it was working "through the implications."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-s-largest-city-auckland-back-under-coronavirus-lockdown-101614415351231.html
27-02-2021||World||'Will fight till we win': Myanmar protesters undeterred despite facing rubber bullets at Yangon demonstration||Myanmar police fired rubber bullets to disperse protesters in Yangon on Saturday, after the country's ambassador to the United Nations broke ranks to make an emotional plea for action against the military junta.The country has been shaken by a wave of pro-democracy protests since a military coup toppled civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi on February 1.Authorities have gradually ramped up the use of force to suppress dissent, using tear gas, water cannon and rubber bullets to disperse some protests. Live rounds have been used in isolated cases.In Myanmar's biggest city Yangon on Saturday, police used rubber bullets to disperse a demonstration at Myaynigone junction, the site of an hours-long standoff the day before."What are the police doing? They are protecting a crazy dictator," the protesters chanted as they were chased away by the police.Hundreds of ethnic Mon protesters had gathered there to commemorate Mon National Day, joined by other ethnic minority groups to protest against the coup.They scattered into smaller residential streets and started building makeshift barricades out of barbed wire and tables to stop the police. Many wore hard hats and gas masks, wielding homemade shields for protection.At least 15 people were arrested, a police official confirmed.Local reporters broadcast the chaotic scenes live on Facebook, including the moments when the shots rang out, which AFP reporters on the ground also witnessed."We will try to find another way to protest -- of course, we are afraid of their crackdown," said protester Moe Moe, 23, who used a pseudonym."We want to fight until we win."Three journalists were among those detained -- an Associated Press photographer, a video journalist from Myanmar Now, and a photographer from the Myanmar Pressphoto Agency.Also read: Myanmar's UN envoy dramatically opposes coup in his country'This revolution must win'The crackdown in Yangon came after Myanmar's ambassador to the United Nations broke ranks and made an emotional plea Friday to the international community."We need... the strongest possible action from the international community to immediately end the military coup, to stop oppressing the innocent people, to return the state power to the people, and to restore the democracy," Kyaw Moe Tun pleaded, his voice cracking with emotion.Briefly speaking in Burmese, he pleaded with his "brothers and sisters" to keep fighting to end military rule."This revolution must win," he said, flashing at the end the three-finger salute that has become a symbol of resistance against the junta.His pro-democracy appeal broke from the current rulers of Myanmar -- an extremely rare occurrence for a UN representative -- and was met with applause in the chamber.The junta has repeatedly justified its seizure of power by alleging widespread electoral fraud in the November elections, which Suu Kyi's party had won in a landslide, and promised fresh polls in a year.Also read: Myanmar protesters injured as police escalate use of forceArmy chief General Min Aung Hlaing now holds legislative, executive and judicial powers in Myanmar -- effectively halting the country's 10-year experiment with democracy.Suu Kyi, who has not been publicly seen since she was detained, is now facing two charges for having unregistered walkie-talkies in her residence and breaking coronavirus rules.While the Nobel laureate is expected to have a hearing on Monday, her lawyer has still not been able to make contact with her.More than 770 people have been arrested, charged and sentenced since the February 1 putsch, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners monitoring group, with some 680 still behind bars.But protests have continued apace across Myanmar, from the remote mountain ranges of northern Chin state to the southern coastal city Dawei.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-cops-fire-rubber-bullets-on-pro-democracy-protesters-in-yangon-101614408763408.html
27-02-2021||World||On wage policy, Australian oppn blames govt for harrying workers' savings||Australia’s government is considering letting employees opt for a pay rise over higher pension contributions, prompting the Labour opposition to accuse it of raiding workers’ savings to cover for a failed wages policy.The government is seeking greater flexibility to allow workers to be able to choose increased take-home pay over a mandatory superannuation increase, the Financial Review reported. It’s also looking at the possibility of letting them tap their pension savings for expenses such as housing down payments as part of efforts to better balance working and retirement incomes, the newspaper said.The report drew a sharp rebuke from the opposition. The government is “blaming Australia’s world class superannuation system for its wages failure,” Labour spokesman Stephen Jones said in a statement Saturday. “Undermining workers savings for tomorrow to fix your political problems of today is not going to help wages grow.”Also read: Australia moves closer to pre-pandemic life, Covid-19 'reined in' for nowAlso read: Australian MPs to okay changes to new pay-for-news lawFirms currently pay 9.5% of a worker’s salary into a pension fund under a superannuation system that’s designed to ease the burden of an aging population on the government’s budget. From July this year, that’s legislated to climb in 0.5 percentage point annual increments to 12% by 2025.Australian wages have stagnated in recent years as workers -- often carrying high debt loads -- worry more about job security than fatter pay packets. Prior to the pandemic, policy makers were trying to tighten the labour market sufficiently to drive salary gains.Yet with the economy recovering from its first recession since just before superannuation was introduced in 1992, concerns are rising that firms will be unable to afford the extra burden and instead choose not to hire more staff.Australia’s right-of-centre government has been emboldened to try to tinker with the superannuation system after a positive public response to its Covid-19 measure that allowed people to withdraw up to A$20,000 ($15,400) from their pension savings.Labour and the superannuation industry are opposing any pause or failure to proceed with the increase in contributions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-wage-policy-australian-oppn-blames-govt-for-harrying-workers-savings-101614397858293.html
27-02-2021||World||Covid-19: Canada to receive 500,000 doses of SII’s Covishield vaccine on March 3||The first 500,000 doses of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) will arrive in Canada on March 3, less than a week after Covishield was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) for adults by the country’s public health authorities on Friday.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said, “I want to express my appreciation for the support and partnership of the Indian government in fighting Covid-19, in helping secure these does for Canadians.”A total of two million doses - including the first batch of 500,000 to be sent across on March 3 - will be shipped from India to Canada by mid-May. They will first arrive in Toronto. SII’s partner in this venture is Verity Pharmaceuticals, located in the Greater Toronto Area suburb of Mississauga.The vaccine was jointly developed by AstraZeneca and experts at University of Oxford.India’s high commissioner to Ottawa, Ajay Bisaria, has expressed delight over the green signal to the delivery of the coronavirus vaccines, saying, “This is fulfilling the assurance made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Prime Minister Trudeau when the latter called him on February 10 with a request for vaccines for Canada.”Canada is the first Western nation and the only G7 country to receive vaccines from India under the government’s “Vaccine Maitri” initiative.The AstraZeneca shot is the third vaccine to be cleared for use in Canada, after Pfizer-BionTech and Moderna. Canada will receive a total of 22 million doses of the AstraZeneca inoculation, which includes the consignment from India.The North American country will also receive up to 1.9 million doses through the global vaccine-sharing initiative known as Covax by the end of June, according to an AP report.Canadian health regulators noted that there were “no important safety concerns and the vaccine was well tolerated by participants”, in making their decision.Trudeau had called Modi earlier this month with the request and the Indian PM then took to Twitter to say that he “was happy to receive a call from my friend, @JustinTrudeau” and added, “Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of Covid vaccines sought by Canada.” Later, Trudeau responded on Twitter that he had a “good discussion” with Modi “on many important issues” and they had “agreed to stay in touch”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-canada-to-receive-500-000-doses-of-sii-s-covishield-vaccine-on-march-3-101614414007732.html
27-02-2021||World||Philippines extends partial coronavirus curbs in capital until March end||Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has extended partial coronavirus curbs in the capital until the end of March, as the country awaits the arrival of vaccines, the presidential spokesman said on Saturday.With southeast Asia's second-highest tally of infections and deaths, the Philippines has suffered lengthy, strict lockdowns in Manila and provinces, hitting an economy that was among Asia's fastest growing before the pandemic.Curbs will stay for another month in Manila, which accounts for 40% of national economic output, the spokesman, Harry Roque, said in a statement. Also under partial curbs are Duterte's southern home city of Davao, and the northern city of Baguio.The curbs limit operations of businesses and public transport.The decision follows a report of 2,651 new virus infections, the highest daily increase in more than four months.Despite calls to further re-open the economy, the firebrand leader has pledged to maintain curbs in the virus epicentre of Manila until mass vaccinations begin.The Philippines will be the last regional nation to get its first shipment of vaccines, comprising 600,000 doses of Sinovac Biotech's vaccines donated by China, to be delivered on Sunday, and earmarked for healthcare workers and troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-extends-partial-coronavirus-curbs-in-capital-until-march-end-101614408058923.html
27-02-2021||World||Mexican migrants need protection while they wait: Doctors without borders' head||The processing of asylum seekers waiting to enter the United States expanded to a third border crossing Friday, even as nongovernmental organizations called for more effort to protect the thousands still in Mexican border cities.A week after the US government began processing those with active cases made to wait in Mexico during the Trump administration at a border crossing between Tijuana and San Diego, the process expanded this week to the Matamoros-Brownsville crossing and Friday to Ciudad Juarez-El Paso.A camp of migrants on the banks of the Rio Grande in Matamoros was a particular priority for the Biden administration and Mexico. It holds about 750 people now, but the city is dangerous and camp residents were hard hit by frigid winter weather that affected Texas and northern Mexico this month.On Friday, the second day of processing there, 100 asylum-seekers crossed from Matamoros. On Thursday, about two dozen were processed.Also read: US to admit asylum seekers from hard-hit camp at Texas borderAlso read: Biden begins dismantling Trump's 'Remain in Mexico' asylum policyThe acceleration came as Mexico Foreign Affairs Secretary Marcelo Ebrard met virtually with his counterpart US Secretary of State Antony Blinken. Mexico also announced late Friday that President Andrés Manuel López Obrador and President Joe Biden would hold their first bilateral meeting Monday.Mexico’s Foreign Affairs ministry said in a statement that among the topics to be discussed will be “the mechanisms for cooperation to address the structural causes of migration in northern Central America and southern Mexico.” They also plan to discuss strategies to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and opportunities for economic recovery.The organization Doctors Without Borders, which works along the migratory routes through Central America and Mexico, warned Friday that there are places where migrants remain at great risk.The great majority of the 25,000 asylum seekers with active cases who were forced to wait out the process in Mexico under Trump’s so-called “Remain in Mexico” program, still have weeks or months of waiting ahead. The situation is further complicated by the Covid-19 pandemic, which has reduced capacity at shelters that provide a degree of safety for migrants.Sergio Martínez, head of Doctors Without Borders in Mexico, called on both governments to remember that the migrants need protection while they wait, noting growing violence in border cities, including Piedras Negras and Nuevo Laredo.“What we want to do from (Doctors Without Borders) is push the Mexican government to take the necessary steps to protect this population, who are its responsibility while they are in Mexican territory,” he said. The US government must also collaborate since it created the situation, he added.In September and October 2019, before the pandemic, the organization recorded that in cities like Nuevo Laredo three out of four migrants they registered said they had been kidnapped in the previous 10 days. Once the pandemic began they were not able to continue the level of monitoring, but believe the security risks have only grown as some local authorities have closed shelters citing public health concerns, leaving migrants without safe spaces.Matamoros “is a drop in the bucket, the tip of the iceberg, and what really concerns us more are the other places on the border that don’t have even the protection of media attention” and where organized crime continues preying on migrants, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexican-migrants-need-protection-while-they-wait-doctors-without-borders-head-101614396122333.html
27-02-2021||World||US implicates Saudi crown prince in Khashoggi's killing: Timeline of the murder||A US intelligence report released on Friday said Saudi Arabia's de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, approved an operation to capture or kill journalist Jamal Khashoggi in 2018. "We assess that Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman approved an operation in Istanbul, Turkey to capture or kill Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi," the US office of the director of National Intelligence said in the four-page report.Khashoggi, a US resident who wrote opinion columns for the Washington Post critical of the 35-year-old crown prince’s policies, was killed and dismembered by a team of operatives linked to Salman in the kingdom's consulate in Istanbul in 2018.US President Joe Biden said he told Saudi King Salman that Saudi Arabia has to tackle human rights abuses as a precondition to dealing with America. "(I) made it clear to him that the rules are changing and we're going to be announcing significant changes today and on Monday," Biden said on Spanish language network Univision.The Saudi government, which has denied any involvement by the crown prince, rejected the US report's findings and repeated its previous statements that Khashoggi's killing was a heinous crime by a rogue group.Here is a timeline:1. Khashoggi had left Saudi Arabia in June 2017 for Washington, DC, where he hoped to continue writing amid a crackdown on dissent in his country.2. The 59-year-old was a Saudi journalist living in self-imposed exile in Virginia. The veteran journalist was told by Saudi Arabia's ambassador to the US to go to the kingdom's Istanbul consulate if he wanted to obtain documents for his forthcoming wedding to a Turkish woman, Hatice Cengiz.3. On October 2, 2018, Khashoggi went to the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. He was accompanied by Cengiz – who waited outside the consulate.Also read | After Khashoggi report, US slaps sanctions against 76 Saudi individuals4. He was strangled and his body dismembered within minutes of entering the building by a 15-member team allegedly sent from Riyadh under the direction of a top aide to Prince Mohammed, Saud al-Qahtani. His remains have not been found.5. The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) had quickly concluded that Prince Mohammed ordered the assassination but former US president Donald Trump refused to release the report.Also read | On secret tape, Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi killers heard saying ‘will body, hips fit in bag’6. Riyadh initially issued conflicting stories about his disappearance but eventually admitted that Khashoggi was killed in what it called a "rogue" extradition operation gone wrong.7. Twenty-one men were arrested in the killing and five senior officials, including Asiri and Saud al-Qahtani, a senior aide of the prince, were fired.8. Some of those involved in the murder were from the Saudi Center for Studies and Media Affairs, then led by Qahtani, "who claimed publicly in mid-2018 that he did not make decisions without the Crown Prince's approval”, the US report noted.9. In January 2019, 11 people were put on trial behind closed doors. Five were given death sentences, which were commuted to 20 years in prison after they were forgiven by Khashoggi’s family, while three others were given jail terms. Asiri was acquitted "due to insufficient evidence" while Qahtani was investigated but not charged.10. Khashoggi’s family had filed a federal lawsuit in October last year accusing the crown prince of personally ordering his brutal execution in order to silence the high-profile government critic. The lawsuit was filed in Washington, DC, on behalf of Cengiz and Democracy for the Arab World Now or DAWN. DAWN is the human rights organisation that Khashoggi founded shortly before his death. Cengiz on Friday tweeted “#justiceforjamal” after the release of a declassified US intelligence report on his death.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-implicates-saudi-crown-prince-in-khashoggi-s-killing-timeline-of-the-murder-101614408595394.html
27-02-2021||World||Would consider limits on who gets Covid-19 relief checks: Joe Biden to congressional Democrats||President Joe Biden told congressional Democrats on Wednesday he would not back down on including $1,400 checks for struggling Americans in his Covid-19 relief plan but would consider tighter limits on who gets them, lawmakers and aides said.Biden held a conference call with House of Representatives Democrats and talked with Democratic senators at the White House as the party prepared to use a procedural maneuver to push Biden's $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package through without Republican votes if necessary."We did have a conversation about the direct payments and how those might be modified in a way to ensure they're targeted," Senator Chris Coons, a Democrat from Biden's home state of Delaware, said as he left the White House Wednesday morning."But President Biden was clear with us and with our caucus yesterday, he's not going to forget the middle class, he's not going to walk back from a real commitment."Biden has made addressing the heavy human and economic toll of the coronavirus pandemic, which has killed more than 447,000 Americans and thrown millions out of work, a key focus of the early weeks of his administration.The president told House Democrats in a conference call that he does not want to begin his presidency with a broken promise on delivering relief, said a House Democratic aide.Biden's proposal mirrors income requirements in previous Covid-19 bills that would provide payments to individuals making up to $75,000, and couples $150,000, a year.When White House Press Secretary Jen Paski on Tuesday was asked to draw some lines on where Biden stood on the stimulus checks, she offered an example of a couple, a nurse and a teacher, making $120,000 and said under the Biden plan, they would get a stimulus check, but not under a plan by Republican senators.Congressional Democrats on Tuesday took their first steps to fast-track the massive aid package, voting in both chambers to open debate on a spending resolution that would give them a legislative tool called "reconciliation" to pass the relief without Republican support.Biden met a group of 10 moderate Republican senators on Monday and had said he wanted to garner bipartisan support for his plan, which includes more money for vaccines and additional unemployment benefits.But Republicans overall have balked at the price tag and pointed to the $4 trillion in Covid-19 aid passed last year.Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said the Democrats' strategy does not preclude bipartisan cooperation, but vowed a sweeping measure that includes assistance for the unemployed, businesses, housing, schools, state and local governments and vaccine distribution.But Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell criticized the Democrats' decision to press ahead with a framework that allows the eventual Covid-19 relief bill to pass with a simple majority, calling it a "partisan jam"."The new president talks a lot about unity, but his White House staff and congressional leadership are working with a different playbook," McConnell said on the Senate floor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/would-consider-limits-on-who-gets-covid-19-relief-checks-joe-biden-to-congressional-democrats-101614407772480.html
27-02-2021||World||Former president Trump continues to be a force to be reckoned with, CPAC shows||A conference dedicated to the future of the conservative movement turned into an ode to Donald Trump as speakers declared their fealty to the former president and attendees posed for selfies with a golden statue of his likeness.As the Republican Party grapples with deep divisions over the extent to which they should embrace Trump after losing the White House and both chambers of Congress, those gathered at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference Friday made clear they are not ready to move on from the former president — or from his baseless charges that the November election was rigged against him.“Donald J. Trump ain’t going anywhere,” said Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, one of several potential 2024 presidential contenders who spoke at the event, being held this year in Orlando to bypass COVID-19 restrictions.Trump on Sunday will be making his first post-presidential appearance at the conference, and aides say he will use the speech to reassert his power.The program underscored the split raging within the GOP, as many establishment voices argue the party must move on from Trump to win back the suburban voters who abandoned them in November, putting President Joe Biden in the White House. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and others worry Trump will undermine the party’s political future if he and his conspiracy theories continue to dominate Republican politics.But at the conference, speakers continued to fan disinformation and conspiracy theories about the 2020 election, with panels dedicated to amplifying false claims of mass voter fraud that have been dismissed by the courts, state election officials and Trump’s own administration.Indeed, Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., another potential 2024 hopeful, drew among the loudest applause and a standing ovation when he bragged about challenging the election certification on Jan. 6 despite the storming of the Capitol building by Trump supporters trying to halt the process.“I thought it was an important stand to take," he said.Others argued the party would lose if it turned its back on Trump and alienated the working-class voters drawn to his populist message.“We cannot — we will not — go back to the days of the failed Republican establishment of yesteryear,” said Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, who outlined a new Trumpian GOP agenda focused on restrictive immigration policies, opposition to China and limiting military engagement.“We will not win the future by trying to go back to where the Republican Party used to be,” echoed Florida Sen. Rick Scott, who chairs the fundraising committee tasked with electing Republicans to the Senate. “If we do, we will lose the working base that President Trump so animated. We’re going to lose elections across the country, and ultimately we’re going to lose our nation."Scott is dismissing pressure on him to “mediate between warring factions on the right” or “mediate the war of words between the party leaders." He has refused to take sides in the bitter ongoing fight between Trump and McConnell, who blamed Trump for inciting the deadly Capitol riot but ultimately voted to acquit him at his impeachment trial earlier this month.“I’m not going to mediate anything," he said, criticizing those who “prefer to fan the flames of a civil war on our side” as “foolish” and “ridiculous."But in speeches throughout the day, the GOP turmoil was front and center. Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., lit into into Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney, the No. 3 House Republican, who has faced tremendous backlash for her vote to impeach Trump for inciting the Capitol riot.And as the program was wrapping up, Trump issued a statement endorsing Max Miller, a former staffer who has now launched a campaign challenging Ohio Rep. Anthony Gonzalez, another Republican who voted in favor of impeachment.Kimberly Guilfoyle, a former Fox News Channel host and Donald Trump Jr.'s girlfriend, offered a pointed message to those who stand in opposition to the former president, who will not arrive at the conference until Sunday but was present in spirit in the form of a large golden statue erected in a merchandise show booth, where attendees could pose for pictures with it.“We bid a farewell to the weak-kneed, the spineless and the cowards that are posing in DC pretending that they’re working for the people,” she said. “Let’s send them a pink slip straight from CPAC.”Trump Jr., who labeled the conference “TPAC” in honor of his father, hyped the return of his father and the “Make America Great Again” platform to the spotlight.“I imagine it will not be what we call a ‘low-energy’ speech," he said. “And I assure you that it will solidify Donald Trump and all of your feelings about the MAGA movement as the future of the Republican Party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-president-trump-continues-to-be-a-force-to-be-reckoned-with-cpac-shows-101614403342252.html
27-02-2021||World||Winter Olympics part of China's 'communist propaganda campaign': Nikki Haley||Accusing China of "horrific" human rights abuses, some top Republican leaders, including Indian American Nikki Haley, have demanded that the US boycott the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing and called on the International Olympic Committee to select a new site for the event.The White House, however, said that no decision has been taken yet on the demands of the leaders.It is no secret that China wants to use the Winter Olympics as part of its "massive communist propaganda campaign", Haley, a former US ambassador to the UN, said on Friday as she launched a campaign to demand President Joe Biden announce a boycott of the games."We cannot sit back and watch China use the Olympics to cover up its horrific human rights abuses," the Republican leader said.Senator Rick Scott in a letter to President Joe Biden has requested a meeting to discuss the "horrific human rights atrocities" occurring across China and called for the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to select a new site for the 2022 Winter Olympics.Haley said that "we need to stand up to China, and we need to do it now. That's why I’m asking you to join me and sign our petition calling on President Biden to boycott the 2022 Winter Olympics in China".Also read: ‘He let us down’: Nikki Haley breaks with former boss Donald TrumpIf America participates in the Olympic Games in Beijing, the "Chinese Communist Party will claim it as further proof of China's good global standing and world leadership," she said.In his letter, Senator Scott stressed that under no circumstance should the global community give China an international platform to "whitewash its crimes, which is what will happen if they are allowed to host the 2022 Olympic Games in Beijing"."I continue to urge the International Olympic Committee to move the games out of Communist China and to a country that respects basic human rights," he said."I request your immediate attention and the opportunity to meet with you to discuss the horrific human rights atrocities occurring across Communist China and the effort to select a new site for the 2022 Winter Olympics Games," Scott said.In an op-ed for Fox News, Haley said that the US should boycott the games given China's "threats abroad and tyranny at home"."If the United States boycotts the Winter Olympics, it will send an unmistakable message that China’s tyranny and threats are unacceptable. It will show that actions have consequences. President Biden must make the decision to boycott. It shouldn't be a tough one," she said.When asked about the increasing demand in this regard from the Republican lawmakers and leaders, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters that "there hasn't been a final decision made on that"."Of course, we would look for guidance from the US Olympic Committee," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/winter-olympics-part-of-china-s-communist-propaganda-campaign-nikki-haley-101614393761279.html
27-02-2021||World||Brazil resorts to lockdowns and curfews to quell Covid-19 surge||The governor of Brazil's capital city, Brasilia, decreed a 24-hour lockdown for all but essential services on Friday to curb a worsening Covid-19 outbreak that has filled its intensive care wards to the brim.A dozen states running out of beds for patients locked down their main cities, and some declared a night-time curfew to try to stop the spread of novel coronavirus as cases escalated to their worst level since the peak of the pandemic in July.The drastic steps came as right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro, who has repeatedly downplayed the gravity of the pandemic that has killed 250,000 Brazilians, renewed attacks on governors for destroying jobs with lockdowns."People can't stay at home any longer. What they most want is to work," he said on a visit to north-eastern Brazil on Friday, one day after Brazil recorded its second-worst daily toll of 1,541 dead. He threatened to cut off federal emergency pandemic assistance to states resorting to lockdowns.Also read: Petrobras shares slump as Brazil's Bolsonaro doubles down on intervention"From now on, governors who close down their states will have to provide for their own emergency aid," Bolsonaro said.In Brasilia, where the president lives and works, Governor Ibaneis Rocha decreed a lockdown starting early on Sunday.Shops, pharmacies, gas stations, churches and funeral parlours will remain open, the aide said, but everything else will shut down, especially bars and restaurants, which were blamed for increased spread during the end of last year and Carnival holidays.Intensive care wards in Brasilia, the third-largest city in Brazil, are more than 80% occupied, the health department said.The situation in the capitals of 17 of Brazil's 26 states this week reached the most critical level since last year's peak, according to a report by biomedical centre Fiocruz.Brazil reported 65,169 new cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, and 1,337 deaths, the health ministry said on Friday.The South American country has now registered 10,455,630 cases since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 252,835, according to ministry data, in the world's third-worst outbreak outside the United States and India and the world's second-deadliest.Bolsonaro, who has called Covid-19 a "little flu" and says he will not take any vaccine, is facing growing criticism for failing to secure timely supplies of shots. So far, only 3% of the population has been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-resorts-to-lockdowns-and-curfews-to-quell-covid-19-surge-101614392880193.html
27-02-2021||World||Australia moves closer to pre-pandemic life, Covid-19 'reined in' for now||Life across Australia inched toward pre-pandemic normal on Saturday, with New South Wales and South Australia states allowing some dancing and Victoria permitting larger crowds at sporting events.The three states, home to nearly two-thirds of Australia's 25 million people, recorded no community transmissions on Saturday of the new coronavirus that causes COVID-19. For New South Wales, the most populous state, it was 41st straight day without a local case.The state, in addition to allowing up to 30 people to dance at weddings, eased further restrictions on the number of visitors at home. South Australia state allowed some club dancing from Friday.People in Victoria, which this month imposed a five-day strict lockdown after a small outbreak of the coronavirus, woke up on Saturday to rules allowing stadiums to seat 50% of capacity for sporting events.Australia has fared better than most advanced economies thanks to swift border closures, high community compliance with public health measures and aggressive testing and tracing. It has reported fewer than 29,000 coronavirus infections and 909 COVID-19 deaths.On Monday, the country began vaccinations programme, with about 60,000 Pfizer/BioNTech doses administered to priority populations, such as aged-care and disability staff, and border protection and quarantine workers.Foreign Minister Marise Payne said she received the first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine on Saturday as part of the rollout that aims to offer immunisations to all Australians by October."The timing of the vaccination will also help facilitate possible international travel in the near future so we can continue to prosecute vital national interests with our international partners," Payne said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-moves-closer-to-pre-pandemic-life-covid-19-reined-in-for-now-101614402516972.html
27-02-2021||World||Judge approves $650 million Facebook privacy lawsuit settlement||A federal judge on Friday approved a $650 million settlement of a privacy lawsuit against Facebook for allegedly using photo face-tagging and other biometric data without the permission of its users.US District Judge James Donato approved the deal in a class-action lawsuit that was filed in Illlinois in 2015. Nearly 1.6 million Facebook users in Illinois who submitted claims will be affected.Donato called it one of the largest settlements ever for a privacy violation.“It will put at least $345 into the hands of every class member interested in being compensated,” he wrote, calling it “a major win for consumers in the hotly contested area of digital privacy.”Jay Edelson, a Chicago attorney who filed the lawsuit, told the Chicago Tribune that the checks could be in the mail within two months unless the ruling is appealed.“We are pleased to have reached a settlement so we can move past this matter, which is in the best interest of our community and our shareholders,” Facebook, which is headquartered in the San Francisco Bay Area, said in a statement.The lawsuit accused the social media giant of violating an Illinois privacy law by failing to get consent before using facial-recognition technology to scan photos uploaded by users to create and store faces digitally.The state's Biometric Information Privacy Act allowed consumers to sue companies that didn't get permission before harvesting data such as faces and fingerprints.The case eventually wound up as a class-action lawsuit in California.Facebook has since changed its photo-tagging system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/judge-approves-650-million-facebook-privacy-lawsuit-settlement-101614402315589.html
27-02-2021||World||US CDC says risk of Ebola to the United States is extremely low||The US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said it was closely following outbreaks of Ebola in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Guinea, and said the risk of Ebola to the United States was extremely low."Out of an abundance of caution, the US government will institute public health measures for the very small number of travellers arriving from the DRC and Guinea," the CDC said in a statement late on Friday."The Biden Administration is committed to working closely with the affected countries to end these outbreaks before they grow into epidemics," the CDC said.Guinea started an Ebola vaccination campaign on Tuesday, the World Health Organization said earlier in the week, as authorities race to contain the first resurgence of the virus there since the world's worst outbreak in 2013-2016.The resurgence of the virus, which causes severe bleeding and organ failure and is spread through contact with body fluids, has alarmed governments in the region and international health organizations, concerned that a major outbreak could overwhelm health infrastructures already battling a pandemic.The CDC said on Friday that beginning next week, travellers from DRC and Guinea will be funnelled to six U.S. airports. Airlines will collect passenger information for public health follow-up and intervention for all passengers boarding a flight to the U.S. who were in DRC or Guinea within the previous 21 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cdc-says-risk-of-ebola-to-the-united-states-is-extremely-low-101614392691254.html
27-02-2021||World||Malaysia receives China’s Sinovac Covid-19 vaccine for regulatory testing||Malaysia received China’s Sinovac vaccine on Saturday, the second brand of Covid-19 shots days after the Southeast Asian country kicked off its inoculation program.The vaccine arrived in bulk totaling 200 liters, which will then be processed into 300,000 doses, according to Pharmaniaga Bhd., the firm that will package and distribute the shots. The company last month signed an agreement for Sinovac Biotech Ltd. to supply 14 million doses in stages that will cover 22% of the population. The roll-out is still subject to regulatory approval.Malaysia has secured 66.7 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine from producers, including Sinovac, AstraZeneca Plc, Sputnik V, and CanSinoBio, enough to inoculate nearly 110% of the population. Pfizer remains the only manufacturer to receive the government’s conditional approval for usage, and is set to deliver a total 32 million dosages.The Sinovac doses arrived in bulk so that the country’s regulatory agency can conduct stability testing to ensure that the vaccine, and its manufacturing process, is safe, Science, Technology and Innovation Minister Khairy Jamaluddin said in a briefing Saturday. While the government would prefer the vaccine to be approved as quickly as possible, “there’s no shortcut,” he said.“We take note of where these vaccines are being used around the world but we have our own regulatory agency,” he said. “The government’s position is to please take whatever that the National Pharmaceutical Regulatory Agency has approved.”Pharmaniaga said in a statement that the vaccine’s process validation batch manufacturing, a requirement by the regulatory agency, will start on March 1 and is expected to be completed within 12 days.A total of 1.183 million registrations have been recorded so far and 3,583 people have taken the shot, according to Khairy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-receives-china-s-sinovac-covid-19-vaccine-for-regulatory-testing-101614402189847.html
27-02-2021||World||Committed to providing equal access to vaccines to Palestinians: India at UNSC||India on Friday said that it is working towards making Covid-19 vaccines available to the people of Palestine, including those living in the Gaza Strip, K Nagaraj Naidu, India’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the United Nations told the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).“The pandemic's impact on the people of Gaza has been particularly severe due to its fragile healthcare infrastructure. We note that Covid-19 vaccines are being made available to people of Palestine, including in Gaza,” Nagaraj was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.India strongly believes that equity in access to vaccines across the world is important for mitigating impact of pandemic. India had earlier provided critical medicines & medical equipment to Palestine as #COVID19 assistance: Deputy Permanent Representative to UNNagaraj Naidu also said that India has been helping the war torn region with healthcare equipment, medicines as well as Covid-19 vaccines from the beginning of the pandemic. He said, “India strongly believes that equitable access to vaccines across the world is important for mitigating the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. India had earlier provided critical medicines & medical equipment to Palestine as assistance during the pandemic.”We are in the process of sending the second batch of medicines as a grant to the Palestinian people in the coming weeks. We will also facilitate an early supply of vaccines to Palestine: Deputy Permanent Representative to UN, K Nagaraj Naidu, speaks at UNSCIndia had on December donated $2 million along with $3 million donated earlier in 2020 to support education, healthcare, relief and social services for Palestinian refugees. India had also committed to contributing $10 million to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) for helping Palestinian population affected by the war with Israel.Naidu on Saturday also said that India is working to send a second batch of medicines as a grant to Palestinians and said that it will also ensure early supply of vaccines in the coming week.The government under the Vaccine Maitri initiative has sent consignments of Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Mauritius and Seychelles. It will also send vaccines under commercial agreements to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Brazil and Morocco along with other nations.Earlier on Thursday, Palestine received 10,000 doses of Russia's Sputnik V vaccine as it prepared to launch its Covid-19 vaccination programme. Palestinian health minister Mai Alkaila told the supply would be enough to vaccinate 5,000 people, who would each be given two shots, according to a news report by Reuters citing Palestinian news broadcaster Voice of Palestine Radio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/committed-to-providing-equal-access-to-vaccines-to-palestinians-india-at-unsc-101614402054520.html
27-02-2021||World||Explainer: What is love? Beijing desires unconditional loyalty from Hong Kong||Chinese officials have signalled that Beijing plans sweeping electoral changes for Hong Kong, possibly as soon as next week, when China's parliament, the National People's Congress (NPC), opens in Beijing.WHAT IS BEIJING PLANNING?Xia Baolong, director of China's Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, has said the electoral system in the global financial hub needs to be changed to allow only "patriots" to govern.Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam said her government would fully co-operate with Beijing in "improving" the political system.Secretary for Mainland and Constitutional Affairs Erick Tsang announced a bill requiring community-level council representatives to take a "patriotic" oath and then clarified what the term meant."You cannot say that you are patriotic but you do not love the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party or you do not respect it - this does not make sense," Tsang added."Patriotism is holistic love."WHAT IS THE BIG PICTURE?Love might be the ideal, but what Beijing really wants is obedience, control and utterly predictable elections.The plans are Beijing's latest moves to consolidate its authoritarian hold over Hong Kong after the mass pro-democracy protests and violence that rocked the former British colony for much of 2019.Last June, Beijing imposed, through the NPC, a sweeping national security law on Hong Kong. Most pro-democracy activists and politicians have found themselves ensnared by it, or arrested for other reasons.Some elected legislators have been disqualified, with authorities calling their oaths insincere. The opposition then resigned en masse from the Legislative Council, Hong Kong's mini-parliament.Making district councillors and civil servants swear "patriotic" oaths makes them vulnerable to similar treatment.Hong Kong's district councils are its only fully democratic institution and the pro-democracy camp took almost 90% of their 452 seats in 2019 elections, humiliating the establishment.That momentum suggested a small chance for democratic politicians to win an unprecedented majority in legislative elections set for September after a year's delay over coronavirus curbs.WHAT COULD THE CHANGES LOOK LIKE?Gerrymandering looks certain. And probably much more.By design, Hong Kong institutions have been dominated by pro-Beijing politicians since the former British colony's return to Chinese rule in 1997, but the Lam government's unpopularity has exposed risks to Beijing's control.Half of the city's 70 lawmakers are directly elected in "geographical constituencies," with the rest from "functional" ones representing industries, unions, and professions and stacked with pro-Beijing figures.Media said electoral maps could be redrawn to suit the pro-Beijing camp, taking the number of geographical constituencies to 18 from 5, as a way of crimping the democrats' popular vote.Then a 'one vote, two seats' system in each constituency would allow entry to the legislature for the second-placed candidate, probably from the pro-Beijing camp, going by polls that show a split of about 60% to 40% between democratic and pro-establishment sides.A six-seat district councillors' constituency in the legislature - a democratic stronghold - could also be scrapped.Beijing is also reported to be considering reshaping a panel of 1,200 elite figures that will choose a new leader when Lam's first five-year term ends in March 2022.District councillors only have about a tenth of the committee's seats. But the democratic camp's unprecedented win in 2019 now offers a rare theoretical opportunity to be king-makers in close races between pro-Beijing candidates.WHY IS COMMUNIST PARTY LOYALTY SO VEXING IN CHINESE-RULED HONG KONG?Generations of Chinese families fled to British-ruled Hong Kong after the Communist Party took power in 1949 and up until recently, city-based Chinese officials have kept a low profile.The Communist Party still has no open or official locally-registered presence, operating instead through surrogates and proxies.Key to Hong Kong's enduring freedoms, say many of its residents, is a paragraph in its mini-constitution, known as the Basic Law, that specifies:"The socialist system and policies shall not be practised in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and the previous capitalist system and way of life shall remain unchanged for 50 years."The Basic Law reflects the "one country, two systems" formula that has long ensured Hong Kong's broad freedom of speech, religion and political action, with its own government except for foreign affairs and defence.While the city does not enjoy full democracy, universal suffrage is enshrined as a goal in the Basic Law. For decades a thriving civil society contributed to fierce debates in the legislature and elsewhere.IS THERE MORE TO COME?Very likely so, on several fronts.Beijing officials have said Hong Kong's independent judges must also be patriots and that judicial reforms were necessary.The contours and timing of these are uncertain, but diplomats and businesses are watching closely, seeing judicial independence as the bedrock of Hong Kong's international status.Hong Kong and Beijing officials, who have repeatedly said rights and freedoms remain intact, are adamant that judicial independence will be maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explainer-what-is-love-beijing-desires-unconditional-loyalty-from-hong-kong-101614401921897.html
27-02-2021||World||US senators introduce bill to end China's access to multiple year visa||A legislation has been introduced by a group of influential Republican senators to end China’s access to 10-year multi-entry visas until it is certified that Beijing has ceased its campaign of economic and industrial espionage against the US.The legislation, Visa Security Act, was introduced by Senators Marsha Blackburn, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott, Ted Cruz, and Marco Rubio on Friday.It would prohibit Chinese nationals from receiving 10-year B-1/B-2 visas until the Secretary of State certifies that China has ceased its campaign of economic and industrial espionage against the United States and ended its provocative and coercive behaviour towards Taiwan.The B-1/B-2 visas are issued to those who come to the US for business, visit or tourism purposes.Under this legislation, Chinese citizens would be eligible for one-year multi-entry visas. This policy would represent a return to the pre-2014 visa status quo and does not apply to Taiwan or certain residents of Hong Kong.It also seeks certification from the Secretary of State that China has withdrawn its national security law with respect to Hong Kong and fully upheld its commitments under the Sino-British Joint Declaration of 1984; ended its systematic oppression of Uighurs, Tibetans, and other ethnic groups; retracted its unlawful claims in the South China Sea; and released foreign hostages and wrongfully detained individuals in China.The relations between China and the US are at an all time low. The two countries are currently involved in a bitter confrontation over various issues, including trade, the origins of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the communist giant's aggressive military moves in the disputed South China Sea and human rights.China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas. Beijing has also made substantial progress in militarising its man-made islands in the past few years. The South China Sea is rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources.Beijing claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea. But Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan have counterclaims.The Chinese Government sees Taiwan as a rebel province that will eventually be part of the country again.Until the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) ends its systematic violations of human rights and religious freedom, the United States cannot remain complicit by offering 10-year multi-entry visas to Chinese nationals. The Visa Security Act will stop the revolving door the CCP has used for half a decade and instead demand accountability in the global human rights effort, Senator Blackburn said.“Since 2014, the Chinese Communist Party has had access to 10-year business and tourist visas, which allow Chinese citizens to enter and exit the United States as they please. In issuing these visas, the US has welcomed the CCP, its intelligence agencies, and those they have co-opted with open arms. This was a bad decision in 2014 and it’s time we fixed this error,” said Cotton.The Obama/Biden appeasement of Communist China did nothing but bolster General Secretary Xi’s power, Scott said."We know Communist China will stop at nothing to steal American technology and intellectual property in an attempt to dominate the world. There is no reason Communist China should have been given preferential visa treatment, and I’m proud to work with my colleagues to continue to hold them accountable,” he said.“China poses the single greatest geopolitical threat to the United States. The Chinese Communist Party engages in propaganda and censorship to control what Americans see, hear, and ultimately think about China. It’s long past time to end the Chinese Communist Party’s abuse of our visa system. This bill counters China’s aggression and advances American security,” said Senator Ted Cruz.“It is long overdue for the United States to fully address the imbalances in our relationship with China and stop the Chinese Communist Party from exploiting our programmes and openness,” Rubio said.“Terminating China's access to 10-year multi-entry visas is a logical step in overturning bad policy by the Obama Administration. China should not be given special treatment that is out of step with our relationship, the abuses they are committing, and its malign activities in the US,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senators-introduce-bill-to-end-china-s-access-to-multiple-year-visa-101614401417732.html
27-02-2021||World||Biden's $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief plan passes hurdle in US House||The US House of Representatives moved toward a late-night vote on President Joe Biden's $1.9 trillion coronavirus aid bill on Friday as Democrats who control the chamber steered the sweeping measure toward approval.The House Rules Committee turned back scores of Republican attempts to modify the package and sent it to the House floor for passage late Friday or early Saturday.With Republicans lining up in opposition, Democrats who hold a 221-211 majority have few votes to spare.Democrats said the package was needed to fight a pandemic that has killed more than 500,000 Americans and thrown millions out of work, while Republicans criticized it as too expensive.The measure would pay for vaccines and medical supplies and send a new round of emergency financial aid to households, small businesses and state and local governments.Democrats aim to get the bill for Biden to sign into law before mid-March, when enhanced unemployment benefits and some other types of aid are due to expire.But their path has been complicated by the Senate's rules expert, who said on Thursday that they cannot include an increase in the minimum wage to $15 per hour in the package.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi predicted the bill will pass Congress with or without the increase, but said Democrats would not give up on the matter."We will not stop until we very soon pass the $15 minimum wage," she said at a news conference.Republicans who have broadly backed previous Covid-19 spending say another $1.9 trillion is simply too much. The White House and some economists say a big package is needed to revive the world's largest economy.Opinion polls have found broad public support for the package."The only place this is a partisan issue is here in Washington," said Democratic Representative Jim McGovern in debate in the House Rules Committee. "We are here because people are hurting and communities are struggling."Republican Representative Tom Cole said bill was "bloated" with Democratic pet projects unrelated to the coronavirus."Shouldn’t we at least spend down the funds already allocated, and see if new money is actually required?" Cole said.Roughly $1 billion of the $4.1 trillion in coronavirus aid approved last year has yet to be spent, according to the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a nonpartisan watchdog group.Biden has focused his first weeks in office on tackling the greatest public health crisis in a century, which has upended most aspects of American life.Pelosi is counting on nearly all of her rank and file to get the bill passed before sending it to a 50-50 Senate where Democratic Vice President Kamala Harris holds the tie-breaking vote.MINIMUM WAGE HIKEThe House bill would raise the national hourly minimum wage for the first time since 2009, to $15 from $7.25. The increase is a top priority for progressive Democrats.That is unlikely to win approval in the Senate.The chamber's parliamentarian ruled on Thursday that, unlike other elements of the sweeping bill, it could not be passed with just a simple majority of 50 senators plus Harris, rather than the 60 needed to advance most legislation in the 100-seat chamber.At least two Senate Democrats oppose the $15 hourly figure, along with most Republicans. Some are floating a smaller increase, in the range of $10 to $12 per hour.Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer might add a provision that would penalize large corporations that do not pay their workers a $15 minimum wage, a Senate Democratic aide said.Among the big-ticket items in the bill are $1,400 direct payments to individuals, a $400-per-week federal unemployment benefit through Aug. 29, and help for those having difficulties paying their rent and home mortgages during the pandemic.An array of business interests also have weighed in behind Biden's "America Rescue Plan" Act, as the bill is called.Efforts to craft a bipartisan coronavirus aid bill fizzled early on, shortly after Biden was sworn in as president on Jan. 20, following a series of bipartisan bills enacted in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bidens-1-9-trillion-covid-19-relief-plan-passes-hurdle-in-us-house-101614391039250.html
27-02-2021||World||US slaps sanctions against 76 Saudi individuals after Khashoggi report implicates crown prince||The United States on Friday released an intelligence report which said that Saudi Arabia's de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, approved an operation to capture or kill murdered journalist Jamal Khashoggi in 2018.The report is based on intelligence gathered by the CIA and other agencies since the killing of Khashoggi. Though Saudi Arabia has rejected these findings, US President Joe Biden has called the signing off on the order by the crown prince "outrageous".What happened in October 2018?Khashoggi, a US resident who was one of the fiercest critics of the regime of King Salman and his son, the crown prince, disappeared after entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on October 2, 2018.He had gone to the consulate to get a document that he needed to marry his Turkish fiancee Hatice Cengiz who was waiting outside.Turkish officials say Khashoggi, 59, was strangled and his body was cut into pieces by a 15-man Saudi group inside the kingdom’s mission. His remains have never been found.What does the US report say?The newly declassified report by Biden administration has implicated the crown prince. The conclusion that the prince approved an operation to kill or capture Khashoggi was based on his decision-making role inside the kingdom, the involvement of a key adviser and members of his protective detail and his past support for violently silencing dissidents abroad, according to the report from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.The report noted that some of those involved in the killing of Khashoggi were from the Saudi Center for Studies and Media Affairs, then led by key aid of crown prince Saud al-Qahtani, "who claimed publicly in mid-2018 that he did not make decisions without the crown prince's approval."'Khashoggi ban'After the report was released, Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced sanctions against 76 Saudi individuals under what he called a new “Khashoggi Ban” policy. Under that authority, the US says it will single out anyone who, acting for a foreign government, engages in “counter-dissident activities” beyond that country’s borders.“While the United States remains invested in its relationship with Saudi Arabia, President Biden has made clear that partnership must reflect US values,” Blinken said. “To that end, we have made absolutely clear that extraterritorial threats and assaults by Saudi Arabia against activists, dissidents, and journalists must end.”As part of the plan, the United States has imposed a visa ban on some Saudis believed involved in the Khashoggi killing and placed sanctions on others, including a former deputy intelligence chief, that would freeze their US assets and generally bar Americans from dealing with them.State Department spokesman Ned Price had told reporters Thursday that the US was looking at other ways to punish the perpetrators of Khashoggi’s killing. Among the options may be cutting back arms sales to Saudi Arabia, he said without elaborating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-slaps-sanctions-against-76-saudi-individuals-after-khashoggi-report-implicates-crown-prince-101614394777623.html
27-02-2021||World||Syria airstrikes: Biden protected US personnel, facilities, says White House||The White House has said that through the airstrikes in Syria, President Joe Biden protected US personnel and facilities, and deterred the risk of additional attacks "over the coming weeks".On Thursday, airstrikes in Syria targeted facilities belonging to a powerful Iranian-backed Iraqi armed group, reportedly killing one fighter and wounding several others.The strikes came in the wake of recent attacks on US interests in Iraq, including a rocket attack last week which killed a civilian contractor and injured a US service member and other coalition troops."The president is sending an unambiguous message that he's going to act to protect Americans, and when threats are posed, he has the right to take action at the time, and in the manner of his choosing," White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters."He also is going to take these actions in a manner that's deliberative, and that has the objective of de-escalating activity in both Syria and Iraq," she said.Also read: US welcomes India-Pakistan joint statement on ceasefireAsked if the airstrikes influences reopening talks with Iran, Psaki said the status of that, at this point in time, remains that the US is open to having these diplomatic conversations.Right now the Europeans have issued an invitation and "we are waiting to hear back”, she said.Responding to a question on the legal authority of conducting the strikes in Syria, Psaki said as a matter of domestic law, the president took this action pursuant to his article two authority to defend US personnel."The targets were chosen to... correspond to the recent attacks on facilities, and to deter the risk of additional attacks over the coming weeks. As a matter of international law, the US acted pursuant to its right to self defence as reflected in Article 50-1 of the UN Charter. The strikes were both necessary to address the threat and proportionate to the prior attacks,” Psaki said.She added that the national security team conducted a legal “review” in advance.At a separate news conference, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that in the last 10 days there were multiple occasions attacks on American people, positions, interests that took lives and injured others."So we had both to respond to those attacks but also to an ongoing threat that was very clear," he said."We took this action that I think was focused, proportionate, but also effective in degrading some of the capacity that the militia in question had to perpetrate new attacks, and also to be very clear, notably to Iran, that they cannot act with impunity against our people, our partners, our interests. I think and expect that the message was clearly received,” Blinken said.Congressman Adam Smith, Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said that the Syrian strike should serve as a reminder that the US will always defend its partners, allies and interests.“This strike against an Iranian-backed militia was defensive in nature, following multiple rocket attacks against our forces in Iraq. The strike was proportional and appropriate given the recent, regrettable actions by Iran-backed militias who have targeted our forces in Iraq, whose mission is to assist the Iraqi people in their fight against ISIS,” Smith said.Indian American Congressman Ro Khanna opposed the attack."This makes President Biden the seventh consecutive US president to order strikes in the Middle East. There is absolutely no justification for a president to authorize a military strike that is not in self-defense against an imminent threat without congressional authorisation,” Khanna said.“We ran on ending wars, not escalating conflicts in the Middle East. Our foreign policy needs to be rooted in diplomacy and the rule of law, not retaliatory air strikes without Congressional authorization,” he said in a tweet.The US needs to extricate from the Middle East, not escalate. The president should not be taking these actions without seeking explicit authorisation, Khanna said.He said that he had spoken "against endless war with (former president Donald) Trump, and I will speak out against it when we have a Democratic President".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/syria-airstrikes-biden-protected-us-personnel-facilities-says-white-house-101614391007313.html
27-02-2021||World||Joe Biden surveys Texas weather damage, encourages coronavirus shots||President Joe Biden heard firsthand from Texans clobbered by this month's brutal winter weather on Friday and pledged to stick with them “for the long haul” as he made his first trip to a major disaster area since he took office.Biden was briefed by emergency officials and thanked workers for doing “God's work.” He promised the federal government will be there for Texans as they try to recover, not just from the historic storm but also the public health and economic crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic.“When a crisis hits our states, like the one that hit Texas, it’s not a Republican or Democrat that’s hurting," Biden said. “It's our fellow Americans that are hurting and it's our job to help everyone in need."With tens of thousands of Houston area residents without safe water, local officials told Biden that many are still struggling. While he was briefed, first lady Jill Biden joined an assembly line of volunteers packing boxes of quick oats, juice, and other food at the Houston Food Bank, where he arrived later.The president's first stop was the Harris County Emergency Operations Center for a briefing from acting FEMA Administrator Bob Fenton and state and local emergency management officials.Texas was hit particularly hard by the Valentine's weekend storm that battered multiple states. Unusually frigid conditions led to widespread power outages and frozen pipes that burst and flooded homes. Millions of residents lost heat and running water.At least 40 people in Texas died as a result of the storm and, although the weather has returned to more normal temperatures, more than 1 million residents are still under orders to boil water before drinking it.“The president has made very clear to us that in crises like this, it is our duty to organize prompt and competent federal support to American citizens, and we have to ensure that bureaucracy and politics do not stand in the way,” said Homeland Security Adviser Liz Sherwood-Randall, who accompanied Biden to Houston.Biden was joined for much of his visit by Gov. Greg Abbott and Sen. John Cornyn, both Republicans, four Democratic Houston-area members of Congress and Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner and Harris County Judge Lina Hidalgo.The president also stopped by a mass coronavirus vaccination center at NRG Stadium that is run by the federal government. Biden on Thursday commemorated the 50 millionth COVID-19 vaccination since he took office, halfway toward his goal of 100 million shots by his 100th day in office. That celebration followed a moment of silence to mark the passage earlier this week of 500,000 U.S. deaths blamed on the disease.Democrat Biden suggested that he and Republicans Abbott and Cornyn could find common cause in getting Americans vaccinated as quickly as possible.“We disagree on plenty of things,” Biden said. “There’s nothing wrong with that, but there are plenty of things we can work on together. And one of them is represented right here today, the effort to speed up vaccinations."Texas' other U.S. senator, Ted Cruz, an ally of former President Donald Trump and one of a handful of GOP lawmakers who had objected to Congress certifying Biden’s victory, was in Florida Friday addressing the Conservative Political Action Conference.Cruz, who has been criticized for taking his family to Cancun, Mexico, while millions of Texans shivered in unheated homes, later said the trip was a mistake, but he made light of the controversy on Friday. “Orlando is awesome,” he said to laughs and hoots. “It’s not as nice as Cancun. But’s nice.”At the peak of the storm, more than 1.4 million residents were without power and 3.5 million were under boil-water notices in the nation's third largest county.Post-storm debate in Texas has centered on the state maintaining its own electrical grid and its lack of better storm preparation, including weatherization of key infrastructure. Some state officials initially blamed the blackouts on renewable energy even though Texas relies heavily on oil and gas.In Washington, Biden's climate adviser said the deadly winter storm was a “wake-up call” for the United States to build energy systems that can withstand extreme weather linked to climate change.“We need systems of energy that are reliable and resilient,” Gina McCarthy said in an interview with The Associated Press.The White House said Biden's purpose in visiting was to support, not scold.Biden was bent on asking Texans "what do you need, how can I help you more," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said. “And what can we get more for you from the federal government.”Biden has declared a major disaster in Texas and asked federal agencies to identify additional resources to aid the recovery. The Federal Emergency Management Agency has sent emergency generators, bottled water, ready-to-eat meals and blankets.Galveston County Judge Mark Henry said in an interview that he didn't know what more the federal government could do to help because the failures were at the state level. But Henry, a Republican who is the highest county official in the suburban Houston county, said that if Biden “thinks it's important to visit, then come on down.”Biden wanted to make the trip last week, but said at the time that he held back because he didn’t want his presence and entourage to detract from the recovery effort.Houston also was the destination for Trump's first presidential visit to a disaster area in 2017 after Hurricane Harvey caused catastrophic flooding that August.Trump, who is not known for displays of empathy, did not meet with storm victims on the visit. He returned four days later and urged people who had relocated to a shelter to “have a good time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-surveys-texas-weather-damage-encourages-coronavirus-shots-101614392268323.html
27-02-2021||World||Implementing One-Way Traffic At Retail Stores Can Reduce Covid-19 Transmission||Researchers in a study suggests that implementing one-way customer traffic at retail stores can dramatically reduce Covid-19 transmission. The study was conducted by Robert A. Shumsky, Laurens Debo, Rebecca M. Lebeaux, Quang P. Nguyen and Anne G. Hoen.The study was published by Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences."To reduce the transmission of Covid-19, many retail stores use one-way aisles, while local governments enforce occupancy limits or require "safe shopping" times for vulnerable groups," read the study.To assess the value of these interventions, the study formulates and analyses a mathematical model of customer flow and Covid-19 transmission. The study finds find that the value of specific operational changes depends on how the virus is transmitted, through close contact or suspended aerosols. If the transmission is primarily due to close contact, then restricting customers to one-way movement can dramatically reduce transmission. Other interventions, such as reductions in customer density, are effective at a distance but confront store operators with trade-offs between infection rates and customer flow.The study examines how operational changes in customer flows in retail stores affect the rate of Covid-19 transmission. They combine a model of customer movement with two models of disease transmission: direct exposure when two customers are in close proximity and wake exposure when one customer is in the airflow behind another customer.They find that the effectiveness of some operational interventions is sensitive to the primary mode of transmission. Restricting customer flow to one-way movement is highly effective if direct exposure is the dominant mode of transmission. In particular, the rate of direct transmission under full compliance with one-way movement is less than one-third of the rate under two-way movement.Directing customers to follow the one-way flow, however, is not effective if wake exposure dominates. The study finds that two other interventions--reducing the speed variance of customers and throughput control--can be effective whether direct or wake transmission is dominant.The study also examines the trade-off between customer throughput and the risk of infection to customers, and the study shows how the optimal throughput rate drops rapidly as the population prevalence rises.By integrating knowledge about virology, epidemiology, and the physical flow of customers in retail stores, the study develops and analyses a model that connects the biology of Covid-19 with operational interventions to reduce the spread of the disease. The model calculates the disease transmission rate in a retail environment and determines how the rate depends on the customer flow policy (one-way versus two-way), the travel speed distribution, and store size. The study finds that one-way restrictions are useful for reducing direct transmission but have no effect on wake transmission. Eliminating speed variability can reduce or even eliminate direct transmission when traffic is one-way but can only reduce (but not eliminate) transmission in two-way traffic. Finally, the study shows that the optimal admission rate to a store falls as the disease prevalence rises and the ratio of profit to infection cost falls.The study also calibrates our model using published epidemiological data. For a medium-sized retailer in an area with a relatively high prevalence of Covid-19, our model predicts a total transmission rate (via direct and wake exposure) of 0.33 infections per day. Complete customer compliance with one-way flow reduces the direct transmission rate by 70 per cent, while the partial compliance observed in one store reduces the transmission rate by 11 per cent. The study also compares the impact of direct and wake transmission by first defining a ratio between the wake and direct transmission probabilities for a single encounter between an infectious and a susceptible customer. Given two-way traffic, if this ratio is 200 per cent or more, then wake exposure dominates direct exposure in its contribution to virus transmission. When retailers can control customer throughput, the optimal throughput drops significantly as Covid-19 prevalence increases up to 1 per cent. Because estimates of some parameters vary substantially from region to region and will change over time, the study conduct sensitivity analysis to assess the robustness of our findings.The study discusses some of our modelling assumptions and possible extensions. In the model of customer flow, the study ignores variation in both the speed and path of each customer, e.g., stopping to examine and pick products off shelves. Adding this additional variability would increase the number of customer interactions and direct exposure, although quantifying its impact and understanding the impact on wake exposure would require a more complex analytical model and/or simulation. The study also assumes Poisson arrivals, a reasonable assumption during short periods in many retail areas, but not a reasonable assumption in other contexts such as school hallways, where a fluid model may be more appropriate.In addition, the study assumes that wake exposure ends as soon as an infectious customer leaves the area. This is a simplification, for infectious aerosols may remain in the air after customers depart. If the area is large, however, and if customers spend a significant amount of time on their journey, then the impact of edge effects when customers leave the area is small. For the numerical experiments described above, these edge effects are not significant.Our model focuses on customer movement through store aisles and ignores interactions among customers and employees. Front-line workers for essential retailers, in particular, can face a high risk of exposure. Cashiers, for example, face both direct and wake exposure in checkout areas. Many stores now enforce social distancing standards around these areas and provide guidance such as floor stickers to indicate spacing between customers. While this can nearly eliminate direct exposure, wake exposure would be a concern around checkout areas. Incorporating a queuing model that includes customer movement and airflow may be a useful extension.The specific infection rates predicted by our model depend upon many environmental variables, including ventilation systems and the proportion of customers who use masks. Given this uncertainty, the model highlights where gaps in the scientific knowledge of Covid-19 transmission need to be filled so that the study may redesign service operations to reduce spread. In particular, the effectiveness of these interventions is highly dependent on whether the virus is transmitted through heavy droplets or aerosols. In addition, the model may be adapted to analyse Covid-19 transmission in other service settings such as restaurants, airplanes, and hotels in which customer flow can be regulated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/implementing-one-way-traffic-at-retail-stores-can-reduce-covid-19-transmission-101614390241245.html
27-02-2021||World||'To save lives': Czech PM Andrej Babis on 'tightest' Covid-19 lockdown as yet||With new infections soaring due to a highly contagious coronavirus variant and hospitals filling up, one of the hardest-hit countries in the European Union is facing the inevitable: the tightest lockdown since the start of the pandemic.The Czech Republic’s Prime Minister Andrej Babis said Friday the new series of measures is necessary “to protect the lives of our citizens.”“We have to do it prevent a total collapse of our hospitals,” Babis said. “If we don't do it, the whole world will watch Bergamo in the Czech Republic.”He acknowledged his government made mistakes in dealing with the pandemic in the past but called on the Czechs to abide by the rules that are becoming effective on Monday for three weeks with a goal “to stop the virus and return to normalcy.”Among the strictest restrictions, the government is set to limit free movement of people by not allowing them to travel to other counties unless the go to work or have to take care about their relatives.“If it's possible, stay at home,” Interior Minister Jan Hamacek said. Hamacek said the measure will be enforced by police and military forces.If people go out for sports or just a walk, they should not leave their municipality.Further measures include the closure of nursery schools and schools for children with disabilities that until now have remained open.Also, only the stores with essential goods will remain open.“It’s not the best timing, it is in fact late,” Jan Konvalinka, a biochemist and vice-rector of Prague’s Charles University, told Czech public radio. “But better late than never, we have to stop it somehow.”Konvalinka is a member of a group of scientists who have urged the government to immediately apply strict restrictions to reduce the number of new daily infections to 1,000 confirmed cases. It was 14,457 on Thursday, some 2,750 more than a week earlier.Health Minister Jan Blatny said the new cases might likely surge to some 20,000 a day in next week before the new measures make an impact.Blatny said people will have to wear face coverings outdoor in towns and cities all the time and also at work.Amid a surge of the variant first identified in the U.K., of the 7,176 COVID-19 patients in Czech hospitals on Thursday, a record 1,531 needed intensive care.Another potentially dangerous variant first detected in South Africa has also been confirmed in the country this week.To help the struggling health system and prevent a collapse, the government has been discussing with Germany and Poland an option to send Czech COVID-19 patients to their hospitals for treatment as the local clinics are reaching their limits.The seven-day rolling average of daily new cases has risen over the past two weeks from 68.83 new cases per 100,000 people on Feb. 11 to 99.94 on Thursday, the worst per-capita rate in the world, according to Johns Hopkins University.The nation of 10.7 million has had over 1.2 million confirmed cases with almost 20,000 deaths.In an attempt to boost the vaccination program, the Czech Republic has approached EU nations and others asking them for vaccines for which they don’t have immediate use.Babis said France has agreed to send 100,000 doses by the middle of March. Some 5,000 Moderna doses have been donated by Israel, a close ally.The Czechs had administered 623,820 shots by Thursday.The government will also start to require mass of employees in companies and extend the required quarantine from 10 to 14 days to address the specifics of the new variants that are more infectious.___Follow all of AP’s pandemic coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/coronavirus-pandemic, https://apnews.com/hub/coronavirus-vaccine and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/to-save-lives-czech-pm-andrej-babis-on-tightest-covid-19-lockdown-as-yet-101614391927639.html
27-02-2021||World||Donald Trump's niece blasts his 'chutzpah' toward her fraud lawsuit||Donald Trump's niece accused him on Friday of trying to dodge accountability for defrauding her out of a multimillion dollar inheritance by claiming she took too long to sue.Lawyers for Mary Trump made the accusation in a New York state court in Manhattan, where the 55-year-old psychologist is suing the former president, his sister Maryanne Trump Barry and his late brother Robert's estate."The offensiveness of defendants' past conduct — stealing tens of millions of dollars from their own niece — is perhaps surpassed only by the chutzpah of their current arguments for dismissal," the lawyers wrote.A lawyer for Donald Trump and Robert's estate could not immediately be reached outside business hours. Barry's lawyer declined to comment.The case's origins are in the 1981 death of Mary's father, Fred Trump Jr, the older brother of Donald Trump, who left the then 16-year-old Mary a profitable real estate portfolio.Mary Trump said her aunt and uncles were supposed to look after her interests but instead siphoned money away, and finally "squeezed" her out of the family fortune in a 2001 settlement related to the estate of Fred Trump Sr, who died in 1999.She sued in September, just under two years after she claimed to learn what they did through a New York Times investigation into Donald Trump's finances."Reasonable diligence would not have uncovered the fraud" more than a decade earlier as the defendants contended, her lawyers wrote.Mary Trump's best-selling tell-all "Too Much and Never Enough: How My Family Created the World's Most Dangerous Man" detailed some of her allegations.Donald Trump's lawyers have accused Mary Trump of trying to cash in on the family name, and consume him with lawsuits.The former president's legal challenges include a criminal probe by Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance into possible fraud, a civil probe by New York Attorney General Letitia James and defamation lawsuits by two women, E. Jean Carroll and Summer Zervos, who accused him of sexual misconduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-niece-blasts-his-chutzpah-toward-her-fraud-lawsuit-101614391691402.html
27-02-2021||World||South Korea kicks off vaccination drive, 18,000+ inoculated on Day 1||South Korea said 18,489 people received their first doses of AstraZeneca PLC's vaccine by midnight on Friday as it launched an ambitious Covid-19 inoculation campaign, and will begin using Pfizer/BioNTech vaccines on Saturday.The first to receive the shots are healthcare workers, staffers at assisted care facilities and other high-risk people, with a goal of vaccinating 32 million to 36 million people - some 60% to 70% of the population - by September.The government hopes to reach herd immunity, defined as at least a 70% vaccine take-up, by November, as health authorities remain on alert for signs of sporadic infections.The first AstraZeneca vaccines are to be administered to 289,000 people, while about 55,000 healthcare workers in coronavirus treatment facilities will receive first batch of the vaccine developed by Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE supplied through the Covax global vaccine-sharing programme.Aside from AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Covax, South Korea has also reached agreements with Moderna Inc, Novavax Inc and Johnson & Johnson for vaccines.South Korea reported 415 infections of the new coronavirus for Friday. The country has recorded 89,321 infections and 1,595 Covid-19 deaths, the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency said.The authorities are extending social distancing rules by two weeks nationwide, including a ban on private gatherings of more than four, to blunt the coronavirus surge, Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-kicks-off-vaccination-drive-18-000-inoculated-on-day-1-101614391661032.html
27-02-2021||World||Joe Biden calls Saudi Prince’s plot against Khashoggi ‘outrageous’||President Joe Biden called it “outrageous” that Saudi Arabia Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman signed off on the killing of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi.Biden said in an interview with Univision News that he had told Saudi King Salman this week “that the rules are changing” in the kingdom’s relationship with the US and that “we’re going to be announcing significant changes today and on Monday.”The Biden administration on Friday released a partially redacted report the Trump administration had withheld from the public revealing that the US intelligence committee believed the crown prince was responsible for Khashoggi’s October 2018 murder inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul.“We assess that Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman approved an operation in Istanbul, Turkey, to capture or kill Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi,” the report concluded.“We immediately, when I got in, filed the report, read it, got it, and released it today,” Biden said. “And it is outrageous what happened.”Kingdom ‘Rejects’ FindingThe report builds on classified intelligence from the CIA and other agencies after Khashoggi’s murder.“The government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia completely rejects the negative, false and unacceptable assessment in the report pertaining to the Kingdom’s leadership, and notes that the report contained inaccurate information and conclusions,” the Saudi foreign ministry said in a statement.The decision to release the report, compiled by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, reflects the Biden administration’s determination to recalibrate relations with Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, over its human rights record.Prince Mohammed has denied involvement in the killing, while saying he accepts symbolic responsibility as the country’s de facto ruler. Saudi officials have said the murder was carried out by rogue agents who’ve since been prosecuted.Although the four-page declassified version of the report didn’t disclose any direct evidence or the US intelligence methods that were used in reaching its conclusion, it said the team that killed Khashoggi included seven members of the crown prince’s “elite personal protective detail” who wouldn’t have taken part without his approval.“The Crown Prince viewed Khashoggi as a threat to the Kingdom and broadly supported using violent measures if necessary to silence him,” the report said. “Although Saudi officials had pre-planned an unspecified operation against Khashoggi we do not know how far in advance Saudi officials decided to harm him.”The report said it had “high confidence” about the 21 people who were involved in the killing on the prince’s behalf.The Saudi foreign ministry said in its statement that “this was an abhorrent crime and a flagrant violation of the Kingdom’s laws and values” by “a group of individuals that have transgressed all pertinent regulations and authorities of the agencies where they were employed. The relevant authorities in the Kingdom took all possible measures within our legal system to ensure that these individuals were properly investigated, and to ensure that justice was served.”It said “the partnership between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United States of America is a robust and enduring partnership.”In advance of the report’s publication, Biden held a call Thursday with King Salman. Biden discussed regional security and the renewed U.S. and United Nations effort to end the war in Yemen. He also “affirmed the importance the United States places on universal human rights and the rule of law,” the White House said in a statement.White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki declined to say Friday whether Biden raised Khashoggi’s death directly or told the king that the report would be released.At least for now, there is no indication that the US plans to sanction the crown prince. That’s in keeping with a broader assessment that he’s destined to be the kingdom’s ruler for years to come and punishing him now would risk alienating a country that, for all its flaws, remains a crucial ally. That left some Democratic lawmakers dissatisfied.“There should be personal consequences for MBS -- he should suffer sanctions, including financial, travel and legal -- and the Saudi government should suffer grave consequences as long as he remains in the government,” Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, said in a statement, using a common abbreviation for the crown prince’s name.‘Khashoggi Ban’After the report was released, Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced sanctions against 76 Saudi individuals under what he called a new “Khashoggi Ban” policy. Under that authority, the US says it will single out anyone who, acting for a foreign government, engages in “counter-dissident activities” beyond that country’s borders.“While the United States remains invested in its relationship with Saudi Arabia, President Biden has made clear that partnership must reflect U.S. values,” Blinken said. “To that end, we have made absolutely clear that extraterritorial threats and assaults by Saudi Arabia against activists, dissidents, and journalists must end.”State Department spokesman Ned Price had told reporters Thursday that the US was looking at other ways to punish the perpetrators of Khashoggi’s killing. Among the options may be cutting back arms sales to Saudi Arabia, he said without elaborating.“I expect that we will be in a position before long to speak to steps to promote accountability going forward for this horrific crime,” Price told reporters in Washington.Democrats in Congress cheered the release of the report, saying that it was the first step toward revamping the US relationship with Saudi Arabia.“The Biden administration will need to follow this attribution of responsibility with serious repercussions against all of the responsible parties it has identified, and also reassess our relationship with Saudi Arabia,” Representative Adam Schiff, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said in a statement. “The administration should take further steps to diminish the United States’ reliance on Riyadh and reinforce that our partnership with the Kingdom is a not a blank check.”Economic PowerhouseSaudi authorities didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on Biden’s decision to release the report, or the prospect of the US imposing sanctions on one of its closest and most important Middle East allies. Saudi Arabia dominates the Gulf Arab region geographically, is its economic powerhouse, and has for decades been a political heavyweight in regional affairs.Goods and services trade between the US and Saudi Arabia amounted to almost $39 billion in 2019, with American exports totaling about $24 billion and imports reaching nearly $15 billion, according to US government figures. That made Saudi Arabia the US’s 27th-largest goods trading partner but one of the biggest customers for American arms.The decision to release the report reflects a return, under Biden, to routine diplomatic channels and traditional US pressure over human rights, even on allies.Trump put Saudi Arabia at the center of his Middle East strategy, making it his first foreign visit. He later abandoned the 2015 nuclear deal with a common enemy, Iran, and reimposed sanctions on Tehran.Trump dismissed concerns about whether the crown prince approved the Khashoggi killing -- “Maybe he did, maybe he didn’t,” he said -- citing the economic rewards of selling arms to the Saudis. His secretary of state, Michael Pompeo, said the US had “no direct evidence” linking the prince to the murder, while Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner maintained a close working relationship with him.In contrast, within his first few days in office, Biden put on hold major weapons sales to the kingdom pending review, and announced an end to US support for offensive actions in Yemen, where he wants to wrap up a Saudi-led military intervention that’s contributed to the world’s worst humanitarian crisis.In an overt rebuke, he’s also downgraded relations with Prince Mohammed, who runs the day-to-day affairs of the kingdom and typically liaises directly with foreign leaders. Instead, Biden has called King Salman his official counterpart.Biden will have to navigate the relationship with Saudi Arabia carefully, however, as he seeks to re-engage Iran and persuade it to resume compliance with the nuclear accord. Signaling that being tougher on Saudi Arabia won’t mean he’s soft on Iran, the administration ordered airstrikes overnight on Iranian-backed militias in Syria that it blames for rocket attacks on US forces in neighboring Iraq.In recent days, Saudi newspapers and commentators have emphasized the kingdom’s close relationship with the US.Abdullah Al Tayer, a former Saudi official, said last week on Twitter that any attempt to “target” the king or the crown prince was targeting “the nation and its citizens in their present and their future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-calls-saudi-prince-s-plot-against-khashoggi-outrageous-101614390972893.html
27-02-2021||World||Eritrean forces killed hundreds of Ethiopian civilians in Nov in Axum: Report||Amnesty International accused Eritrean forces on Friday of killing hundreds of civilians in northern Ethiopia over 24 hours last year, an incident it described as a potential crime against humanity.Eritrea rejected the accusations. But an Ethiopian state human rights body issued a statement that also described such killings, though with fewer details. It was a rare official acknowledgment from Ethiopia that Eritrean troops participated in the conflict during the government's crackdown in the Tigray region last year.Amnesty said it had spoken to 41 witnesses who described the mass killings of "many hundreds of civilians" by Eritrean troops in Axum, an ancient city in northern Ethiopia.The killings took place during a 24-hour period from Nov. 28-29, Amnesty said. That coincides with the date that Ethiopian government forces separately captured Tigray's regional capital Mekelle from forces loyal to a local political party the central government had accused of rebelling.Amnesty said the Axum killings were retaliation for an attack by local militia, and that Eritrean soldiers executed men and boys in the streets and engaged in extensive looting.Eritrea has consistently denied that its troops participated in the conflict on its neighbour's territory. Eritrea's information minister, Yemane Meskel, rejected Amnesty's report."Amnesty made absolutely no attempt to seek any information from Eritrea," he said on Twitter.Reuters spoke to an ethnic Tigrayan man working in construction in the capital Addis Ababa, who said this week that Eritrean soldiers had shot dead six members of his family in Axum on Nov. 28, including his 17-year-old brother and 78-year-old father.“Everything our family had - all the happiness - has turned to darkness,” the man said in a phone interview. Reuters was not able to reach people in Axum itself.ContentiousThe participation of Eritrean forces in fighting in Tigray is among the most contentious issues arising from the conflict. Many Tigrayans say the Ethiopian army drew on support from Eritrean forces, former enemies, in the campaign.Ethiopia has long denied that it allowed Eritrea to send troops to assist the government's military campaign. But it avoided any direct denial of the Amnesty International report on Friday.Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed's Office said in a statement that it welcomed "international technical assistance" in joint investigations into alleged rights violations in Tigray.A confidential US government report says Ethiopian officials and allied militia fighters are leading a systematic campaign of ethnic cleansing in Tigray, according to the New York Times, which said it obtained a copy of the report.Fighters and officials from the neighbouring Amhara region of Ethiopia are "deliberately and efficiently rendering Western Tigray ethnically homogeneous through the organized use of force and intimidation," the Times quoted the report as saying.The Times did not say which US agency prepared the report. The US State Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Reuters.The state-run Ethiopian Human Rights Commission released a statement timed to coincide with the Amnesty report, saying preliminary investigations indicated that Eritrean soldiers had killed an unknown number of civilians in Axum.It said the killings were in retaliation for an earlier attack by soldiers of the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), the region's ousted ruling party.Reports of the mass killing took months to confirm; communications to Tigray were down for many weeks and media access has been tightly restricted, although that is now loosening slightly.Mulu Nega, head of Tigray’s government-appointed interim administration, told Reuters: “The police and the judiciary are investigating.”Axum is a UNESCO World Heritage site, famed for its tall obelisks and ancient churches, including one reputed to house the biblical Ark of the Covenant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eritrean-forces-killed-hundreds-of-ethiopian-civilians-in-nov-in-axum-report-101614390802191.html
27-02-2021||World||Durham remains special counsel overseeing Trump-Russia probe||US Attorney John Durham said Friday that he will resign from his position as the top federal prosecutor in Connecticut but is remaining as a special counsel to oversee the Justice Department's investigation into the origins of the Russia probe that shadowed Donald Trump’s presidency.Durham will resign from his post as US attorney for Connecticut on Monday. But Durham, who was appointed in October by then-Attorney General William Barr as a special counsel to investigate the origins of the Trump-Russia probe, will remain in that capacity.Like Durham, nearly every other US attorney who served in the Trump administration was asked earlier this month to submit their resignations as the Biden administration moves to transition to its own nominees.The FBI in July 2016 began investigating whether the Trump campaign was coordinating with Russia to sway the outcome of the presidential election. That probe was inherited nearly a year later by special counsel Mueller, who ultimately did not find enough evidence to charge Trump or any of his associates with conspiring with Russia.The early months of the investigation, when agents obtained secret surveillance warrants targeting a former Trump campaign aide, have long been scrutinized by Trump and other critics of the probe who say the FBI made significant errors. A Justice Department inspector general report backed up that criticism but did not find evidence that mistakes in the surveillance applications and other problems with the probe were driven by partisan bias.Durham’s investigation, which the Justice Department has described as a criminal probe, had begun very broadly but Barr said in December that it had “narrowed considerably” and that it was “really is focused on the activities of the Crossfire Hurricane investigation within the FBI.”Durham’s investigation has so far resulted in one prosecution so far. A former FBI lawyer was sentenced to probation last month for altering an email the Justice Department relied on in its surveillance of an aide to President Donald Trump during the Russia investigation.The US attorneys transition process, which happens routinely between administrations, applies to a few dozen US attorneys who were appointed by Trump and confirmed by the Senate and many of the federal prosecutors who were nominated by Trump already left their positions.A senior Justice Department official told the AP earlier this month that David Weiss, the US attorney in Delaware, overseeing the federal tax probe involving Biden’s son, Hunter Biden, will remain in place.The 93 US attorneys serve at the pleasure of the president and are responsible for overseeing offices of federal prosecutors and charged with prosecuting federal crimes in their jurisdictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/durham-remains-special-counsel-overseeing-trump-russia-probe-101614390151253.html
27-02-2021||World||Joe Biden says he’s launching campaign on Covid-19 vaccine safety, efficacy||President Joe Biden said his administration would undertake a major effort to reassure Americans of the safety and effectiveness of coronavirus vaccines, in order to overcome reticence among some people to take the shots that could end the pandemic.“We’re going to launch a massive campaign to educate people about the vaccines,” Biden said on a visit to a federal mass vaccination site in Houston. “That they are safe and effective and they can go and get those vaccines and be good.”About a quarter of Americans say they won’t take a dose of the coronavirus vaccines, and there is a partisan divide on the issue -- much as around public health guidance to wear masks and take other precautions against infection. More than four in 10 Republicans say they’ll avoid a vaccine if they can, compared to just 10% of Democrats, according to a poll by Monmouth University published Feb. 3.“The vaccines are safe, I promise you, they are safe and effective,” Biden said. “Listen to Dr. Fauci, listen to the scientists.” He was referring to Anthony Fauci, his chief medical adviser.Biden has made curbing the pandemic his top priority. To get there, he needs as many Americans as possible seeking shots in order to reach what’s known as herd immunity, the point when the the virus is unable to easily circulate because so many people have either survived infection or been inoculated.The president visited Houston on Friday both to review the response to an unusual winter storm that nearly collapsed the state’s power grid earlier this month and tout his administration’s vaccine program.Earlier Friday, a new, single-dose coronavirus vaccine from Johnson & Johnson won the unanimous recommendation of a panel of Food and Drug Administration advisers. The shot’s emergency use authorization by the FDA is expected imminently, and the Biden administration has said it would begin delivering millions of doses as soon as next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-says-he-s-launching-campaign-on-covid-19-vaccine-safety-efficacy-101614389804548.html
27-02-2021||World||Taliban commander killed in security force operation in Pak's Waziristan: Report||A terrorist commander of Pakistan Taliban was killed in an operation in South Waziristan by security forces, the military said on Friday.Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan's (TTP) Nooristan alias Hasan Baba, a "high-value target", was killed in an exchange of fire during an operation at a terrorist hideout on Sharwangi, Tiarza in South Waziristan, the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) said.According to the statement, he was involved in the killing of more than 50 security forces' personnel since 2007, Dawn reported"The most sought and wanted terrorist was [an] IED expert and master trainer," the press release said further.Nooristan joined the TTP Baitullah Mehsud group in 2007 and has been involved in several terrorist attacks.He, along with other militants, carried out an attack on a check post in Manra Shawal Dargai in 2008, which resulted in the killing of three Frontier Corps personnel.South Waziristan and North Waziristan, which are two of the seven former semi-autonomous tribal regions in Pakistan also known as FATA, served as headquarters for local and foreign terrorists until 2017.The army claimed it has cleared the mountainous region of terrorists following several operations to eliminate the TTP, according to Al Jazeera.Successive operations have pushed the TTP towards neighbouring Afghanistan.Islamabad claims the group has now set up bases across the border to attack Pakistani security forces and civilians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-commander-killed-in-security-force-operation-in-pak-s-waziristan-report-101614386935172.html
27-02-2021||World||Latin America’s Covid vaccine scandal claims third health minister||Ecuador health minister Juan Carlos Zevallos resigned Friday, becoming the third top Latin American health official forced out in two weeks as outrage grows over the ability of the region’s richest and most powerful to obtain vaccinations before the rest of the population.President Lenin Moreno, whose term ends May 24, posted the minister’s resignation letter on Twitter. Zevallos’ departure was quickened after he sent letters to university presidents inviting them to skip the line and after prosecutors launched an investigation into his mother’s vaccination in January.Argentina’s health minister resigned on Feb. 19, as did both the Peruvian health minister and her deputy a week earlier. In both countries, the revelation of VIP vaccinations sent the governments’ cabinets into disarray, as the number of insiders who were vaccinated in secret ballooned to at least 70 in Argentina and nearly 500 in Peru, where a foreign affairs minister was also forced out.In Ecuador, the scandal is primed to do the same.It’s a tender political moment for the country, with a lame-duck government and a runoff presidential election slated for Apr. 11. “Given the current political situation, and for the sake of continuity of the national vaccination plan, I present to you, Mr. President, my resignation,” Zevallos wrote in his exit note. After sharing the letter, Moreno denied in a separate tweet that any of his own close relatives had been vaccinated.Ecuadorians are infuriated that the glacial pace of the vaccination effort didn’t keep well-placed individuals from obtaining the coveted jab. On Friday, octogenarian radio talk-show host Diego Oquendo became the latest non-frontline person to acknowledge getting the shot. Unlike Argentina and Peru, where the governments have published lists of people who received shots early, Zevallos said that patient confidentiality made it impossible to do the same.On Monday, a court in Quito will hear a request by non-governmental organization Accion Juridica Popular to force the Health Ministry to publish a list of people vaccinated to date, one of its representatives, Santiago Machuca, said via Twitter.The presidency and health ministry didn’t immediately respond to telephone calls and text messages seeking information on who will succeed Zevallos.VIP AccessThe VIP line-cutting trend in the Southern Hemisphere is unsurprising due to a trifecta of regional factors. Latin America is not only one of the world’s most economically unequal and corrupt regions, but it’s also where the virus has hit the hardest. Forecasts for complete vaccination in the countries ranges from two years to a decade.Moreno’s government initially bet on deliveries of vaccines bought from Western pharmaceutical companies, but initial Pfizer-BioNTech shipments only included doses for 30,000 people. Before resigning, Zevallos announced that 2 million Sinovac Biotech Ltd. vaccines would arrive in March and April. He also predicted that 9 million Ecuadorians would be inoculated by the end of October.With as many as 6 million of the country’s 17.5 million people already estimated to have contracted Covid-19, those projections would allow the country to develop herd immunity, according to the government. In the meantime, a new variant has also cropped up in the past month.“Zevallos has been an example of what a health minister shouldn’t do,” said epidemiologist Andrea Gomez.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/latin-america-s-covid-vaccine-scandal-claims-third-health-minister-101614386605569.html
27-02-2021||World||Brasilia goes into lockdown as Brazil reels from Covid-19 surge||The governor of Brazil's capital city, Brasilia, decreed a 24-hour lockdown for all but essential services on Friday to curb a worsening COVID-19 outbreak that has filled its intensive care wards to the brim.The drastic step came as right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro, who has repeatedly downplayed the gravity of the pandemic that has killed 250,000 Brazilians, renewed his attacks on state governors for destroying jobs with lockdowns."The lockdown will start today and be total, it will be 24-hours a day," said a press aide for the federal district's Governor Ibaneis Rocha. A decree published at the end of the day said the lockdown would start right after midnight Saturday.Shops, pharmacies, gas stations, churches and funeral parlors will remain open, the aide said, but everything else will shut down, especially bars and restaurants, which were blamed for increased spread during the end of last year and Carnival holidays.Intensive care wards in Brasilia, the third-largest city in Brazil with 3 million inhabitants, are as full as they were at the peak of the pandemic last year, with more than 80% of the beds occupied, the health department said.The situation is as bad or worse in cities across Brazil, with intensive care beds in the capitals of 17 of Brazil's 26 states this week reaching the most critical level since the pandemic began a year ago, according to a report by biomedical center Fiocruz.Bolsonaro, who lives and works in Brasilia, said governors imposing restrictions were doing Brazilians a disservice."What the people most want is to work," he said on a visit to northeastern Brazil on Friday, one day after Brazil recorded its second-worst daily death toll. He threatened to cut off federal emergency pandemic assistance to states resorting to lockdowns."From now on, governors who close down their states will have to provide for their own emergency aid," Bolsonaro said.Brazil has had 65,169 new cases of the novel coronavirus reported in the past 24 hours, and 1,337 deaths from COVID-19, the health ministry said on Friday.The South American country has now registered 10,455,630 cases since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 252,835, according to ministry data, in the world's third-worst outbreak outside the United States and India and the world's second-deadliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brasilia-goes-into-lockdown-as-brazil-reels-from-covid-19-surge-101614385207643.html
27-02-2021||World||UN calls for immediate release of 317 girls abducted from school in Nigeria||The United Nations on Friday called for the immediate release of several hundred schoolgirls kidnapped from a secondary school in northwest Nigeria.Peter Hawkins, a representative of the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) in the country, urged the assailants to let the teenagers go immediately, Xinhua reported.Scores of students were abducted when the gunman stormed an all-girls school in Nigeria's northwestern state of Zamfara on early Friday, a local official said."We are angered and saddened by yet another brutal attack on schoolchildren in Nigeria," Hawkins said. "This is a gross violation of children's rights and a horrific experience for children to go through -- one which could have long-lasting effects on their mental health and well-being."The president of the 75th session of the UN General Assembly, Volkan Bozkir, tweeted, "I am shocked by today's kidnapping of 317 girls from their school in northwest Nigeria. This is the 3rd mass abduction of children since December in the country.""No child anywhere should be afraid to go to school. I hope the girls are unharmed and will be freed soon," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-calls-for-immediate-release-of-317-girls-abducted-from-school-in-nigeria-101614385325288.html
27-02-2021||World||Boeing CEO asked to testify in Ethiopian 737 MAX crash litigation||Relatives of victims of a Boeing Co 737 MAX crash in Ethiopia that occurred five months after an Indonesian Lion Air disaster are stepping up pressure on the American planemaker and the federal government, according to a court filing and a letter to US lawmakers.Families have called for testimony from Boeing Chief Executive Dave Calhoun, his predecessor and other current and former employees as part of their legal case in Chicago, court documents show.Separately, the families urged lawmakers in letter to demand that the US Federal Aviation Administration turn over internal emails and documents spanning the Lion Air crash and one month after the Ethiopian crash. Together, 346 people died.The letter was sent to members of the House and Senate transportation committees on Friday, including committee head Representative Peter DeFazio and aviation subcommittee chair Representative Rick Larsen.A Congressional official said: "I can confirm that this week Chairs DeFazio and Larsen re-upped their request to DOT (Department of Transportation) for FAA records that have gone unfulfilled to date."A Senate report in December detailed lapses in aviation safety oversight and failed leadership in the FAA. It found that FAA leaders obstructed that report as well as a DOT watchdog review of the regulator's oversight, the results of which were released on Wednesday."There is serious unfinished business," the families said in the letter, reviewed by Reuters.Boeing has mostly settled civil litigation stemming from the Lion Air crash, but still faces over 100 lawsuits in Chicago federal court related to the second crash.The plaintiffs' lawyers are focusing on what Boeing knew about the causes of the first crash and why the plane continued to fly. They want to schedule depositions of Calhoun and Muilenburg between May 3 and June 18.Those victims' families also want to know what FAA management, which in November lifted a 20-month safety ban of the MAX, understood about the first crash.Boeing's board faces a separate investor lawsuit in Delaware Chancery Court, where a complaint unsealed this month alleged breach of fiduciary duties and gross negligence by failing "to monitor the safety of Boeing's 737 MAX airplanes."Last month, Boeing reached a $2.5 billion settlement with the Justice Department over the 737 MAX crashes, including a $243.6 million fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boeing-ceo-asked-to-testify-in-ethiopian-737-max-crash-litigation-101614383346031.html
27-02-2021||World||Iran 'can't act with impunity,' Biden says after US air strike||President Joe Biden said Iran cannot act with impunity and warned Iran to "be careful" when asked what message he was sending the country with the US air strikes in Syria."You can't act with impunity. Be careful," Biden told reporters while traveling to survey the damage from a severe winter storm in Texas.The United States carried out air strikes authorized by Biden against facilities belonging to Iranian-backed militia in eastern Syria on Thursday, in response to rocket attacks against US targets in Iraq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-can-t-act-with-impunity-biden-says-after-u-s-air-strike-101614378830039.html
27-02-2021||World||United States welcomes Indo-Pak ceasefire pact||The United States on Thursday called upon Pakistan to play a “constructive role” in the region, especially across the border in Kashmir and in Afghanistan on its west, in the backdrop of the ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control (LoC) and growing calls from American experts for a re-set in US-Pakistan ties.The United States welcomed the India-Pakistan joint statement – released on Thursday — committing to a ceasefire along the LoC with Ned Price, spokesperson of the state department, saying: “We encourage continued efforts to improve communication between the two sides and to reduce tensions and violence along the Line of Control.”Asked about the trajectory of the relationship between the US and Pakistan under President Joe Biden, Price said Pakistan has an “important role to play” in bringing peace to Afghanistan. He added: “So, clearly we will be paying close attention, and we urge Pakistanis to play a constructive role in all of these areas of mutual interest, including in Afghanistan, including with Kashmir, including with our other shared interests.”The Biden administration’s highest-level contact with the Pakistani government thus far has been between Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi — they spoke the same day as Blinken and external affairs minister S Jaishankar for the first time. US President Biden and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan have not spoken yet.“Voices sympathetic to Pakistan in Washington are advocating a re-set of US-Pakistan relations, setting aside the bitterness of the past,” Aparna Pande, a South Asia expert with Hudson Institute, a think tank, wrote in a recent piece. But, she added: “Americans should be wary of plans that draw the US back into embracing Pakistan or depending on it. Pakistan is now China’s closest ally and its overtures to the US are designed only to evade the consequences of its anti-American conduct.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-states-welcomes-indo-pak-ceasefire-pact-101614374095995.html
27-02-2021||World||US implicates Saudi crown prince in journalist Jamal Khashoggi's killing||Saudi Arabia's crown prince likely approved an operation to kill or capture a U.S.-based journalist inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, according to a newly declassified U.S. intelligence report released Friday that could escalate pressure on the Biden administration to hold the kingdom accountable for a murder that drew bipartisan and international outrage.The central conclusion of the report was widely expected given that intelligence officials were said to have reached it soon after the brutal Oct. 2, 2018, murder of Jamal Khashoggi, a critic of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s authoritarian consolidation of power.Still, since the finding had not been officially released until now, the public assignment of responsibility amounted to an extraordinary rebuke of the ambitious 35-year-old crown prince and was likely to set the tone for the new administration's relationship with a country President Joe Biden has criticized but which the White House also regards in some contexts as a strategic partner.The report was released one day after a later-than-usual courtesy call from Biden to Saudi King Salman, though a White House summary of the conversation made no mention of the killing and said instead that the men had discussed the countries’ longstanding partnership. The kingdom’s state-run Saudi Press Agency similarly did not mention Khashoggi’s killing in its report about the call, rather focusing on regional issues such as Iran and the ongoing war in Yemen.Khashoggi had visited the Saudi consulate in Turkey planning to pick up documents needed for his wedding. Once inside, he died at the hands of more than a dozen Saudi security and intelligence officials and others who had assembled ahead of his arrival.Surveillance cameras had tracked his route and those of his alleged killers in Istanbul in the hours leading up to his killing.A Turkish bug planted at the consulate reportedly captured the sound of a forensic saw, operated by a Saudi colonel who was also a forensics expert, dismembering Khashoggi’s body within an hour of his entering the building. The whereabouts of his remains remain unknown.The prince said in 2019 he took “full responsibility” for the killing since it happened on his watch, but denied ordering it. Saudi officials have said Khashoggi’s killing was the work of rogue Saudi security and intelligence officials. Saudi Arabian courts last year announced they had sentenced eight Saudi nationals to prison in Khashoggi’s killing. They were not identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-implicates-saudi-crown-prince-in-journalist-jamal-khashoggi-s-killing-101614364707930.html
