03-09-2020||North East||Why Mizoram has escaped Covid death so far||Amid India’s rising coronavirus deaths, Mizoram stands alone for now. Eight states, Bengal among them, accounted for 80 per cent of the 819 new coronavirus deaths recorded on Tuesday, but Mizoram remains the only state without a single documented Covid-19 death. While Mizoram’s count of lab-confirmed Covid-19 cases has reached 1,011 and 420 patients were under medical supervision on Tuesday, doctors in the state say its zero death number is a puzzle but likely the result of multiple factors. “We’ve been fortunate so far — we’ve seen very few severe cases,” Eric Zomawia, a senior state public health official told The Telegraph. “But we’ve also seen prompt transfer of patients to Covid-19 care centres or to our one dedicated Covid-19 hospital and our staff dedication has been remarkable.” Mizoram recorded its first Covid-19 case on March 25, a patient with a foreign travel history, then no cases at all until early June. Since then, cases have increased with multiple spikes — from 46 new cases on June 9 to the highest single-day count yet of 120 cases on August 15. The first patient did develop severe Covid-19 and had required ventilation for several days, Zomawia said. But the majority of patients diagnosed since then have had mild symptoms. “We don’t know why yet — this will need research,” said Sukanta Sinha, a senior microbiologist and dean at the Zoram Medical College, Aizawl, the state’s only dedicated Covid-19 hospital 15km south of Aizawl. “I think many factors are contributing to this — we can only speculate for now.” Mizoram is India’s least populous state after Sikkim with an estimated 1.2 million people. Sikkim’s count of Covid-19 cases has climbed to 1,652 and three patients have died. Public health experts would view Mizoram’s terrain marked by hills and jungles as posing a challenge to epidemic control but, Sinha said, people across the state are “more organised and very cooperative”. “I think the state has been able to contain the epidemic much better than others — with community engagement,” he said. Mizoram was among states least prepared for the pandemic — it did not even have a viral diagnostic laboratory. “We had to build the lab from scratch in just seven days,” Sinha said. Microbiologists in neighbouring academic institutions initially lent machines for Covid-19 diagnostic tests. While the reasons for the relatively low proportions of severe disease remain unknown, Sinha said, patients who do develop moderate to severe disease and require oxygen receive the best possible treatment from the staff. “Our doctors, nurses, other staff work with no inhibitions at all,” he told this newspaper, citing the example of a young microbiologist who has a young baby but has reported every single day through the pandemic. “It may seem like a small thing but still something great in a pandemic,” he said. Some researchers have speculated whether genetics or nutrition might also explain the low prevalence of severe disease. “Nutrition among the Mizo population is relatively good compared to populations in many other states,” Sinha said. The college has plans to pursue research on these lines in collaboration with other academic institutions that could contribute through studies on human and viral genomes. “But that’s for later. Right now, we’re just managing samples (for tests) and patients.” The eight states with the largest number of new deaths on Monday were Maharashtra (184), Karnataka (113), Tamil Nadu (91), Andhra Pradesh (85), Uttar Pradesh (63), Bengal (52), Punjab (49) and Madhya Pradesh (20). India on Tuesday recorded 69,621 new Covid-19 cases, raising the total number to over 3.69 million, of whom nearly 2.84 million patients have recovered, 785,996 are under medical supervision, and 65,288 have died, 819 on Monday. The eight states account for 69 per cent of the country’s active patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
03-09-2020||North East||NSCN-IM: Nagas ready for fresh ‘war’||The National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) has said the Nagas are ready to “fight another war” if their political rights and history are not respected and that the Naga issue will remain India’s Achilles heel if the Centre or its interlocutor is “trying to misinterpret” the prevailing situation or act clever. The August edition of the outfit’s bi-monthly news bulletin, Nagalim Voice, carries this message in an editorial titled “Government of India Oversight: Indo Naga Political Talks” at a time when the peace talks between the Centre and the NSCN (I-M), which is in ceasefire since 1997, are said to be floundering amid demands from other Naga groups to seal a final solution. The NSCN (I-M) is still firm on shared sovereignty which would include a separate flag and a separate constitution for the Nagas. The editorial touches upon the history of the Naga conflict, the various peace measures effected by both the Centre for lasting peace, the signing of the 2015 Framework Agreement, the standoff triggered by R.N. Ravi, the Centre’s interlocutor for the peace talks and Nagaland governor, and the consequences it could trigger. The opening paragraph says since 1832 when the British first arrived in Naga areas, the Nagas have “unwaveringly maintained the right to be independent from any external power, whether it be British or otherwise”. Attacking Ravi for “losing focus and perspective by throwing a “chance of a lifetime” to politically and respectfully end the longest armed resistance in Southeast Asia, the NSCN (I-M) said he was “repeating the same mistakes of history” by not realising that insult and disrespect to the Nagas will not help resolve the Naga issue. The outfit also said that the Centre was losing its vision and focus or it is being misled by Ravi, whose “delinquency and double standards will have huge ramification for a country like India”. “Nagas have fought long enough and they have survived all the Machiavellian policies from the adversaries. They are still ready to fight another war if their political rights and history are not respected,” it says. However, if India is keen on solving the political conflict, it must “honour” the Framework Agreement in letter and spirit, exhibit confidence and trust on the Nagas and must stop employing militaristic approach, law and order approach and divide and rule policy. The editorial ends with the line: “The position of Naga people is clear: respect and honour the political history and rights of the Nagas and we will respect India ten times more.” The bulletin was released amid mounting demands by several Naga organisations for a solution to the decades-old insurgency at the earliest and also not to change the interlocutor. The Nagaland Gaonburah Federation, an influential committee of village headmen, in a memorandum to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, wanted to settle the issue at the earliest by September and not to remove Ravi. The Working Committee of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), which is also part of the peace process, too is not in favour of removing Ravi as it would push back the whole process and wants the Framework Agreement reviewed because it has “erased the golden years of Naga struggle” while preferring the use of Nagaland instead of Nagalim because it is more “inclusive”. Peace talks observers, however, believe that the earlier efforts did not succeed because the key protagonists were sidelined. “The same mistake should not be repeated this time. Piecemeal pact will not help usher in lasting peace. It has to be inclusive,” one of them said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
03-09-2020||North East||Assam to shut govt madrasas, tols in November||The Assam government has said that it would close down all government-run Sanskrit tols (schools) and madrasas in November. State education minister Himanta Biswa Sarma made the announcement in the Assembly on Tuesday during a discussion on budgetary allocation for the education department when a few legislators pushed for provincialisation of madrasas. Sarma, a senior minister in the BJP-led coalition government, said there was no question of provincialising madrasas and Sanskrit tols because Dispur was moving towards a modern education system. Those who want to run madrasas and tols can do on their own, he said. “There is no bar on operating Sanskrit tols and madrasas with one’s own funds but the government will use its resources for modern and secular education. Students of these institutes can enrol in nearby schools. Since we are closing down such government-run institutes, there is no question of provincialising new madrasas and Sanskrit tols,” Sarma said on the second day of the four-day Assembly session. There are 614 recognised madrasas in Assam — 57 for girls, three for boys and 554 co-educational — and 17 under Urdu medium. On the other hand, there are nearly 1,000 recognised Sanskrit tols, of which around 100 are government-aided. Sarma had said in February that Dispur has decided to close down government-run madrasas, high madrasas and Sanskrit tols because it was “not the duty” of the state government to impart religious education, teach Arabic or some other language or religious scriptures. The madrasas, high madrasas and Sanskrit tols would be converted into high and higher secondary schools, he had said. Sarma on Tuesday also said the rules for provincialisation will change. “It will be more a need-based instead of date and year based. For example, if there is no school within a 5km radius of an area, we will fund a school there or where there is a need, like in the Sixth Schedule areas,” he said. He said provincialisation based on date, year and enrolment often leads to fudging of these figures because of various factors. “For example, there are three private colleges in Dhemaji which are doing exceptionally well than the government college there. We may recognise such institutions. Therefore, we are trying to go for need-based provincialisation,” he said, while highlighting the student welfare initiatives of the government such as free admission, among others Sarma, who is also the health minister, defended the government’s decision to charge for some facilities extended to Covid-19 patients . The facilities include a paying cabin, Rs 6,000 for a plasma kit for getting treatment in nursing homes or Rs 2,200 for getting Covid test result within 24 hours. “Those who can pay will have to pay the charges but otherwise our treatment is free,” Sarma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-47
