07-09-2020||North East||PLA contacted on missing 5: Kiren Rijiju||India’s army has contacted its Chinese counterpart over Friday’s alleged abduction of five young men from the Arunachal Pradesh district of Upper Subansiri that borders China, Union minister Kiren Rijiju said on Sunday. “The Indian Army has already sent hotline message to the counterpart PLA establishment at the border point in Arunachal Pradesh. Response is awaited,” the minister of state for sports and youth affairs tweeted. Media reports have claimed the Chinese army kidnapped the five villagers who may have got close to a disputed border point, Sera 7, on a hunting expedition. The area where the abduction took place falls within Rijiju’s parliamentary constituency of Arunachal West. His tweet came amid a demand from the influential All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (Aapsu) for the government to ensure the safe release of the five. Aapsu general secretary Tobom Dai told The Telegraph: “The state government and central government should ensure safe release of all the civilians who have been taken captive.” The incident comes amid tensions on the India-China border in eastern Ladakh. Army sources said the “situation was normal” along the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal. Arunachal’s 1,080km border with China is porous and disputed. China claims the frontier state is part of its territory of South Tibet. Arunachal home minister Bamang Felix told this newspaper that a police team had gone to the spot and that it would take a few days to get a clear picture. “Five boys have reportedly gone missing and we are concerned about their safety. Our team is looking into it and will return after two-three days,” Felix said. “But wherever they (the youths) are, they should be safe. Nobody has lodged any missing (person) complaint so far.” Sources said that people from the area in the Nacho (administrative) circle where the alleged abduction happened often went to the mountainous and forested border to hunt or fish, or to look for medicinal plants. They said the village where the five youths lived was about 3km from the Nacho township and 120km from district headquarters Daparijo. The Nacho circle has 20 to 25 villages and a population of around 5,000. From the Nacho township, it takes two or three days to reach some villages within the Nacho circle while the trek to the LAC takes 10 to 12 days. “It (the Nacho circle) is a very far-flung area; there’s no network connectivity and the roads are in a shambles,” Aapsu leader Dai said. “Our unit in the district has asked some of its members to go to Nacho and collect exact information, but it will take two to three days for them to relay back the information.” Dai said the repeated incidents involving the Chinese army and people living near the border were “acts of aggression” that undermined peaceful coexistence.Indian Army sources said the Chinese had captured a 21-year-old man, Togley Singkam, from the Nacho circle on March 19 and released him on April 7 after negotiations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
07-09-2020||North East||New regional party taking shape in Assam||Assam could witness the birth of a “strong and inclusive” regional political party this month. The ball for the formation of the regional alternative, backed by the two leading youth organisations of the state — All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) — will be set rolling by September 10 or 11. The AASU and the AJYCP will on either of these dates, everything remaining equal, will make public the 45-page report of the 16-member advisory committee they had set up on August 19 to “suggest measures and the mechanism for their implementation” for “securing” the future of Assam and the Assamese people. The 16-member Assam Paramarshadata Committee (advisory committee) has eminent citizens such as former Asam Sahitya Sabha president Nagen Saikia and author Arup Kumar Dutta as advisers. The committee met twice in Guwahati with some members participating in discussions online. Though the content of the report has not been disclosed, those in the know told The Telegraph that the committee has suggested a strong and inclusive regional political force. “We are looking at a September launch for this regional political force. Talks with like-minded organisations/parties for pre-poll alliance, constitution and organisational base will be ready by December so that it could have at least have 3 months at its disposal to campaign vigorously for a change in the 2021 Assembly polls,” one of those in the know said. According to them, the party will be trying to accommodate all regional forces and make it as broad based as possible to take on the might of the ruling BJP-led coalition government which is not only well entrenched but has continued with its outreach activities despite the Covid-19 pandemic. “There will be space for everyone, for the indigenous groups as well as those who came from other parts of the country. If Assam can accommodate Bangladeshis who came till 1971, it can definitely accommodate those who came from other parts of India but made Assam their home in the true sense. Ours will be an inclusive party in the true sense,” one of them said. The need for an inclusive and joint effort to unseat the ruling dispensation has been highlighted at various fora since the idea of a regional front started doing the rounds during the peak of the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in November. The AASU and the AJYCP leaders have said the situation triggered by the CAA, the decades of “injustice” meted out to the people of Assam by both the central and state governments and the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) “losing its regional character” are the factors driving the need for a new regional party. The AGP, an offshoot of the six-year-long AASU-led Assam Movement against influx, is seen by those pushing for a regional party as the “B team of the BJP”. The “imposition” of the CAA by the Centre in January despite widespread protests strengthened the hands of those pushing for a strong regional front. The CAA, which provides citizenship to non-Muslims who have entered India from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan till December 2014, is seen as threat to Assamese culture and identity. It is also considered to violate the 1985 Assam Accord, an outcome of the Assam Movement, which had fixed March 24, 1971, as the cut-off date for the detection and deportation of illegal foreigners. The AASU, the AJYCP and the Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) were at the forefront of the anti-CAA movement. Among the political parties, the Congress too has been vehemently opposed to the CAA within and outside Parliament. On Thursday, Assam PCC president Ripun Bora said in Guwahati that they will withdraw all cases against anti-CAA activists if they come to power in 2021. The Congress has also made public its interest in aligning with all anti-CAA and anti-BJP forces. KMSS president Bhasco De Saikia told this newspaper that though it has announced the launch of a party, it was open to an alliance of regional and anti-BJP forces. The AASU, the AJYCP or the KMSS will remain apolitical even if they back the formation of a “strong and inclusive” regional force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
07-09-2020||North East||IPS officer with medical background treats people||A young IPS officer is winning hearts in Assam by treating people during the coronavirus pandemic, thanks to his medical background. Barpeta superintendent of police (SP) Robin Kumar is performing the dual duties of a corona warrior — a police officer and a doctor — as the district is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases. Kumar, a 2013 batch IPS officer, is a specialist in medicine (MBBS, MD) which has helped him respond to the call of duty and provide treatment to the needy during the ongoing medical emergency. Besides heading the district’s police department, Kumar is at present running a 50-bedded Covid care centre with four ICUs in Barpeta Police Reserve for police personnel and their families and is also planning to hold health camps for women and elderly people. “I am fortunate to dedicate myself in both the roles of district police chief and a doctor. It gives me immense satisfaction,” Kumar told PTI over phone. The SP has also held a health camp for those police personnel who are 50 years or above in Barpeta. After joining Assam Police, Kumar, a native of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, first organised a health check-up camp at Tezpur during his previous posting in Sonitpur district a few years ago. “When the pandemic struck, I took permission of Assam DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta to open a Covid care centre for the police personnel in Barpeta. Now, we are running the centre smoothly,” he said. The Covid care centre has four ICUs, 32 general beds and 14 after care beds. Kumar’s service earned laurels from different quarters. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal described the SP’s act as “great gesture of service to humanity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-46
