10-09-2020||North East||Arunachal kin ‘relieved’||The family members of the five youths from Arunachal Pradesh who had “inadvertently crossed over” to the Chinese side on September 2 are a “little relieved” after receiving the news that they are in the neighbouring country but have cautioned that the “job is only half done”. The affected families met at Daparijo, the district headquarters about 120km from the remote Nacho circle from where they hail, on Wednesday evening to discuss their course of action, Prakash Ringling, the elder brother of 16-year-old Prasat who is among those who had strayed into the Chinese side from Upper Subansiri district, said. The frontier state shares a 1,080km border with China, which claims Arunachal Pradesh to be an extension of South Tibet. The border dispute had led to the 1962 India-China war. Upper Subansiri was one of the districts affected in the month-long war. “Thoda sukoon mila kal sham ko after Kiren ji’s tweet…. But unko ghar jaldi lana hain (We felt a little relieved after Union minister Kiren Rijiju’s tweet. But they have to be brought back home soon). The job is only half done,” Prakash, a final-year degree student who lives with three of his six brothers at district headquarters Daparijo, told The Telegraph after the meeting attended by two members from each family and a few friends. Rijiju, the Arunachal West MP, had on Tuesday evening tweeted about the Chinese People’s Liberation Army confirming that the five missing youths “have been found by their side”. The defence PRO later said the youths had “inadvertently crossed over to the other side on September 2”. The families of the youths have approached the local MLA and state minister Nakat Nalo to take forward the process of getting them released. “We have submitted a memorandum to the DC (district commissioner), seeking help. We are now depending on our MLA to take the process forward with the government and the army because it is an issue between two countries now,” Prakash said. Media reports had initially claimed that the Chinese army had kidnapped the five youths who might have got close to a disputed border point, Sera 7, during a hunting expedition, adding to the growing tension back home because of the standoff between the two neighbours in Ladakh. Prakash said he had last met Prasat, a Class XI student, at their Nacho home on August 19 before the younger sibling left with his six friends on the hunting expedition. “I had told him the night before his departure to be careful because of the ongoing standoff with China. Two of their friends, who were behind the five, said they lost track of the five at the Tungdara Pass near the border. Thinking they may have been detained, the two returned home as soon as possible. The weather had deteriorated the day they went missing,” Prakash said. According to Prakash, it is difficult to know where the border is located because it is “porous and undemarcated”. All the youths belong to the Tagin community and are between 16 and 25 years old. “Most boys from the Nacho circle go on hunting trips. It is a kind of tradition. The local people depend on forest produce such as medicinal plants for their livelihood because surviving alone on jhum (shifting) cultivation is not possible. I have myself made four-five trips, each taking about 10-12 days or more. It is a very difficult trek through mountains and thick forests,” Prakash said. Prakash’s family hails from Ringling village, about 2km from Nacho. “There are about 150 people in our village but we have another house in Nacho. The other boys also live in Nacho because life is hard in the villages of the Nacho circle, hard in the bordering areas,” he said. The families are hoping the youths will be released soon just like 21-year-old Togley Singkam, who had been detained by the PLA from March 19 to April 7 when he had gone to collect medicinal plants. The Indian Army had negotiated his release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-45
10-09-2020||North East||Arunachal pins hope on connectivity promise||Arunachal Pradesh is desperately hoping that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on Independence Day to connect every village (over 6 lakh) in the country through high-speed Internet using fibre optic cables within 1,000 days turns into reality. The reasons are many. The frontier state “not only suffers” from lack of or poor roads in most areas but also unreliable or no telecom connectivity, especially in villages and bordering areas. The Telegraph had on Monday reported on the poor infrastructure in the border areas which came into spotlight after the alleged abduction of five youths by Chinese troops from Upper Subansiri district last Friday. BSNL general manager Arung Siram told this newspaper that 50 per cent of the state’s area does not possess telecom facilities, including over 80 per cent of the villages along the borders. Arunachal Pradesh, the largest state in the Northeast, has an area of 83,743sqkm with a population of 12.6 lakh (2012) spread over 25 districts. Of these, 12 districts share borders with China, three with Myanmar and two share boundary with Bhutan. The length of the border with China is 1,080km, porous and disputed. China claims the state as part of South Tibet. The reasons for reliable and robust connectivity are many, according to locals. But the need for good roads and proper telecom connectivity have been accentuated during the Covid-19 pandemic and the growing border tension with China in eastern Ladakh. Strong communication network would help the administration in carrying out their work smoothly and promptly, students would benefit by being able to access online study material or attend online classes and would provide timely help for the ailing. It will also help share information and plan better in the event of any conflict, something which was missing during the 1962 Chinese aggression, locals said. The districts bordering China include Tawang, East Kameng, West Kameng, Kurung Kumey, Kra Daadi, Upper Subansiri, Shi Yomi, Upper Siang, Dibang Valley, Anjaw and Lower Dibang Valley. Tawang and West Kameng share border with Bhutan and Anjaw, Changlang, Tirap and Longding with Myanmar. Lardik Kare, from Upper Subansiri’s Nacho circle and secretary general of Tagin Council Society, said: “We hope Modiji ensures that the connectivity deadline is met. We suffer from lack of basic facilities, roads and telecom, which are important from security, health and education angles. Execution is the key here.” The Line of Actual Control is a 10 to 12 days’ trek from Nacho, and has no telecom facilities. All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union (AAPSU) general secretary Tobom Dai said the Centre needs to “walk the talk” because its attitude towards the frontier state seems indifferent. “We feel sad because we are still struggling for basic facilities even after over 7 decades of Independence. Unlike some other states, ours is peaceful border state but we have not got our dues. Announcements are fine but the need of the hour is implementation. We hope strategic states like ours get priority, more so due to the changing geopolitical situation,” Dai said. Siram said the BSNL and the army have started making joint efforts in improving communication in those districts where the army has or is going to have optical fibre connectivity like Anjaw, Dibang Valley, Shi Yomi, Upper Siang, Upper Subansiri, Tawang and West Kameng. Tawang and Bomdila have 2G and 3G mobile connectivity, barring the village areas. But still we need to improve and upgrade the services for higher Internet speed and better coverage of areas, Siram said. He also said one reason for low penetration of telecom facility is the difficult terrain, lack of proper road connectivity, unavailability of electricity supply and difficulties in establishing optical fibre network. “The ongoing road widening work in various parts of Arunachal Pradesh has damaged the existing cables. It’s causing a huge disturbance to the BSNL network. It’s not possible to restore and relay the optical fibre cable till the road widening work gets completed,” Siram said. The senior BSNL official said there was a need to extend robust communication facility upto the remote village level, referring to Vijoynagar, bordering Myanmar, which got mobile connectivity last month. “We hope to connect more such remote areas with all-round support,” Siram said. For a frontier state, its importance can never be overstated. “Villagers are also the natural guards of the border areas and with proper communication network, the information can be immediately passed on to the authority concerned,” said Kare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-45
