19-09-2020||North East||Power struggle in Manipur NPP||The National People’s Party (NPP) unit of Manipur is headed for a split, according to its expelled president Thangminlien Kipgen. Kipgen, who was expelled by NPP national president and Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K. Sangma on August 26 for allegedly going ahead with the Manipur unit’s election in violation of party constitution, told The Telegraph on Friday that it is in the process of splitting. “There is an elected president and they have nominated an interim president (Manipur tribal affairs minister N. Kayisii),” said Kipgen. There are also two party offices in state capital Imphal, with the new one launched by Conrad on September 12. A former MLA and minister “having” influence in Manipur politics, Kipgen, 67, has responded by expelling Kayisii and then deputy chief minister Yumnam Joykumar Singh, for six years for allegedly indulging in anti-party activities, taking the fight to the national leadership which has expelled him and put in his place an interim president for smooth functioning of the state unit. The NPP’s Manipur unit last hit the headlines in June when four party MLAs, all ministers in the N. Biren Singh-led coalition government, made an attempt to unseat the ruling dispensation along with the Opposition Congress just before the Rajya Sabha polls on June 19. The NPP state unit had “backed” the decision of the MLAs to pull out. They, however, returned to the government fold after meetings with the central leadership of the NPP and the BJP. The four ministers are now with the NPP national leadership. Kipgen, while justifying his action was carried out according to the party’s constitution, is trying to turn the battle for the state unit as a battle to protect the NPP’s legacy. “The NPP president (Conrad) is trying to project his father, former Lok Sabha Speaker late P.A. Sangma, as a founder of the party. He is trying to usurp the NPP’s legacy. This is unacceptable to us and we will not tolerate,” he said. NPP sources said that Kipgen is likely to move the Assembly Speaker against Kayisii and Joykumar requesting to declare them as unattached members. They said that leading state organisations could support Kipgen in his fight to protect the NPP’s legacy. According to Kipgen, the NPP was founded in 1989 by late K. Brajamohan Dev Sharma. It had two MLAs in 1990, one in 1995, three in 2007, none in 2012 and four in 2017. According to Kipgen, Sangma enrolled into the NPP in 2012 and was elected its national president on September 15, 2012. Kipgen said in a statement on September 9 that Conrad was trying to own the NPP by projecting his father as its founder by unscrupulous means. “Now it seems the NPP is the property of Conrad which is unfortunate and a mockery of the people of Manipur as a whole,” Kipgen said. Kipgen said his term as president was to end August 26 and not in April as claimed by Sangma. He said he was issued a showcause notice on August 20 directing him to respond within 15 days but “was expelled unconstitutionally on August 24”. He also said that there is no provision for an interim president in the party constitution and the letter appointing Kayisii was not issued on the NPP letterhead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
19-09-2020||North East||NSCN-IM firm on flag, statute||A joint council meeting of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) on Friday unanimously adopted a resolution reiterating its stand that the Naga “national flag” and Yehzabo (constitution) “must form a part” of the political solution “in order to qualify” it as “honourable and acceptable”. The meeting also resolved that the Centre and the outfit “must” seek a final pact based on the Framework Agreement of August 3, 2015, an NSCN (I-M) statement said. In his speech on “Naga Independence Day” held on August 14, NSCN (I-M) general secretary Th. Muivah had said the Framework Agreement recognises the sovereignty of the Nagas and “inclusive peaceful coexistence of the two entities sharing sovereign power”. “Coexistence of the two entities... means the two peoples and nations will coexist,” Muivah said. The NSCN (I-M) demand for a separate flag and constitution is proving to be a major hurdle to finalising a solution, according to those familiar with the talks. However, sources indicated both the outfit and the Centre were trying to resolve the twin issues. While a senior Intelligence Bureau team is said to have concluded its talks with the NSCN leadership in Delhi, more clarity is expected once the political-level dialogue takes off, sources said. The joint council meeting at the outfit’s council headquarters at Hebron near Dimapur deliberated on the “historical and political rights” of the Naga people and how the Naga political talks have reached this far, the statement said. The council meeting was held amid reports that the Centre “intends” to conclude talks for a final solution in September. Almost all leading Naga organisations are also holding regular meetings and appealing for an “inclusive, amicable and honourable solution” to end the longest armed resistance in Southeast Asia. The ceasefire started in 1997. The Opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF) recently held talks with the Naga national political groups (NNPGs), civil society organisations and Central Nagaland Tribes Council (CNTC) on the Naga issue and the road ahead. According to the NPF, the CNTC has agreed to support the August 11 stand of the 14 apex Naga tribal hohos of a solution based on the Framework Agreement and the agreed positions of the Centre, NSCN (I-M) and the working committee of the NNPGs, comprising seven organisations, involved in simultaneous talks on arriving at an honourable solution. After a meeting with the interlocutor and Nagaland governor R.N. Ravi in Dimapur last Friday, the NNPGs said the Centre was working on a solution acceptable to all. While the NNPGs have backed Ravi to resolve the Naga problem, the NSCN (I-M) wanted him out of the talks for allegedly misinterpreting the Framework Agreement to which he is also a signatory, among others, pushing the dialogue to the edge. But talks with the IB team seems to have put the process back on track, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
19-09-2020||North East||Clause 6 delay fuels resentment in Assam||The Centre’s revelation in Parliament that the Clause 6 report is still with Dispur is set to trigger a fresh wave of protests by the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act brigade against the BJP-led state and central governments for alleged inaction and insincerity while dealing with issues pertaining to Assam. These protests could only intensify in the run-up to next year’s Assembly polls because the anti-CAA brigade are working on getting all regional forces under one umbrella to unseat the ruling BJP. On Wednesday, in a written response to four queries from Maharashtra Rajya Sabha member Sambhaji Chhatrapati on the status of the Clause 6 report and its implementation, Union minister of state for home G. Kishan Reddy said: “The high-level committee constituted by the ministry of home affairs on Clause 6 of Assam Accord has submitted its report to the government of Assam and its recommendations are under examination of the state government.” AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya tweeted on Thursday, “Planned inaction & reluctance of @mygovindia in implementing Clause VI Committee Report of #AssamAccord is clear. Centre’s claim that @mygovassam is yet to forward report shows hypocrisy & insincerity. Demand safeguard as enshrined in Report alongside fulfilment of PM & HM’s promise.” Bhattacharjya was part of the 14-member committee, led by Justice (retired) Biplab Kumar Sarma, constituted by the ministry of home affairs in July 2019 to suggest measures on how to implement Clause 6 within six months. The committee submitted its report to Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal in presence of his cabinet colleagues on February 25 this year after it could not get an audience with home minister Amit Shah, something which did not go down well with the panel members. However, on August 12, All Assam Students Union president Dipanka Nath, general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi and Bhattacharjya made the report public since the government was allegedly sitting on it for five months and there was “public demand” to know about the report and its recommendations. Bhattacharjya told The Telegraph that he wants Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Shah to honour their “ public commitment” vis-à-vis the Clause 6 report. “The Centre’s response reflects its insincerity. The report has not reached the Centre even after six months. The Prime Minister had made a public commitment to implement the recommendations after getting the report. The home minister made a commitment in Parliament to implement the report in toto. We want them to implement the recommendations and warn the government against playing with the report,” Bhattacharjya said. He said that Clause 6 is the right of the Assamese people and it has got nothing to do with the CAA which came into effect in January. According to the 1985 Assam Accord, a culmination of the six-year-long movement against influx, the cut-off date for detection and deportation of illegal foreigners is March 24, 1971. The CAA provides Indian citizenship to non-Muslims who entered from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan till December 2014. The anti-CAA protesters feel that the Act is a threat to the identity and culture of the Assamese people. “We have taken the burden of illegal foreigners till 1971 for which we got Clause 6. We won’t accept any more burden. That should be very clear,” Bhattacharjya said. AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi and his Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) counterpart Palash Changmai told this newspaper that the government has left them with no option but to hit the streets to protest against the insincerity and speedy implementation of the Clause 6 report. “We stand vindicated in our decision to release the report. The report is still with Dispur after six months. We will not stay silent,” Gogoi said. Changmai, like Gogoi, said that the government formed the Clause 6 committee to curb the anti-CAA protests which claimed five lives in the state in December last year. “The BJP government is not at all serious about the issues of Assam and the Northeast. It has compelled us to hit the streets seeking implementation of the Clause 6 report recommendations,” Changmai said. Both the AASU and the AJYCP, which have been at the forefront of the anti-CAA movement, are backing the newly-formed Assam Jatiya Parishad, a regional political party formed to work for the interest of the Assamese people, by unseating the BJP in the 2021 Assembly polls. The alleged inaction has provided the new party the right ammunition to attack the BJP-led government’s insincerity. “We have no option but to take the issue to the people. Without democratic protests, our voices are not heard,” Changmai said. BJP leaders had criticised the release of the report because the committee had given two years’ time to implement its recommendations which included defining an Assamese person who has been living in Assam prior to January 1, 1951, and 80-100 per cent reservation of seats from Assam in Parliament, Assembly and local bodies for Assamese candidates, among others. BJP insiders said these recommendations would not be easy to implement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
