23-09-2020||North East||PM prod to IIT-G on disaster study ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged IIT Guwahati to establish a centre for disaster management and risk reduction so that it can provide expertise in not only dealing with the disasters in the region but also turn these disasters into opportunities. Addressing the 22nd convocation of the premier institute of the Northeast on Tuesday in virtual mode, Modi said the region was full of possibilities but also faces disasters, natural and man-inflicted, such as flood, erosion and industrial mishaps. Appreciating IIT Guwahati, established in 1994, for its contribution in checking the spread of Covid-19 and being the first IIT to have introduced a two-year research program on e-mobility and for leading the integration of science and engineering in all BTech courses, Modi issued the appeal. “I request IIT Guwahati to start a Centre for Disaster Management and Risk Reduction. The Centre should provide expertise to deal with disasters in the region and also turn these into opportunities. I also request IIT Guwahati to start a Centre for promotion of Indian Culture,” the Prime Minister said. Modi’s plea to establish the disaster management centre is not without reason, said officials. Floods and erosion are taking a heavy toll in the region. Most state governments spent their time in tackling these disasters. This year floods have claimed 117 lives in Assam since May 22, affecting 30 of the 33 districts. Erosion, on the other hand, has washed away about 8,000sqkm of the state’s total geographical area of 78,438sqkm since 1950, affecting around 10 lakh people so far. “Amid flood and erosion, Assam has had industrial disasters such as the May 27 gas well blowout in Baghjan, affecting thousands of locals as well as the ecology. The situation in Baghjan has not yet been permanently resolved. As such, local expertise to deal with such recurring situations is welcome,” said an official. As many as 1,803 students received their degrees through the online mode, including 300 PhDs at the convocation. Modi urged the students to think about how their research can be linked to the possibilities of development of the Northeast. Urging the youth to be future ready and future fit because their dreams and aspirations will shape the future of India, Modi said the Northeast region is the centre for India’s Act East Policy and gateway to its relations with Southeast Asia. “The mainstay of relations with these countries have been culture, commerce, connectivity and capacity. Education is going to be another new medium of engagement and IIT Guwahati can become its major centre. This will also give the northeast a new identity and new opportunities will also arise here,” the Prime Minister said, while mentioning the government’s efforts to develop infrastructure in the region. Union minister for education Ramesh Pokhriyal, Sanjay Dhotre, Union minister of state for education, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and IIT Guwahati director T.G. Sitharam addressed the convocation. Modi also used the convocation to highlight the benefits of the National Education Policy 2020 aimed at “meeting the needs of the 21st century and to make India a global leader in science and technology”. “The NEP 2020 has been made multi-disciplinary and offers flexibility of choosing various courses and allows multiple entry and exit points. It also proposes a National Research Foundation for better coordination with all funding agencies for research and funds for all disciplines, be it science or humanities. The NEP allows foreign universities to set up their offshore campuses in India, which would give global exposure to Indian students,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
23-09-2020||North East||NGT notice on OIL projects in Tinsukia district||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change to respond within six weeks to a plea challenging its April 9 approval to Oil India Ltd’s proposed onshore oil and gas development drilling and production projects in Mechaki area in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district. The petition filed by two conservationists — Bimal Gogoi and Mridu Paban Phukon — claimed that the clearance was accorded in violation of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, 2006. The NGT order was passed by a bench comprising Justice S.P. Wangdi and expert member Nagin Nanda on Thursday. The petition said cumulative impact assessment was not carried out even though the proposed project is located close to several other existing projects of oil and gas as well as hydrocarbon exploration and the “entire landscape is rich in biodiversity and is highly ecologically sensitive”, among others. The Mechaki block is located in close proximity to the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, the Maguri-Motapung wetland and is part of the Dehing Patkai elephant reserve. The Maguri wetland is in Baghjan where a gas well blowout on May 27 is yet to be capped by Oil India Ltd. The blowout has affected over 8,000 locals, besides the local ecology. The next hearing is on November 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
23-09-2020||North East||Bid to vet Clause 6 panel report welcomed||A senior member of the Clause 6 Committee has not only welcomed the Centre’s decision to get the panel report examined by legal experts but has also mooted the names of three legal luminaries for the job. Nilay Dutta, senior advocate and advocate-general of Arunachal Pradesh, who was part of the 14-member Clause 6 committee set up by the ministry of home affairs last year, told The Telegraph on Tuesday that he welcomed the decision to get the report examined by legal experts but wanted it to be a time-bound process. “There is finally some movement on the report front after seven months. Der aaye par durust aaye (better late than never) but I hope it doesn’t take another seven months to review the report. Would be happy if the committee is named within a week and the report submitted within a month. The day the report was released by the AASU, I had mooted that let there be a debate. It is happening now,” Dutta said. Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord, an outcome of the six-year-old Assam Movement against illegal foreigners, provides for constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards “to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people”. The Clause 6 committee submitted its report to the state government on February 25 after “failing” to get an audience with Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi. However, three members of the All Assam Students’ Union, also members of the committee,  made the report public on August 12 since the government was allegedly sitting on it for about six months. Dutta, who had participated online in the press meet convened to release the report, wanted the report to be made public “in the interest of transparency and for an informed discussion on the actual recommendations made therein”. Dutta also named few legal eagles who could be part of the proposed committee to examine the Clause 6 report. “My panel would include Justice M.K. Sharma, former Chief Justice of India Justice Ranjan Gogoi and Justice Amitava Roy, all former distinguished Supreme Court Justices,” Dutta said. The trio hail from Assam and are well-known names in India’s legal circle. According to Dutta, the committee’s recommendations such as reservation of seats in Parliament and Assembly and jobs in government sectors will need constitutional amendments but protection of land rights and language and culture can be carried out by the state government. Dutta’s reaction comes at a time when senior Supreme Court advocate Upamanyu Hazarika and AASU general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi, among others, countered the Centre’s move, accusing the government of lacking in sincerity while dealing with issues affecting Assam. Assam cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said Shah wanted the state government to get the report examined by constitutional experts since it was suggested by the committee to avoid complications in the future. Hazarika, criticising the move, said, “The Clause 6 committee was chaired by Gauhati High Court Justice (retired) Biplab Kumar Sarma, while incumbent advocate-general of Assam, Ramesh Chandra Borpatragohain, and the advocate-general of Arunachal Pradesh, Nilay Dutta, were members of the committee. Are they not legal experts? Does the state government not consider its own advocate-general, a constitutional functionary, to be a legal expert?” The need for further legal advice can only be on the mode of implementation of the report and that too from someone like the attorney-general of India, if at all, Hazarika added. “Had the government been sincere, it would have given a timeframe for this expert consultation to be completed just like it had given the committee six months to submit the report,” Hazarika said. Lurinjyoti said getting the report vetted by legal experts named by the state government was not there in the terms of reference. The report was to be submitted to the ministry of home affairs which would have  taken necessary action for its implementation. “After we unilaterally released the report in August they are coming up with all kinds of ploy to delay the process. The move to get it examined by legal experts is unfair to the legal experts in the committee. It is an insult to them. The committee was formed to ease pressure generated by the anti-CAA movement in the state last year, not to protect our rights,” Gogoi said. On the NRC issue, Sarma said that the Centre would help the state government in the Supreme Court if it moves for sample re-verification — 20 per cent in border districts and 10 per cent in remaining districts — of the final NRC published on August 31, 2019. The NRC, a register of Indian citizens, had included 31,121,004 applicants out of the 33,027,661 who had applied in 2015. Hazarika countered the move to approach the apex court too, saying there was no need to approach the Supreme Court again for re-verification, as after publication of the final list on 31 August, 2019, the power to re-verify and correct entries in the NRC vests in the central government, Registrar-General of India or their delegate, in terms of rules framed in 2003 under the Citizenship Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-44
