24-09-2020||North East||Congress and BJP MPs call for mills’ revival||The Opposition Congress and ruling BJP MPs from Assam are on the same page on reviving the two defunct paper mills in the state but affected employees, while welcoming their concern, said they wanted their dues and immediate revival of the units. Assam PCC president and Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora raised the plight of the employees and revival of the mills on September 15 in the Upper House, while BJP MP Rajdeep Roy tried to attract the attention of the Centre to the defunct mills and its affected employees on Tuesday in the Lok Sabha. Around 6,000 permanent and contractual employees of Cachar Paper Mill at Panchgram in Barak Valley’s Hailakandi district and Nagaon Paper Mill at Jagiroad in central Assam’s Morigaon district have been affected after they closed down in October 2015 and March 2017 respectively. Not only the employees of the two Hindustan Paper Corporation Limited units have not got their salaries for the past 44 and 42 months respectively but also 71 of them have died, of whom three ended their lives, allegedly because of trauma and ailments they suffered after they stopped receiving salaries. There have been a series of protests, memoranda submitted for revival of the mills and clearing of their salary dues and repeated assurances from both governments but to no avail, according to union leaders. Bora said in the Upper House that the government should promptly act on its commitment to revive the mills, which were profit-making before their closure, and also clear their dues. He said the livelihoods of about 2 lakh people directly or indirectly dependent on the two mills have been affected. Roy, who is from Barak Valley, highlighted the plight of the employees and the impact of the mills on them and over 1 lakh bamboo growers of the region. Drawing the attention of the Prime Minister and the industry minister, he urged the government to clear the employees’ dues in two to three instalments and suggested revival of the mills by roping in a private party or through the public-private partnership (PPP) mode. He also blamed a corrupt section of the mills for their closure. The concern of the employees are not without reasons because the liquidator for the HPC, Kuldeep Verma, had on September 14 submitted a fresh plea in the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking liquidation of the mills because it would be in the “interest of all stakeholders” for the company’s assets to be liquidated so as to “maximize the realization for distribution among the stakeholders as per law”. The plea contended that past efforts have failed. The Assam industry department had on September 10 in a letter to the HPC’s liquidator requested him to seek a month’s time from the NCLT since chief minister Sarbananda sonowal was seriously pursuing the issue of reviving the paper mills with the Centre. The next NCLT hearing is on October 7. Manabendra Chakraborty, president of the Joint Action Committee of Recognised Unions (JACRU) of the two mills, Dipak Chandra Nath, general secretary of the Cachar Paper Mill Officers and Supervisors’ Association, and Azizur Rahman Mazumder, general secretary of Cachar Paper Project Workers and Employees’ Union, told the media they appreciated the concern of the two MPs but wanted the Centre to clear their dues and save the two mills from liquidation by initiating its revival. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in a poll rally at Kali Nagar (near the Cachar Paper Mill in Hailakandi district) on March 27, 2016, promised the revival of the mill. Time has come for the Centre to act and save the mills and their employees,” Chakraborty said. He said they also wanted all hard-earned dues to be released in one go and not in instalments. “We also want to know where did the Rs 4,141 crore released to the mills between 2014-2018 go? This was revealed in a reply on July 9, 2019, in Parliament. If we get this money, the mills can be revived,” Chakraborty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
24-09-2020||North East||Actor lends help to bamboo artisans from Tripura ||Actor Manoj Bajpayee, who had highlighted the plight of migrant workers during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, has now extended technical and financial support to artisans from Tripura villages engaged in making bamboo water bottles through an organisation he is actively involved with. Bajpayee in an Instagram post on World Bamboo Day on September 18 announced that a fifth livelihood project under the Shramik Sammaan initiative “is taking shape” at Lembuchera village in Tripura’s West district, around 10km from state capital Agartala. Tripura’s bamboo bottles had first hit the headlines when actor Raveena Tandon had placed an order for a bottle in June and backed the initiative for providing livelihood options to locals on Twitter. Bajpayee said a group of 20 people are being trained in making “trendy eco-friendly water bottles from bamboo which is found in plenty in the state” and that the proposed unit could boost their economic condition by creating additional employment opportunities. Shramik Sammaan, an initiative to generate livelihood and employment for migrant worker friends, has tied up with an Agartala-based organisation Youth For Integration. Working with the weaker sections, the YFI will mentor the project and help in marketing the “uber cool accessory”, Bajpayee said, urging all to donate for this project for the tribal artisans from Tripura. YFI president Bibhuti Debbarma told The Telegraph that they have already completed the initial training of 30 boys and girls from Lembuchera. The next batch will be from Barmura Hills, an hour’s drive from Agartala, whose training will start in October under a team from Shramik Samman. Shramik Sammaan will be supporting 75 livelihood projects across the country within a year, the move reflecting Bajpayee’s deep “gaon” (village) connection, Debbarma said. He said they will require around Rs 60,000 to train a group of 30 youths for 10 days, including providing them equipment. He also said they have received two orders for 100 bottles from Assam, of which they have delivered 45, and another for four bottles from Kanpur. “We are very grateful to Manoj ji for supporting us. It is a dream come true. We hope more celebrities become part of such livelihood projects. From what I could gather Manoj ji is very attached to his native village in Bihar. He knows the plight of migrants and weaker sections, so he is trying to help in his own way. His gaon connection is very strong. It is also a huge boost to the vocal for local initiative,” Debbarma said. Bajpayee has been in the news for bringing the focus back on the lakhs of migrants walking home during the lockdown through a Bhojpuri rap, Bambai Main Ka Ba, which he has sung and performed. The video has garnered over 5.6 million views on YouTube since its release two weeks back. Debbarma also thanked the Forest Research Centre for Livelihood Extension, Agartala, a central government agency where the training is being held and its director Pawan Kaushik for being actively involved in training and promoting bamboo-based products, including the bottles that cost Rs 600 per piece. The Tripura government is betting big on the bamboo industry to promote livelihood options through the Tripura Rehabilitation Plantation Corporation (TRPC) involving bamboo products such as furniture, bottles, straw and jewellery. The latest addition is bamboo cookies, which was launched on World Bamboo Day by Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb. Made from muli bamboo, the cookies are “delicious, nutritious and beneficial” for those having diabetes and cancer, Deb said. Bamboo shoot is also very popular in the Northeast because of its taste and health benefits. Besides TRPC, Japan International Cooperation Agency (Jica) and Indo-German Development Cooperation are also promoting bamboo cultivation and products in Tripura, which is working on adding about 15,000 hectares under bamboo cultivation. As many 21 species of bamboo are found in Tripura. Demand for bamboo bottles shot up after prices soared in exporting countries such as China, Vietnam, Myanmar and Japan, sources said, adding there are enquiries from metro cities and also from the US and European countries. “We need to build capacity and produce quality products to cash in on the demand. Each bottle now costs Rs 600 and an expert artisan can churn out six bottles a day,” Debbarma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
24-09-2020||North East||Madhav ‘backs’ Sonowal for CM in 2021||BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav has said that he is confident Assam will “return” Sarbananda Sonowal and his team with a “massive” mandate in 2021, hinting at his continuance as the chief minister after next year’s Assembly polls. Madhav made the comment at a party function to mark the 70th birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Guwahati last week. Madhav said that just as the masses voted back the Modi government with a massive mandate in the Centre, the people of Assam would also return Sonowal and his team with a massive mandate because of the good governance provided by them since assuming power in 2016. Madhav’s endorsement of Sonowal assumes significance because of a debate triggered by a comment made by state minister Pijush Hazarika in reaction to a query that cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma was capable of being the chief minister, giving rise to speculations about a likely change of guard after the polls. The answers, mostly evasive, of senior BJP leaders too didn’t help clear the air. Sarma said everyone in Assam is capable of becoming the chief minister while state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass said such decisions are taken by the party leadership. Others said that Sonowal was their chief minister. According to BJP insiders, Madhav taking the name of Sonowal instead of saying the BJP or our government will retain power is being seen as a huge hint of Sonowal continuing at the helm. “Some clarity is emerging but it still is a long way to go,” one of them added. The BJP has started preparing for the polls, setting a 100-seat target in a 126-member Assembly, 14 more than it had won along with its allies in 2016. The BJP had won 60 seats in 2016, while its allies Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) and Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) had won 12 and 14 seats respectively, to oust a well-entrenched ruling Congress. The BJP-led government has been announcing schemes after schemes since August besides laying foundation stones of new projects or inaugurating new ones despite the state being in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic which has affected 161,393 patients and claimed 586 lives till Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
