25-09-2020||North East||3 arrested over Assam police exam paper leak||Assam police on Wednesday arrested three persons in connection with Sunday’s question paper leak leading to the cancellation of the statewide recruitment examination for 597 posts of sub-inspectors in the Assam police. While CID sleuths arrested one Hirakjyoti Barua, a candidate who had allegedly collected the answersheet and had forwarded it on social media, the crime branch of the city police arrested Jugami Brahma and Kushal Das. The crime branch and the CID have conducted raids in the residence of P.K. Dutta, an ex-DIG and in many hotels owned by his family and several other places in and around the state capital, adds PTI. Three persons, including a woman employee of the state government, have been arrested and five others, one from the Special Task Force (STF), have been detained in connection with the leaking of the question paper for unarmed police sub-inspector's post, officials said on Wednesday. Four more have been picked up for questioning from a hotel here for questioning, sources said, adding the “picture will become clear by tomorrow”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
25-09-2020||North East||Manipur CM axes 6 ministers, inducts 5  ||Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh on Thursday evening carried out a shuffle of his council of ministers, dropping six ministers and inducting five, including two former Congress MLAs. The axed ministers included three from the BJP and two from allies National People’s Party and one from another ally LJP. The dropped BJP ministers are V. Hangkhalian, Nemcha Kipgen and Th. Radheshyam Singh and while those from the NPP are L. Jayantakumar and N. Kayisii. The size of the ministry is 12, including the chief minister. Ruling BJP leaders told The Telegraph that the party had no option but to carry out the reshuffle because of the intense infighting within the party and differences among ministers were taking its toll on both the government and the party. Manipur governor Najma Heptulla said in an official order that she had appointed sitting BJP MLAs Sorokhaibam Rajen, Thokchom Satyabrata Singh, Vungzagin Valte and two former MLAs Okram Henry Singh and Oinam Lukhoi Singh  as ministers. Henry and Lukhoi were among the five Congress MLAs who resigned and joined the BJP in Delhi on August 10. Henry is the nephew of Manipur CLP leader and former chief minister Okram Ibobi Singh. Manipur state BJP president S. Tikendra Singh told this newspaper that the reshuffle was carried out with the blessings of the Central leadership after thorough consultations. He also said that the remaining vacancy will be filled up after the byelections to be held in November-end. Both Tikendra and Biren Singh returned from Delhi with BJP national vice-president Bijaiyant Panda on Monday and initiated the reshuffle process. There was stiff opposition from the NPP with one of the ministers saying that they will pull out of the government if any of their four ministers is dropped. A senior BJP leader said: “The national leadership was apprised of the need for reshuffle or face electoral reverses in the ensuing bypolls and the next Assembly polls. To save the government and party from disintegration and ensure its return, the reshuffle was required.” He also said there was no threat to the Biren Singh government as it has the numbers. Manipur has a 60-member Assembly but the strength of the House is 47. “ The BJP on its own has 20 MLAs plus support of our allies,” one of the leaders said. Sources said that the move to reshuffle the ministry started soon after the Biren Singh government won the Rajya Sabha polls on June 19. Two days before the polls, the four ministers of the NPP had pulled out of the ministry along with five other MLAs, including three from the BJP, to reduce the government into a minority. After talks involving both the NPP and BJP leaders in Delhi, they soon returned with their ministership intact. “But it only complicated matters,” one of the BJP leaders said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
25-09-2020||North East||RTI plea seeks Clause 6 report status||A Guwahati-based advocate Santanu Borthakur has taken the RTI route to get information about what the state government did with the Clause 6 report after it was submitted to Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on February 25 by a committee constituted by the Union ministry of home affairs in July 2019. “I filed an application under the Right to Information (RTI) Act with the home and political department and the Assam Accord department on September 21 to know in details what steps have been taken by the government on the Clause 6 report between February 25 and September 20. I want to know things like meetings or discussions held, when these were held, their minutes — to clear our doubts,” Borthakur, who practises in Gauhati High Court, told The Telegraph on Wednesday evening. Clause 6 of the 1985 Assam Accord, an outcome of the six-year-long Assam Movement against illegal foreigners, provides for constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards “to protect, preserve and promote the cultural, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people”. Borthakur said he filed the RTI application because there were a lot of speculations surrounding an important document like the Clause 6 report, which most believe will secure the future of the state if implemented. “People are saying the government sat on the report for over six months while the Centre says in Parliament that the recommendations of the committee are under examination of the state government. All speculations will end, all doubts will be cleared once I receive my answers,” Borthakur said. The RTI application was filed by Borthakur on Monday, a day after cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told the media after a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah that the Centre wanted the state government to get the Clause 6 report examined by legal experts to avoid future complications. Critics said the bid to vet the Clause 6 report allegedly smacked of inaction and insincerity to resolve issues pertaining to the state. The Clause 6 committee had to submit its report to Sonowal after “failing” to get an audience with Shah in Delhi. However, three members of All Assam Students’ Union, also members of the committee, made the report public on August 12 since the government, according to them, was allegedly sitting on the report for about six months. AASU chief adviser Samujjal Bhattacharjya had tweeted after the Centre’s revelation: “Planned inaction & reluctance of @mygovindia in implementing ClauseVI Committee Report of #AssamAccord is clear. Centre’s claim that @mygovassam is yet to forward report shows hypocrisy & insincerity. Demand safeguard as enshrined in Report alongside fulfilment of PM & HM’s promise.” Congress MP from Assam, Gaurav Gogoi, raised the issue in the Lok Sabha on September 21, dubbing the government move to get the report examined by legal experts as a “delaying tactic” to postpone the consideration of the report. He also wanted the government to clarify when it will accept the committee’s report, a statement issued by his office said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-43
