06-05-2021||News||BJP in damage control mode after Uttar Pradesh rural polls setback||The setback it faced in its bastions of Ayodhya, Varanasi, Lucknow, and Gorakhpur in the panchayat polls has caused an alarm within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that the handling of the Covid-19 crisis could have an adverse impact on its prospects in the 2022 assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh.People aware of the matter said BJP MPs and legislators have now been asked to hit the ground running and help set up oxygen plants, increase hospital beds and procure medicines before embarking on any “self-promotion” on social media.India faces the worst surge of Covid-19 infections as the second wave of the pandemic has starved hospitals of life-saving medical oxygen and beds.The people cited above said a message has been relayed to the elected representatives to make amends following the feedback that party leaders have been missing from the ground as well as social media platforms.“There is a perception that while the BJP is keeping the focus on West Bengal [post-poll] violence, no one is interested in that. People are concerned about the pandemic, which has impacted almost everyone. While the government has been taking steps to help people, the ministers, MPs [members of parliament], and MLAs [members of legislative assembly] are not seen helping people and showing empathy,” said a party functionary, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Samajwadi Party says it won UP panchayat polls, will target assembly polls nextThe functionary said the elected representatives have been cautioned that before embarking on “image and perception” change, they will need to have proof of the work carried out.The BJP swept to power in Uttar Pradesh in 2017 by winning 320 seats in a 403-member House. Its government has been criticised for the poor management of healthcare services in the state, which has registered 13,798 Covid-19 deaths until Wednesday, as per the government data.Social media platforms have been flooded with videos of people struggling for oxygen. The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday said the deaths of Covid-19 patients due to lack of oxygen is a criminal act and “no less than genocide”.BJP functionaries from the state, who spoke to HT on condition of anonymity, said the panchayat elections are an indication of the dip in the government’s popularity and the mounting anger over the lapses in providing essential healthcare facilities and oxygen.“Though the panchayat elections are not fought on the party tickets, everyone knows which party has lent support to which candidate. And while we were expecting better results, the pandemic seems to have impacted people’s choices. I will not say that the results are a direct outcome of the second wave; there were some lapses even last year,” said a state party functionary, requesting anonymity.Also Read | 412,262 fresh Covid-19 cases take India’s tally to over 21 millionThe BJP faced losses even in its strongholds such as Ayodhya, Varanasi, Lucknow, and Gorakhpur. In Varanasi, the Samajwadi Party (SP) won 15 of the 40 wards, BJP and the BSP won seven each, and the Congress five. In Ayodhya, SP was the biggest gainer with 24 of the 40 wards. The BJP won six and BSP five wards. In Gorakhpur, the BJP, with 20 of the 68 wards, got just one more than the SP’s 19.The state government has maintained it has made arrangements to augment hospital beds. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated the Atal Bihari Vajpayee COVID-19 Hospital set up by Defence Research and Development Organisation in Lucknow on Wednesday.BJP functionaries, however, admit that the resources are stretched. “We have people knocking on our doors for help. The scale of the pandemic was not expected, but the lack of oxygen, even in hospitals has compounded the problems. People are angry,” said a legislator, who did not wish to be named. The legislator said he has been receiving distress calls from the rural areas as well, where infrastructure is woefully inadequate.Sandeep Shastri, vice-chancellor, Jagran Lakecity University, said there has been an element of drift in the BJP government’s performance since the 2019 general elections. “Ever since the second wave, there has been a serious discussion on the inability of the government to handle the crisis and the consequent effort to try and place blinkers on the crisis. There is a trend of being in a denial mode,” he said. On the impact that the government’s response will have on the upcoming elections, he said, “Local body elections are a by-product of particularly local specificities. But the Panchayat election trends reflect that there is disappointment among the voters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/bjp-in-damage-control-mode-after-uttar-pradesh-rural-polls-setback-101620277969647.html
06-05-2021||News||India’s farm sector to sustain momentum, but that’s not enough||India’s farm sector is forecast to maintain its remarkable expansion in 2021-22 on the back of robust output and prices despite the coronavirus pandemic. But that’s not enough to offset renewed pressure on growth in the gross domestic product (GDP) due to the shocks from a devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections, analysts say.A prime reason for the farm sector’s resilience has been ample rains in the past two years. The India Meteorological Department on April 16 forecast that rainfall during the June-to-September monsoon season during 2021 will be 98%. In the past two decades, India has had normal rainfall for three straight years only twice. Rainfall between 94-106% is considered “normal”.The monsoon is critical for summer crops because 60% of India’s net-sown area does not have access to irrigation and nearly half of Indians depend on a farm-based income.In 2020, when a harsh Covid-19 lockdown stoked a countrywide recession, the agriculture sector showed resilience to register positive growth. It grew 3.4% in the June 2020 quarter, when the rest of the economy shrunk -24.4%.All-India growth returned to positive territory in the December 2020 quarter, shows the latest available data, expanding 0.4%. Agriculture grew at 3.9% in the same quarter.Millions of farmers have worked hard to keep agricultural operations going throughout the pandemic, aided by an exemption of the farm sector from Covid-related restrictions.The pandemic has hit urban centres and smaller towns harder, relatively sparing farming activities in the countryside, another reason why the farm sector has outpaced other spheres of the economy.Nearly half (48%) of all Covid-19 cases reported in India in March were from urban areas, home to just 14% of the population, with cities having the largest proportion of new infections since June 2020, according to an April 8 analysis by the HT.“Ground-level indicators point to a robust farm sector. A normal monsoon will continue to see an expansion of the agriculture sector, aside from good encouraging prices and acreage trends,” said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, an agricultural trading firm.“In this kind of a situation, will agriculture be the sector to rescue the Indian economy? I will share some projections,” said a senior agriculture ministry official, requesting not to be quoted. Fertiliser demand, the official said, is expected to be 10% higher than usual in the oncoming summer or Kharif season. “We expect fertiliser demand to soar to 35 million tonnes from the usual 32 million tonnes,” the official said.The government is anticipating higher demand for seeds, pesticides as well as farm equipment.“A good agriculture year would mean at least 3-4% positive growth,” said RS Mani, a former faculty with the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University.Better performance of the agriculture sector may bode well for the country’s more than 150 million farmers, yet that’s not enough – neither for farm incomes nor for the overall economy.The GDP per worker in agriculture is one-third of the economy-wide GDP per worker. This means productivity in agriculture is too low to lift the overall economy.The pandemic weighs heavily on other sectors of the economy. The second pandemic wave pummelled the labour market in April, erasing at least 7.35 million jobs, according to the latest data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy.The number of employees, both salaried and non-salaried, fell from 398.14 million in March to 390.79 million in April, the third straight month of job losses.Agriculture employs half of all Indians but contributes a mere 15-16% to the country’s overall GDP. That simply means it employs too many people but contributes too little to incomes. Agriculture typically tends to move from one seasonal crisis to another.Despite the farm sector being heavily subsidized, a landmark ICRIER-OECD (Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations-Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) study in 2018 led by economist Ashok Gulati found that farmers suffered “negative market price support”.Put simply, total prices farmers got during 2006-16 stood at minus 14%, meaning on average they paid more prices than they received. In other words, farming is a loss-making activity.“The only feasible path to prosperity of farmers, therefore, is the creation of attractive job opportunities in industry and services,” writes economist Arvind Panagariya in his latest assessment of the Indian economy titled “India Unlimited”.Yet, projections of sustained momentum in the farm economy come as good news because it will protect a large chunk of the economy from the worst impact of the pandemic that is sure to put pressure on growth, Mani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/indias-farm-sector-to-sustain-momentum-but-that-s-not-enough-101620276529795.html
