19-05-2021||News||Maratha quota: A double-edged sword for Maharashtra government||Last Tuesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray along with a group of ministers called on Maharashtra governor B S Koshyari and submitted a letter addressed to President Ramnath Kovind. Thackeray’s letter referred to Supreme Court (SC)’s May 5 judgement scrapping the quota given to the Maratha community in 2018. In its order, the apex court pointed out that the powers to create a new category of socially and economically backward communities and give it reservation rest with the President. In his letter, Thackeray has requested the President and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restore the quota for the Maratha community in government jobs and education. He also announced that he will take an all-party delegation to meet Modi seeking a decision on the same by the Centre.The move is political and aimed at sending a message to the Maratha community, which is unhappy with the SC verdict. It puts the onus of giving them the reservation on the Centre. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the state’s principal opposition party, has called the verdict a failure of the state government in convincing the Supreme Court that the Marathas needed the quota.“The previous BJP government in the state gave the reservation to Marathas but the MVA [Maharashtra Vikas Agadi] government failed to defend it,” said state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Saturday as he announced that his party will participate in agitations of the Maratha community for the reservation.The Centre has now filed a review petition in the SC urging it to revisit the part of the order in which it has said that states have no right to decide reservation following the 102nd amendment in the Constitution. Politically, it will help the BJP as it can argue that its government at the Centre is doing everything possible for the Marathas while the MVA government in the state has failed.If the SC accepts the Centre’s contention, then the ball will be back in the state government’s court. It will have to then make a fresh bid for the Maratha quota.Only other option?Maratha outfits have threatened to launch a state-wide agitation in support of their demand. One of the community leaders, Vinayak Mete, who aligned with the BJP in the 2014 and 2019 elections, has announced a march from Beed in central Maharashtra from June 5. With the Maratha outfits getting restless, Thackeray does not have many options. Broadly, he seems to have two options as of now. First, to get the Centre to give the Marathas reservation, and second to include Marathas on the list of Other Backward Classes (OBC) and adjust their quota accordingly.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 hot spots on recovery road: DataIn the current political scenario, nobody believes the Centre will bail Thackeray out. The MVA has started petitioning the Centre, but it is not clear how far the Modi government would go on this issue.“It is difficult for the Centre to take an initiative to give reservation to Marathas. If we do it, there will be similar demands from other states. Patidars in Gujarat or Jats or Gujjars too will demand similar decisions by the Centre. Besides, if the apex court accepts the stand that states do have powers to give reservation, the entire responsibility will be of the MVA government in the state. However, convincing the apex court to reverse its May 5 order and again give reservation to Marathas will be a very difficult task,” said a BJP leader, requesting anonymity. “Why should the Centre step in and save the face of the Thackeray government, especially when the Maratha community forms a significant support base of the ruling coalition?”Legal experts said the judgement makes it pretty clear that Marathas do not need the reservation. The SC has rejected the findings of the state-appointed M G Gaikwad Commission, which had made a case for the backwardness of Marathas. Many think the chances of the state being able to provide a separate quota is almost zero. As such, the only viable option left is to include Marathas in the OBC category.“The Supreme Court order is clear. All judges [of the five-member bench] agreed that Marathas do not need the reservation,” said Shrihari Aney, a former advocate general of Maharashtra. He said the states cannot exceed the limit of 50% quota. “My suggestion before the Bombay High Court [when the issue was heard there] was that the caste could be included on the OBC list. The state government did not want to disturb the existing OBC then and hence created a separate class which has now been struck down by the Supreme Court. Still, within the framework, there could be a way out by way of inclusion in the OBCs,” Aney said.Balkrishna Renake, the former chairman of the National Commission for Denotified, Nomadic, and Semi Nomadic Tribes, said the state government can include Marathas in the OBC group. “There is a procedure to do it by getting the State Backward Class Commission to submit a report on the same. In fact, when the Maratha agitation began initially, the demand was to add them to the OBC quota. However, OBC community leaders strongly opposed the same. It was political decision to provide a separate quota.”Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know todayRenake said the SC is unlikely to reverse its order if one considers the grounds on which the Maratha reservation has been scrapped. “That leaves the state government with the option to include Marathas in the OBCs.”Some Maratha leaders, too, have been demanding the same.“The demand is old, and we think it is an option if the reservation does not stand in the SC if there is a review of the May 5 order,” said Vinod Patil, a Maratha leader and a petitioner in the case.“We want the state government to try really hard to get the decision reversed using all available options for legal recourse. If it does not happen it has to include Marathas in the OBCs. After all, Kunbis are already given the reservation under the OBC category.” Kunbi is a peasant sub-caste of the Marathas.Aney said the government can talk to the representatives of the OBC castes to see if they agree to accommodate the Marathas.That is where the government is facing a major problem. The OBCs are strongly opposing the inclusion of Marathas in their quota. The OBC leaders are demanding that there should be a revision in their quota since they want it to be increased. The OBCs in Maharashtra includes 346 castes and collectively their population is more than one third of the state’s population. Community leader have also been demanding a fresh caste-wise census to prove that their population is close to half of state’s population.“We are about 45% of the population in Maharashtra but our quota is 32% for over 340 castes. We do not say Marathas should not be given opportunities, but we don’t want to sacrifice our meagre quota for them,” said Chandrakant Bavkar, working president of the OBC Jan Morcha. “If they are accommodated in the OBC quota, they will corner most benefits and due to their social backwardness most existing OBC castes cannot compete with them.”Political tussleIn Maharashtra, OBCs, Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes get quotas in the three-tier panchayat system and municipal bodies. OBC leaders say the quota will get badly affected if Marathas are included in their category. “There was a demand for a separate five percent quota within the OBC category for Marathas. Even if Marathas are given a one percent separate quota under the OBC category, they will be liable for OBC reservation in local government bodies which they already dominate. It will mean our representation will be wiped out,” Bavkar said.In Maharashtra, it is largely a political battle between Marathas and OBCs for dominance. Marathas are the biggest caste (about 32%). In terms of numbers, OBCs too are a significant lot. They are not a well-knit group, but prominent OBC castes stick together in the political battle with Marathas. Even in state administration, there is a tussle between these groups.The OBCs have created their space in state politics and gained weightage. In Maharashtra, Marathas traditionally formed the strong support base for Congress and later the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The OBCs backed the BJP and Shiv Sena. OBCs castes such as Vanjari, Mali, Teli supported them.Following the split in Congress in 1999, both Congress and NCP started looking beyond Maratha votes and began wooing OBCs too. NCP succeeded in making inroads in the community by putting forth leaders such as Chhagan Bhujbal, Jitendra Awhad, and Dhananjay Munde. Congress managed to reaffirm its position among the Kunbi community which has a strong presence in the Vidarbha region. Congress’s current state unit chief Nana Patole comes from Kunbi community.The three-party MVA coalition of Shiv Sena, Congress, and NCP face a dilemma. It wants to give quota to the Marathas, but it cannot antagonise OBCs.“Frankly speaking, the MVA government is in an unenviable position now. There are major hurdles in restoring the Maratha quota scrapped by the SC. On the other hand, touching the OBC quota would mean inviting the wrath of a politically aware community that is a big chunk of the population...,” said Pratap Asbe, a political analyst. He added there is no immediate solution to the issue and the impasse could go on for some time.Hemant Desai, another political analyst, said there will be a Maratha versus OBC battle if the government considers the option to include Marathas in the OBC quota. “If something like that happens, the BJP will be at an advantage.”The MVA government is also looking at offering sops that could pacify the Maratha community. “We are looking at giving benefits such as waiving fees of Maratha students in higher education, offering them coaching for competitive examinations, free hostels, interest-free loans for setting up small businesses. Most of these have already been put in place. Some more sops too are being considered,” said an NCP minister. “But the problem is that these sops still would be less attractive as compared to a fixed quota in admissions to higher education courses or government jobs. Besides, the younger lot in the community has seen that few of them got admissions as well as jobs under the quota that was given in 2018. Now once they have seen the possibility of a quota, they don’t want to compromise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/maratha-quota-a-double-edged-sword-for-maharashtra-government-101621428633323.html
19-05-2021||News||In Kerala’s government formation, Brand Pinarayi establishes control||The lone old face is at the helm and all other existing players have rested — but is it a tussle between old and new faces or a move to establish absolute power of the captain?Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan scripted history in the recent assembly election, becoming the first to retain power in four decades and ending the tradition of power alternating between the state’s two major political coalitions. In the process, he assumed clear primacy in the battle for leadership both in the party and left movement in the country. In the run up to the elections, cadres and media gifted him a title, captain, though the party distanced from it.Vijayan is now at the crease, for his second innings — but with an entirely new team.The effect of new party norms As the campaign for the assembly elections was about to begin, the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) announced a new norm — no ticket would be given to legislators who won two terms consecutively. After its thumping win (99 out of 140 seats), another provision was imposed that all ministers will be dropped to make way for new faces.Insiders claim that the party needed to reinvigorate itself to meet fresh challenges, and the West Bengal and Tripura setbacks for the Left had only underlined the urgency of this change.“We don’t have to repeat mistakes of West Bengal and Tripura in Kerala. We need a new crop of leaders both in parliamentary positions and party,” explained senior leader and politburo member S Ramachandran Pillai justifying what he called “inevitable changes.”Also Watch | On The Record: MB Rajesh on why Shailaja was dropped, new Kerala team, & moreBut there is little doubt that these tailor-made norms have helped Pinarayi Vijayan to cement his position in the party and government again. “In the name of new faces the CM has eliminated all potential threats and dissent in the new cabinet. Since all ministers are new entrants absolute power will rest in his hands. The party says it won’t believe in individuality but in turn it strengthens it,” said political observer Umesh Babu.With his move to deny tickets to two-term legislators, the CM had sidelined many permanent fixtures such as finance minister Thomas Isaac, industry minister EP Jayarajan and public works department minister G Sudhakaran.With his move to only have fresh faces, he has removed any possible threat from the most visible and, arguably most popular minister in the outgoing cabinet, KK Shailaja, the face of the fight against pandemic in the state as the health minister. In most pre-poll survey her popularity rating came next to the CM.“We feel something is missing in the new ministry. We all thought Shailaja will be there,” said actor and party camp follower Mala Parvathi.“Dropping Shailaja Teacher would create huge perceptional problems, nationally and internationally and common people, as well as health staff, are already feeling orphaned. Sincerely wish there will be rethink on the issue,” tweeted writer and former bureaucrat NS Madhavan.The CPI(M) state unit has, however, made it clear that there is no looking back. “We stick to our decision. Once the party takes a decision it will be implemented,” said acting secretary A VijayaraghavanVijayan’s expanding control After the party’s victory, when the dominant narrative was focused on how the vote was an affirmation of Vijayan’s leadership, the party’s mouthpiece, People’s Daily, in a sign that all wasn’t well, carried an edit saying that some people were trying to paint it as an individual victory but it was a victory of the party. This, however, did little to diminish Vijayan’s clout.On cabinet appointments, politburo members such as Brinda Karat expressed reservations over omission of Shailaja but the Politburo decided not to interfere with the “unanimous decision” of the state unit.And Vijayan stuck to his decision.Also Read | ‘It’s reckless’: Retd scientist moves SC against Pinarayi Vijayan’s oath event“It seems in the party hierarchy, Vijayan has outgrown even the highest decision making body of the party, Politburo,” said another political observer Appukutan Vallikunnu. In fact, this predated the recent victory, for in 2017, when there was a strong view in favour of a third term in Rajya Sabha for party general secretary Sitaram Yechury with the support of the Congress, the Kerala branch of the party reportedly took a strong position against it.Many detractors of the party also point out the propriety in inducting the CM’s son-in-law PA Mohammed Riyas in the ministry. “The CPI(M) often talks in length about propriety and decency in public life. How did the CM induct his son-in-law when many youngsters are around? There is a big difference between the party’s words and deeds,” said Bharatiya Janata Party leader S Suresh.But CPI(M) state leaders have defended the decision, on the grounds that Riyas has been in active politics for more than two decades and his marriage with CM’s daughter T Veena last year couldn’t be basis to disqualify him.“Criticism in this regard is uncalled for. I rose from the ranks. People who know me will not raise such criticism” said Riyas, who is also the national president of the party youth wing, Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI).But all of it put together — a clear victory under his leadership, followed quickly by stamping out any possible political threats and instituting enhanced control over the party and the government — and it shows Pinarayi Vijayan is now not just Kerala’s most important leader but is the dominant decision-maker in the Left in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-kerala-s-government-formation-brand-pinarayi-establishes-control-101621427312588.html
19-05-2021||News||How China plays on inter-race ties in the US||Why has China become so vocal about racial tensions in the United States? At their March meeting in Alaska, Yang Jiechi, China’s top foreign policy official, took umbrage with US secretary of state Antony Blinken’s desire to discuss developments in Xinjiang and Hong Kong. “We hope that the United States will do better on human rights,” Yang retorted. “The challenges facing the United States in human rights are deep-seated. They did not just emerge over the past four years, such as Black Lives Matter.”The Black Lives Matter movement arose in the US as a reaction to the systemic use of excessive force by the police against African Americans. Protests were reignited last year following the killing of an African American man, George Floyd, by Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin, who was convicted of second-degree murder. The sense of injustice quickly assumed an international character: Black Lives Matter protests were organised in Tokyo, London, Paris, and Auckland. But US race relations have also become increasingly caught up in the geopolitical rivalry with China.Also Read | China, US clash over Winter Olympics boycott callLast year, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying tweeted “I can’t breathe” – a slogan associated with Black Lives Matter – in response to criticism by her American counterpart of Chinese actions in Hong Kong. Two years ago, Chinese diplomat Zhao Lijian – then in Pakistan, now Hua’s colleague – tweeted “If you’re in Washington, D.C., you know the white never go to the SW area, because it’s an area for the black & Latin. [sic.] There’s a saying ‘black in & white out’, which means that as long as a black family enters, white people will quit, & price of the apartment will fall sharply.” Although he subsequently deleted the tweet, it did not stop former US national security adviser Susan Rice (now a domestic policy adviser to Biden) from firing back on Twitter: “You are a racist disgrace. And shockingly ignorant too.”Beijing’s sharpening rhetoric concerning US race relations is certainly intended to deflect criticism and draw moral equivalence with the US amid their intensifying battle of narratives. But such Chinese statements also have Cold War precedents.Following the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr in 1968, Mao Zedong stated that “The storm of Afro-American struggle taking place within the United States is a striking manifestation of the comprehensive political and economic crisis now gripping US imperialism…On behalf of the Chinese people, I hereby express resolute support for the struggle of the Black people in the United States.”This mirrored the accusations traded by the US and Soviet Union in the 1950s and 1960s. As the US amplified accounts of Russian gulags, such as those of Alexandr Solzhenitsyn, and criticised the Soviet crackdown in Hungary, Moscow shot back. A 1957 article in Komsomolskaya Pravda lambasted racial segregation in American schools — those “who dream of nooses and dynamite for persons with different-colored skins…these gentlemen have the audacity to talk about ‘democracy’ and speak as supporters of ‘freedom’.”Also Read | US Congress passes Bill to fight hate crime after Asian-American attacksOne difference with the past is that such rhetoric now complements Beijing’s newfound market muscle. Nowhere is that more in evidence than in professional basketball. China remains a massive growth market for the National Basketball Association (NBA) and its sponsors, including apparel manufacturers. In 2019, Daryl Morey, the general manager of the Houston Rockets basketball team, tweeted support for pro-democracy protesters in Hong Kong, prompting NBA’s Chinese sponsors to take punitive measures against the league. Basketball superstar LeBron James – an outspoken supporter of Black Lives Matter who has significant financial stakes and endorsement deals in China – said that Morey “wasn’t educated on the situation at hand...we do have freedom of speech, but there can be a lot of negative that comes with that too”.The episode exposed divergent perspectives. While many American commentators criticised James for echoing Beijing’s talking points, several basketball stars privately felt that the US was being hypocritical by disparaging China while not sufficiently condemning and countering police brutality against African Americans at home.The experience of the film industry suggests that Chinese professions of sympathy for Black Lives Matter are nothing if not cynical. Since Seven Years in Tibet starring Brad Pitt and Martin Scorsese’s Dalai Lama biography Kundun were released in the 1990s, Hollywood has generally refrained from producing content that risks upsetting official Chinese sensitivities. Journalist and author Isaac Stone Fish suggests such self-censorship is tied mostly to the exposure of diversified American media conglomerates to the Chinese market.At the same time, film producers have admitted that casting African American leads has become more difficult because of fears that such films perform less well in foreign markets, including China. A 2017 study published by Johns Hopkins’ Carey School of Business demonstrated that films likely to do well in China began to cast more light-skinned actors in leading roles after 2012, when Beijing started allowing more foreign films to be screened.Domestic social divisions have always intersected with geopolitical rivalries to some degree. But China’s cynical allusions to US race relations have started to have some unforeseen repercussions in an era of greater interdependence.Dhruva Jaishankar is executive director, ORF America The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-china-plays-on-intra-race-ties-in-the-us-101621426712621.html
19-05-2021||News||How will Covid-19 impact the NDA govt’s economic record in 2024?||India’s second wave of Covid-19 infections seems to have peaked. Its economic costs might not have. Most parts of the country are still under varying degrees of lockdown. The lingering costs of the lockdown will remain even after the restrictions are removed. This is exactly why various forecasters are doing a downward revision of their GDP forecasts for 2021-22. While differences on the exact magnitude remain, and even the 2020-21 GDP figures might change, there seems to be a wide consensus that the second wave has derailed the incipient economic recovery.We are still in May 2021. The Lok Sabha elections are three years away. But it is worth asking what will be the pandemic’s impact on the economic performance of the current National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government.An HT analysis shows that in all probability, compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of GDP under the current government will be the worst compared to what its predecessors have achieved since 1980s. This will be a sharp contrast to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s first term, which saw the second highest CAGR of GDP for a government.Growth record of past governments The current Lok Sabha is the seventeenth in India. Comparing the CAGR of GDP by the term of each Lok Sabha – some have had more than prime minister – is a good way to look at the economic performance of each government.GDP growth went down for the first three post-independence governments. It was 4.47% for the Jawaharlal Nehru government from 1952-57 and came down to 2.67% under the Nehru-Lal Bahadur Shahstri-Indira Gandhi government from 1962-67. Nehru and Shastri died while in office. There was a brief revival during the 1966-71 Indira Gandhi government, but growth fell again in the 1970s. It was in 1980s the CAGR of GDP under a full-term government crossed the 5% barrier for the first time, a level which has never been missed since then.Also Read | Pandemic has led to rise in poverty, inequality; don’t be complacent: JNU profThe first United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government under Manmohan Singh achieved the highest ever CAGR of 8% GDP growth under its full-term. Narendra Modi’s first term in office had a GDP CAGR of 7.4%, the second highest for a full-term government in India. The CAGR for second UPA government and the first Modi government are based on 2011-12 GDP series numbers. For all other periods 2004-05 GDP numbers have been taken.What will be the CAGR of GDP for the current NDA government? The short answer is we do not know, as number will depend on GDP numbers for 2022-23 and 2023-24. But it is useful of think of a relay race model while answering this question.CAGR of GDP for a five-year government is contingent on GDP growth in each of the five years. This is pretty much like a relay race, where victory, loss or overall time taken is dependent on the performance of every individual runner in the team.In its second term, the government had a bad start to the relay race even before the pandemic. GDP growth in 2019-20 was just 4%, the lowest since 2008-09. With the pandemic and the 68-day long national lockdown disrupting economic activity, 2020-21 actually saw a GDP contraction of 8%.For the GDP CAGR of this government to come closer to that of its predecessors, GDP growth in the next three years will have to be very high. This is the same as relay race runners having to make up for lost time by their predecessors. As is the case with relay race runners, there are limits to GDP growth as well.It will be very difficult for the government to match its predecessors’ economic performance Assuming different rates of GDP growth in 2021-22, one can calculate the required GDP CAGR from 2021-22 to 2023-24 which will be needed to achieve a given GDP CAGR during the full-term of the second Modi government (2018-19 to 2023-24).In order for the government to meet its first term GDP CAGR of 7.4%, GDP growth will have to exceed 15% in 2022-23 and 2023-24 even if 2021-22 GDP growth is 11%. Many private forecasters have come out with lower numbers for the current year, though . For example, S&P Global Ratings put this number at 9.8% last week. If the 2021-22 GDP growth is 9%, and GDP growth between 2021-22 and 2023-24 is 8%, overall CAGR of GDP under the second Modi government would be just 4%, the worst since the 1980s.The following table gives a matrix of CAGR of GDP under the government for different levels of 2021-22 GDP growth and CAGR of GDP from 2021-22 to 2023-24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-will-covid-19-impact-the-nda-government-s-economic-record-in-2024-101621425932421.html
19-05-2021||News||Will US Covid vaccine patent waiver lead to more jabs in India? Not really||Maya Johal, a 29-year-old schoolteacher in Delhi, booked herself for a coronavirus vaccine shot a week ago, but is still awaiting her turn. “I was turned away from a vaccine facility. I was told that supplies were over,” she said.Like many developing nations, India is struggling to cope with a surge in vaccine demand, amid a shortage, even as it battles the second wave of Covid-19 infections.The global inequity Mass immunisation is the only way to end the pandemic but rising global inequality in vaccine access stands as a colossal hurdle. “Most developing countries will not have widespread access to the shots before 2023 at the earliest,” said a recent forecast by the Economist Intelligence Unit.According to an April 26 assessment by the Global Commission for Post-Pandemic Policy, a United States (US)-based thinktank, the “declared (manufacturing) target” for approved vaccine doses is 14.6 billion by 2021-end. This requires 13.4 billion more doses to be produced during the next eight months, or an average of 1.675 billion doses per month. “That is four times the monthly run-rate seen in April,” it said.According to WHO, nearly 80% of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in just 10 rich countries, while more than 2.5 billion people await their first shots.A surprising US decision on May 5 has however stirred hopes of bridging the great vaccine gap. The Joe Biden administration said it would support temporarily waiving intellectual property protections for coronavirus vaccines, something India and South Africa are pushing for.If the proposal moved by India and South Africa jointly on October 2, 2020, at World Trade Organization (WTO) goes through with US backing, it would prevent countries from implementing patents, trade secrets or other monopolies on Covid-19 vaccines under the WTO’s agreement on Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS.Also Read | Will work with COVAX, partners to distribute 80mn Covid-19 vaccines: Prez BidenIndia’s waiver application is, however, not limited to vaccines but includes “diagnostics and therapeutics in relation to prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19”. Pharma companies enjoy patents, which legally protect their products from being copied or cheaper generic versions being made. This allows developers of original products a monopoly to earn profits, for 20 years at the minimum.Decoding the jab Analysts agree that the US stand marks a radical change of policy but are yet unsure whether this will achieve any real result for developing countries like India.“Whether America’s support of the waiver will have impact on people’s lives in India depends on a number of factors, such as how quickly the negotiations move and what the terms of the final waiver are,” said Priti Radha Krishtel, co-founder of Initiative for Medicines, Access & Knowledge (I-MAK).Experts say waiving patents, especially of vaccines based on the highly effective mRNA technologies, will be of little help in the short run. Most manufacturers will simply not have the know-how – which are technological processes not protected by patents – to produce quality and safe vaccines. Raw materials – nanolipids and bioreactor bags -- are already scarce.“The EU is still opposed to the idea (of a waiver). Between Switzerland, Germany and Japan, there is a formidable opposition to even discuss the proposal (at WTO),” said Biswajit Dhar, an economist with the Jawaharlal Nehru University, who has previously advised the Union government on WTO deals.Also Read | A new chapter for the TRIPS waiver proposalWTO’s director general Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala has said the body would take up the issue of IP waiver for Covid vaccine in December.“Just having access to a patent does not mean all countries are equipped with the technological infrastructure to scale up manufacturing of generic counterparts. Companies such as Moderna and Pfizer will need to establish helpful partnerships and collaborations with companies, say in India,” said Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of global public health at University of Michigan.A web of licences Developing countries also may not understand the full web of intellectual property rights governing a vaccine candidate.“For example, the underlying technology used to develop a vaccine can be protected by patents, while manufacturing methods and techniques (know-how) can be protected by trade secrets,” wrote authors Mario Gaviria and Burcu Kilic in the first analysis of mNRA vaccine patents in the journal Nature published on May 12, 2021. According to them “multiple forms of intellectual property protection stand in the way of equitable access and fair allocation”.Some of the most impressive mRNA-based vaccine candidates are produced by the likes of Moderna, Pfizer and BioNTech, CureVac and Arcturus.In their paper, “A network analysis of Covid-19 mRNA vaccine patents”, Gaviria and Kilic explain that this vaccine platform uses multiple technologies, including the main mRNA technology, lipid nanoparticle technology and a delivery-system. A lipid nanoparticle, which is like a ball of fat, is used to deliver the mRNA to the cells, which “makes it a key aspect of the vaccine’s technology”, the authors write. After the mRNA is delivered to a cell, it “instructs the cell to produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, thereby eliciting an immune response”. Each of these steps involves a sub-licence. The authors note that US federal filings “reveal a series of sub-licenses for mRNA-related patents that stem from the University of Pennsylvania to both Moderna and BioNTech”.Analysis by Gaviria and Kilic also show that the University of Pennsylvania exclusively licensed their patents to “mRNA RiboTherapeutics”, a firm which then “sublicensed them to its affiliate CellScript”, another biotech firm. CellScript then sublicensed the patents to Moderna and BioNTech.Also Read | Head of Canada’s Covid vaccine roll-out accused of misconduct; new chief namedPointing to a complex web, the researchers noted: “However, the patent numbers are redacted in all the filings, making it difficult to determine which are relevant to the production of Covid-19 vaccines.”India’s advantage and way forward Health experts say one potential solution to end the vaccine shortage — one that the World Health Organization has backed — is a “patent pool” similar to one used to make HIV drugs available to poorer countries in the 1990s. It depends on voluntary sharing of recipes and data, for which no Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer has shown interest yet.Trade experts such as JNU’s Dhar said sIndia has an indigenously developed vaccine candidate like Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of Virology.“Unless knowledge and expertise are also transferred, largescale manufacturing of vaccines may not be feasible,” executive director of Bharat Biotech Sai D. Prasad said, saying technology transfer partnerships are needed, aside from the main recipe for the vaccines.Many public health professionals who advocate vaccines as a “global common good” say developing nations do have the capacities to make quality shots.The Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations recently drew up a list of 250 companies globally capable of making quality vaccines if IP waiver is obtained. These include Bangladesh’s Incepta, India’s Bharat Biotech and South Africa’s Aspen Pharmacare.Els Torreele, policy associate at the University College London’s Institute for Innovation and Public Purpose, said India, as a “large economy with abundant capacities for pharmaceutical production including vaccines, is in an excellent position to quickly retool production lines for the manufacturing of a variety of technologies and raw materials needed for the global scale up of Covid-19 vaccines”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/will-the-us-covid-vaccine-patent-waiver-lead-to-more-jabs-in-india-it-s-not-that-simple-101621322953374.html
19-05-2021||News||As WPI spikes and rural incomes dip, is India staring at stagflation?||Wholesale Price Index (WPI), the best proxy for producer prices in India, grew at a record 10.5% in April 2021. This is the highest year-on-year growth in the 2011-12 WPI series. Wholesale inflation in April was a record 6.19 percentage points higher than retail inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) value in April 2021. The difference between WPI and CPI is largely a reflection of difference in composition of the two indices – CPI, unlike WPI, is built to capture household budgets and has a higher weight of food and services – rather than a difference in economic conditions in wholesale and retail markets. What has been increasing at a fast pace are prices of manufactured goods and important intermediate inputs such as fuel.Also Read | Pandemic has led to rise in poverty, inequality; don’t be complacent: JNU profAn HT analysis of inflation numbers suggests that this could be a beginning of a trajectory where incomes and therefore purchasing power in rural India will face a disproportionate squeeze. Such a development, if it persists, could generate headwinds for rural demand going forward. This can potentially shut down the rural demand engine of the economy at a time when urban India is already reeling under the impact of lockdowns, and contribute to a stagflation – low growth, high inflation – like situation.Non-food prices are driving both CPI and WPI While the April WPI numbers mark an all-time high, CPI actually came down from its 5.5% value in March 2021 to 4.3% in April 2021. Retail inflation in April was at much lower levels compared to what it had been in the last year. The April 2021 value is the second lowest in the last twelve months.However, there is one common thread which is visible in the latest CPI and WPI numbers. Prices of non-food items are growing at a faster pace than that of food items. In the WPI basket, inflation in the primary food articles category is lagging behind overall food prices. This suggests that prices received by farmers are particularly sluggish at the moment.Real rural wages have been stagnant, and they could fall going forward The latest available rural wage data – this can be considered a good proxy for incomes at the bottom of the pyramid – is for the month of March 2021. In real terms, rural wages in March 2021 were marginally lower than what they were in March 2019. The situation is likely to become worse going forward as the second wave of Covid-19 infections disrupted economic activity and has led to lockdown or similar restrictions in most parts of the country. Lockdowns means fall in economic activity, which entails shedding of workforce and hence reduction in wages. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) fell to 61.9 – 100 being the pre-pandemic level of economic activity — in the week ending May 16. It was at 94.6 in the week ending March 28. Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database shows a rise in unemployment levels in the month of April compared to March.Fall in rural wages could create further price pressures for food items Stagnant or falling rural incomes are bad news for food demand. Food items have a weight of 47.3% in the rural CPI basket, compared to just 29.7% in urban areas. The difference is particularly high in case of cereals and vegetables, the two food-items which have suffered the biggest disinflation in April. While the public distribution system provides for subsidised provisioning of rice and wheat to the poor, thereby providing a cushion against income shock driven consumption, no such support exists for vegetables. This can create further headwinds for vegetable prices.Policy induced high fuel prices will create tailwinds for cost of cultivation Prices in the fuel and power sub-category of the WPI grew at 20.9% on a year-on-year basis in April 2021. This increase is a result of 45% inflation in the mineral oils (petroleum) category. Coal prices grew by just 0.6% while electricity prices actually contracted by 2.5%. The rise in petroleum prices is largely policy-driven as the government has not withdrawn high taxes it had imposed on petrol and diesel when crude petroleum prices fell sharply owing to a collapse in demand a year ago.A comparison of the mineral oils WPI index and India’s crude oil basket (COB) price data from the ministry of petroleum shows this clearly. While COB prices are at much lower levels than their historic high, the mineral oil WPI index is at a disproportionately higher level. Unless the government brings down its taxes, high petroleum prices will add to farming costs both directly (use of pump sets) and indirectly (cascading affect through other goods). Because petrochemicals are an important component in the fertiliser industry, their prices are also expected to rise as crude oil prices normalise from last year’s lows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/as-wpi-spikes-and-rural-incomes-dip-is-india-staring-at-stagflation-101621318873871.html
