26-05-2021||News||The economic aftermath of the pandemic’s second wave||Just as India’s economy was recovering from the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the second wave hit, and its intensity, in terms of both fatalities and lockdowns, quickly put an end to India’s swift normalisation of growth after the first wave. Now, even as the second wave appears to have peaked, it leaves many unanswered questions on both the economic damage sustained and the path forward. High-frequency indicators have collapsed. Mobility indicators and railway passenger revenues have plummeted, pulling along with them, other real economy indicators such as power demand, Goods and Services Tax transactions and auto sales. The unemployment rate has risen again, and our weekly tracker of the pace of economic activity normalisation, the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI), is 40% below its pre-pandemic levels, after having almost fully recovered in February.This would sound an economic alarm, but the reality is a lot more nuanced. The second wave lockdowns have been far less draconian than those imposed during the first wave, both geographically and in terms of the sectors affected. During the first wave, the lockdowns were focused on both goods and services, with manufacturing also limited to the production of essentials. Intra-state and inter-city transport was restricted. This time, the lockdowns are primary focused on services. Some states have allowed industry and construction to continue operating, with some curbs, and minimal restrictions were placed on transportation services. Also Read: Scientifically Speaking | Decoding the evolution of coronavirusesImportantly, although domestic consumption will take a knock as mobility is restricted, unlike the collapse in global growth during the first wave, global growth is on a synchronised recovery path this time, led by developed economies, so exports should provide an offset, unlike the collapse in global growth during the first wave. Finally, consumers and businesses have adapted to the new normal.Consequently, the damage to growth from the second wave, while substantial, should be much less severe than during the first wave as well as significantly less than what the drop in mobility suggests. Our analysis of countries that have gone through second and third waves in Europe and Asia confirms this view. For our sample, we find that, compared to the 12.3% quarter-on-quarter (seasonally adjusted) average drop during the first wave, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) rose by 0.5%, on average, during the second wave. We believe that similar dynamics will play out in India.The duration of the lockdowns also matter. Amid limited fiscal space and falling caseloads, we believe states will likely move from rolling lockdowns to a calibrated re-opening, as balancing lives and livelihoods becomes the priority. The reality facing states is that the virus variant is highly infectious and caseloads have fallen in response to lockdowns, while the pace of vaccination has been lacklustre in May and will likely take a few more months to accelerate. Against this backdrop, we expect the broad strategy across most states to remain one of a calibrated reopening, where restrictions are maintained across high-risk contact-intensive services sectors, while other sectors are allowed to operate with restricted timings, alongside the continuation of night curfews.This suggests that the largest impact on economic data will be in May, and we expect a sequential improvement in June. Overall for April-June 2021, we believe GDP growth momentum will shrink by close to 4% q-o-q on a seasonally adjusted basis, much less than the 24.6% drag during the first wave.A durable growth recovery is conditioned on more widespread vaccinations; otherwise, the economy will continue to be held hostage to future pandemic outbreaks. The pace of inoculation has slowed considerably in May, but our bottom-up analysis of India’s vaccine supply suggests the pace will rise sharply from July, as current vaccine makers ramp up production capacity, new vaccines are approved, and imported vaccines augment domestic supply. We estimate that the total domestic vaccine supply by end-2021 could cumulatively amount to 1.625 billion doses, fully inoculating around 52% of the population by end-2021, assuming two doses. This suggests that the “vaccine pivot” — the point at which vaccines start to become more widely available and show demonstrative success in suppressing the virus, allowing governments to lift most social distancing restrictions and citizens to become less fearful — may be closer than it seems now. This should enable a swifter rollback of lockdowns and help resume the normalisation process that was suspended in February.The progress on vaccinations will have two other important positive effects. First, vaccinations and a reduced fear factor can go a long way in lifting consumer confidence, which is currently at record lows, supporting the domestic consumption recovery. Second, the uncertainty caused by the pandemic has diluted the usual transmission from easy financial conditions to stronger demand from interest rate-sensitive sectors. However, as pandemic uncertainty ebbs and vaccinations rise, the full impact of easy financial conditions should become more visible, which should boost demand for real estate and other consumer discretionary purchases.Overall, the second wave has unleashed a devastating humanitarian crisis, but its economic impact should be less than feared, and muted overall. As caseloads fall and vaccinations rise, there is a light at the end of the dark tunnel. Monetary and fiscal policies can play a supportive role in the interim, but ultimately it is India’s health policy that can unleash the biggest growth stimulus.Sonal Varma is chief economist for India and Asia (ex-Japan) at Nomura Aurodeep Nandi is India economist at Nomura The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-economic-aftermath-of-the-pandemic-s-second-wave-101622023153674.html
26-05-2021||News||Dewas catches the rain where it falls||Under a harsh sun, Santosh Bhawar, 48, holds up a bunch of jackfruit and smiles in satisfaction at his orchard in a central Indian village. He has also been able to reap three crops from his irrigated land this year, instead of two, and raised his income, he says.Farmers like Bhawar has prospered because their village, Devnaliya, in Madhya Pradesh’s Dewas district, has found a new insurance against drought — rainwater collection pits.Not long ago, water trains were needed to bring in river water. The district now boasts of over 4,000 rainwater collection holes, the highest in the country.Bhawar’s village — part of a central Indian tribal belt that runs through seven states — was for long defenceless against parched, dry weather.The Union government wants to replicate the Dewas model in every district through the Jal Shakti Abhiyan, the Jal Shakti ministry’s programme to conserve rainwater and recharge aquifers in the country, part of the Narendra Modi government’s target to reach tapped drinking water to every household by 2024.Also Read | Jal Jeevan mission goes digital in five statesThe Dewas modelDevnaliya, once barren and unproductive, is now dotted with 45 small orchards owned by its residents. There is good reason why conserving rainwater was the only reliable way to ensure people had enough water to meet their needs.The village lies on a bed of impermeable basalt rock of the Deccan plateau, surrounded by the Vindhya range. Groundwater is virtually inaccessible because of the rocky topography, which also prevents rain from penetrating into the soil.During monsoons, most of the rain would just run off, just like in the rest of India. The country’s 120-day June-September monsoon season typically sees intense rain showers for about 40 to 50 days. However, the country conserves only about 8% of the monsoon rains, according to data from the Jal Shakti ministry. This is what the Jal Jeevan Mission wants to change and Dewas is a model.The district had found a mention in one of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio addresses. On March 22, the PM launched the second phase of Jal Shakti Abhiyan, the Jal Shakti ministry’s flagship water-conservation campaign. It’s called “catch the rain, where it falls, when it falls” and is being rolled out across the country’s 734 districts covering over 600,000 villages. It involves the simple task of digging pits, restoring traditional water bodies and geotagging them.“We have enough water to irrigate our fields and for our personal and household needs because the rainwater saved is enough to last the entire year,” says Bhawar.In Devnaliya, the mission has picked steam. Every farmer has a rain-collection hole. Antar Singh, 75, points to his monsoon pond. It was constructed using a ratio of 7 to 10 feet deep and 1 hectare wide. Farmers were funded to build these pits from the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme.“This has resulted in increases in yield productivity and every family has enough water to irrigate their fields. There is no other way to go about it,” says Raja Ram Mory, an official of the Dewas-based Samaj Pragati Sahayog, an NGO that works to conserve water.Why it matters Without such efforts, India could soon face “day zero” conditions when taps run dry. According to data from the state-run policy think tank NITI Aayog, nearly 600 million Indians face “high to extreme water stress” and the country’s water demand is likely to double by 2030, potentially costing a 6% loss in the gross domestic product (GDP) by 2050.India has already begun experiencing wide rainfall variations. Digging farm ponds to trap monsoon rain that otherwise runs off quickly from parched land can be a sustainable solution and increase land productivity by as much as 300%, according to World Resources Institute.Also Read | Inside India’s new plan to deliver waterThe Jal Jeevan Mission has several components, such as reaching piped water to every household and setting up community-managed water conservation projects. For the financial year 2020-21, ₹11,000 crore was allotted for the mission.Dewas has had a head start in conserving water. A decade ago, the Madhya Pradesh government had constructed an earthen embankment locally known as the Mahegaon dam in a catchment area near Devnaliya.The earthen dam stored rainwater on vast stretch of 50 hectares of catchment area. However, the water was of little use as there was no mechanism to bring it to people’s houses and fields.The Madhya Pradesh government, under the Jal Jeevan Mission announced in 2019, embarked on an elaborate plan to bring water to the end-user. The mission has a provision to partner with reputed NGOs in accomplishing its water goals.The Mahegoan catchment area resembles a large freshwater lake, but all of it is stored rainwater. “We worked on a community basis to devise a plan to bring the water from the Mahegoan dam to 10 villages,” says Mory.The state’s electricity department was roped in to provide two electricity transformers on the bank of the dam’s lake. Funds were also collected from the community to install three pumps of 15 horsepower each to draw water through underground pipes.Rainwater harvesting thus fulfils 100% of this central tribal belt’s water needs. Residents pay ₹100 per bigha of land (about 3 acres) as recurring costs to maintain the system to the state electricity department, says Sundar Singh, a local agriculture department official.NGOs in Dewas, such as Samaj Pragati Sahayog, now train farmers from other states, such as Maharashtra, to conserve water to give an impetus to the Jal Jeevan Mission. “I always say water is our guest. If we stop water from flowing away, we can ensure our guest stays with us a little longer,” says Narendra Singh, a trainer.(This is the third of a four part series on India’s water crisis and the ambitious Jal Jeevan Mission)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/dewas-catches-the-rain-where-it-falls-101622016673040.html
26-05-2021||News||Cyclone Tauktae is a warning; the future of India’s western coast is at stake||India is bracing for a second cyclone in a month as it prepares for Cyclone Yaas in the Bay of Bengal, which is likely to cross the Odisha-Bengal coast on May 26. To be sure, cyclones in the Bay of Bengal are almost an annual affair.But Cyclone Tauktae in the Arabian Sea, which affected almost all states on the western coast of India earlier this month, was a more uncommon phenomenon. Not only are cyclones relatively uncommon in the Arabian Sea, Tauktae also intensified (measured by the surface wind speed of the storm) rapidly into one of the most severe cyclones in the Arabian Sea in over two decades. This is something the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had not forecast. With the climate crisis, the Arabian Sea could see more such intense cyclonic disturbances going forward, according to experts.An HT analysis shows that this will inflict a far bigger cost on lives and livelihoods than cyclonic activity on India’s eastern coast.2011-20 saw the highest number of cyclones in Arabian Sea since 1890s IMD has records of cyclones among the two major seas of the North Indian Ocean – Indian Ocean area north of the equator – going back to 1890s. A decade-wise analysis of the data shows that Bay of Bengal has had more cyclones than the Arabian Sea in every decade since 1891-1900.Also Watch | Cyclone Yaas to intensify into ‘very severe cyclonic storm’; prep ramped upHowever, the data also shows Arabian Sea has been becoming more and more turbulent. It had 17 cyclonic events between 2011 and 2020, the highest in a decade since the 1890s. Eleven out of these were severe cyclones. Climate scientists, including those at IMD, also suggest that the Arabian Sea might see more increase in intensity of cyclones, if not the number, than the Bay of Bengal in the future.“The sea surface temperatures over Arabian Sea have gone up, so has the ocean heat content. This may not affect the total number of cyclones developing over Arabian Sea. But when cyclones form over Arabian Sea, they are likely to experience severe intensification. This is because the warming over Arabian Sea is higher than Bay of Bengal. We should be prepared,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences. Clearly, stronger cyclones pose a bigger threat to life and property in the future.Warmer Oceans increase cyclones; make them more unpredictable Predicting cyclone trajectories is crucial to minimising their damage. “Climate projections indicate that Arabian Sea will continue warming under increased carbon emissions, resulting in more intense cyclones in the future. Ocean warming has made some new challenges also. Cyclones are now intensifying rapidly since warm ocean waters act as fuel for them,” said Roxy Matthew Koll, a climate scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.Higher sea surface temperature acts as a catalyst for intensification of low-pressure areas to cyclones. If the ocean and atmospheric conditions like high sea surface temperature and atmospheric instability continue to be favourable, the cyclone will continue to intensify further.“Extremely severe cyclones such as Fani (2019) and Amphan (2020) (in the Bay of Bengal) intensified from weak to severe status in less than 24 hours due to warm ocean conditions. That gives us less time to be prepared. State-of-the-art cyclone models are unable to pick this rapid intensification because they do not incorporate the ocean dynamics accurately,” Koll added.The following map shows how Tauktae intensified from a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm to an Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm within a few hours from 11.30pm on May 16 to 5.30am on May 17. Its sudden intensification took IMD by surprise as it was not expecting Tauktae to turn in to an Extremely Severe Cyclonic Storm. “Tauktae intensified very rapidly. We did not state that it would intensify to an extremely severe cyclone in our forecast. But it did because of extremely favourable oceanic and atmospheric conditions,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD on May 17.Western coast has more to lose from cyclones in material terms The states on India’s western coast — from Gujarat to Kerala — contributed 35% to the country’s GDP in 2018-19, the latest year for which data from all states is available in the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) database. The states on the eastern coast — from West Bengal to Tamil Nadu — contributed 21%.Natural disasters do not affect all sectors of the economy in the same way. An oil refinery stands to lose much more than a law firm or outsourcing-based IT firm if a city is hit by a cyclone. The western coast appears more vulnerable once this is accounted for too. States on the western coast contributed 46% of India’s manufacturing GVA in 2018-19. This number was just 22% for states on the eastern coast.To be sure, one could argue that cyclonic disruptions need not affect the entire state on India’s coastline. HT has analysed district-wise data from the Annual Survey of Industry (ASI) to factor in this point. ASI is the most important source of registered organised manufacturing statistics in India. Because ASI stopped publishing district-wise statistics after 2009-10, the numbers are a bit dated. But the spatial distribution of manufacturing is unlikely to have changed radically since then.The analysis shows that the problem might be worse than it appears. India’s manufacturing activity is highly skewed in nature. Of the 593 census districts at that time, 82% of India’s total manufacturing output was concentrated in just 100 districts. Among these 100 districts, 15 were on the western coastline while 12 were on the eastern coastline, and 73 were not on the coast. Output value of western coastline districts was disproportionately more than their number. Western coastline districts among these 100 accounted for 27.4% of India’s total manufacturing output, while eastern coastline districts and non-coastal districts among the 100 accounted for 10% and 44.4%.To be sure, as the accompanying map shows, there are also districts that are not exactly on the coast but close to it and have a high share in manufacturing output. Pune, for instance, had a share of 3.29% — the fourth highest among the 593 census districts — and is close to the coast, although not exactly on it.Western coast has more densely populated districts which also entails a greater risk to human livesIt’s not just money at stake if cyclones become more intense on the west coast. Western coast has more densely populated pockets than the eastern coast.This also increases the risk of loss of human lives. There are 33 census districts each on the western (from Kutch to Thiruvananthapuram) and eastern coast (from Kanyakumari to North 24 Parganas) of India.While the overall population density of the western coast (474 persons per square kilometre) is less than the eastern coast (565), the mean and median density of the districts on the western coast is higher. This means that the western coast has more pockets of high population density than the eastern coast. This will make evacuation and relief work more challenging as cyclones intensify in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/cyclone-tauktae-is-a-warning-the-future-of-india-s-western-coast-is-at-stake-101621946052135.html
