02 February 2021||Shiv Sahay Singh kolkata,||Budget to ‘sell the country’, says Mamata||Describing the agriculture infrastructure and development cess introduced in the Union Budget as a “jazya tax”, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the Union government wants to sell the country through its disinvestment proposals. “Railways sold, ports sold, insurance sold, PSUs 23 more to be sold. They are selling the country.. Why don’t you people sell them... Ask them how much more money they need to leave the country,” Ms. Banerjee said, addressing a public gathering at north Bengal. The Chief Minister also criticised the announcement by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman of a new “economic corridor” covering 675 km-long National Highway with an expected investment of Rs. 25,000 crore. Ms. Banerjee said so many roads had already been built in the State including the new Asian Highway connecting West Bengal with the neighbouring countries. “Why do they want to announce projects ahead of elections? Why was it not done earlier,” Ms. Banerjee asked, adding that the cess introduced in the Budget will “finish the people”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/budget-to-sell-the-country-says-mamata/article33722934.ece
02 February 2021||MANGALURU,||KCCI says Budget is without any jingoism||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) on Monday termed the Budget proposals as one without any populist jingoism listing out the government’s initiatives with clinical precision and focussing on development. “We only hope that the execution is also carried out with this same clinical precision,” said chamber president Issac Vas in a statement here. He said that savings in the country are based on the basic assumption that the governments guarantee good performance of banks. This trust cannot be substituted with the veiled assurances that it was reduced to the extent of insurance covers, he quipped. With thrust on public spending and disinvestment, the Budget makes no jugglery to hide fiscal deficit while being transparent in displaying numbers. It is silent how the Rs. 13,000 crore Atmanirbhar packages help in containing the adverse impact of the pandemic, Mr. Vas said. He said that with bold initiatives to increase public spending on roads and infrastructure sectors, the Budget gives good signals to boost public mood and encourage overseas investors. The country is doing the right things to grow and look forward to new growth initiatives. Mr. Vas said that Dakshina Kannada can benefit from two major announcements, Urban Swatch Bharat Mission with an allocation of Rs. 1,41,678 crore and Augmentation of Public Transport System at an estimated cost of Rs. 18,000 crore. Focus on complete faecal sludge management and waste water treatment, source segregation of garbage, reduction of single use plastic cand be achieved under the Swatch Bharat Mission since Mangaluru and other towns are aggressively working towards this goal. Strengthening public transport system through innovative PPP model where private players can finance, acquire and maintain over 20,000 buses, can help the district which already has a robust public transport system, Mr. Vas said. Pro-development Member of Parliament and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel and Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath welcomed the budget proposals saying that they will herald further development. In a statement, Mr. Kateel said that outlays for health, housing, infrastructure and other sectors are quire encouraging and they will help in building a strong nation. Mr. Kamath said that programmes for doubling farm income, outlay for health sectors, will help achieve Aatma Nirbhar Bharat.  With bold initiatives to increase public spending on roads and infrastructure sectors, the budget gives good signals to boost public mood and encourage overseas investors Issac Vas, KCCI president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcci-says-budget-is-without-any-jingoism/article33723413.ece
02 February 2021||KALABURAGI,||‘Demands of Kalyana Karnataka ignored’||Expressing displeasure over the Union Budget, the Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (HKCCI) on Monday said that the Centre has once again ignored long-pending demands of the Kalyana Karnataka region. HKCCI president Amarnath C. Patil has stated that the key expectations in the budget were the establishment of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), a premier institute, and the establishment of the Railway Divisional Headquarters, both in Kalaburagi, as per the recommendations of the Sareen Committee in 1984. He strongly criticised the Union government for not announcing any industries, including an IT Park and a Textile Park in Kalaburagi, to accelerate the socio-economic development of the Kalyana Karnataka region. The Centre also turned down the implementation of the National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ), which was sanctioned by UPA government in 2013, Mr. Patil added. He said that the Budget was a pro-corporate and anti-people budget. It has let down the youth when the nation’s unemployment rate has peaked to an unprecedented level. Mr. Patil said that the government intends to increase fuel prices by reducing the special additional excise duty and imposing agriculture infrastructure and development cess. However, Mr. Patil welcomed the allocation of Rs. 14,788 crore for the extension of the Namma Metro project in Bengaluru and also, the exemption from filing ITR for senior citizens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/demands-of-kalyana-karnataka-ignored/article33722877.ece
02 February 2021||Mumbai,||‘Centre has neglected Maharashtra, Mumbai’||The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government criticised the Union Budget 2021-22 presented on Monday saying the Centre has neglected Maharashtra and Mumbai. Finance Minister and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said the Budget had done injustice to the State which pays highest taxes to the Centre’s treasury. “All party MPs must speak to the Union Finance Minister against the injustice meted out to Maharashtra,” said Mr. Pawar. The Budget has only reiterated the Centre’s partial outlook towards Maharashtra, he said. Mr. Pawar however, welcomed the Rs. 64,000 crore allocation for the Mumbai-Kanyakumari corridor but said the money for the project should not remain only on paper. “Nasik and Nagpur metro have been allotted Rs. 2,092 crore and Rs. 5,976 crore respectively, but no mention of other railway routes. Even the BJP leaders cannot congratulate the people of Maharashtra for this Budget,” said Mr. Pawar. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi said the Budget is a brazen attempt to avoid financial support and infrastructure to cities outside Gujarat. Maharashtra Congress president and State Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said Mumbai and Maharashtra have faced nothing but disappointment from this Budget. “Maharashtra is a highest tax payer to the centre. But when it comes to giving, central government chooses not to pay the State back,” said Mr. Thorat. On the other hand, Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the ruling coalition parties have reacted to the Budget without reading it. “The Budget has not even mentioned Uttar Pradesh or Madhya Pradesh, where we are in power. Does that mean they haven’t received anything?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-has-neglected-maharashtra-mumbai/article33723430.ece
02 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Big-ticket announcements for Kerala||Kerala has got a windfall in the Union Budget with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman providing substantial allocations for the development of the NH 66 corridor, Kochi Metro Rail Phase II and a modern fishing harbour in Kochi. The big-ticket announcements which have surprised the ruling LDF and Opposition UDF alike are seen as part of the BJP-led NDA’s strategy to woo voters in the poll-bound State. A sum of Rs. 65,000 crore has been allocated for the development of 1,100 km of the NH 66 corridor. This includes the 600 km of the proposed Mumbai-Kanyakumari corridor through Kerala. The State will also benefit from the Kollam-Madurai corridor. The Kochi metro got Rs. 1,957.05 crore for the 11.2-km-long Phase II extension to Kakkanad that will take off from Jawaharlal Nehru International Stadium and terminate at the Infopark. Economic front On the economic front, the State will benefit from the 41% share of taxes as per the 15th Finance Commission recommendation. This will enable Kerala to potentially borrow an additional Rs. 9,000 crore annually, on top of the Rs. 26,288.49 crore its already entitled. ‘MetroLite’ and ‘MetroNeo’ technologies announced to provide metro rail systems at much lesser cost in tier-2 cities and peripheral areas of tier-1 cities will help the launch of the light metro in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode. The 529.45-km semi-high-speed rail SilverLine from Kochuveli to Kasaragod at a cost Rs. 63,941 crore has failed to find a mention in the Budget. Official sources, however, said the ambitious project figured in the National Rail Plan projects to be completed by 2030.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/big-ticket-announcements-for-kerala/article33722920.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. alleges ‘stepmotherly treatment’||The Delhi government on Monday accused the Centre of “stepmotherly treatment” towards the city. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal alleged that the Union Budget would only benefit “a few big companies”. “This budget will provide benefit to a few big companies. This budget will work to increase the problems of common people with inflation,” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted.  Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, criticised the Budget saying it completely bypassed the education and health sectors. Alleging that the Budget “spelt doom for the poor, middle class and farmers”, Mr. Sisodia said the BJP-led Central government had again disappointed Delhi, which received only Rs. 325 crore while its residents paid Rs. 1.5 lakh crore as tax. The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir which, he said, was constitutionally on a similar footing with the NCT of Delhi, had been provided a grant of Rs. 30,757 crore against Rs. 957 crore to Delhi. ‘Left high and dry’ “This year, there was great anticipation around the Union Budget and the people of Delhi had high hopes from the Centre that justice would finally be done to them, particularly amid the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. The municipal corporations of Delhi, Mr. Sisodia said, had again been left high and dry with zero allocation against the demand of Rs. 12,000 crore while Rs. 2 lakh crore had been allocated to all other municipal bodies across India. “Delhi continues to get stepmotherly treatment from the Government of India. The grant in lieu of share in Central taxes provided in the Union Budget 2021-22 has been kept unchanged for two decades at Rs. 325 crore. The total grants/loans/transfer to Delhi has been reduced from Rs. 1,116 crore to Rs. 957 crore,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-alleges-stepmotherly-treatment/article33723279.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||Centre ‘concedes’ Telangana’s request on CSS||The Central government appears to have partially conceded the State’s request related to bringing down the number of centrally-sponsored schemes (CCS). Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman said in her budget speech in Lok Sabha on Monday that a detailed exercise had been undertaken to rationalise and bring down the number of centrally sponsored schemes on the recommendations made by the XV Finance Commission. The exercise would enable consolidation of the outlays for better impact. The development follows the fervent appeal made by State Finance Minister T. Harish Rao to the Centre to address the nagging issue of proliferation of CSS. The Minister said the Centre had simply grouped these schemes under 28 umbrella heads instead of reducing their number. The sub-group of Chief Ministers, of which Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was a member, recommended that a facility of optional schemes should be provided to States and the Centre had accepted the same. Flexibility This, according to Mr. Harish Rao, would enable States to have flexibility of portability from the optional schemes to any other CSS within the budgetary allocation. The Centre should therefore ensure that Union Budget 2021-22 offered a bouquet of optional schemes to States. The Union Minister had accordingly announced that steps had been taken to rationalise and bring down the number of CSS for consolidation of their outlays for better impact. Mr. Harish Rao recalled that it is an established practice to treat the recommendations of Finance Commission relating to transfers to States as an award. The Centre, however, departed from this practice for the first time in respect of recommendation relating to special grants to three States to make up for shortfall in tax devolution in 2020-21. As a result, Telangana was denied special grant of Rs. 723 crore during the current fiscal, he said, requesting the Union Minister to consider releasing this grant and restore the practice of treating the recommendations of the Finance Commission as an award while considering the report of the XV Finance Commission for the years 2021-26. The Centre is yet to make its stand clear on the issue as there was no mention of release of the special grant to the State in the budget speech made by Ms. Sitaraman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-concedes-telanganas-request-on-css/article33723298.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu gets big infra boost before polls||The Union Budget had largely positive announcements for poll-bound Tamil Nadu, with major allocations for road projects. It also hinted at Central funding for the Chennai Metro Rail Phase II project, transforming Chennai into a major fishing hub and establishing a multi-purpose seaweed park. Apart from specific announcements, the State is likely to benefit from the thrust given to infrastructure, clean air, universal water supply to urban local bodies, agriculture, affordable housing, education, healthcare, manufacturing, revamping power distribution companies and pushing back fiscal deficit targets. Besides announcing road works covering 3,500 km of National Highways in the State on an investment of Rs. 1.03 lakh crore, the Budget document stated that the construction of the 278 km Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway would begin in 2021-22. The construction of the Salem-Chennai Expressway would begin in 2021-22, it added. At a pre-Budget meeting, Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam had requested approval for Phase-II of the Chennai Metro Rail project, with equal equity shares of about 15% each from the Centre and the State government. He also urged the Centre to push back the fiscal deficit targets for States by two to three years at least, and increase their borrowing limit to 5% of GSDP in 2021-22 to manage expenditure on capital works and COVID-19 prevention measures. The Budget allowed the States to achieve the fiscal deficit target by 2023-24 and permitted a normal ceiling of net borrowing for States at 4% of GSDP for 2021-2022, in keeping with the views of the 15th Finance Commission. An additional borrowing ceiling of 0.5% of GSDP would also be provided, subject to conditions. The State’s request for funds for the Cauvery-Gundar Link project and Nadanthai Vazhi Cauvery, aimed at rejuvenating the Cauvery and its tributaries, along the lines of the Namami Gange project, did not find a mention in the Budget speech. The State had also flagged pending dues of about Rs. 19,591.63 crore, including GST compensation claims and various other heads. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu is expected to get Rs. 23,039 crore as its share of net proceeds from Central taxes and duties for 2020-21, which has been revised downwards from the Rs. 32,849.34 crore estimated in last year’s Budget. For 2021-22, the State is projected to get Rs. 27,148.31 crore. On the flip side, the Budget mentioned breaking the monopoly of State and private power distribution companies by introducing competition. Tamil Nadu has, thus far, strongly opposed the privatisation of the State-owned power distribution company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-gets-big-infra-boost-before-polls/article33722806.ece
02 February 2021||Vijayawada,||Dedicated freight corridors a big plus for A.P.||The Central government’s commitment to develop dedicated east coast and north-south railway freight corridors from Kharagpur in West Bengal to Vijayawada and Itarsi (Madhya Pradesh) to Vijayawada respectively is poised to give a fillip to goods transportation in Andhra Pradesh. The Kharagpur-Vijayawada dedicated freight corridor (DFC) will be a double-line broad gauge electrified corridor that spans 1,100 km and the other one is a sub-corridor of roughly the same length. The announcement in the Budget that the detailed project reports will be prepared for the two DFCs in the first phase is being hailed by industry and trade bodies as a big positive step for the State. Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) A.P. chairman D. Ramakrishna told The Hindu that the DFCs would be of great utility for any State as the transit time of goods would be reduced to a large extent as the trains would be running at speeds of 100-120 kmph compared to a maximum of 80 kmph now (the average speed of a goods train at present is around 70 kmph). He observed that dispatching goods through trains in the existing network was a painstaking process. Mr. Ramakrishna said another good thing which the DFCs would be doing was to decongest the passenger lines and it would also augur well for maritime trade as it would facilitate quick turnaround time of goods at the seaports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dedicated-freight-corridors-a-big-plus-for-ap/article33722768.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Funding for ORR-KIA Namma Metro line announced||The Union Budget appears to have bypassed Karnataka when it comes to big infrastructure projects. It made no direct mention of any investment into such undertakings barring funding for the long-pending Namma Metro line from Outer Ring Road to the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). This has given a filip to a mass transit project which is badly needed to ease traffic in the city. Neighbouring Tamil Nadu, where Assembly elections are just around the corner, received a better deal, one of which will benefit Bengaluru. The Budget makes a mention of commencing construction work on the delayed 278-km Bengaluru-Chennai expressway in the coming financial year. Other than these two projects, there is no direct mention of mega transport projects for the State. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced that Central counterpart funding will be provided for the ORR - Airport Metro line. The 58.19 km line with 30 stations will start from the Central Silk Board and cut through K.R. Puram, Nagawara. and Hebbal before reaching KIA. Work will be taken under phase 2 A and 2 B of Namma Metro at an estimated cost of Rs. 14,788 crore. BMRCL Managing Director Ajay Seth deemed it a huge development for Namma Metro. “The project will give a boost to public transport and economic activity in Bengaluru. The support from the Government of India to build sustainable mobility infrastructure will help the city in realising its economic potential,” he said. He added that it will help the IT&BT sector in particular, and improve multi=modal mobility integration. The land required for the metro project on the ORR line from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram is already in BMRCL’s possession. According to Mr. Seth, 85% of the land required for the stretch from K.R. Puram to KIA has been acquired. Commenting on the status of the tender for civil work, Mr. Seth said, “The tender contract for civil works will be awarded as soon as formal approval is received. This can be expected in the next two months. Tenders have been floated for the K.R. Puram to KIA stretch”. The BMRCL had also reached an MoU with Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), the operator of the KIA, on the construction and maintenance of two metro stations inside the airport campus. Last year, Asian Development Bank (ADB) had agreed to provide a loan of $500 million for providing metro rail link to the airport. In his response, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said: “58 km of the new route can be constructed due to this provision. This is the biggest gift to Karnataka from our own Finance Minister”. The State Cabinet approved the metro project to the airport in 2019 as per the revised alignment plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/funding-for-orr-kia-namma-metro-line-announced/article33723219.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||States allowed enhanced 4% of GSDP borrowing||The government has accepted the 15th Finance Commission’s recommendation to maintain the States’ share in the divisible pool of taxes to 41% for the five-year period starting 2021-22. The Commission has given an “in-principle” approval for creating a separate non-lapsable fund for the purpose of defence and internal security modernisation. The States have been granted enhanced borrowing room of up to 4% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) for 2021-22, with an additional 0.5% limit for those undertaking critical power sector reforms. Fiscal federalism Terming the government’s acceptance of the 41% vertical share for the States recommended by the Commission as a sign of its commitment to fiscal federalism, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced revenue deficit grants for 17 States amounting to Rs. 1.18 lakh crore in 2021-22. The Commission’s report, submitted to the President in November, was tabled in Parliament on Monday with the government’s action taken report. The Commission has recommended additional revenue deficit grants of Rs. 2.94 lakh crore for 17 States over the next five years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-allowed-enhanced-4-of-gsdp-borrowing/article33722775.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Interest on PF contributions over Rs. 2.5 lakh to be taxed||The Union Budget has proposed taxing the income on Provident Fund contributions of more than Rs. 2.5 lakh a year, usually made on a voluntary basis by employees. A similar tax exemption offered to investors in unit-linked insurance plans (ULIPs) has also been capped to ensure that maturity benefits accruing from premium payments of more than Rs. 2.5 lakh a year will be subjected to capital gains tax. For contributions up to Rs. 2.5 lakh a year to the Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF), tax exemptions will remain, along with guaranteed returns, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. Exemption without threshold “However, some people go to the extent of contributing Rs. 1 crore each month… what would be his salary? For him to get both tax concession and an assured income, is not comparable with an employee who earns Rs. 2 lakh and gets 8% return,” she said. “This exemption, without any threshold, benefits only those who can contribute a large amount to these funds as their share,” the Budget documents explained.  In the case of ULIPs, death benefits will remain exempt from tax irrespective of the premium payment, said Rushabh Gandhi, deputy CEO at IndiaFirst Life Insurance Company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/interest-on-pf-contributions-over-rs-25-lakh-to-be-taxed/article33722770.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Record’ allocation of Rs. 1.1 lakh crore for Railways||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman proposed a “record” budgetary allocation of Rs. 1.1 lakh crore for the Railways, with a total capital expenditure outlay of Rs. 2.15 lakh crore for the coming financial year. With a 33% increase in total capital expenditure for 2021-22 over Rs. 1.61 lakh crore (revised estimates) for 2020-21, the Railways said funds would be utilised to boost the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission’ and towards the completion of vital infrastructure projects, capacity-building passenger amenities and safety enhancement. According to the Budget documents, during the year, the Railways were provided Rs. 79,398 crore as “special loan for COVID-19-related resource gap” and towards liquidating the adverse balance occurred in public account in 2019-2020. The total capital expenditure outlay includes the “highest ever” Rs. 1.07 lakh crore from gross budgetary support, Rs. 7,500 crore from internal resources and more than Rs. 1 lakh crore from external budgetary resources. In the upcoming year, the government expects its revenue receipts from the Railways, including passenger, goods and other coaching, sundry other heads, to be about Rs. 2.17 lakh crore as against Rs. 1.46 lakh crore in 2020-21 (revised estimate).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/record-allocation-of-rs-11-lakh-crore-for-railways/article33722777.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Recovery vehicle||This Budget has a feel of reality and confidence of development, and showcases India's self-belief. It will also infuse new confidence in the world in these difficult times Narendra Modi Prime Minister   Forget putting cash in the hands of people, Modi government plans to hand over India's assets to his crony capitalist friends Rahul Gandhi Congress leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recovery-vehicle/article33722773.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers threaten to block highways||Farmer leaders heading the agitation against the three farm laws on Monday announced to block the national and State highways across the country on February 6 in support of their demands. Making the announcement, Balbir Singh Rajewal, who heads a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Punjab, accused the government of repression by blocking roads around the protest sites, suspending Internet services and snapping the water and power supply at the three sites. He was addressing a joint press conference by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a coalition of farmer unions, at the Singhu border here. Mr. Rajewal said the trains were being diverted to prevent the farmers from reaching the protest sites in the national Capital from the neighbouring States. The Twitter accounts of those supporting the movement were withheld and journalists arrested, he said. “It has, therefore, been decided to block highways for three hours on February 6 in the afternoon in protest against the repressive measures of the government. It was also discussed at the meeting that the budgetary allocation to agriculture has been reduced,” said Mr. Rajewal. Darshan Pal, Krantikari Kisan Union’s Punjab unit president, said the Delhi police had released a list of 122 people arrested in connection with the violence during the Republic Day. He said a committee had already been set up to meet them in jails and provide them legal aid. Mr. Pal claimed that the Ferozepur-Mumbai Punjab Mail was diverted to Rewari and two more trains were terminated at Rohtak causing inconvenience to farmers headed to protest sites. Fears over FCI Accusing the government of being ‘arrogant’ and ‘shrewd’ to reduce the budgetary allocation for agriculture amid the ongoing agitation, Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav said the government had not allocated anything for the FCI. He said it raised fears that it could be a conspiracy to shut the FCI. The farmer unions, in a press statement, said the Budget had proved the farmers’ apprehensions right — that this government is on a path of withdrawing support to agriculture, not strengthening it. Despite the huge farmers’ protests and deep discontent at their economic plight, the Union government gave the lowest priority to agriculture. The share of agriculture and allied activities in the Budget has fallen from 5.1% to 4.3%; even in absolute terms, the allocation fell from Rs. 1.54 lakh crore to Rs. 1.48 lakh crore. Even as the farmers announced to protest against alleged repression by the government, the MHA extended the suspension of Internet till 11 p.m. on February 2 at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri — the three protest sites bordering Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-threaten-to-block-highways/article33722750.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||Finance Minister has deceived people of India: Chidambaram||The Congress said on Monday that the Union Budget for 2021-22 was full of “deception”, with former Finance Minister P. Chidamabaram charging Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman with not sharing information such as imposing new cesses on a large number of products, including petrol and diesel. He also accused Ms. Sitharaman of “conjuring” up mind boggling numbers in the Health sector, questioned her silence on Defence allocation that he claimed was “flat” and accused the government of “bleeding” public sector banks to sell them off Separately, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted that instead of “putting cash in the hands of the people, Modi Govt plans to hand over India’s assets to his crony capitalist friends”. In another tweet, Mr. Gandhi wondered why there was no increase in the Defence budget for the soldiers, even though “Mr. Modi did PR photo-op with them on Diwali”. Former Commerce Minister Anand Sharma too expressed his disappointment and said Ms. Sitharaman “chose to be timid when she was required to be bold”. Addressing a press conference along with Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, Mr. Chidamabaram said, “she did not mention Defence at all, as if the Chinese had vacated occupied Indian territory. She did not mention that Defence expenditure in 2021-22 will see no rise. It is flat at Rs. 3,47,088 crore, almost the same as the Rs. 3,43,822 crore in the current year”. Talking about the health sector allocation, he said the government added expenditure under vaccination (Rs. 35,000 crore), Finance Commission grant (Rs. 49,214 crore) and sums allotted to sanitation and water. “Shorn of these add-ons, the allocations for Health were Rs. 72,934 in 2020-21 and Rs. 79,602 crore in 2021-22,” he said. The senior Congress leader said the Finance Minister had “deceived” the people of India, especially the poor, working class, migrants, farmers, industrial units that had been closed down permanently and those who had lost their jobs, both regular and informal. Mr. Chidamabaram noted that though the Finance Minister had referred to farmers 11 times in her speech, agriculture sector had been “shortchanged”, micro small medium enterprises (MSME) sector was “dismissed” with a “meagre” allocation of Rs. 15,700 crore and there was no rescue plan for the closed units. Mr. Chidamabaram also demanded a probe to find out how Bloomberg news agency put out the Revenue Deficit and Fiscal Deficit numbers 40 minutes before the Finance Minister read it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/finance-minister-has-deceived-people-of-india-chidambaram/article33722742.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||It’s a ‘corporate-friendly’ Budget, say trade unions||Several central trade unions, including the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), said the Budget was against the interests of workers, while promoting those of corporates. The All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) said the Budget repeated earlier announcements made by the Minister. “The workers and farmers are ignored in favour of looters of our national assets,” an AITUC statement said. It said the Finance Minister had not addressed concerns of migrant workers when speaking of them, nor had she mentioned the issues of the fishing community, instead focusing on development of harbours. “The anti-worker labour reforms which are being vehemently opposed by the trade unions find favour with the Finance Minister...The Budget has totally ignored the poor masses and their needs. Once again this government is batting for the corporates and abandoning the common masses pushing Indian economy further into mess,” it said. While congratulating the government for the vaccination drive, scheme for tea workers and development of five fishing harbours, the BMS said speaking of the Atmanirbhar Bharat or self-reliant India on one hand and pushing for FDI and disinvestment on the other was disappointing. “None of the demands raised by the BMS and other trade unions has been incorporated in the Budget except a special scheme for tea workers in West Bengal and Assam, thus making the consultation process a mockery,” a BMS statement said. The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) termed the Budget “destructive’. “The Budget 2021-22 demonstrated the continuity of same cruel indifference to the continuing distress and sufferings thrust upon the mass of the working people...The statement of the Finance Minister citing labour codes, that they will ensure universal social security and statutory minimum wage for all is totally devoid of truth.,” a CITU statement said.  The anti-worker labour reforms which are being vehemently opposed by the trade unions find favour with the Finance Minister...The Budget has totally ignored the poor masses and their needs - AITUC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/its-a-corporate-friendly-budget-say-trade-unions/article33722737.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kushwaha meets former rival Nitish||In a significant development in Bihar, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and his old colleague-turned-political rival Upendra Kushwaha of the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) met on Sunday evening to explore ways and means for the merger of the latter’s party with the former’s Janata Dal (U). Mr. Kushwaha had held two meetings with senior JD(U) leaders and was likely to firm up arrangements for the merger in the next few weeks, said sources in the know. “He [Mr. Kushwaha] has been speaking to former Bihar unit chief of the JD(U) Bashistha Narayan Singh and met Nitish Kumar at 1, Anne Marg in Patna on Sunday. He was earlier insisting on alliance. But with no MLAs, that question is moot with no election in sight; therefore, a merger is what was discussed,” said a source. The RLSP fought the Assembly elections as part of an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen and the Jantantrik Party (Socialist), but did not win a seat. “His party, however, did manage to damage the JD(U)’s prospects in many seats, especially the Shahbad and Buxar areas,” said a source. No Kushwaha in Cabinet “With Mewalal Choudhary resigning as Minister, as his appointment in the wake of corruption allegations was found politically untenable, we have no Kushwaha representative in the Bihar Cabinet. There are 12 seats in the Legislative Council to be nominated by the Governor and Upendraji could well be accommodated,” said the source. Interestingly, a Bihar BJP team is in New Delhi to finalise the nominees for the MLC seats and discuss Cabinet expansion. The State Assembly polls saw the JD(U) shrink from its earlier footprint, a situation that arose, say party leaders, due to the scatter of old socialist Janata family votes and the rebellion by Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kushwaha-meets-former-rival-nitish/article33722756.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||Nirmala Sitharaman presents first-ever paperless Budget||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday presented the first-ever paperless Budget amidst a walkout by members of the former National Democratic Alliance (NDA) constituents, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) chief Hanuman Beniwal. Ms. Sitharaman, who had started a new tradition by carrying her Budget speech in a bahi-khata (ledger book) instead of a briefcase, once again has the distinction of presenting the first digital Budget as she read out her speech from a tablet. As soon as she started, former Minister in Narendra Modi government and Akali Dal member Harsimrat Kaur Badal and Sukhbir Singh Badal raised slogans and put up posters demanding the repeal of the three farm laws. Mr. Modi, along with senior Cabinet colleagues Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and other, was present when theMPs left their designated seats and flashed posters against the farm laws. Mr. Beniwal, who had also left NDA over the farm laws, joined the Badals in the brief protest before walking out. The Aam Admi Party’s member from Punjab, Bhagwant Mann, too joined the protest but he returned to his seat. Congress MPs from the State Gurjeet Aujla and Ravneet Bittu were seen wearing black clothes to express solidarity with the protesting farmers. They also wore placards around their neck. Sonia missing While Congress president Sonia Gandhi was missing from her front row seat, party’s leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi sat through the entire two hours of the Finance Minister’s speech. For the first time, in keeping with COVID-19 protocol, some of the Lok Sabha members listened to the speech by sitting in the Rajya Sabha. The Lok Sabha witnessed some conventional and competitive sloganeering between the Treasury and Opposition benches. Slogans such as Bharat Mata ki Jai and Jai Jawan Jai Kisan were heard from time to time. Several Opposition members were heard raising the issue of restoring the MPLAD funds that had been suspended because of COVID-19 impact on the economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nirmala-sitharaman-presents-first-ever-paperless-budget/article33722734.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Upcoming Assembly elections in four States find an echo in Budget||From Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman quoting verses from Rabindranath Tagore and Thiruvalluvar’s works to massive allocation of funds, the influence of the coming polls in West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Assam was obvious on the Budget. And the year-long battle with COVID-19 and even before that, the political-economy lessons from the Maharashtra polls, were also writ large. The four States will go to the polls in the next couple of months. Allocations per State The most obvious political aspect of the Budget was, of course, the allocations announced for these States — 1,100 km of national highways in Kerala at an investment of Rs. 65,000 crore (including a 600-km section of the Mumbai-Kanyakumari corridor), a Rs. 25,000-crore worth highway works in West Bengal (including an upgrade of the Kolkata-Siliguri road), more than 1,300 km of national highways to be built in Assam, new phases of the Chennai Metro at a cost of Rs. 63,246 crore, a seaweed park, a major fishing harbour to be developed in Chennai and national highway programmes to the tune of Rs. 1.03 lakh crore. A welfare fund of Rs. 1,000 crore is also to be set up for tea estate workers in Assam and West Bengal. As a result of the fallout of the Maharashtra elections and the sight of cheated depositors of the PMC Bank in the State crowding into the BJP’s Mumbai office trying to get an audience with Ms. Sitharaman, the government approved an increase in the deposit insurance cover from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh and promised that it would be moving amendments to relevant laws to streamline the provision so that depositors can get easy and time-bound access to their savings to the extent of the deposit insurance. Farmers and MSP Ms. Sitharaman spent considerable time elaborating on the enhanced amounts of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) paid out by the government over the years, an obvious reference to the weeks-long agitation by farmers’ unions on the outskirts of Delhi. The unions have, for months, been demanding the repeal of three farm laws that will make it easier for private traders to bypass ‘mandis’ or market places run by Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) in order to buy agricultural produce as well as removed stock limits on certain commodities under the Essential Commodities Act. Ms. Sitharaman also said that 1,000 more ‘mandis’ would be incorporated into the E-NAM marketplace, in a bid to demonstrate that the government had neither dismantled the MSP nor the ‘mandi’ system. COVID-19 aftermath The Budget math did reflect the economic impact of the year of the pandemic, with the deficit, for the first time in years, being pegged at 9.5% for 2020-21 and is said to be 6.5% for the coming financial year. But the lessons from the distress of migrants across India under one of the harshest lockdowns were also evident — the government would be pushing ahead with promoting “One Nation-One Ration Card” for migrant workers to access food anywhere in the country. A portal for gig and migrant workers would also be set up. The tough year of the pandemic and the busy electoral calendar for this year have been reflected within the year’s Union Budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/upcoming-assembly-elections-in-four-states-find-an-echo-in-budget/article33722736.ece
02 February 2021||Kolkata,||BJP govt. wants to sell country, says Mamata||Describing the Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess introduced by the Centre in the Union Budget as a “Jizya tax”, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the BJP government wants to sell the country through the disinvestment proposals. “Railways sold, ports sold, insurance sold, PSUs 23 more to be sold. They are selling the country... Why don’t you people sell them... Ask them how much more money they need to leave the country,” Ms. Banerjee said, addressing a public gathering at north Bengal. The Chief Minister also criticized the announcement by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman of a new “Economic Corridor” covering 675 km-long National Highway with an expected investment of Rs. 25,000 crore. She said so many roads had already been built in the State including the new Asian Highway connecting West Bengal with the neighbouring countries. “Why do they want to announce projects ahead of elections? Why was it not done earlier,” Ms. Banerjee asked, adding that the cess introduced in the Budget will “finish the people”. State Finance Minister Amit Mitra called the Union Budget for 2021-22 “directionless and confused”. He said it lacked attempts to create demand stimulation as in the standard Keynesian economic model. States short-changed Echoing the Chief Minister, Mr. Mitra criticised the Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess and said the States get nothing when a cess is introduced. “In case of direct taxes, the States get 41% of the taxes collected. There are reports and studies that 16% of revenue collected in the regime of the present government is through cess,” he said. The intent in imposing cesses is to undermine the federal character of the country. so that the fiscal health of the States is undermined, he added. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) Polit Bureau member Md. Salim also raised concern over the disinvestment proposals including raising the foreign direct investment in insurance sector and two public sector undertaking banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-govt-wants-to-sell-country-says-mamata/article33722740.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC urges Centre to give UPSC aspirants one-time relaxation||The Supreme Court on Monday urged the Centre to give a one-time concession to aspirants seeking another opportunity to take the UPSC (Union Public Service Commission) exam after the government submitted that over 3,300 candidates may be benefited from the extra chance. The preparations of the aspirants for the October 4 prelims last year were hampered by the pandemic restrictions. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, for the government, said 3,863 candidates had made their last attempt at cracking the exam on October 4. Of this, 555 had cleared the prelims. The remaining 3,308 would get the benefit of an extra chance. “If it will benefit only about 3,300 students and some will be barred because of the age limit, then why not give a one-time relaxation? Only 2,000 candidates will benefit, without the age-limit barred candidates,” Justice Khanwilkar observed orally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-urges-centre-to-give-upsc-aspirants-one-time-relaxation/article33722754.ece
02 February 2021||Kolkata,||One more Trinamool MLA quits party, likely to join BJP||Defections from the Trinamool Congress continue unabated. On Monday, Diamond Harbour MLA Dipak Kumar Halder resigned from the party. Diamond Harbour, located in South 24 Parganas district, was a constituency that voted overwhelmingly for Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee in 2019. A few days ago, Mr. Halder met former Kolkata Mayor Sovan Chatterjee, who had defected from the Trinamool to the BJP more than two years ago. The meeting and his subsequent resignation have fuelled speculation that Mr. Halder is all set join the BJP. After tendering his resignation, he said that he wanted to work for the people of his constituency. According to the reports, Mr. Halder will join the BJP on Tuesday at a rally in the district, where BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari is likely to be present. The development comes after five Trinamool leaders, including three MLAs, joined the BJP on Saturday. In another development, Trinamool MLA from Singur Rabindranath Bhattacharya, who has been expressing differences with organisational issues, did not participate in protest programmes against the three Central farm bills organised in his constituency. Mr. Bhattacharya, a retired school master, is a veteran MLA from Singur and had played a crucial role in the fight against forcible land acquisition. From three to 30 MLAs The BJP had only three MLAs in West Bengal after the 2016 Assembly polls. The number has increased now to almost 30. The number in the 2019 bypolls increased to six. In the past one and a half years, more than 20 MLAs from the Trinamool Congress, the Left parties and the Congress have joined the BJP, taking the number to 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-more-trinamool-mla-quits-party-likely-to-join-bjp/article33722758.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Physical hearings in SC may start by March’||Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on Monday told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, office-bearers of the Bar Council of India (BCI) and various lawyers’ bodies that physical hearings in the Supreme Court might start by the first week of March. During a meeting, a BCI release said, the CJI said the judges themselves were willing to resume physical hearing of cases, but there were medical and technical issues involved. An agitation was staged by senior advocate Vikas Singh and other lawyers for complete resumption of physical hearings in the top court. They said lawyers were distressed by the video conferencing system. Mr. Singh later met with the CJI. In a separate meeting with Mr. Mehta, BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra and other lawyers, the CJI said the court was evolving a hybrid system of hearings — that is both physical and virtual hearing — till the pandemic is over. The CJI asked the lawyers to discuss various issues regarding physical hearings so that there would be no hiccups. The virtual system of hearings in the top court was initiated during the end of March last year to provide access to justice even during the lockdown and pandemic restrictions. The virtual system of functioning has been continuing for nearly a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/physical-hearings-in-sc-may-start-by-march/article33723212.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||Farmers’ stir: Twitter blocks several accounts||Microblogging site Twitter on Monday, citing “legal demands”, blocked several accounts, including that of a news website, actor, political workers and bloggers, that were posting messages in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. However, most accounts were restored in the evening. A source said Twitter contested the order as the accounts were “not in violation of Twitter policy.” The accounts were taken down after the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeITY), based on a request by the MHA, asked Twitter to act against 250 Twitter handles. The MEITY directed Twitter to block around 250 tweets/ Twitter accounts, which were using #ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide hashtag and making fake, intimidatory and provocative Tweets on January 30. “This was done on a request of the Ministry of Home Affairs and law enforcement agencies to prevent any escalation of law and order in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Incitement to genocide is a grave threat to public order and, therefore, the MEITY ordered blocking these Twitter accounts and tweets,” the source said. Twitter said, “Pending our discussions with the regulatory authorities, we temporarily withheld these accounts... During our subsequent meetings with the officials, Twitter conveyed that the accounts and Tweets in question constitute free speech and are newsworthy. Therefore, these Tweets and accounts have now been unwithheld.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-stir-twitter-blocks-several-accounts/article33722745.ece
02 February 2021||CHITTOOR,||Redsanders logs worth Rs. 50 lakh seized, 6 held||The Andhra Pradesh State Redsanders Anti-smuggling Task Force teams on Monday seized redsanders logs worth Rs. 50 lakh and three cars, and nabbed six persons after a long chase from Chandragiri near Tirupati to Kolar in Karnataka. According to the task force officials, acting on a tip-off that a group of smuggling operatives were getting ready to transport the contraband material from the foothills of Tirumala near Chandragiri towards Karnataka, special teams were sent to scan the vulnerable stretch of A. Rangampeta-Ithepalle road, connecting to the NH towards Kolar in Karnataka. In the early hours, the task force spotted three cars moving on the road. Sighting the combing party, two cars fled the spot, after gaining access to the NH from the rural road, abandoning a car near Ithepalle. The teams chased the vehicles up to Kolar, when one of the vehicles carrying the logs got punctured near Nerlahalli village in Karnataka. The teams could intercept both vehicles. Six youth, including four from Karnataka and two from Chandragiri mandal of Chittoor district, were nabbed. In another incident, the forest officials of Chittoor west division nabbed two red sanders operatives from Tamil Nadu and seized logs worth about Rs. 50 lakh, and a mini lorry carrying them. According to Forest Range Officer (Punganur) Balakrishna Reddy, the forest guards spotted the mini lorry carrying about 50 persons and moving towards Karnataka in the early hours. The vehicle was intercepted at Jendaman Cross junction near Piler. While a large number of operatives fled the spot into the roadside thickets, two from Tamil Nadu were nabbed. A case was registered and further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/redsanders-logs-worth-rs-50-lakh-seized-6-held/article33723447.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Record’ allocation of Rs. 1.1 lakh cr. for Railways||The Railways, which were hit badly by the COVID-19 pandemic, had earlier estimated the 2020-21 revenues to be more than Rs. 2.25 lakh crore. While the passenger earnings for 2020-21 have been revised to Rs. 15,000 crore as against Rs. 61,000 crore, revised estimate for goods earnings is about Rs. 1.24 lakh crore as against the Budget estimate of Rs. 1.37 lakh crore. For the next financial year, the Railways have kept the revenues estimates the same as 2020-21. Freight corridor The Finance Minister also announced that the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) and the Eastern DFC are expected to be commissioned by June 2022 and the Railways would monetise the DFC assets for operations and maintenance, after commissioning. “The Sonnagar – Gomoh Section (263.7 km) of Eastern DFC will be taken up in PPP mode in 2021-22. The Gomoh-Dankuni section of 274.3 km will also be taken up in short succession,” Ms. Sitharaman said in her speech. Additionally, Ms. Sitharaman proposed that future dedicated freight corridor projects — the East Coast Corridor from Kharagpur to Vijayawada, East-West Corridor from Bhusaval to Kharagpur to Dankuni and North-South Corridor from Itarsi to Vijayawada, would be undertaken.  Electrification of routes The Finance Minister also announced that 100% electrification of Broad-Gauge routes would be completed by December 2023. Broad Gauge Route Kilometres (RKM) electrified is expected to reach 46,000 RKM, that is 72%, by end of 2021 from 41,548 RKM on October 1, 2020. For passenger convenience and safety, Ms. Sitharaman said the Railways would introduce aesthetically designed Vista Dome LHB coaches on tourist routes to give a better travel experience. Additionally, to further strengthen safety effort, “high density network and highly utilised network routes of Indian Railways will be provided with an indigenously developed automatic train protection system that eliminates train collision due to human error,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/record-allocation-of-rs-11-lakh-cr-for-railways/article33722743.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||Left slams govt. for ‘opportunism’||The Left parties reacted sharply to the Union Budget, where national highway projects were announced for four election-bound States alone. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury also slammed the government for “political opportunism.” “People cannot be fooled by this. By the time these announcements made in the budget are implemented, the elections in West Bengal and Kerala will be long over,” he told The Hindu . Mr. Yechury, in a tweet, said the budget would cause a K-shaped recovery where the rich would become richer and poor poorer. CPI general secretary D. Raja said the government had tried to hoodwink the voters of the four election-going States, making false promises. “This budget is a continuation of pro-corporate policies of the government. The government has abdicated the duty of rescuing the economy while leaving the doors open for corporates, dismantling the public sector undertakings, allowing FDI in all sectors including insurance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-slams-govt-for-opportunism/article33722735.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||SJM raises caution over PSU sell-off||Swadeshi Jagaran Manch (SJM), affiliated to the RSS, has praised the Union Budget tabled on Monday in Parliament but raised red flags on the government’s disinvestment proposals with regard to government-owned enterprises and rise in Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in the insurance sector. Convenor of SJM, Ashwani Mahajan said the organisation “was appreciative of the government for its enhanced and judicious spending for the survival of the people who faced job or income losses, by providing free food and other essential steps for their livelihood, to bring the economy back on track both in rural and urban areas.” Reservations were, however, expressed on the disinvestment proposals and raising of FDI limits in insurance. “The announcement of carrying out disinvestment of BPCL, Air India, Shipping Corporation of India, Pawan Hans, BEML, etc. is a cause for concern,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sjm-raises-caution-over-psu-sell-off/article33722738.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi speaks to Netanyahu on Delhi blast||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke to his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu and conveyed his “strong condemnation” of the January 29 blast near the Israeli Embassy here. “The Prime Minister conveyed his strong condemnation of the terror attack near the Israeli Embassy. He assured Mr. Netanyahu that India accords the highest importance to the safety and security of Israeli diplomats and premises, and would deploy all its resources to find and punish the perpetrators,” the Ministry of External Affairs said in a release. Earlier, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had spoken to his counterpart Gabi Ashkenazi and assured him of India’s support in conducting a full investigation. The blast is being probed by the authorities of both countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-speaks-to-netanyahu-on-delhi-blast/article33722753.ece
02 February 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Firm told to pay Rs. 2056 cr for excess mining||A leading mining company has been slapped with a fine of Rs. 2056 crore towards compensation for carrying out excess excavation of iron ore in Odisha’s Keonjhar district. Sarda Mines Private Limited had environment clearance to raise 6.66 lakh tonnes of iron ore during during February and March of 2020. Instead, the company produced 49.61 lakh tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/firm-told-to-pay-rs-2056-cr-for-excess-mining/article33722751.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Lt. Gen. C.P. Mohanty assumes charge as Vice Chief of Army Staff||Lt. Gen. C.P. Mohanty on Monday assumed charge as the Vice-Chief of the Army Staff. He succeeds Lt. Gen. S.K. Saini, who retired on January 31. Lt. Gen. Mohanty was earlier serving as the Southern Army Commander. He has commanded a battalion on the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir and in the northeastern region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lt-gen-cp-mohanty-assumes-charge-as-vice-chief-of-army-staff/article33722752.ece
02 February 2021||Mumbai,||Court issues summons to Kangana on Javed Akhtar’s complaint||The metropolitan magistrate court on Monday issued summons to actor Kangana Ranaut to appear on March 1 on a criminal complaint filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar alleging defamatory statements made by the actor about him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-issues-summons-to-kangana-on-javed-akhtars-complaint/article33722760.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Use of flag raises question on Sasikala-AIADMK ties||The presence of the AIADMK flag on the car used by V.K. Sasikala, the party’s former interim general secretary and aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, in Bengaluru on Sunday, has raised a question about her ties with the party. Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam asserted that Sasikala does not have locus standi to use the flag as she is no longer a member of the party. “We threw them [Sasikala and her nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran] out of the party at the general council meeting held in September 2017. The two had approached the courts to establish their claim over the party but only suffered setbacks,” he said. “As it has been established in the appropriate judicial forums that our camp [led by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam] alone represents the AIADMK, neither she nor Mr. Dhinakaran is a member of the party,” he contends. However, C.R. Saraswathi, propaganda secretary of the AMMK, led by Mr. Dhinakaran, recalls an observation of the Madras High Court in September 2017 that any order passed at the general council meeting would be subject to the outcome of the appeal against the dismissal of former legislator P. Vetrivel’s application for an injunction against the meeting. But Mr. Shanmugam argued that with the death of Vetrivel, the proceedings themselves have abated. Disputing the Minister’s version about Sasikala’s position, Ms. Saraswathi said, “ Chinnamma [Sasikala] was not expelled from the party even at the meeting held by the rival camp. So, she continues to be a member.” When asked whether the use of the AIADMK flag on Sasikala’s car means the AMMK hasn’t been taken cognisance of, she noted that Mr. Dhinakaran said the AMMK was founded only to “retrieve the AIADMK”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/use-of-flag-raises-question-on-sasikala-aiadmk-ties/article33723259.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Phase II Metro gets fillip with Budget allocation||The Rs. 63,246 crore phase II project of the Chennai Metro Rail has received a much-needed boost with the Central government agreeing to participate in its funding. Work on the project, which covers 118.9 km and has three corridors — Madhavaram to SIPCOT, Madhavaram to Sholinganallur and Light House to Poonamallee — is all set to begin in a few months as the Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. has already begun awarding contracts to firms for its construction. Two weeks ago, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for Central support and a 50:50 equity sharing model for the phase II project, as was the case with phase I. In November last year, when Home Minister Amit Shah laid the foundation stone for the project, Mr. Palaniswami handed over a letter to him, seeking a share capital of 15%, as opposed to the 10% the Centre said it would provide as a grant. “We are very happy to know that the Centre has agreed to participate in the funding [of the project]. We are not sure how much will come through at this point in time,” a source said. Another source said they were expecting a written communication on this soon. In her Budget speech on Monday, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the ‘Metrolite’ and ‘MetroNeo’ technologies would be deployed in tier II cities and peripheral areas of tier I cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/phase-ii-metro-gets-fillip-with-budget-allocation/article33723243.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 1.03 lakh cr. proposed for road projects||The Union Budget for 2021-2022 has proposed construction of 3,500 km of national highways in the State with an investment of Rs. 1.03 lakh crore. These include the Madurai-Kollam corridor and the Chittoor-Thatchur corridor. Construction of these and other projects are to commence next year, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said during her budget speech on Monday. Among the projects awarded or currently proposed are 506 km of roadworks to be taken up at an estimate of Rs. 16,500 crore, which include the 278-km Bengaluru–Chennai Expressway and the 277-km Chennai–Salem Expressway. Tenders for the former have been issued. Work on the roads between Nagapattinam and Thanjavur; Villupuram and Nagapattinam and Meensurutti and Chidambaram would be taken up this year. About Rs. 500 crore has been allocated for the construction of bridges and other structures in Kanniyakumari district. Realignment of roads Among the projects proposed for 2021-22 is a 150-km Madurai-Rajapalayam-Senkottai-Kollam highway. The portion in Tamil Nadu would cost Rs. 4,500 crore and it would involve realignment of existing roads to cater to the norms of the National Highways. Around 330 km of coastal road would be constructed from Nagapattinam to Thoothukudi via Rameswaram at a cost of Rs. 10,000 crore. The Chennai Port-Maduravoyal Elevated Corridor, which had been put on hold due to changes in alignment, is to be revived in 2021-22 with an allocation of Rs. 3,500 crore. Ms. Sitharaman announced that an advanced traffic management system with speed radars, variable message signboards and GPS-enabled recovery vans would be installed in all the four- and six-lane highways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-103-lakh-cr-proposed-for-road-projects/article33722828.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||25 districts record less than 10 new cases||On a day when the State reported 502 new cases of COVID-19, 25 districts clocked less than 10 cases each. Only Chennai recorded seven deaths, with no fatality in the rest of the State. Monday’s fresh cases took the State’s case count to 8,38,842. In Chennai, 134 persons tested positive for the infection followed by 59 persons in Coimbatore. There were 30 cases in Chengalpattu, 27 in Tiruppur, 25 in Thanjavur and 24 in Erode. Kancheepuram recorded 10 cases while Salem and Madurai had nine and seven cases each. A total of 517 persons were discharged after treatment across the State. Of these, 99 were in Chennai, 62 in Coimbatore and 60 in Chengalpattu. Till date, 8,21,947 persons were discharged after treatment. Seven persons (four in private and three in government hospitals) died in Chennai. This took the toll to 12,363. Chennai alone accounted for 4,109 deaths. Two of the seven persons were aged in their forties. A 46-year-old woman, who had no co-morbidities, was admitted to the Government Corona Hospital on January 25. She died on January 28 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A death that occurred on January 12 was recorded in Monday’s bulletin. A 42-year-old man, who had dyslipidemia, was admitted to a private hospital on January 12 with fever, cough for four days and difficulty in breathing, and died on the same day due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 95-year-old man, who had systemic hypertension, died at the Government Corona Hospital on January 30 due to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure, septic shock and atrial fibrillation. A total of 4,532 persons were undergoing treatment in the State. This included 1,586 in Chennai, 422 in Coimbatore and 299 in Chengalpattu. In the last 24 hours, 51,664 samples were tested, taking the total samples tested till date to 1,60,71,626.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-districts-record-less-than-10-new-cases/article33722826.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs feel let down||A cross-section of the representatives of the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) said the announcements made by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Union Budget will not solve any of the problems facing the sector for several years now. Ms. Sitharaman said the government would reduce the customs duty uniformly to 7.5% on semis, flat, and long products of non-alloy, alloy, and stainless steel. To provide relief to metal recyclers, mostly MSMEs, she extended duty duty exemption on steel scrap till March 31, 2022. She announced that the anti-dumping duty (ADD) and the countervailing duty (CVD) on certain steel products would be revoked. Also, to provide relief to copper recyclers, duty on copper scrap would be reduced from 5% to 2.5%. “MSMEs, which are badly affected by the increase in raw material prices, are dependent on local manufacturers and the reduction in import duty on iron and steel may not trickle down to help this sector,” M. Balachandran, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, said. “MSMEs hope the government will take firm steps to restrain local steel companies from arbitrarily increasing the prices,” he added. “There is no favourable specific announcement for MSMEs such as bank loan interest rate and GST reduction,” said R. Selvam, secretary of Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association. K.V. Kanakambaram, president of The Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association, Guindy, said: “Though the government made tall claims of helping the MSMEs in the last six months, nothing happened on the ground. There has been no support from the State government as well as the Centre,” he said. Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association (TANSTIA) president S. Anburajan said despite a detailed representation to finance and MSME Ministries, none of the suggestions were considered and the sector had been overlooked.  Reduction in import duty on iron and steel may not trickle down to help this sector  M. BalachandranPresident, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-feel-let-down/article33722830.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM hands over awards to scholars||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday handed over awards to scholars, organisations and media houses that contributed to the development of the Tamil language. A total of 77 awards were given to individuals and organisations. The Chief Minister gave away Thiruvalluvar Award for 2021 to former Minister Vaigaichelvan, Thanthai Periyar Award for 2020 to A. Tamilmagan Hussain and Annal Ambedkar Award to Mr. Varagur A. Arunachalam. Mr. Kudiyarasu Janarthanan received the Perarignar Anna Award on behalf of his father Kadambur M.R. Janarthanan, who passed away recently. Mr. S. Devaraj received the Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Award and poet Poovai Senguttuvan received the Mahakavi Bharathiyar Award. Mr. Arivumathi alias Mathiyazhagan and V. N. Samy received Pavendhar Bharathidasan Award and Thamizhthendral Thiru. Vi.Ka. Award respectively. Mr. Palaniswami handed over Muthamizhkavalar K.A.P. Viswanathan Award to V. Sethuramalingam. These awards consist of a cheque for Rs. 1 lakh, a sovereign of gold medal, a shawl and a citation. V.G.P. Ulaga Tamil Sangam received the Thamizhthai Award, which carries a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh, a shield, a shawl and a citation. Sangam’s president V.G. Santhosam and its joint secretary V.G.P. Rajadas received the award from the Chief Minister.  Other awardees S. Ezhumalai (Kabilar Award) and Deepan, son of K. Rajanarayanan (U.Ve.Sa. Award). He received it on behalf of his father; H.V. Hande (Kambar Award); Nagai Mukundan (Sollin Selvar Award). Desikan received the G.U. Pope Award on behalf of Professor Ulrike Niklas of Institute of Indology and Tamil Studies (IITS) at the University of Cologne, Germany. Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju, Minister for Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare V.M. Rajalakshmi, Minister for Tamil Official Language K. Pandiarajan, Minister for Backward Classes Welfare S. Valarmathi, Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan and senior officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-hands-over-awards-to-scholars/article33722840.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||7,994 missing children traced in 10 years||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Monday said 7,994 missing children were traced and reunited with their parents in Chennai in the last 10 years. Efforts are on to trace 118 missing children. “From 2010 till date, 8,112 cases of missing children were registered in Chennai city, of which 7,994 children were traced. Though it is a high percentage of success, it is still a matter of great concern that 118 children remain missing,” said Mr. Aggarwal at the launch of Operation Smile-2021 programme to rescue and rehabilitate missing children. Special teams would take maximum effort to trace the missing children. In the last fortnight 17 missing children were traced and handed over to their parents by the Anti-Child Trafficking Unit (ACTU). In the last year, 80 children, working as bonded labourers, were rescued with the assistance of a task force comprising personnel from police, revenue, labour departments and other stakeholders. They were sent to their native places. He also added that about 50 child marriages were prevented in the last one year with the assistance of officers of the Social Welfare Department and other stakeholders. Around 2,000 children found begging and wandering on the streets were rescued and lodged in government homes after being produced before Child Welfare Committees to reform and rehabilitate them. Seema Aggarwal, Additional Director General of Police(ADGP) and Head of Special Wing for Crime Against Women and Children said the objective of Operation Smile is to rescue children who need care and protection or who are in conflict with the law and rehabilitate them. The target group is runaway children who are vulnerable and are liable for all kinds of exploitation and misguidance. The special teams constituted for the purpose will also concentrate on reuniting the children in child care institutions with their parents. They will also focus on rescuing children begging on roads, child labourers and victims of flesh trade. R. Lalvena, Commissioner of Social Defence Department called upon stakeholders to work together to bring smiles on the faces of children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/7994-missing-children-traced-in-10-years/article33723492.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3-day meet on nanoscience and nanotechnology begins||The sixth international conference on nanoscience and nanotechnology was inaugurated virtually at SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Kattankulathur, on Monday. The institute’s Department of Physics and Nanotechnology organised the biennial conference in association with Shizuoka University-Japan, National Chiao Tung University (NCTU)-Taiwan, GNS Geological and Nuclear Sciences (GNS) Science-New Zealand, University of Rome Tor Vergata-Italy, RMIT University-Australia, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR)-India, Asian Consortium on Computational Materials Science (ACCMS), Indian Physics Association (IPA), Materials Research Society of India (MRSI), Indian Carbon Society (ICS)-India and Springer Nature. The three-day meet will have 2,400 participants and over 70 sessions with speakers from several countries.  Recent trends It aims at providing a platform for researchers and scientists to assess recent trends and developments. Scientific sessions include low-dimensional and 2D materials, surfaces and thin films, nanocomposites and catalysts, and multifunctional nanomaterials. SRMIST Vice Chancellor Sandeep Sancheti spoke about the emerging research and development in the field of nanoscience and nanotechnology. Pro V-C C. Muthamizhchelvan released the conference proceedings. Ashutosh Sharma, secretary of the Department of Science and Technology, who delivered the inaugural address on the initiatives and schemes framed by DST to develop research and development infrastructure in various institutions in the country, was honoured with the SRM-ICONN award of excellence in nanoscience and nanotechnology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-day-meet-on-nanoscience-begins/article33723241.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporate sector gives a big thumbs up to Budget||The corporate sector largely saw it as a ‘fulfilling budget’ though there were certain minor misses. “The kind of investments the Finance Minister has announced across sectors is historic. This will propel GDP growth to double digits,” said C.K. Ranganathan, deputy chairman, CII- Southern Region and CMD, CavinKare Pvt. Ltd. “I have not seen such a mega spending budget in my life. The government has taken us by surprise,” he said. Hari Thiagarajan, chairman, CII Tamil Nadu State Council and executive director, Thiagarajar Mills Pvt. Ltd., said: “The infrastructure spend for Tamil Nadu is something which we were looking for and the State is going to benefit more.” “The exemption of duty on steel scrap and reduction in customs duty is encouraging news,” said M. Ponnuswami, chairman and managing director, Pon Pure Chemical India Pvt. Ltd. The budget has indicated that mobile phones could get costlier as custom duty on some parts of handsets have been increased from nil to 2.5%. Sasikumar Gendham, managing director, Salcomp India, a Chennai-based major supplier of chargers to Apple for its iPhones, said: “This Budget has made phones more expensive due to withdrawal of exemptions on certain inputs both for phones and chargers. Let’s hope that companies take this as an opportunity to focus on increasing localisation further.” R. Dinesh, managing director, TVS Supply Chain Solutions, lauded the emphasis on supply chain areas, including the freight corridors and the multimode approach for reducing logistics cost. Srivats Ram, president, of The Madras Chamber of Commerce & Industry, termed it a growth-oriented Budget. S. Chandramohan, group president – Finance and director, Tractors & Farm Equipment Ltd. said: “We were expecting that there could be additional taxes due to COVID-19. The Finance Minister has taken us by surprise by not levying additional taxes and its welcome step.” N.K. Ranganath, water ambassador, Grundfos Pumps India Pvt Ltd. welcomed the focus on investment towards clean water supply. He also pointed out the need to look beyond the capex and focus on the opex to ensure projects run effectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporate-sector-gives-a-big-thumbs-up-to-budget/article33722833.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Engineer couple ties the knot underwater||An IT engineer couple tied the knot underwater off the Neelankarai coast on Monday morning. Clad in their wedding finery, sari and dhothi, the two took a dive to spread the message of keeping the oceans and waterbodies clean and plastic-free. The bride, S. Swetha, who hails from Coimbatore, said when the groom’s family suggested an underwater wedding, she hesitated and was afraid. “But they convinced me and after due training in a swimming pool and also after a few scuba diving sessions, I was confident enough and took the plunge today. The first time that I went to the bottom of the sea, I saw live fish swimming by me. It was an experience of a life time,” she said. V. Chinnadurai, the groom from Tiruvannamalai, said that he was a swimming enthusiast from his young age. “I have been scuba diving for 12 years now, thanks to Aravind anna, our instructor. It was his idea that we get married under sea. We spent 45 minutes under water. I proposed to her with a bouquet and then exchanged garlands and then tied the thali. Flowers were showered on us and then we took a few rounds under water. We are worried about finding masks under water. We wanted to create an awareness about this and so chose our wedding as an occasion,” he said. S.B. Aravind Tharunsri, master instructor, Professional Association of Diving Instructors in Australia, said that they had not even fixed the date for the wedding but instead waited for a calm day at the sea. The two dived to a depth of about 60 feet to reach the seabed at a distance of 4.5 km from the shore. Awaited a calm sea “Last night we got a call from the fishermen that the sea was calm and so we hurried early this morning. We had taken permission from the coastal police for the marriage. After coming onto the shore, the other rituals were done,” he also said. The couple said that they could not call many friends and relatives since they were not sure of the date of the wedding. They have invited people over to the reception that is slated to be held in Sholinganallur later this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineer-couple-ties-the-knot-underwater/article33723490.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Penal action against government staff, teachers dropped||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday said that all disciplinary and legal actions initiated against government employees and teachers, who took part in the strike during January 2019, would be dropped. Mr. Palaniswami's announcement, which he said was based on the principle ‘let us forget and forgive’, comes a few months ahead of the Assembly poll. “The government employees and teachers should accept this good decision of the government and continue their service to the people efficiently,” he said in a statement issued here. He said the government had never brushed aside genuine concerns raised by the government servants and teachers and had in fact announced a revision of dearness allowance, despite several financial constraints. The strike from January 22 to 30, 2019, by them severely affected the general public, the Chief Minister said. Departmental proceedings were initiated against 7,898 protesters. A total of 17,686 teachers and government servants were arrested and 408 cases were registered against them but all of them were released on bail later. As many as 2,338 persons were placed under suspension and were eventually allowed to rejoin service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/penal-action-against-govt-staff-dropped/article33722841.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prince of Arcot receives Tirukkural Arabic CD||A ‘Tirukkural’ Arabic audio CD was released by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and was received by the Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali on Monday. The event was organised by the Tamil Language Development and Tamil Culture Department, under the Directorship of G. Vijayraghavan. The Compact Disc was produced by the International Institute of Tamil Studies,Government of Tamil Nadu, and A. Jahir Husain, Arabic Department, University of Madras has done the Arabic translation, recitation and coordination. The Prince of Arcot praised the ‘Tirukkural’, as a classic Tamil language text which was considered the greatest work on ethics, morality, universality and secularism and thanked the Chief Minister for inviting him for the event. State Minister for Tamil Language and Culture K. Pandiarajan, Rajeev Ranjan, Chief Secretary, and Nawabzada Mohammed Asif Ali, Dewan to the Prince of Arcot were among those who were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/prince-of-arcot-receives-tirukkural-arabic-cd/article33723235.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Emergency specialists rally to create awareness on road safety||A team of emergency specialists from Apollo Hospitals set off on a car rally on Monday to create awareness on the importance of road safety, keeping in line with the National Road Safety Month. A press release said members of the rally took a safety pledge and began a journey to Kanniyakumari from Chennai. The five-car rally, along with an ambulance, will end in Chennai on February 4. Rahul Menon, chief operating officer, Apollo Hospitals, OMR; Santy Sajan, COO, Apollo Hospitals, Greames Road; Arup Sinha, executive director, IOCL, southern region; and Pradeep, chief medical officer, Mahindra & Mahindra, flagged it off. It is aimed at sensitising people to road safety principles to avoid fatal incidents, including rash driving and drunken driving, use of helmets/seatbelts, avoid driving while tired, avoiding cell phones and following rules while crossing roads. Speaking at the event, Dhavapalani, head of Emergency, Apollo Hospitals, said India has the dubious distinction of leading the world in terms of deaths due to road accidents. Wearing a helmet, wearing seatbelts and adhering to road rules would save many more lives than what the medical fraternity could achieve. The rally will spread awareness, especially at RTOs and offices of Superintendent of Police, across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/emergency-specialists-rally-to-create-awareness-on-road-safety/article33723237.ece
02 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Decision not to raise taxes welcome’||Name: Venkat Rangam K.  Profession: Director (Finance) atamanagement consulting company  Family members: 5  Monthly income: Rs. 5 lakh Iam glad that there has not been an increase in direct taxes or long-term capital gains tax. I welcome the move as it does not increase the burden of entrepreneurs, who have already suffered huge losses. There has not been any change to corporate income tax as well. It is a relief that a COVID-19 cess or additional taxes have not been levied. Instead, the Union government has opted for reforms and disinvestment. This is a major push for growth, especially in the areas of infrastructure and manufacturing. Reforms in tax assessment and the filing of Income-Tax returns, and the exemption of senior citizens aged above 75 from having to file I-T returns are moves in a favourable direction. Such measures would benefit tax-compliant people. I would rate it as a fairly balanced Budget, given the challenges the country is facing and the fact that the government is not taking more tax from me. The Budget announcement on increasing foreign direct investment in insurance companies would boost the sector. My company, which is dependent on the insurance sector, would have better growth opportunities. While it is a good move to announce several infrastructure projects, implementation at the ground level would prove to be a challenge. COVID-19-related issues, which crippled growth, may resurface as the pandemic is not over yet. But the Budget did not have a mention of any contingency plan to tackle the post-COVID-19 scenario. ( As told to K. Lakshmi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-not-to-raise-taxes-welcome/article33723249.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former A-G Alagiriswami passes away||Former Advocate General K. Alagiriswami, 85, died in Chennai on Monday following a brief illness. He had served as the top-most law officer of the State between 1989 and 1991 after having held various positions, such as Central government standing counsel between 1969 and 1976. Hailing from Watrap in Srivilliputtur, he had graduated from Loyola College in Chennai before joining the Madras Law College in 1959 and commencing practice in 1961. In 2011, the Madras Bar Association had honoured him on completion of 50 years of active practice as a lawyer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-a-g-alagiriswami-passes-away/article33723251.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM welcomes Budget, frowns upon new cess||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday welcomed the Union Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. He, however, expressed his reservations on the fuel cess. Mr. Palaniswami, in a statement, urged the Centre to immediately disburse 50% of funds for the Chennai Metro Rail second phase project and accord approval for Metro Rail projects in Coimbatore and Madurai. He welcomed the announcement of laying 3,500 km of National Highways in the State. The Madurai-Kollam and Chittoor-Thatchur roads would boost growth, he said, assuring the Centre of the State’s cooperation in implementing the projects. Mr. Palaniswami sought a textile park in the southern districts and one more in Salem. As for the cess on fuel, he expressed reservations, saying it would reduce Tamil Nadu’s share in tax revenues and said the Finance Minister must consider the plea of the State governments and revert to the old position on this. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, who holds the Finance portfolio, said Ms. Sitharaman had fulfilled many requests from Tamil Nadu. He hailed the increase in the fiscal deficit ceiling to 4% of GSDP, and an additional 0.5% increase in the borrowing limit for the States. He welcomed the extension of the Ujjwala scheme to 100 more districts, higher allocation for irrigation and establishment of a seaweed park in the State, among others. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri termed it an anti-poor and anti-citizen Budget. He said the government’s move to increase FDI limit in the insurance sector from 49% to 74% would destroy the Life Insurance Corporation of India.  ‘No new rail route’ MDMK general secretary Vaiko said the announcement that the Chennai-Salem eight-lane expressway would be implemented, despite strong opposition from the people, was highly condemnable. He said it was disappointing that there were no new railway routes announced in Tamil Nadu. and that the government was continuing to privatise banks and insurance companies. TMC president G.K. Vasan said the Budget was focused on the overall development and fulfilled the expectations of the people, especially in Tamil Nadu. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran said the Budget provided “some amount of happiness” and “much room for concern”. He lauded the move to give social security cover to platform workers .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-welcomes-budget-frowns-upon-new-cess/article33722823.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Budget is a mirage: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday said the Union Budget had no constructive measures for Tamil Nadu and it was like a mirage for a cow longing for water. “It has announced a lollipop for the people of Tamil Nadu in view of the forthcoming Assembly poll. Even that lollipop is not real,” he said. In a statement, he said that although the Budget had announced construction of 3,500 km of roads at a cost of Rs. 1.03 lakh crore, there was no fund allocation. “The budget just says that the project is being planned,” he claimed. Mr. Stalin said there was no announcement for financial assistance to those who had lost their jobs due to COVID-19. “There is a proposal of Hindi translation scheme, but other languages, particularly Tamil, have been ignored,” he alleged. Mr. Stalin described as an eyewash the move to exempt pensioners aged over 75 from filing IT returns since the banks would deduct the income tax at source.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/budget-is-a-mirage-stalin/article33722832.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seaweed project to cover several districts||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced a multi-purpose seaweed park in the State, providing a fillip to an emerging sector with the potential to transform the lives of those in coastal communities. “It will provide large-scale employment and additional income,” she said. Sources in the State Fisheries Department said they had been pursuing a major project in the seaweed sector, and were happy that it had been taken into consideration. “The exact location of the project is yet to be decided. It would be a multi-district project covering certain coastal districts. The Palk Bay area has huge potential. There is scope for engaging women from coastal villages to enhance their livelihoods and double their income. There will be seed growing facilities, seaweed growing centres and R&D too, which means processing and cold chain facilities as well,” an official said. This would be a collaborative venture with various stakeholders, like buyers, exporters, importers and processors. “There is a huge demand for seaweed in the production of cosmetics and nutraceuticals. We expect that this project would require about Rs. 150 crore, and are planning to seek assistance from the Centre,” the official said. Ms. Sitharaman also made an announcement regarding improvements to the Kasimedu fishing harbour in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seaweed-project-to-cover-several-districts/article33722835.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC lifts curbs on trial courts in T.N., Puducherry||The Madras High Court has decided to withdraw from February 8 all restrictions and limitations imposed by it on the functioning of trial courts across the State and the Union Territory of Puducherry to contain the spread of COVID-19. In an official memorandum issued on Monday, Registrar General C. Kumarappan said the Administrative Committee of the High Court had taken the decision after reviewing the prevailing situation of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. “It is open to the Principal District Judges to decide on the mode and manner of functioning depending on the situation prevailing in their respective district or even in a particular taluk,” the memorandum, circulated to all judicial officers, read. Annexing an SOP to the memorandum, the R-G said all PDJs in the State and the Chief Judge of Puducherry should ensure better functioning of subordinate courts without compromising the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-lifts-curbs-on-trial-courts-in-tn-puducherry/article33723254.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches free internet data card scheme||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday launched the distribution of free 2 GB internet data cards to students of government, aided colleges and polytechnics across the State to help them attend online classes till May this year. Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan and Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar, Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan and senior officials were present during the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-internet-data-card-scheme/article33722836.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Norms relaxed to compensate rain-affected farmers||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday announced that the guidelines pertaining to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) would be relaxed to compensate the farmers whose crops were affected by unusually heavy rain in January. Over 6.81 lakh hectares of crop were damaged due to the downpour. Last month, the Chief Minister announced relaxations in NDRF norms to compensate the farmers whose crops were damaged by cyclones  Nivar  and Burevi last year. One of the guidelines had restricted relief to a maximum of two hectares in case of a natural disaster. Following the Chief Minister’s announcement, over 11.43 lakh farmers would receive over Rs. 1,116.97 crore in input subsidy. “The relief would be credited into the bank accounts of the farmers. A Central team would visit the rain-affected districts on February 3, 4 and 5,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a statement. The CM also increased the amount of aid covered under the ‘input subsidy’ head from Rs. 13,500 to Rs. 20,000 a hectare in case of rain-fed and paddy in irrigated areas and other crops with irrigation facilities. For other rain-fed crops (other than paddy), the relief has been increased from Rs. 7,410 to Rs. 10,000 per hectare. As for perennial crops, the input assistance has been increased from Rs. 18,000 to 25,000 per hectare. The State has sought funds to the tune of Rs. 900.82 crore from the Centre as relief for losses incurred due to the unusually heavy rain in January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-relaxes-norms-to-compensate-farmers/article33722845.ece
02 February 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Reduce prices of essential commodities’||Name: Susila Sathyanarayanan  Family members: 3  Monthly income: Rs. 20,000 Ours is a small family of three, and includes my daughter-in-law and grandson. I am 79 years old, and we live on my pension and the stipend my grandson has been getting following my son's death three years ago. Though I receive a pension and interest from fixed deposits in banks, I find it difficult to enjoy a peaceful life. Costs have skyrocketed in the past three years. The prices of essentials have risen rather steeply. The interest from FDs is rather low. It has been falling over the years. But since the pension amount has been increasing, I can manage. A few years ago, the interest from FD was quite good, at 8%. But it has steadily fallen since then. Vegetables and fruits are more expensive now. Fuel prices, be it cooking gas, diesel or petrol, have gone up. The gas cylinder delivery man has been demanding more money ever since we shifted to T. Nagar. Earlier, we used to pay him an additional Rs. 30, and we did not complain as he had to climb three flights of stairs. The apartment had a rule that cylinder delivery persons should not use the lift. Now, every time I book a cylinder, I dread the delivery man’s visit. He demands Rs. 50 now, even though we live on the ground floor. He argues that the cost of living is high, and he also needs to make a living. I have to take an autorickshaw to visit a doctor. Diesel and petrol prices have gone up, and so has the price per trip. I hesitate to visit the doctor now. We buy some provisions like tur dal from PDS shops. It would help if the government brings down the prices of food items. I am not a taxpayer, but I would like the government to make my life more comfortable.  (As told to R. Sujatha)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reduce-prices-of-essential-commodities/article33723247.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajeev Ranjan assumes office||Senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Rajeev Ranjan assumed office as the Chief Secretary on Monday morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajeev-ranjan-takes-over-as-cs/article33722844.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Alumni create amenities||As the first project of their Golden Jubilee reunion, the alumni of the 1971-batch from P.S. High School in Mylapore dedicated a block of the new and upgraded restroom facilities at a cost of Rs. 14 lakh. Speaking about the project, V. Raman, an alumnus said that they took up the project of constructing a block of new restrooms keeping in mind the requirements expressed by the school. The batch raised funds from the batchmates and from well-wishers and that this would be the first in a series of projects planned for the year. The facilities were formally declared open by the Secretary, Headmistress R. Kala and S. Ravichandran, representing the 1971-batch. K.V.S. Gopalakrishnan, from the managing committee of the school thanked the 1971 batch for initiating the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alumni-create-amenities/article33723238.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold prices may fall||Prices of precious metals may decrease as the Union Budget on Monday proposed to reduce the customs duty on gold and silver. Jewellers’ associations in the city said the price of 22-karat gold may dip by at least Rs. 100 per gram. According to the Union Budget, gold and silver attracted customs duty of 12.5% now. As it was increased from 10% in July 2019, the cost of the yellow metal saw a steep increase. Various jewellers’ associations have welcomed the Budget announcement and said the industry’s two-year demand had been fulfilled. B. Govindan, chairman (south zone), All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council, said the customs duty had been brought down to 7.5%. But, the government proposed agriculture infrastructure and development cess of 2.5% on gold and silver. “We expect the price of 22-karat gold to fall by Rs. 100-Rs. 110 per gram. This announcement may boost the business that had dropped by a minimum of 40%-50% due to the pandemic,” he said. Jewellers said it would discourage unaccounted sales of precious metals. N. Ananthapadmanabhan, a jewellery retailer, said jewellery stores in the city could witness an increase in business by 10%. Goldsmiths, who were severely affected during the pandemic, are set to benefit. Jayantilal Challani, president, Madras Jewellers Association, said the retail sales were returning to pre-COVID-19 levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-prices-may-fall/article33722821.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||6,866 persons vaccinated||A total of 6,866 persons received the COVID-19 vaccines in the State on Monday. This took the number of persons vaccinated till date to 1,12,409. The vaccination drive has been covering healthcare providers and workers in the first phase. The Health department planned to start vaccination for frontline workers of other departments such as the police and revenue on February 1. However, an official said this would start in the first week of February. Of the 6,866 persons vaccinated on Monday, 6,734 received Covishield and 132 Covaxin in six centres. So far, 1,09,734 persons received Covishield and 2,675 Covaxin, according to the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6866-persons-vaccinated/article33722829.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assembly session from today||The first session of the State Legislative Assembly is set to commence at the third floor of the Kalaivanar Arangam on Wallajah Road here on Tuesday with the customary address of the Governor. Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal on Monday called on Governor Banwarilal Purohit to invite him to deliver his address in the House. Assembly Secretary K. Srinivasan was also present. The Business Advisory Committee of the House would meet on Tuesday to decide on the number of days when the House could meet for this session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assembly-session-from-today/article33722838.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Solatium to kin of 30 police personnel||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday announced a solatium to the families of 30 police personnel who died in various incidents across the State. Expressing his condolences, Mr. Palaniswami said Rs. 3 lakh would be given to the families of each personnel who died either due to ill health or accidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solatium-to-kin-of-30-police-personnel/article33722820.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Customs Duty cut expected to bring down raw material prices||The Union Budget announcement on Monday reducing Customs Duty on steel and ferrous and non-ferrous scrap is expected to bring down raw material prices for the engineering units in Coimbatore. According to the Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president M.V. Ramesh Babu, several announcements are expected to benefit the MSMEs. For metal recyclers, import duty is exempted till end of March next year. Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, president C. Balasubramanian, said the government had taken the right steps in the budget and planned to increase its spending in different sectors. Coimbatore was a hub for textiles and MSMEs and the announcements would benefit these sectors. A mega textile park should be established here, he said. The trade and industry expected relief in Income Tax and there was no announcement in that regard, he said. K.V. Karthik, president of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association, said the proposals to increase allocation for micro irrigation, larger focus on Jal Jeevan Mission and thrust on affordable housing would benefit the pumpset industry. But, the industry was disappointed on the government not extending the moratorium of the emergency credit line guarantee scheme, he said. ‘Duty on leather unwise’ Chairman of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations, Southern Region, Israr Ahmed said the imposition of Customs Duty on leather would affect the competitiveness of the leather products manufacturers in the country. The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations expressed disappointment over the budget, saying there were no specific announcements to directly benefit the micro and small-scale units. According to the Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts Micro and Cottage Entrepreneurs Association president C. Sivakumar, while some announcements for the MSMEs are expected to be beneficial, there is financial support to the micro units that are already hit by the lockdown. The Coimbatore Compressor Industries Association said the budget should have had proposals to reduce GST and for infrastructure development for MSMEs. Kovai Power Driven Pumps and Spares Manufacturers Association president K. Maniraj said the allocation for MSME sector was inadequate given the large number of units across the country and these units were hit by the pandemic. G. Karthikeyan, a chartered accountant, said dispute resolution procedures had been strengthened for small IT payers and faceless assessments had been extended to apply to tribunals. These will benefit the tax payers. Palat Vijayaraghavan, founder of Lawrencedale Agro Processing India, felt the focus on infrastructure for agriculture sector would be a game changer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/customs-duty-cut-expected-to-bring-down-raw-material-prices/article33722873.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tight vigil at Mettupalayam, sensitive areas in Coimbatore||The police maintained a tight vigil in communally sensitive pockets in Coimbatore district on Monday following the tension at the BJP meeting held at Mettupalayam on Sunday. More than 700 police personnel were deployed in and around Mettupalayam where members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) disrupted the BJP meeting in which the party’s State executive committee member R. Kalyanaraman allegedly made derisive remarks on Prophet Muhammad and Islam. Tiruppur City Police Commissioner G. Karthikeyan (in-charge of West Zone IG), DIG (Coimbatore range) K.S. Narenthiran Nayar and Coimbatore Rural SP Ara. Arularasu camped at Mettupalayam on Monday. Kalyanaraman (54) of Mannady in Chennai and D. Sathish Kumar (48) of Kattoor near Mettupalayam, divisional organising secretary of the party who arranged the meeting, were arrested before midnight. Eight more persons booked by the police, members of BJP and affiliated organisations, were at large. The arrested were booked under Sections 147 (punishment for rioting),148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon),149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace),506 (ii) (criminal intimidation- if threat be to cause death or grievous hurt, etc), 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony),153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC. They were remanded in judicial custody on Monday. Sources in the police said Kalyanaraman’s speech had insulting remarks on the Prophet, Islam and Islamic history. His speech also had remarks on Gujarat riots in which he said that Hindus no longer wanted to seek shelter in bunkers after 2002. SDPI worker held The police on Monday arrested an SDPI worker on charge of hurting a woman by hurling a stone on Sunday. Two other SDPI workers were held for allegedly defaming Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an agitation organised at Mettupalayam bus stand in support of the farmers’ rally in Delhi on January 26. On Monday, the BJP staged agitations at some places in Coimbatore rural in protest against the arrest of Mr. Kalyanaraman and Mr. Kumar. Members of the Popular Front of India took out a rally from Ukkadam to Athupalam in Coimbatore city, condemning the arrest of persons on charges of disrupting the BJP meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tight-vigil-at-mettupalayam-sensitive-areas-in-coimbatore/article33722863.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||IMA starts relay hunger strike against ‘mixopathy’||The Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Coimbatore branch started a relay hunger strike against ‘mixopathy’ on Monday, as part of the nationwide protest at various designated places from February 1 to 14. A statement issued by the IMA said that the National Education Policy 2020 was promoting medical pluralism and paved way for lateral entry of paramedics and other systems of Indian medicine graduates into the practice of modern medicine. It said that the recent notification from Central Council of Indian Medicine dated November 19, 2020 approved MS (General Surgery) post-graduation degree by Ayurvedic graduates as Shalya Tantra and Shalakya Tantra and would be allowed to do 58 types of surgeries including technically competent procedures like cholecystectomy, cataract, ENT, dental and plastic surgeries. ‘Detrimental to public’ ‘Mixopathy’ will be detrimental to the public and the sanctity of the individual system of medicine will be diluted and lost, it said. President elect of IMA Tamil Nadu branch R. Palaniswamy, secretary A.K. Ravikumar, assistant secretary S. Karthick Prabhu, IMA Coimbatore branch president V. Rajesh Babu and secretary Priya Kubendiran spoke at the launch of the relay fasting that started on the IMA office premises in Coimbatore. They said that IMA members were also taking out a relay motorcycle rally from various places to Chennai from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ima-starts-relay-hunger-strike-against-mixopathy/article33723271.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers demand early allotment of houses||Coimbatore Corporation conservancy workers attempted a protest in front the Coimbatore Collectorate on Monday to condemn the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board for delaying allotment of houses to them. The workers, who came to the Collectorate to submit a petition at the weekly grievances redress meeting on Monday, said the board was yet to allot the houses even three years after they registered under the Prime Minister Housing For All scheme. The petitioners said 241 workers’ families had not benefited from the scheme, and threatened to boycott the election if the houses were not allotted soon. When the workers attempted to return their voter identity cards, the Coimbatore City Police personnel present there pacified them, saying their case would be brought to the notice of the authorities concerned. Welfare board sought All Christian Federation has urged the State Government to constitute a welfare board for evangelists on the lines of ulema and temple priest welfare boards. The federation made this demand in a petition to the district administration on Monday. Such a welfare board was necessary because the percentage of Christian population had increased in Tamil Nadu and so had the number of prayer houses and churches. Workers attached to those were engaged in public service, promoting social justice, religious harmony, public health, etc. but their livelihood was not good. The federation sought the forming of the board before the election. ‘Arrest vlogger’ Appalum Adichchaarnthaar Sivanadiyaar Thirukoodam has urged the Coimbatore district administration to ask the police to register a case against a vlogger, Sivakumar, accusing him of hurling insults in his video post. The organisation said in a petition to the administration on Monday that though Saiva establishment members from across the State had demanded action against the vlogger, no action had been taken. Therefore, the administration should forward the petition to the police and ensure that a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-demand-early-allotment-of-houses/article33723262.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||118 frontline workers vaccinated against COVID-19 on Day One||On February 1, the first day the State Government opened COVID-19 vaccination for frontline workers, 118 persons were vaccinated at two urban primary health centres. Sources in the Coimbatore Corporation said that at the SLM urban primary health centre, 105 persons took the vaccine – 104 from private health establishments and a government staff. At the RK Bai urban primary health centre, 13 persons took the vaccine and all of them were from private health establishments. Those from the private establishments were doctors, nurses and other health workers, the sources said. The district administration had said in a release on Sunday that police, local body workers and Revenue Department could take vaccination starting February 1. Though the administration had said that vaccination would be carried out at 10 Corporation urban primary health centres, only two centres administered the vaccine on Monday. The sources said in the coming days the Corporation would increase the number of centres. 80 % coverage in Ooty Around 80 % of frontline staff who signed up to get the COVID-19 vaccine have been inoculated against the virus. The district administration, in a press release, stated that 4,825 frontline staff had enrolled for the vaccine via the CoWin app. Of those who have enrolled, 80 % have been administered the vaccine since January 16, 2021. The people who were administered the vaccine in the first phase were primarily doctors, nurses and government healthcare workers. Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya said that the remaining 20 % frontline staff too will be vaccinated in the coming weeks. In the second phase of the vaccination drive, personnel from the police department, fire and rescue services, revenue department, and other frontline staff, including sanitary workers will be vaccinated. The Nilgiris district has already received an additional 5,400 doses of COVID-19 vaccine, in addition to a similar number of vaccines that were received in January. Officials from the health department said that there had been no adverse reactions reported due to the vaccines from persons who were administered it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/118-frontline-workers-vaccinated-against-covid-19-on-day-one/article33723266.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 59 fresh cases||Coimbatore district reported 59 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday. The Health Department said that 62 persons from the district recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals on Monday. The district had 422 active cases of the disease on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 27 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking its overall tally to 17,920. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,488 persons have recovered and 211 were active cases. Tiruppur district has so far reported 221 deaths. On Monday, 11 persons were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, one person tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,210. The district has so far reported 47 deaths. Fifty-four persons were under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-59-fresh-cases/article33723272.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||State to benefit from textile park scheme||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced a scheme for the establishment of Mega Investment Textile Parks. According to the industry sources, Tamil Nadu is expected to be one of the main beneficiaries of the scheme. The State government has indicated development of three parks under the scheme in different regions, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-to-benefit-from-textile-park-scheme/article33722874.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU, affiliated colleges to re-open on Feb. 8||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has said that it would re-open on February 8, as per the order issued by the State Government. In a press release issued here on Monday, Dean M. Kalyanasundaram said the 10 UG programmes for the 2018 and 2019 batches offered in 14 constituent colleges and 28 affiliated colleges would be re-opened on that day. Classes for first year students would open on February 15, the release said. The university hostel would start functioning from February 8. All COVID-19 standard operating procedures would be in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnau-affiliated-colleges-to-re-open-on-feb-8/article33722872.ece
02 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Youth stabbed to death||A 24-year-old youth was stabbed to death by his friend in Tiruppur on Sunday.  Police said that Manikandan (25) had lent Rs. 1 lakh to his friend Shahrukh Khan. On Sunday, the two engaged in a verbal altercation, which ended in Manikandan stabbing Khan in the neck. The accused attempted to end his life following the incident and was admitted to Tiruppur GH. Police registered a case against Manikandan and said that he would be arrested following his recovery. Assistance to overcome suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-stabbed-to-death/article33723269.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||EOW arrests Karnataka native for investment fraud||The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) in Coimbatore arrested a 37-year-old man from Karnataka in connection with an investment fraud in which more than 500 persons were duped of about Rs. 20 crore. M. Manjunatha, a native of Kollegal in Chamarajanagar district of Karnataka, was arrested here on Sunday. The EOW, which earlier arrested another accused in the case namely Mani, was on the lookout for Manjunatha. EOW registered a case against the two based on a complaint lodged by a woman from Podanur near Coimbatore, one of the defrauded investors. The two had collected investments ranging from Rs. 1.75 lakh and above from more than 500 people by promising to give monthly interest and gold coin as bonus based on the initial investment. Mani was arrested in March 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eow-arrests-karnataka-native-for-investment-fraud/article33723273.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK alleges irregularities in lake development project||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) Coimbatore east urban unit has alleged and condemned irregularities in the execution of lake development project. The Coimbatore Corporation, with financial assistance from the Smart Cities Mission, has undertaken the project. In a resolution passed at the recently held office-bearers meeting, the DMK said that at a time when courts had ordered that water holding capacity of tanks should not be reduced, the Corporation had been reducing storage. Beautification Besides, the local body, without cleaning the sewage flowing in, had resorted to beautifying the bund. The party also criticised the Corporation for taking up work to beautify the Race Course Road when other roads in the city were in a bad shape. The Highways Department taking up the Avinashi Road elevated corridor work without completing the pending road overbridge work across railway crossings would only lead to more traffic congestion in the city, another resolution said and sought early completion of the pending works. The party also called for early restoration of the roads that were dug for laying underground sewer lines, repair of faulty street lights and improvement in upkeep of parks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-alleges-irregularities-in-lake-development-project/article33723275.ece
02 February 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Distribute free bicycles to BC, MBC students’||The Director of Most Backward Classes and Denotified Communities Welfare M. Mathivanan has urged officials in Coimbatore district to distribute free bicycles to students belonging to Backward Classes, Most Backward Classes, Denotified Communities and Minorities. Mr. Mathivanan conducted a review meeting here on Friday with officials from the departments concerned in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, and the Nilgiris districts. He said Coimbatore district has so far distributed 12,128 of the 17,232 free bicycles allotted to it under the scheme. Mr. Mathivanan said that loans to the tune of Rs. 1.36 crore would be disbursed through the Tamilnadu Minorities Economic Development Corporation this year in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribute-free-bicycles-to-bc-mbc-students/article33723268.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco grievance redress meeting on Feb. 3||Superintending Engineer of Coimbatore Metro circle of Tangedco will convene a grievance redress meeting at the Office of the Urban Division, Tatabad, on February 3 from 11 a.m. Centenary celebration Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Coimbatore Kendra organised an online lecture recently as part of its ‘Mahakavi Bharathiar Centenary Memorial Oration’. Orator Maheswari Sarguru delivered the lecture, which is available athttps://youtu.be/jsLb-G97qPw.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-grievance-redress-meeting-on-feb-3/article33723274.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NTC workers launch indefinite protest||Workers of the National Textile Corporation (NTC) mills here launched an indefinite protest demanding the reopening of the units in Tamil Nadu. There are seven NTC mills in the State, including five in Coimbatore. The mills stopped production in March last year because of the nationwide lockdown. While other activities have resumed, operation of NTC mills continue to be suspended. The workers are getting only 50 % of the salary and have hence launched the protest, according to a press release from the unions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ntc-workers-launch-indefinite-protest/article33723267.ece
02 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Mixed reactions to Union Budget in Erode||The Union Budget presented on Monday evoked mixed response from the people and industrialists as they said that their expectation has not been met. B. Kandavel, coordinator, Tamil Nadu Federation of Powerlooms’ Associations, said that they were against imposition of anti-dumping duty on viscose spun yarn and were expecting the announcement in the budget. “But instead, Basic Customs Duty on nylon fiber and yarn was reduced to 5% which will not serve any purpose to us”, he added. C. Balakrishnan, general secretary, Federation of All Traders’ and Industry Associations of Erode District (FATIA), said that MSME sector, that was most affected during pandemic, was expecting special reforms. But Rs. 15,700 crore to the sector will be only in the form of loan which will not help the affected units, he added. He said that youngsters should have been encouraged to start units in their villages and come out with more value added products. “But there is no such announcement,” he added. The general secretary said that unbelievable offers by e-commerce giants are having huge impact on MSMEs and the government failed to regulate them. A major disappointment for individual taxpayers is that the tax slab remains unchanged in the budget. “We were expecting relief on taxation,” V. Ramachandran, an executive at a private company who, however, welcomed the extension of Rs. 1.5 lakh deduction on payment of interest for affordable housing by one year. Announcement on strengthening of schools and starting of Eklavya schools in tribal areas, integration of more Mandis into the E-NAM were welcomed by the common people and farmers in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mixed-reactions-to-union-budget-in-erode/article33722855.ece
02 February 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Petrol price nears Rs. 90 per litre in Erode||The surge in petrol price that nears Rs. 90 a litre is a matter of concern for motorists as they urge the government to cut excise duty on petrol and reduce the price. On December 1, 2020, the price of petrol stood at Rs. 85.97 per litre in the district that increased to Rs. 87.17 on January 1, 2021 and to Rs. 89.31 per litre on February 1. “Price of petrol has reached all-time high causing hardship to the motorists and two-wheelers”, said N. Purusothaman, an executive at a private company. He said that dependency on two-wheelers has increased in the past six months during the COVID-19 pandemic as buses and other modes of transportation are not available frequently. “Spending on fuel has increased at least by 2% to 5% in the past one month,” he said and pointed to the reduction in salary due to the pandemic. In the absence of adequate buses, mostly in hilly areas, people depend more on their own vehicles for commuting and point out the hardship faced by them due to additional spending on petrol. “Though oil marketing companies keep increasing the price of fuel, the government can cut the duties and pass on the benefit to the common people who are yet to recover from the pandemic”, said T. Vignesh of Kollampalayam. He said that the price of essential commodities and household items had increased during the pandemic while the salary was reduced by private organisations and institutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-price-nears-rs-90-per-litre-in-erode/article33722861.ece
02 February 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Recalling arrest under MISA, Stalin asserts himself as right heir to Karunanidhi||Recalling his incarceration during the Emergency, DMK president M K Stalin on Monday sought to position himself as the rightful heir to the party’s late patriarch M. Karunanidhi’s political legacy. Addressing a meeting at Poosaripatty in Krishnagiri as part of his ‘Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin’ (Stalin in your constituency) poll-eve outreach programme, he recalled his arrest on February 1, 1976, after the DMK government was dismissed. He was in early 20s then. “I show my MISA (Maintenance of Internal Security Act) under which he was detained) scar, every time I am detained and asked for personal bodily identity marks by the police,” said the DMK leader displaying his scar in his arm from the alleged police attack during Emergency. Hitting out at Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Mr. Stalin alleged that the former’s tenure was mired in corruption. “Under the garb of a farmer, Mr. Palaniswami ‘sporting a green towel’ betrayed the farmers by supporting and enabling the passing of the farm laws. The government led by him, reaped corruption, even in Corona, taking commissions from [purchase of] bleaching powders to broom sticks,” he claimed. Speaking from the home turf of the Rajya Sabha AIADMK MP K.P. Munusamy, Mr. Stalin took a swipe at him and said, he was “hearing reports of an impending split in the AIADMK due to Munusamy.” Mr. Munusamy was the first person to raise the banner of revolt against Sasikala’s hold over the party in the wake of the death of AIADMK leader and then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. In Dharmapuri, Mr.Stalin commenced his speech in an oath taking style with “I, M.K.Stalin,” –as if to underline his promise of returning his party to power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/recalling-arrest-under-misa-stalin-asserts-himself-as-right-heir-to-karunanidhi/article33722875.ece
02 February 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin recalls his arrest under MISA||Recalling his incarceration during the Emergency, DMK president M K Stalin on Monday sought to position himself as the rightful heir to Karunanidhi’s political legacy. Addressing a meeting at Poosaripatty in Krishnagiri as part of his ‘Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin’ (Stalin in your constituency) outreach programme, he recalled his arrest on February 1, 1976, after the DMK government was dismissed. He was in early 20s then. “I show my MISA (Maintenance of Internal Security Act under which he was detained) scar, every time I am detained and asked for personal bodily identity marks by the police,” said the DMK leader displaying his scar in his arm from the alleged police attack during Emergency. Hitting out at Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami, Mr.Stalin alleged that the former’s tenure was mired in corruption. “Under the garb of a farmer, Mr.Palaniswami, ‘sporting a green towel’, betrayed the farmers by supporting and enabling the passing of the farm laws. The government led by him, reaped corruption even during COVID-19, taking commissions from [purchase of] bleaching powders to broom sticks,” he claimed. Speaking from the home turf of the Rajya Sabha member K.P.Munusamy (AIADMK), Mr. Stalin said he was “hearing reports of an impending split in the AIADMK due to Munusamy.” In Dharmapuri, Mr.Stalin commenced his speech in an oath-taking style with “I, M.K.Stalin,” –as if to underline his promise of returning his party to power. He recalled his role as a “young mayor” of Chennai, and also read out portions of news reports from magazines and dailies, including The Hindu as a “testimony to his work” as a Mayor. He promised the audience of action on their complaints and petitions within 100 days of taking office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-recalls-his-arrest-under-misa/article33722837.ece
02 February 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Six die as van hits bus near Krishnagiri||Six persons were killed after a tourist van rammed a parked Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation bus near Kaveripattinam in the small hours of Monday. A Bengaluru-bound van from Erode carrying eight passengers was crossing Kaveripattinam junction here, when it rammed the bus parked along the highway. The Salem-Bengaluru bus had stopped with its passengers on the highway for tea break. Five of the eight passengers from the van were killed. One passenger from the bus, who had got down to answer’s nature call was killed on the spot. The dead included the driver of van, who was yet to be identified, along with passengers Prashanth, Linga, Surendar, Sivakumar, and Devaraj who was travelling by the bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-die-as-van-hits-bus-near-krishnagiri/article33722847.ece
02 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Railway unions stage protest against privatisation move||Members of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union (SRMU) and Dakshin Railway Employees Union (DREU) on Monday staged separate protests here against the Centre for its proposals to privatise public sector units. SRMU divisional secretary J.M. Rafi said the Centre was proposing to abolish seven lakh posts in railways by 2023 by privatising express and goods trains and railway workshops. Instead of an average annual expenditure of Rs. 10,283 towards medical expenses for treatment given to railway employees, pensioners and their family members through railway hospitals, the Centre was wasting public money to the tune of Rs. 28,000 in the guise of medical insurance premium. The union also wanted the government to give up its proposal to provide compulsory retirement for employees aged 55 years or 30 years of service. DREU At the protest organised by DREU, its divisional secretary R. Sankaranarayanan demanded that passenger trains should be operated on Madurai-Rameswaram and Madurai-Shencottah sections. Besides, unreserved coaches should be attached to express trains. The concessions that were earlier given to women, differently abled persons and senior citizens should be restored. The new pension scheme should be abolished, dearness allowance that was frozen should be restored and night duty allowance given to all cadres of officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/railway-unions-stage-protest-against-privatisation-move/article33723411.ece
02 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Monday meeting is back||After a gap of over 10 months since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, the weekly grievance redressal meeting resumed at the newly constructed building at Madurai Collectorate on Monday. Collector T. Anbalagan chaired the meeting and received petitions from the public. The people submitted petitions related to patta for houses, old age pension and government jobs. The Collector explained to the officials about the new Integrated and Inclusive Public Grievance CM Helpline Management System launched by the State government. Under this system, the petitioners will receive an acknowledgement message on their mobile phone, and they can check the status of their petition too, he added. Usually, the weekly grievance redressal meetings are held at a hall in the old Collectorate building. Since EVM machines are stored inside the hall, the meeting was shifted to the newly constructed building. This new building, constructed at a cost of Rs. 30.19 crore, was necessitated as the old building had become congested with no scope for expansion. The Collector also received petitions from differently abled persons on the old Collectorate premises. S. Boopathy, president, Madurai District Differently Abled Welfare Association, who submitted a petition on Monday, said, “We can explain our grievances in a better manner in person.” Mr. Boopathy suggested that the weekly grievance day meeting for the differently abled can also be held at the newly constructed building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monday-meeting-is-back/article33723407.ece
02 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Budget dashed high hopes of rebounce’||The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has expressed disappointment and shock over the Union Budget for 2021-22. There were high hopes that the budget bring consolation to all the sectors as the country is yet to recover from the COVID 19 pandemic. But it has turned out to be contrary to everyone’s expectations, the Chamber said. In a press statement, chamber president N. Jegatheesan said though Rs. 1,10,055 crore was allocated to the railways, no announcement was made about implementation of the Metro Rail project in Madurai. The announcement of time usage limit of 20 years for passenger vehicles and 15 years for commercial vehicles would have a major impact on the use of these vehicles by middle class people and MSME industries. With regard to privatisation of public sector undertakings, especially Bharat Petroleum, Life Insurance Corporation, Air India, Pawan Hans, Container Corporation, IDBI Bank, Exim Bank, Shipping Corporation, the Union government should take a decision only after formation of a panel of experts and the views of the general public are heard. The prevailing fuel prices were the highest in the world, and now attract 2.5% cess levy for the benefit of the farmers. If this is increased gradually, it will affect the trade and industry and the general public. The absence of any announcement in this budget to address the numerous irregularities in the indirect tax GST is a disappointment, he said. It also welcomed that the deadline for re-opening income tax accounts for verification has been reduced from the six years to three years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/budget-dashed-high-hopes-of-rebounce/article33723402.ece
02 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Privatisation of public sector units flayed||It is a budget encouraging privatisation of public sector units, according to Southern Railway Mazdoor Union. In a statement, its assistant divisional secretary V. Ramkumar said that the Union Budget was anti-labourers. Implementation of the budgetary proposals would do away with the Life Insurance Corporation. The new Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess on fuel would lead to price rise. However, there was no guarantee that the funds mobilised through the tax would benefit the farmers. Central Government employees were disappointed as there was no announcement on revoking the freeze on dearness allowance, he said. Dakshin Railway Employees’ Union has expressed disappointment over lack of income tax relief to the salaried class. Its divisional secretary R. Sankaranarayanan said there was no announcement to fill lakhs of vacant posts in the railways. The Union government failed to make announcement of providing special compensation package to family members of railway workers who had died due to COVID-19 after having worked during the lockdown. The union also condemned the announcements for disinvestment of LIC and IDBI. Increased participation of private players in dedicated freight corridor and high speed trains would only lead to privatisation of railways, Mr. Sankaranarayanan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/privatisation-of-psus-flayed/article33722850.ece
02 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Work on Madurai-Rajapalayam road stretch to start soon||As part of widening Madurai-Kollam highway into a four-lane facility, work on Tirumangalam-Rajapalayam stretch will begin soon. Presenting Union Budget 2021-22, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, on Monday, announced allocation of Rs. 1.03 lakh crore for upgradation of 3,500 km of highways in Tamil Nadu, including the Madurai-Kollam highway. Land acquisition for the work on the 72-km stretch of Tirumangalam-Rajapalayam section is in an advanced stage. “Tender process will be finalised soon for the work to be taken up at a cost of Rs. 1,600 crore,” an official from National Highways Authority of India said. The work will be split into two packages: Tirumangalam-Vadugapatti and Vadugapatti-Rajapalayam – of 36 km each. The two stretches will have flyovers, bridges and bypass roads. Bypass roads have been planned for Pudupatti, T. Kunnathur, T. Kallupatti and a greenfield road of 28 km between Krishnankoil and Rajapalayam. The work that is likely to begin in April is scheduled to be completed in 24 months. When the work is completed, all the major highways connecting Madurai with various destinations, except for Theni highway, will have four-lane roads. Already, Madurai-Kanniyakumari, Madurai-Thoothukudi, Madurai-Ramanathapuram, Madurai –Tiruchi stretches have four-lane roads. The Rajapalayam Chamber of Commerce has welcomed the widening of the Madurai-Kollam highway. “This is a major corridor for freight movement between Tamil Nadu and Kerala. A wide road is much-needed on this busy but narrow stretch,” said its secretary R. Narayanaswami. The widened road would bring spur development in the region which had potential to become a big industrial hub, Mr. Narayanaswami said.  The fast lane  Two packages of Tirumangalam-Vadugapatti and Vadugapatti-Rajapalayam planned  Bypass roads have been planned for Pudupatti, T. Kunnathur, T. Kallupatti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-rajapalayam-road-widening-work-to-start-soon/article33722853.ece
02 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||It is good for growth: CII||The Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) has welcomed the Union budget stating that it aimed at propelling economic growth. In a statement, Satish Reddy, Chairman, CII Southern Region and Chairman, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, welcomed the increase in outlay for the healthcare sector. C. K. Ranganathan, Deputy Chairman, CII Southern Region, said the investments announced would propel the GDP. Hari Thiagarajan, Chairman, CII Tamil Nadu State Council, said Tamil Nadu received major announcements for infrastructure, road and rail development. Sathish Devadoss, Chairman, CII Madurai Zonesaid Madurai-Kollam highway project would boost economic development. R. Dinesh, past chairman, CII Southern Region, said overall budget was holistic. Ravi Sam of Adwaith Lakshmi Industries said setting up of textile parks would generate employment. N. K. Ranganath of Grundfos Pumps India welcomed focus on clean water supply. M. Ponnuswami of Pon Pure Chemical India said exemption of duty on steel scrap and reduction in customs duty were encouraging news.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-good-for-growth-cii/article33723403.ece
02 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No major announcement for MSMEs: MADITSSIA||The non-announcement of tax redemption, and any major allocation for the development of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector in the Union budget is a major disappointment, said Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA). MADITSSIA president B. Muruganantham said there was an announcement of Rs. 15,700 crore for MSMEs. “However, there is no clarity on how it will be utilised,” said Mr. Muruganantham. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the government had announced emergency loan and tax redemption for MSMEs. However, they had not properly reached the industries and the sector has not fully recovered yet. Earlier, several demands including setting up a separate ministry for MSMEs, reduction of bank loan interest rate to 6% and pension for small and micro industry owners, were submitted. However, none of them have been announced. ‘A disappointment’ The non-announcement of metro rail facility for tier-two cities such as Madurai, Salem, Tiruchi and Tirunelveli in the Union budget was a huge disappointment, said Tamil Nadu Food Grains Merchants Association. Association president S.P. Jeyaprakasam welcomed the allocation of Rs. 64,180 crore for the PM Atma Nirbhar Swasthya Bharat Yojana. The announcement of allocating Rs. 35,000 crore for the COVID-19 vaccines was also commended. The announcement of national highway projects such as the Madurai-Kollam highway and the Mumbai-Kanniyakumari corridor will help in the development of South Tamil Nadu, said Mr. Jeyaprakasam.  ‘It is anti-labourer’ It is a budget encouraging privatisation of public sector units, said Southern Railway Mazdoor Union’s assistant divisional secretary V. Ramkumar. He said the budget was anti-labourer. Central Government employees were disappointed as there was no announcement on revoking the freeze on dearness allowance, he said. Dakshin Railway Employees’ Union has expressed disappointment over lack of income tax relief to the salaried class. Its divisional secretary R. Sankaranarayanan said there was no announcement to fill lakhs of vacant posts in the railways. There is no announcement of providing special compensation package to family members of railway workers who had died due to COVID-19 after having worked during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-major-announcement-for-msmes-maditssia/article33723405.ece
02 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in road accident near MKU||Two persons riding a bike, C. Gobu, 49, and S. Punniyamoorthi, 50, of Oothupatti near Chekkanoorani, were killed on the spot when an unidentified vehicle fatally knocked them down on Theni highway on Monday night. Police said that Gobu, a former member of Oothupatti panchayat, was riding the bike towards Chekkanoorani from Madurai. When the vehicle was approaching Madurai Kamaraj University, a private bus and a truck had passed them at high speed. According to the police one of the vehicles would have hit the bike. The police added that both the vehicles did not stop. Nagamalai Pudukottai police are investigating to identify the two vehicles and the driver who knocked them down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-in-road-accident-near-mku/article33723400.ece
02 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CBI probe sought into crimes against wildlife||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday ordered notice to the Centre and the State government in a public interest litigation petition filed by a law student seeking CBI or CB-CID probe into the recent crimes against the wildlife. In her PIL petition, M. Nithya Sowmya from Tiruchi said that in January, 5.75 kg of pangolin scales and six leopard nails were seized from a gang in Theni. Similarly, two elephant tusks weighing six kg were seized by forest officials in Pollachi last year. Apart from this, a ganja plantation of one acre was found by the forest officials in Kodaikanal last year. In order to protect the wildlife, environment and forest, the investigation into these cases should be transferred to the CBI or the CB-CID, the petitioner said. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and S. Ananthi ordered notice to the Centre and the State government in the PIL petition and adjourned the hearing in the case till March 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbi-probe-sought-into-crimes-against-wildlife/article33723404.ece
02 February 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Train to be diverted||In order to facilitate linking works on Tirumangalam - Tulukkapatti, Kovilpatti - Kadambur, Gangaikondan - Tirunelveil doubling projects, Train No. 06322 Coimbatore - Nagercoil day express special will be diverted via Madurai, Manamadurai, Aruppukottai and Virudunagar on February 2, 3, 6, 10 to 13, 20, 22, 25 to 27 and March 1,2, 4 to 6 and 8. The train will reach Tirunelveli with a delay of 55 minutes on these days. It will halt at Manamadurai on the diverted route for operational reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/train-to-be-diverted/article33723408.ece
02 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy accuses Nadda of spreading ‘falsehood’||Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday accused BJP president J. P. Nadda of spreading ‘falsehood’ on the issue of closure of textile mills, ration shops, non-disbursement of salary to employees of cooperative societies and on devolution of Central funds. Producing documents of the communication the Puducherry government had had with the Centre and Lt. Governor on the issues before the media at Puducherry Congress Committee office, the Chief Minister said Mr. Nadda was wrongly briefed by someone on the issues in the Union Territory. “It is regretful that a national president of party spoke at a public meeting without knowing the facts. At least next time when he comes, he should get a proper briefing. I will be writing to him urging him to prove the charges,” he said. A Cabinet meeting on February 13, 2019, decided to introduce VRS as per the wishes of employees in Anglo French Textiles. The decision was to close damaged A and B units and run the C unit. But the Lt. Governor referred the subject to the Centre as she did not agree with the Cabinet decision, he said While the Centre wrote back on September 5, 2019, asking the government to elicit the views of the Labour Department, the Lt. Governor in January 2020 ordered the closure of all units. Similarly, the Cabinet took the decision to distribute rice and the then Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan on April 13, 2018, agreed to the government proposal. But the Lt. Governor on September 5 that year ordered distribution of money to the beneficiaries’ account, he also said. The money for providing salary to employees of societies was set aside in the budget but the Lt. Governor refused to accord financial sanction, he said. “We are not responsible for the closure of mills, ration shops and not disbursing salary to the employees. It was the Centre and the Lt. Governor who are responsible for the decisions,” he charged. On the charge that Central assistance was reduced from 70% to 30% when he was a Central Minister, the Chief Minister said the proposal was agreed by Mr. Rangasamy when he was the Chief Minister. “Mr. Rangasamy agreed to the proposal so as to borrow money from the open market. If I was the CM, I wouldn't have agreed to the decision,” he said. Former Union Minister Veerappa Moily, who is one of the party’s election in-charges for the Union Territory, said the Congress would not be affected by the defections to BJP. “We will be able to cleanse the party of defectors before the election and it will help in rejuvenating the party. We were expecting these kinds of developments because BJP has adopted poaching as a method to establish the party rule after they came to power in 2014. In around 10 States they adopted poaching from other parties to establish their rule. It came a bit late in the Union Territory,” he said||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/narayanasamy-accuses-nadda-of-spreading-falsehood/article33723488.ece
02 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Three casualties push COVID toll in U.T. to 651||The Union Territory on Monday recorded three COVID-19 fatalities, which was the most number of deaths reported in a single day in over four months, as it added 28 new cases to the overall tally. All three deaths were reported in JIPMER in the capital pushing the coronavirus death count in the Union Territory to 651. The casualties included a 74-year-old woman and two male patients aged 87 and 70. Covid pneumonia and ARDS was the recorded cause of death. The toll in Puducherry stood at 532, followed by Karaikal (65), Yanam (45) and Mahe (nine). Of the new cases, which were identified from 1,148 tests, 14 were in Puducherry, nine in Mahe, four in Karaikal and one in Yanam. Following the discharge of 25 patients over the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory aggregated to 285. Of this, 129 were in hospitals and 156 in home isolation. The cumulative case load was 39,096 cases while 38,160 patients have recovered to date in the Union Territory. The test positivity rate was 2.43%, case fatality rate 1.67% and recovery rate 97.61%. The Health Department has to date tested an estimated 5.78 lakh samples and over 5.35 lakh returned negative results. Six test positive Cuddalore district reported six fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 24,940. While 24,606 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 22. In Villupuram district, eight persons tested positive, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,191. Kallakurichi district reported two positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,875.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-casualties-push-covid-toll-in-ut-to-651/article33723493.ece
02 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Industry hails Union Budget as ‘growth-oriented’||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on Monday hailed the Union Budget 2021-22 as a “healthy budget” on all counts. “All about more Centrally-sponsored schemes for us. And strengthening the existing ones,” Ms. Bedi said. She also stressed on greater digitisation and time-bound deliveries, a robust agriculture department and education systems attuned to changes in the National Education Policy. Apart from housing, Jal Mission and waste management will be proactively watched, Ms. Bedi said. Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister N. Rangasamy (AINRC) welcomed the “growth-oriented” character of the Budget that held benefits for all sections. The Budget also gave a thrust to the textile sector, he added. The CII-Puducherry has also welcomed the Budget with its chairman M. Sankarnarayanan, stating that the measures for affordable housing, farmers and infrastructure further open up avenues for investment and new livelihoods. It is also heartening to note that health, education, innovations, MSMEs, agriculture and allied areas have been accorded special priority, he said. On the steps taken towards boosting manufacture of electronic products in the country, Mr. Sankaranarayanan said the electronic industry has huge potential both in terms of manufacturing in India and job creation and will provide a major impetus for growth. This will further enhance the exports of networked products. The launch of a new centrally-funded scheme, Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana, Mission Poshan 2.0 and commitment of providing Rs. 35,000 crore for COVID-19 vaccine in the Financial Year 22 are all encouraging developments. He also hailed measures such as doubling of MSME allocation, setting aside Rs. 15,700 crore for medium and small enterprises in FY22, setting up faceless dispute resolution committee for individual taxpayers, making Income Tax Appellate Tribunal faceless, and constituting the dispute resolution committee for small taxpayers. Vijay Ganesh K., Vice Chairman, CII Puducherry welcomed the reduction in customs duty on certain inputs and raw materials including long products of alloy and non-alloy stainless steel and copper scrap which have seen a sharp price increase in the last few months. This would help keep the prices of final products competitive. The review of the 400-odd exemption notifications and introduction of the simplified duty structure from October 2021 are significant business measures which shall enhance cost competitiveness. He also said that production linked incentives would greatly help the MSME sector and drive growth in the pandemic situation, he said. M. Kalaiichelvan, former CII chairman, said it was encouraging to see that the Government has perceived Startup as a key job creator as well as an engine of growth which forms the backbone of our economy. I. Syed Sajjadh Ali, also former chairman, welcomed the proposed amendment to Apprenticeship Act to enhance opportunities for youth and the allocation of Rs. 3000 crore for realignment of existing National Apprenticeship Training Scheme (NATS) towards post-education apprenticeship, training of graduates and diploma holders in engineering.  The measures for affordable housing, farmers and infrastructure further open up avenues for investment and new livelihoods M. Sankarnarayanan, chairman, CII-Puducherry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industry-hails-union-budget-as-growth-oriented/article33723497.ece
02 February 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry BJP vice-president sworn-in as nominated MLA||BJP’s Puducherry unit vice president T. Vikraman was on Monday sworn-in as nominated MLA in the 33-member House. Speaker V.P. Sivakolunthu administered the oath to the new legislator in his chamber. The BJP’s two other nominated MLAs V. Saminathan, Puducherry unit president and S. Selvaganapathy and former Minister A. Namassivayam, who recently crossed over from the Congress to the BJP, joined the brief ceremony. Mr. Vikraman was nominated as legislator by the Centre following the passing away of nominated member K. G. Shankar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-bjp-vice-president-sworn-in-as-nominated-mla/article33723495.ece
02 February 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Eco-tourism project begins in Gulf of Mannar||The forest department of Ramanathapuram, along with the local community, has started a community-based eco tourism project at Pichaimoopanvalasai in Erwadi zone of the Gulf of Mannar. A.S. Marimuthu, Wildlife Warden of Ramanathapuram and Director of Gulf of Mannar Biosphere Reserve Trust, inaugurated the boating services at the site on January 29. Zonal Officer M. Loganathan said that there will be two boats at the site- a passenger boat and a glass bottom boat. Passengers can register in advance for the boating services. The entry fee for each passenger is Rs. 200. All passengers must wear face masks and undergo thermal screening before travelling on the boat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/eco-tourism-project-begins-in-gulf-of-mannar/article33723535.ece
02 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Small scale industries in Salem upset||The Salem District Small Scale and Tiny Industries’ Association said they were upset with the Union Budget. In a release, the organisation said that the sector had high hopes on the Budget but except for an allocation of Rs. 15,700 crore no other incentives has been announced for the sector. The organisation said that increase of customs duty on cotton and silk yarn would affect the textile industry. The organisation appreciated various infrastructure projects announced for Tamil Nadu. However, the organisation expressed shock over proposals to increase foreign direct investments in insurance companies, divestments in Life Insurance Corporation, IDBI bank and proposal to privatise two public sector banks and a general insurance company. The organisation said the move would affect economic growth of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/small-scale-industries-in-salem-upset/article33722870.ece
02 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem youth attains top rank in CA exam||A. Essakiraj (23) from Kannankuruchi has attained top rank in the recently held Chartered Accountants final examination at the national level. A. Essakiraj scored 553 out of 800 marks and attained 69%. Mr.Essakiraj said that he is extremely elated about the achievement. “I did hope for better marks but never did I dream of attaining the top rank in the country. I am extremely elated about the achievement”, he said. Mr. Essakiraj’s father M. Arumugham works in a private firm and his mother A. Gomathi is a homemaker. He said that he underwent coaching for about one-and-a- half years for the examinations. Essakiraj said that he initially went for training at a private coaching centre in Chennai before the pandemic and later self-prepared for the examinations. He said that he is yet to decided about his next move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-youth-attains-top-rank-in-ca-exam/article33722868.ece
02 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Agriculture loan schemes will not help farmers’||Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi general secretary E.R. Eswaran said that the announcement of more agriculture loan schemes would not help farmers. In a release, Mr. Eswaran said the Union Budget announcements have been made for people in the Assembly election-bound states. He said that many announcements of the previous budgets itself has not been fulfilled and mentioned that AIIMS hospital in Madurai has yet not been started. There is no announcement to support Micro, Small and Medium enterprises. He said that farmers expected agricultural loan subsidies in the Budget and cited divestment plans of Public Sector Undertakings as example of wrong economic policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agriculture-loan-schemes-will-not-help-farmers/article33722865.ece
02 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Meeting with political parties||Salem Corporation Commissioner and Returning Officer for Salem South Assembly constituency N. Ravichandran held discussions with representatives of recognised political parties on setting up of additional polling booths for the upcoming Assembly elections. According to a release, additional booths have to be set up at places were there are more than 1,000 voters. Of the 264 polling booths, there are over 1,000 voters in 132 polling booths and list of additional booths identified in these places were provided to party representatives, a release said. Parties were advised to inform issues if any by February 4, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meeting-with-political-parties/article33722866.ece
02 February 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Duped youth petitions Collector||A youth from Edappadi petitioned Salem Collector here on Monday demanding action against a person who allegedly cheated him to the tune of Rs. 3.5 lakh promising a government job. A. Rajendran claimed that the person named Dinesh took money from him promising a job at a fair price shop. He alleged that he paid Rs. 3.5 lakh in multiple instances in 2018 to Dinesh for the job. He said that despite repeated attempts Dinesh refused to return the money nor get him the job. He claimed that Dinesh had cheated several other youth. Rajendran said in his petition that he paid the amount by pledging his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/duped-youth-petitions-collector/article33722867.ece
02 February 2021||Staff Reporter Erode,TAMIL NADU||IMA demands withdrawal of move allowing Ayurveda doctors to perform surgery||Members of the Indian Medical Association, Erode Branch, observed a fast on Perundurai Road here on Monday condemning the ‘mixopathy.’ Doctors said that on November 20, 2020, the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) issued a gazette notification amending the Indian Medicine Central Council (Postgraduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016, which allows postgraduate Ayurveda students to undergo training for 58 surgical procedures in general surgery, ENT, ophthalmology and dentistry and perform surgeries. The notification was misleading and the Centre should withdraw it in the larger interest of the public and dismantle the committees formed in the NITI Aayog,” they added. Doctors questioned how Ayurvedic surgeons would ensure anaesthesia for their patients and also handle complications during surgeries. “Instead of promoting the existing systems of medicine, the government is encouraging a new method called mixopathy and confusing the people,” they added. Doctors said that they are protesting against mixopathy as it will affect specialisation in Ayush. They also said that they are not against Ayurveda doctors performing surgeries, but they should not do surgeries in hospitals following allopathy medicine and using Ayurveda medicine. C.N. Raja, National vice president, IMA Headquarters, Mallika, vice president, IMA Tamil Nadu State Branch, S.T. Prasad, president, Erode IMA and other officer bearers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ima-demands-withdrawal-of-move-allowing-ayurveda-doctors-to-perform-surgery/article33722859.ece
02 February 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Budget announcement on road widening has farmers up in arms||The announcement in the Union Budget that the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will widen the two-lane Rajapalayam-Shencottai stretch of the Tirumangalam – Kollam highway into a four-lane facility has agitated farmers. The 75-km Rajapalayam-Shencottai highway with a width of 13-20 metres witnesses frequent accidents. It will be widened to 45 meters and at the toll plazas it will be 90 metres. The NHAI has to acquire 364.26 hectares of land for the widening work. The NHAI has earmarked Rs. 349.57 crore: Rs. 113.25 crore for land acquisition compensation, Rs. 217.94 crore for compensation for lands with assets and Rs. 18.38 crore for rehabilitation and relocation. It has 22 hectares in its possession while the State government has 2.92 hectares. NHAI sources said Rs. 34.70 lakh per hectare in Tenkasi district might be given as compensation for lands without any assets created on it while lands with assets would be given Rs. 1.07 crore per hectare. The NHAI plans to sort out disputes, if any, in acquisition of land by February so as to award the contract in March. To facilitate this exercise, the State government has deputed 110 officials. Ever since the State government came up with the proposal for widening the Tirumangalam – Rajapalayam – Shencottai Highway two years ago (even before the formation of Tenkasi district), the farmers were against the move, saying the project would affect the environment as hundreds of acres of cultivable lands would be lost. “Several hundreds of acres of cultivable lands, waterbodies, residences etc., in Sivagiri, Kadayanallur and Shencottai taluks will be seriously affected. Since the project is taken up on the fringes of Western Ghats, it will also pose threat to the wildlife. So we will resist this project in every possible manner,” says S.T. Shaik Maideen of Akhila India Vivsaayigal Maha Sabha from Vadakarai. When land acquisition for 69 km between Chathrapatti near Rajapalayam to Shencottai was initiated 18 months ago and marker stones were erected with police protection inside the fields to be acquired for the project, there was resistance from the farmers. “Without conducting any public hearing, the project requiring a few hundred acres of land has been announced. The land acquisition will affect 2,500 farmers. When the road slices a field into two, only one of the two halves will get water for irrigation. Those who question the forcible acquisition are being threatened. The marker stones have been erected with police protection at Puliyarai, Thenpothai, Paimpozhil and Vadakarai. It will only destroy paddy cultivation in this region besides blowing a death knell for coconut production,” says Zakhir Hussein of Vadakarai. The farmers suggest that the project should be realigned by acquiring fallow lands situated close to the existing road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-up-in-arms/article33722851.ece
02 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Mixed reactions from delta farmers to Budget proposals||The announcements made with respect to the agriculture sector in the Union Budget today have evoked mixed reactions from the delta farmers. While some of them said the proposals had been made with an eye on the forthcoming elections to the Legislative Assemblies such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal and others, some others termed it as well-balanced financial planning. S. Ranganathan, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, viewed the Budget to be a well-balanced financial planning and welcomed the enhanced credit flow to agriculture and allied sectors. He commended the Union Government for giving due importance to the allocation of funds to health, rural development and education sectors. Citing the absence of firm assurance on the minimum support price and the silence over waiver of crop loans in the Budget, N.V. Kannan, Thanjavur district secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to CPI (M), said that the basic problems faced by the farmers had been neglected by the Union government. Terming the statement made by the Union Finance Minister that people would be free to choose their service provider to avail the power connection as nothing but the death knell on the free farm power supply scheme, P.R. Pandian, president, Federation of All Farmers’ Associations in Tamil Nadu, said the silence over the linking of inter-State rivers was a worry to the farmers. Enhancement of micro-irrigation fund from Rs. 5,000 crore to Rs. .10,000 crores for rural development from Rs. 30,000 crore to Rs. 40, 000 and extending the scope for export hitherto confined to onion, tomato and potato to 22 other perishable crops were welcomed by progressive farmers such as P. Sundaram of Thiruvaiyaru, Arun of Thanjavur, S. Masilamani of Tiruvarur and R.Sabapathy of Madukkur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mixed-reactions-from-delta-farmers-to-budget-proposals/article33722808.ece
02 February 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Thyagaraja aradhana begins||A scaled-down version of the annual aradhana of saint-composer Sri Thyagaraja commenced at Thiruvaiyaru near here on Monday. Lighting of traditional lamp by Collector M.Govinda Rao, Sri Thyagabrahma Mahotsava Sabha president, G.K.Vasan, secretary A.K. Palanivel and others marked the inauguration of the two-day festival on the banks of the Cauvery. Delivering the inaugural address, the Collector commended the efforts of the sabha in organising the event for more than 150 years and this year amidst the pandemic. Mr. Vasan thanked the district administration for extending all possible assistance to conduct the event in adherence to the SOP to control the spread of the novel coronavirus. The festival would conclude with “Hanuman Usthavam” on Tuesday night preceded by the famous “pancharatna kirti” recitation by the Carnatic musicians and instrumentalists in front of Sri Thyagabrahmam’s Adhishtanam on the banks of Cauvery at Thiruvaiyaru in the morning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thyagaraja-aradhana-begins/article33722809.ece
02 February 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Kumbakarai Falls reopens to public||Tourists thronged the Kumbakarai Falls in Periyakulam here on Monday, as the tourist spot was reopened to the public after a gap of around 11 months. The falls attracts people from across the State. The public were not allowed to bathe in the falls for the past 11 months since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. It was reopened to the public in view of fall in the number of COVID-19 cases. The tourists had to undergo thermal screening before bathing and a battery-operated car was introduced to ferry tourists to the falls. While the entry fee for adults is Rs. 15, the entry fee for children is Rs. 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kumbakarai-falls-reopens-to-public/article33722849.ece
02 February 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Drunk mechanic mows down SI in Thoothukudi||A mechanic fatally knocked down a sub-inspector and injured a constable near Eral, early on Monday. The police officer had reportedly seized his cargo autorickshaw after he created a ruckus in the bazaar a few hours earlier. This is the second such case in the last five months in Thoothukudi district in which a policeman has been murdered. Constable Subramanian, 28,of Alwarthirunagari police station was murdered by rowdy Duraimuthu with a country bomb near Murappanaadu on August 18. Subramanian tried to nab Duraimuthu who was fleeing with improvised explosives. Police said sub-inspector V. Balu, 55, attached to the Eral police station, was on regular patrol at the Eral Bazaar on Sunday evening. He saw an inebriated R. Murugavel, 40, a two-wheeler mechanic from nearby Vaazhavallaan, creating a ruckus with a cargo autorickshaw driver. The police officer asked him to go home, but he refused and reportedly abused the policemen. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, who visited the spot around 3 a.m., said Murugavel was taken to the police station and the cargo vehicle seized. The police, who allowed him to go home, obtained an undertaking from him that he would return on Monday to receive the confiscated vehicle. When Balu and another policeman Pon Subbiah, who were returning from Umarikaadu on night patrol, saw Murugavel standing near the Korkkai intersection around 12.45 a.m. with another cargo autorickshaw belonging to his landlord, asked him to go home. Even as Balu and Pon Subbiah were leaving the spot, Murugavel hit the policemen’s bike with the cargo autorickshaw violently. “Balu, the pillion rider, died on the way to the hospital while Pon Subbiah is undergoing treatment,” Mr. Jayakumar said. The body of Balu, who joined the police force in 1988 as Grade II constable, was taken to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. During investigation, police found that Murugavel’s wife had attempted to die by suicide, unable to bear his torture as he come drunk every day. “She was discharged from the hospital on Sunday night. After taking her from the hospital to his house in the cargo autorickshaw of his landlord, Murugavel murdered Balu with the vehicle,” said Mr. Jayakumar. Murugavel, who was reported to be absconding at first, surrendered before a court in Vilaathikulam. CM announces aid Condoling the sub-inspector’s death, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced financial assistance of Rs. 50 lakh as a special case to his family. One family member would be granted a government job. He announced financial assistance of Rs. 2 lakh to the constable, who was also injured in the criminal attack. “I have instructed the police to bring to book those involved in the crime and to get the appropriate punishment as per the law,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a statement.  (Counselling for those in distress is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 04424640050)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drunk-mechanic-mows-down-si/article33722842.ece
02 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Protests by Muslim outfits||Muslim outfits staged protests in Tiruchi and its neighbouring districts condemning the alleged remarks made by Bharatiya Janata Party functionary Kalyanaraman in Coimbatore which, they claimed, insulted Prophet Mohammed. Members of the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam resorted to road rokos on the Tiruchi - Thanjavur national highway and the Tiruchi -Dindigul national highway in the late hours on Sunday. Police said the flash stir was held near Palpannai roundabout on the Tiruchi - Thanjavur national highway for over an hour in which about 200 Muslims taking part. The road roko on the Tiruchi - Dindigul national highway was held near Inamkulathur. A group of over 500 members of the Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamaath staged a demonstration at Palakkarai here. The demonstration was led by the outfit’s district president Ghulam Dhasthagir for over an hour. The sources said demonstrations by the Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamaath were held at Pudukottai, Aranthangi, Kottaipattinam, Ammapattinam and Mimisal in Pudukottai district. The Indian Union Muslim League national president K.M. Kader Mohideen in a statement on Monday appealed to the State government to initiate stern action against Mr.Kalyanaraman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-by-muslim-outfits/article33722814.ece
02 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||MSME sector lauds Budget||The MSME sector in the region has welcomed the Union Budget 2021 proposals as a timely booster to stem downslide in the economy. In particular, the formation of an asset reconstruction company will be set up to take over stressed loans has come in for appreciation of the MSME sector. The ‘Bad Bank’ is the need of the hour for sustenance of struggling units, Rajappa Rajkumar, president of BHEL Small Industries Association said. The BHELSIA has been representing the issue repeatedly for the last one year. The ‘Bad Bank’ will serve the purpose of providing facilities for viable units, or to take necessary actions for selling the assets, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said. Allotment of Rs. 15,700 crore for MSME would give a real boost to the sector. The allotment of Rs. 1.97 lakh crore for manufacturing sector will give a fillip to the economy and enable MSME units to get orders. "Overall, the Budget is very positive; the economy will grow well," Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said. The thrust given in the Budget for development of road infrastructure metro rail is laudable. The MSME sector was looking for formation of a Committee to address the problems caused by increase in raw material costs. The sector was also looking for an announcement on reduction of GST to five percent from 18 at present, reduction in interest rate on loans for manufacturing industries to eight percent, and permanent extension of duration for NPA settlement to 180 days. The hopes for these reforms have been belied, R. Ilango, president of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries' Association said. The bad loan classification period that was changed from 90 days to 180 days during the pandemic period must be retained, Mr. Ilango said. Reduction of import duties on steel items will help small industries that bore the brunt of steel price rise for the last six months to breathe easy. The increased capital expenditure for Railways will result in better orders for MSMEs in Tamil Nadu, V. Kannan, president of the Tiruchi district unit of Economic Cell - BJP, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msme-sector-lauds-budget/article33722807.ece
02 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Focus on healthcare hailed||Doctors in the city welcomed the proposals made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Union Budget 2021 for strengthening healthcare. The move would provide better access to quality healthcare and generate more jobs, they said. Speaking to The Hindu , A. Aleem, former Vice-Principal, K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College, said that a great step was taken by the central government to strengthen the health infrastructure in all primary, secondary and tertiary health care systems. The Budget reflects the seriousness of the government in being prepared to tackle health concerns, he said. Dr. Aleem added that the funds allocated for universal water supply, nutrition, and public sanitation through Swacch Bharat 2.0 and including it as an important factor for holistic health and wellness were noteworthy and appreciable. The special attention accorded to healthcare is encouraging, said A. Mohammed Hakkim, an emergency physician. Setting up of healthcare laboratories in all districts, 3,308 block health units in 11 states would help to provide quick access to quality healthcare, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-healthcare-hailed/article33722811.ece
02 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors observe fast against ‘mixopathy’||Members of the Tiruchi Branch of the Indian Medical Association launched a 'relay fast' here on Monday demanding the roll back of a notification of the Central Council of Indian Medicine that allows postgraduate Ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries. The fast would continue up to February 14, and is a sign of protest against “mixopathy," the doctors said. IMA-State President P. Ramakrishnan inaugurated the fast, in the presence of M. S. Ashraf former national vice president, IMA , R. Gunasekaran former State President, Kannammai Manoharan, president IMA - Tiruchi Branch. The doctors would take turns in observing the fast. "Each day, one group of doctors would sit and undertake the fast from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. This is to raise awareness among the public about the ill-effects of ‘mixopathy’ and draw the attention of the government as well," Dr. Ashraf said. According to the notification, Ayurveda practitioners would be “practically trained to acquaint with, as well as to independently perform” a list of 58 surgeries, including general surgery, orthopaedic, dental surgeries and ENT surgery. Dr. Ashraf insisted that the protests were not against Ayurveda but against ‘mixopathy.’ "The government can instead set up Ayurvedic research centres across the country and assist in conducting research on medicines for various ailments. By creating this bridge, the authenticity of Ayurveda too, would be lost," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-observe-fast/article33722810.ece
02 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||68 fresh cases; no death||The central region on Monday reported a slight increase in COVID-19 cases with 68 patients testing positive for the viral infection. No death was reported in the region, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Thanjavur district reported an increase in the number of cases on Monday with 25 patients testing positive. The district had only reported 10 cases on Sunday. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 11 fresh cases while Tiruvarur, 10. Meanwhile, one patient who was undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Monday. The other districts in the region reported less than 10 cases. In Pudukottai eight patients tested positive, while in Ariyalur, five. In Karur, four patients, including residents of Munaiyanur and Gandhigramam tested positive. In Nagapattinam, three fresh cases were reported while in Perambalur, two patients tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/68-fresh-cases-no-death/article33722812.ece
02 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police rescue minors seeking alms and employed in shops||The anti-child trafficking unit of Tiruchi city police and Tiruchi rural police rescued a few children who were engaged as child labourers and were found begging in public places. The operation was carried out during the Operation Smile drive that was launched on Monday. A joint team of officials comprising anti-child trafficking unit personnel, Labour Department and the Childline conducted sudden checks at Chathram Bus Stand area here and rescued seven minor boys who were engaged as child labourers in various shops. The rescued boys were in the age group 10 - 14 years, said police sources. They were later produced before the Child Welfare Committee. The boys were sent with their parents after they were asked to produce proof and obtaining an undertaking from them, said the sources. The drive in Tiruchi rural police limits was conducted at Samayapuram and Kollidam Toll Gate during which two children found engaged as child labourers were rescued. Four other children who were found begging and women found begging with four children were also rescued. The rescued children and women were later handed over to the Child Welfare Committee, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-rescue-minors-seeking-alms-and-employed-in-shops/article33722816.ece
02 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Disappointment over absence of relief to pandemic-hit traders||The Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu has expressed disappointment over the Union Budget as “it did not have any of the expected announcements.” While it is heartening to note the provision of Rs. 35,000 crore for COVID-19 vaccination and the record collection of GST over the past few months, the absence of any relief to pandemic-hit traders in the form of tax relief, concessions, and soft loans is a huge let-down, said Ve. Govindarajalu, general secretary of the association. The absence of any move to increase the ceiling on personal income tax was also disappointing, he added. Although the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that the consumer would not have to bear any additional burden as the Basic Excise Duty (BED) and Special Additional Excise Duty (SAED) on petrol and diesel is being reduced consequent to imposition of Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC), Mr.Govindarajalu said the imposition of the cess could lead to price rise. Disinvestment in public sector units with good performance records should also be avoided. Mr.Govindrajalu, however, welcomed the move to rationalise the Customs duty on gold and said it could lead to a reduction in the price of the yellow metal. He also appreciated the allocation of funds for the Madurai-Kollam economic corridor. The Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, welcomed the move to start embedded degree and diploma courses in 150 higher educational institutes by March. It will help increase employability of students, said S. Pusphavanam, Secretary of the council. “However, he observed that the expenditure on Education was still at 3.5% of GDP instead of the 6% recommended by various committees,” he observed.  The Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Thanjavur, welcomed the move to integrate 1000 more ‘mandis’ into the e-NAM and observed it could be a game changer. Allocations for health and infrastructure development sectors would really give a boost to the economy, said the Chamber president, N.T. Balasundaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disappointment-over-absence-of-relief-to-pandemic-hit-traders/article33722817.ece
02 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Positive signs for BHELSIA||Positive signs have emerged for units of BHEL Small Industries Association (BHELSIA) for utilising their spare capacity to fabricate components suiting requirement of railways. Based on the representation made by BHELSIA to Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, the Golden Rock Railway Workshop arranged for a vendor meet last week to explain the potential available with railways and also to explain the registration process. Around 450 MSME units in and around Tiruchi that have been serving BHEL - Tiruchi unit since 1966 have developed the expertise to be known as one of the best fabrication hubs of South Asia. The Tiruchi Engineering Cluster used to provide direct employment to 20,000 workers and indirect employment to an equal number of people started facing setback since 2012-13 when the coal contract issued to various agencies was cancelled by the Supreme Court, resulting in lower order position for BHEL. But, anticipating huge orders, all the units went for expansion and the manufacturing capacity was increased to seven lakh metric tonnes per annum. To sustain and utilise the capacity and capability created, the BHELSIA has now planned to take up orders from Defence and Railways. The BHELSIA, last year, expressed interest in signing a long-term contract with railways for developing new products by investing on any special purpose vehicle as required.  A presentation made at the vendor meet by BHELSIA president Rajappa Rajkumar about the facilities available in Tiruchi was well received by the railway officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positive-signs-for-bhelsia/article33723527.ece
02 February 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Airport gets threat call||A threat call to the Tiruchi international airport by a woman that she would plant explosives kept the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel on their toes on Monday. Police sources said the woman called the duty terminal manager in the morning and threatened to place explosives at the airport. Consequent to the threat call, CISF personnel conducted thorough checks along with a sniffer dog in the airport premises. The baggage of passengers were also subjected to intensive checks. However, the call later turned out to be a hoax. The airport police have registered a case and is on the lookout for the woman. The sources suspect that the woman who made the call could be mentally disturbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airport-gets-threat-call/article33722815.ece
02 February 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Villagers demand restoration of drinking water supply||Demanding restoration of drinking water supply to residents, a group from Aththaalanallur village panchayat submitted a petition to Collector V. Vishnu on Monday. The petitioners, led by C. Rajagopal, said drinking water supply to three hamlets under the Aththaalanallur village panchayat, housing 2,000 families, went awry following the recent flood in the Tamirabharani. As the pumps and supply pipes were damaged in the floods, drinking water supply to the villages under Aththaalanallur village panchayat remains affected. “Though we represented this problem with the village panchayat secretary and the Block Development Officer of Paapaakudi Union, they have not taken any positive step to repair the pumps and the damaged drinking water supply pipes. Hence, the Collector should take appropriate action against these two officials and ensure the restoration of drinking water supply in Aththaalanallur village panchayat,” Mr. Rajagopal said. Two petitions were submitted separately appealing to the Collector to give permission for giving ‘annadhaanam’ to devotees coming to Sri Nambi Temple at Thirkkurungudi. The petitioners said serving of food to the devotees coming to the shrine was suspended following the pandemic last year. Though the State Government had allowed serving of food in the temples after the lockdown norms were relaxed, the Department of Forest was yet to give permission for serving of food to the visitors of the temple situated inside the Kalakkad – Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve. Hence, the Collector should instruct the officials concerned for allowing the sponsors to serve food to the devotees coming to Nambi Temple. On behalf of Hindu Makkal Katchi, a petition was submitted demanding the removal of a cemetery near the temple at Manimurtheeswaram. The petitioners said the 40-year-old burial ground situated near Sri Uchchishta Ganapathi Temple at Manimurtheeswaram was hurting the sentiments of the devotees. Hence, the graveyard should be removed, the petitioners said. After 86 graves in the burial ground, being administered by Sacred Heart Church, Udaiyaarpatti, were badly damaged by miscreants on October 18 last, the police arrested a few office-bearers of Hindu Makkal Katchi and some of them were subsequently detained under the National Security Act. As the weekly grievances redressal meet that was suspended in the wake of the pandemic was revived after a gap of ten months more than 200 petitions were submitted directly to the Collector. The petitioners with masks were asked to wash their hands with soap and sanitiser was offered before they entered the District Development Council Hall where Mr. Vishnu was receiving the petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-demand-restoration-of-drinking-water-supply/article33723532.ece
02 February 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Grievances meet resumes in Tiruppur||The weekly grievances redress meet that remained suspended for over 10 months owing to COVID-19, resumed at Tiruppur Collectorate on Monday. 167 petitions District Revenue Officer G. Saravanamurthy received 167 petitions from the public and the meeting was held in adherence to COVID-19 precautionary measures, officials said. Since August 2020, the grievances meet was held over phone. This will be discontinued, the officials said.  ‘Expedite work’ Member of Ward No. 8 in Alagumalai village panchayat, P. Poongodi, petitioned the district administration to complete the construction of the building for the part-time ration shop at Chettipalayam. In her petition, she accused the panchayat president of stopping the construction, and that the part-time ration shop was functioning from a private building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grievances-meet-resumes-in-tiruppur/article33723263.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘No immediate relief for low earners’||Name: Murugan. D  Profession: Autorickshaw driver  Family members: 4  Monthlyincome: Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 The Union Budget did not offer any stimulus or relief to people from low-income groups, who have been the hardest-hit during the COVID-19 pandemic. My wife works as a domestic helper. There was no income during the lockdown. Even now, I don’t earn as much as I used to earn before the pandemic. I am now in a situation where I feel lucky if I earn enough to feed my family every day. While the announcement on boosting expenditure on infrastructure and healthcare may be beneficial to the economy in the long run, it won’t be useful to people like me now. The compensation provided by the Tamil Nadu government to unorganised workers was too little, and many did not get it as they were not registered with the welfare board. I am staring at increased expenditure for the family as the situation returns to normal following the pandemic. I was hoping for a financial package for unorganised workers like me. They did it for farmers during the last general election. Why can’t they do it now? Even the U.S. has done it. ( As told to Pon Vasanth B.A.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-immediate-relief-for-low-earners/article33723245.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three workers killed as shuttering structure collapses in Madurai||Three workers were killed and three others injured when steel shuttering structure put up for constructing the concrete roof of a building collapsed on the busy West Vadampokki Street on Monday afternoon. Police said the owner of the building had demolished a two-storey building and was in the process of re-constructing a new one. As part of pouring concrete to construct the roof of the ground floor, the workers had put up shuttering structure with steel pipes and sheets. Six workers were involved in putting up the reinforced framework with steel bars when the entire temporary structure came down crashing at around 1.30 p.m. “With the owners of buildings on either sides refusing him permission to touch their wall, the builder had retained the old walls on both sides and the shuttering structure was put on it. Even as the workers were working under it, the worn-out wall gave in and the entire structure collapsed,” Station Fire Officer R. Venkatesan, who rushed to the spot, said. Fire and Rescue Services personnel led by the Deputy Director N. Vijayakumar and District Fire Officer Vinod oversaw the rescue work. The firemen used concrete and steel cutters to cut open the debris and pull out the victims. While two of them - Vasagan, 40, of Madakulam and Azhagar, 50, of Paraipathi - managed to crawl out, the firemen pulled out Muniyasamy, 42, of Aviyur, who sustained head injuries. Three bodies – that of Chandran, 60, of Aviyur, Jayaraman, 55, of Narimedu, and Raman, 55, of Paraipathi – were taken out. The head of the deceased was crushed under the steel structure. On the eve of New Year Day, two firemen were killed while fighting fire in a two-storey textile shop in the city. Very recently, the ground floor of a two-storey residential building sank into the ground in Meenakshi Pallam. However, no one suffered serious injuries in the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-madurai/article33722848.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem dist. reports lowest daily cases||Salem district reported nine COVID-19 positive cases on Monday, the lowest in recent times. According to health officials, seven cases were indigenous and two patients had returned from Tiruchi. In Namakkal, nine cases were reported. Two patients returned from Coimbatore and Tiruppur. Erode district reported 24 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 14,384. While 24 persons were discharged, 185 persons continue to be under treatment. Coimbatore district reported 59 new cases on Monday. The Health Department said that 62 persons from the district recovered from the disease and got discharged from hospitals on Monday. The district had 422 active cases of the disease on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 27 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking its overall tally to 17,920. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 17,488 persons have recovered and 211 were active cases. Tiruppur district has so far reported 221 deaths. On Monday, 11 persons were discharged from various treatment centres. In the Nilgiris, one person tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 8,210.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-dist-reports-lowest-daily-cases/article33722857.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNTJ stages demo||Demanding the detention of a BJP functionary under National Security Act (NSA) for his alleged derogatory remarks against Prophet Mohamed, over 2,000 cadre of Tamil Nadu Thowheed Jamaath staged a demonstration at Melapalayam on Monday evening. Speakers at the protest said BJP functionary Kalyanaraman, who was speaking continuously against Islam and defaming Prophet Mohamed through his derogatory remarks should be detained under NSA. However, the State, which should act tough against him to ensure communal harmony, was protecting him. Due to the agitation, traffic on Palayamkottai - Ambasamudram Road was hit for nearly an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tntj-stages-demo/article33723530.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. gets big infra boost||He also urged the Centre to push back the fiscal deficit targets for States by two to three years at least, and increase their borrowing limit to 5% of GSDP in 2021-22 to manage expenditure on capital works and COVID-19 prevention measures. The Budget allowed the States to achieve the fiscal deficit target by 2023-24 and permitted a normal ceiling of net borrowing for States at 4% of GSDP for 2021-2022, in keeping with the views of the 15th Finance Commission. An additional borrowing ceiling of 0.5% of GSDP would also be provided, subject to conditions. The State’s request for funds for the Cauvery-Gundar Link project and Nadanthai Vazhi Cauvery, aimed at rejuvenating the Cauvery and its tributaries, along the lines of the Namami Gange project, did not find a mention in the Budget speech. The State had also flagged pending dues of about Rs. 19,591.63 crore, including GST compensation claims and various other heads. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu is expected to get Rs. 23,039 crore as its share of net proceeds from Central taxes and duties for 2020-21, which has been revised downwards from the Rs. 32,849.34 crore estimated in last year’s Budget. For 2021-22, the State is projected to get Rs. 27,148.31 crore. On the flip side, the Budget mentioned breaking the monopoly of State and private power distribution companies by introducing competition. Tamil Nadu has, thus far, strongly opposed the privatisation of the State-owned power distribution company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-gets-big-infra-boost/article33722834.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Saviour of the seas||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saviour-of-the-seas/article33723240.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Resuming routine||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resuming-routine/article33723540.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TH02-02-21-CITY-SABHA||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, East Mada Street, Mylapore, Chennai-600004 Cordially invites you to the 174th SADGURU SAINT THIAGARAJA SWAMIGAL ARADHANA (Bahula Panchami Day) at Bhavan's Main Auditorium. Today at 09.30 am: Rendering of Pancharatna Kritis by various artists led by Thoppur Dr. B. Sairam. Carnatic musicians are requested to participate. 11.00 am: Preview Show "Endharo Mahanubhavalu" - a Film on Saint Thiagaraja by Smt. Bombay Gnanam and at 12.30 pm: Prasadam Distribution. Programme Sponsored by "Indo National Limited. Covid 19 S.O.P. to be Strictly adhered. Kalakshetra Foundation presents Trinity Festival: 2nd & 3rd February 2021 at Bharata Kalakshetra Auditorium Today, 6.00 pm: Carnatic vocal by Kunnakudi M. Balamurali Krishna, Mysore Srikanth (Violin), Shree Sundar Kumar (Mridangam); 3rd Feb, 6.00 pm: Carnatic Flute by J.B Sruthi Sagar, L.Ramakrishnan (Violin), Delhi Sairam(Mridangam), Sai Subramaniam (Morsing). All are welcome. Govt. SOP and guidelines will be adhered; Phone: 044-24521844/0836/3418 (between 10 am – 5 pm) SRI THIAGARAJA SANGEETHA VIDWATH SAMAJAM, Mylapore, Ph: 24982270 174th Sadguru Sri Thiagaraja Aradhana: Today Bahula Panchami 9.30 a.m. Unchavrithi, Abhisekam, Pooja: 10.30 a.m. Ghanaraga Panchrathna Krithis goshtiganam by Musicians. Followed by Anjaneya Utsavam. All are welcome.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/th02-02-21-city-sabha/article33723256.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Agri cess comes under attack from Opposition||The Congress and the Janata Dal (S) have come down heavily on the Union Budget 2021-22, especially the imposition of the new Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC). Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah said that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while claiming to have not imposed any new tax, has tried to mobilise resources through the AIDC. “Cess has been levied on even agricultural products such as fertilizers and fuel, that will in turn affect farmers also,” he said. He said the cess levied on fuel would lead to an all-round inflation and price rise, pinching everyone. This, he alleged, can incite people against farmers since the blame will be pinned on AIDC. JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy also said that while the government has branded the protesting farmers as “anti-nationals”, it seems to be leaning on the farm sector to mobilise resources. “There is no clarity if the resources generated will be used to improve that sector,” he added. ‘No transparency’ Both leaders said there was a lack of transparency on the estimated revenue from the cess and how it would be spent to create agricultural infrastructure. “In the entire Budget speech and its annexure, there is no mention of either the estimated revenue mobilisation from the cess or how it will be spent for farmers’ welfare,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. Farmers’ leader Kurubur Shanthakumar also condemned the lack of clarity on the cess and said its imposition on agricultural products such as fertilisers and fuel would increase the input cost for farmers. “The best the government can do for the farmers is to withdraw the three anti-farmer laws it has enacted,” he added. Countering the “atma nirbhar” branding of the Budget, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the Budget, instead of putting more money in people’s hands during this time of economic contraction and a pandemic, was snatching more money from them. He condemned the push for 74% private investment in the insurance sector and for privatisation of airports and ports. Mr. Kumaraswamy said the government has to come clean and announce that every individual would get free vaccination for COVID-19. “There has been no such announcement and that is a big drawback,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/agri-cess-comes-under-attack-from-opposition/article33722894.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Illegal quarrying: Siddaramaiah demands inquiry by HC judge||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday demanded an inquiry into illegal stone quarrying in Shivamogga by a sitting judge of the High Court and sought the suspension of officials responsible for the same in the district. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who raised the issue under the House Rule 69 in the Legislative Assembly, demanded the stoppage of all illegal mining in the State. Noting that more than 2,000 illegal crushing units were operating in the State, the Congress leader said the killing of six people in a blast in an illegal quarry last month was nothing but ‘murder’ and demanded registration of criminal cases against district officials who were responsible for it. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who visited the blast sites in a village in Shivamogga, said the district administration had allowed illegal crushing despite the Forest Department’s letter seeking a ban on illegal stone mining in the forest areas of the district. “Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and district in-charge minister K.S. Eshwarappa are responsible for illegal stone mining in the district and the death of six people in the blast,” he said. The officials and politicians were abettors in the case, he said. He criticised Mr. Yediyurappa’s statement on regularising illegal stone crushing by levying a penalty. Mr. Siddaramaiah said two people - Sudhakar and Narasimha - were running the crusher on a leased patta land at Kallaganguru and were given the licence to run the crusher unit on April 12, 2019. “They had neither informed nor obtained the licence from the Police, Revenue or Mines and Geology Departments to bring the explosives. None of the officials know how the explosives detonated,” he said. There were 97 crushers and 76 quarries in the district as per official records. Only 23 quarries had been given permission to carry out blasts, while others were doing it illegally. “Is it possible for such activities to run without the notice of the district administration?” he questioned. In his reply, Law and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the first case of illegal mining was booked in April, 2018, on work on this land and another in March, 2019, after which a crushing license was given. “So, in spite of knowing the illegality, the district administration gave the license,” he said. In October 2020, another illegal mining case was filed against the land owner, Mr. Bommai added. On the government’s commitment to curb illegal mining and quarrying, Mr .Bommai said the penalty had been increased from 5 times to 20 times after including the value of the mineral with two years’ imprisonment. Dissatisfied with the reply, the Congress staged a walkout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/illegal-quarrying-siddaramaiah-demands-inquiry-by-hc-judge/article33722913.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||65% of first PU students attend classes||Schools and pre-university colleges formally opened their doors to class nine and class eleven students for the first time on Monday, 10 months after they were forced to stop classes as a precaution against COVID-19. However, Vidyagama classes had already begun for them a month earlier. The attendance of first year PU students across the State stood at 65.45%, despite the fact that many private colleges chose to continue with online classes. Highest, lowest The highest attendance was recorded in South Canara educational district where 85.88% students attended first PU classes on Monday. At 42.77%, Koppal district recorded the lowest attendance. Data on class nine students reporting to campus was not provided by the Department of Public Instruction. Students in classes 10 and 12 had resumed classes on January 1. Despite the government allowing PU colleges and schools to open for classes nine and upwards, many private schools and PU colleges refused to reopen and chose to continue with online classes as they did not want to risk the spread of infection on their campuses. Some other managements chose to skip the reopening citing lack of funds to follow all the Standard Operating Procedures that were laid down by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/65-of-first-pu-students-attend-classes/article33723223.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP wants professional agencies to manage waste processing plants||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is considering handing over the operation and management of seven waste processing plants, on the outskirts of the city, to professional agencies. A tender is expected to be floated soon, said officials. This comes at a time when the solid waste management in the city is likely to come under a separate body. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa recently instructed the BBMP to set up a special purpose vehicle for the same within 15 days. The civic body has been constantly facing opposition from local communities over the mismanagement of the plants. Of the seven plants, three in Lingadheeranahalli, Seegehalli and Subbarayanapalya have been shut for months on end. While a case pertaining to Lingadheeranahalli is being heard by the National Green Tribunal, there is also opposition by the local communities living near the Subbarayanapalya and Seegehalli plants. The other plants have been functioning at more than half their installed capacity, data shows. BBMP Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) Sarfaraz Khan told The Hindu that a waste-to-energy plant will be set up at Kannahalli, while a biomethanisation plant is being set up at Doddabidarakallu by private companies. “Till the time both plants are set up and commissioned, we have decided to handover the O&M to the two firms, so that waste processing at these plants does not stop and the burden on the landfill is reduced,” he said. “Earlier, the payment of the processing fee for the plant management agency was based on compost generated. This caused a delay in payment by more than six months. The agencies incurred losses and O&M was neglected. This was one of the reasons for local communities to oppose the plants,” Mr. Khan explained. So, this time around, the processing fee will be based on the quantum of waste sent to the processing plants. “The processing fee this way will be cheaper than the processing cost, which is win-win for the civic body,” he added. Meanwhile, the BBMP is also making efforts to reopen at least two of the three plants that have remained shut. At Subbarayanapalya, civic officials have been instructed to keep the plant ready for operation. A meeting will be held with the local communities, MLA and Minister S.T. Somashekhar and the police soon. At Seegehalli, the waste processing machines are being overhauled.   This comes at a time when the solid waste management in the city is likely to come under a separate body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-wants-professional-agencies-to-manage-waste-processing-plants/article33723224.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bill of patient with prolonged stay in hospital adds up to Rs. 6 crore||When the family of 28-year-old Poonam Rana took her to the emergency ward of Manipal Hospitals on Old Airport Road in the wee hours of October 3 in 2015 for abdominal pain, little did they imagine that she would be hospitalised for several years with no sign of recovery or discharge. Ms. Rana turned 33 on January 1 this year. Over the years, she has gone through multiple complications and is lying comatose in the ICU with the bill running up to Rs. 6 crore till September 7, 2020. Her husband Rejish Nair alleged that her vegetative state was “due to negligence... causing oxygen deprivation to the patient by doctors at the hospital during a surgery” for closing a leak in the intestine. This resulted in severe brain damage, he alleged. The hospital has categorically denied the allegation. Hoping that his wife will recover if treatment as per rehabilitation protocols is administered, Mr. Nair told The Hindu: “For abdominal pain, she underwent an emergency surgery as doctors said she had a perforation in the small intestine. Although she was conscious post-surgery and spoke to me, two days later doctors said she suffered multi-organ failure and asked me to take the ‘body’ home.” On his insistence, the family put her on continuous renal replacement therapy. “However, she subsequently suffered brain damage, and doctors said she had gone into an irreversible deep coma. But, she came out of coma. However, when the hospital stopped a particular medicine that had led to an improvement in her condition, her health deteriorated. From then, she suffered multiple complications. The doctors had written her off several times and has been insisting that we take ‘the body’ home,” he alleged. Mr. Nair said numerous representations to the hospital, complaints to police, National Commission for Women, National Human Rights Organisation, and various government bodies, including Central agencies, have not helped in this case. In a petition to the city Police Commissioner, Mr. Nair said the hospital revoked 24/7 access to the patient, which was available for up to two years. Of the Rs. 5.99 crore that the patient was billed till September 7, 2020, the family has so far managed to pay Rs. 1.34 crore through health insurance and their own resources. Hospital response Manipal Hospitals, in a statement, said the patient had been presented with delayed blunt injury of the abdomen resulting in small intestine perforation and severe abdominal sepsis with multi-system organ failure. “Recently, she developed catastrophic bleeding from the trachea leading to a critical condition. She is under observation and continues to fight for life under ventilator support,” it said. The hospital said the medical team had provided the best possible treatment to her despite the constant “abuse and non-cooperation” by the family. “Every clinical decision taken has been done in complete concurrence with the patient’s father, who is well aware of the unique nature of this case,” the statement said. “The hospital has sought legal opinion from investigating authorities as it felt there has been foul play or domestic violence, which led to abdomen injury,” the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bill-of-patient-with-prolonged-stay-in-hospital-adds-up-to-rs-6-crore/article33723221.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tourism sector disappointed||Stakeholders in the tourism sector, who have been hit hard by the pandemic, the consequent lockdown, and the general reluctance among people to travel in these times, have been left disappointed by the Union Budget. The Budget, according to them, offers no relief to the industry that has seen several washed out months, with business picking up only towards the latter half of last year. M. Ravi, joint secretary of Karnataka Tourism Society, said the sector had great expectations from the Budget. “Yet again, the hospitality and tourism sectors, which have been the worst hit, have been given the cold shoulder. There is no relief or incentives for the travel, tourism, and hospitality industry in the budget,” he said. Among the demands they had was Goods and Services Tax relief for a year or two, road tax benefits for tourist transport, loans at low interest, and motor vehicle insurance benefits. Karnataka Tourism Forum president Sanjar Imam said that while the Union Budget had proposals for enhancing infrastructure related to tourism, such as roads, airports, and even the Vistadome coaches for the first time, “there isn’t much in the offing for immediate support of the industry”. FAITH, the policy federation of all national associations representing the tourism, travel and hospitality industry in India, also expressed disappointment. “The tourism, travel and hospitality industry was looking for support in the form of immediate and short-term measures for critical revival. This has not happened in the Budget announcements,” said Nakul Anand, chairman of FAITH in a statement. “COVID-19 has damaged the travel and tour intermediaries. It was critical to protect thebusiness of Indian travel agents and tour operators. The recently introduced TCS, which has made Indian travel agents globally uncompetitive, should have been immediately abolished. Not addressing any of these critical issues in the Budget has thrown the industry into a state of shock and deep dismay,” FAITH said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tourism-sector-disappointed/article33722898.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court seeks details of stages of cases registered under UAPA||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed its Registrar-General to call for a report from the City Civil and Sessions Court in Bengaluru on the stages of cases in which provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, have been involved by the investigating agencies. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by Vaseemuddin A., a city-based advocate. The petitioner had sought a direction for setting up one another special court to conduct of trial of cases registered under the UAP Act, 1967, particularly to deal with the chargesheets filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) while complaining that accused in these cases, mainly charged for alleged terrorist activities, are languishing in prison owing to the delay in completion of trials. Meanwhile, the Bench noted from a report submitted by the Registrar-General that there are totally 56 cases, in which sections of the UAP Act were invoked, pending in four different courts, including the two separate special courts dealing with cases of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), and the NIA in the city. Over 50 cases While there are 27 cases, the oldest being from 2010, pending before the special court for CBI cases, there are 23 cases, the oldest from 2013, pending before the special court for NIA cases. While two cases are pending before the Principal City Civil and Sessions Court, four cases are pending before a special court, which is functioning in the premises of the Central Prison in Bengaluru. The Registrar-General, in his report had also suggested that all the cases in which provisions of the UAP Act were invoked could be transferred to one court instead of setting up another special court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-seeks-details-of-stages-of-cases-registered-under-uapa/article33722910.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. told to fill second post of Upalokayukta expeditiously||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the State government to fill one of the two posts of Upalokayukta, which became vacant in December last year, as soon as possible. A Division Bench comprising Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice V. Srishananda issued the direction while disposing of a PIL petition filed by Umapathi.S. The petition was filed in March 2019 when one of the two posts of Upalokayukta became vacant and the government had delayed the process of filling it up. Subsequently, the government in November 2019 appointed B.S. Patil, a retired judge of the High Court, to that post during the pendency of the petition. Meanwhile, another post of Upalokayukta became vacant on December 14, 2020, and the government last week sought some reasonable time to fill up the post as it had become vacant a month ago. It pointed out that it had to follow the process of consultations with the Chief Justice of the High Court, Speaker of the Legislative Assembly, and Chairman of the Legislative Council to fill up the post. Following this, the Bench disposed of the petition while directing the government “to fill up the post as expeditiously as possible”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-told-to-fill-second-post-of-upalokayukta-expeditiously/article33722899.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Budget a catalyst that can revive economy’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said that the Union Budget presented on Monday has come as “a catalyst that can revive the sluggish economy”. “The Union Finance Minister has announced the necessary strategies for economic revival as well as containing the pandemic,” he said, welcoming the Rs. 35,000-crore allocation for the vaccine drive and the assurance of more funds if necessary. On the agriculture sector, he said the Budget had provided a platform to double the income of farmers by 2022 and allocated Rs. 16.5 lakh crore for agricultural and rural development. “Strengthening and continuation of MSP has been emphasised. Funds to improve the infrastructure at APMCs, doubling the grants for micro-irrigation, and the value addition programme for 22 crops will help farmers,” he said. “On a whole, Union Budget 2021-22 has the potential to be a catalyst to revive the economy and implement development programmes. I wholeheartedly welcome this Budget,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/budget-a-catalyst-that-can-revive-economy/article33722896.ece
02 February 2021||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Timely implementation of proposals is key: CII||Praising the Union Budget for optimal usage of resources, movement towards recapitalisation, and thoughtful allocation of funds, Sandeep Singh, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Karnataka chairman, underlined that proposals required timely implementation by the government. Terming the Budget “growth-oriented” and “consumption-oriented”, he said it was the right step towards reviving the economy. “Overall, the Budget is focussed on optimal usage of all the resources. The allocation of funds is at the right places. However, timely implementation is required by the government,” Mr. Singh said. The Budget comes as a shot in the arm for beleaguered MSMEs as it proposes to double the allocation for MSMEs to Rs. 15,700 crore from last year, said KASSIA, the trade body representing small industries. According to the trade body, the Budget will boost domestic manufacturing as it proposes to increase customs duty on certain items such as steel screws, plastic ware, finished synthetic gemstones, prawn feed, and also to rationalise exemption on import of duty-free items as an incentive to exporters of garments, leather and handicraft items. “With the cut in margin requirement from 25% to 15%, the Budget will increase credit outflow under Standup India to SC/ST communities and women entrepreneurs. The setting up of seven plug-and-play textile parks near seaports, airports, railways, and dedicated freight corridors will enhance exports, while the allocation of Rs. 1.97 lakh crore for production-linked incentive schemes covering 13 sectors will kick-start domestic manufacturing,” said K.B Arasappa, president, KASSIA. T.R. Parasuraman, president, Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce, said local manufacturing and employment would be boosted with the customs duty hike on ironand steel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/timely-implementation-of-proposals-is-key-cii/article33722900.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Karnataka neglected’||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, despite being a Rajya Sabha member from the State, had neglected Karnataka in the Budget. “Funds are allocated for the metro project in Bengaluru and the Chennai-Bengaluru expressway, but they are not new projects,” he noted. “Most of the allocations are showered on the poll-bound States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, and Assam. We should probably hold elections every year for the Union government to prioritise us.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-neglected/article33722905.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Government to map entry of explosives into State||Law and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai Monday informed the Legislative Assembly that a detailed mapping of the entry of explosives into Karnataka had been ordered in the wake of the recent Shivamogga blast. Replying to charges made against the government by Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, Mr. Bommai admitted that illegal mining, quarrying and crushing activities were taking place in the State, for which the government has decided to take legal measures. “There is a nexus between landholders, quarry lease holders and explosive suppliers that we need to break,” he said. The government went to the root of the explosives that came to Shivamogga and found that the original supplier was in Anantapur. With the help of the Andhra Pradesh police, they seized 65,000 detonators, 1,275 gelatin sticks, 540 explosive boosters, 1,500 m of safety fuse and 7,500 m of detonator fuse. In the Shivamogga incident, he said illegal quarrying was found to have taken place where the explosion occurred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/government-to-map-entry-of-explosives-into-state/article33722907.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||388 new cases, 3 deaths||Karnataka reported 388 new COVID-19 cases and three deaths on Monday, taking the total infections to 9,39,775 and the toll to 12,220. The Health and Family Welfare Department said on Monday that 470 patients were discharged. Bengaluru Urban continued to be on top in fresh cases reported with 201 infections. Of the three deaths, Bengaluru Urban accounted for two and Dakshina Kannada, one. Cumulatively, 9,39,775 cases have been confirmed in the State, which includes 12,220 deaths and 9,21,592 discharges, the bulletin stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/388-new-cases-3-deaths/article33722908.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||University Bills passed||The Legislative Assembly on Monday passed Bills related to the establishment of five private universities. Bills related to New Horizon University, St. Joseph’s University, Sri Jagadhguru Murugarajendra University, Vidya Shilpa University, and Atriya University were passed. The Bengaluru Dr. B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics University (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to rename it ‘Dr. B.R. Ambedkar School of Economics University, Bengaluru,’ was also passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/university-bills-passed/article33722914.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Committee set up||A committee will probe the genuineness of the reports that Congress member Prakash Rathod had been watching objectionable videos on his phone during the question hour on Friday. The announcement came from Council chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty on Monday, after the House convened. The panel will have B.K. Hariprasad, Tejaswini Gowda and Marthibbe Gowda as members. Mr. Rathod earlier denied the allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/committee-set-up/article33722915.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NCBS scientist dies in road accident||A 35-year-old post-doctoral scientist at the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) was killed in a road accident when he and his wife were taking a walk on Sunday night. According to the police, Siddaratha Datta was knocked down by a speeding motorcyclist on Rajiv Gandhi Main Road at Sahakara Nagar around 9 p.m. “Siddaratha hailed from Kolkata and resided in Sir M.V. Layout. He and his wife had gone for a walk after dinner. While they were approaching a market in the neighbourhood near the NCBS campus, he was hit by a motorcyclist,” said a police officer. Passersby took him to a hospital but he succumbed a few hours later. The two-wheeler rider Manoj Kumar, 23, fell from his motorcycle on impact. “He is a building construction labourer, and has been hospitalised,” said the officer. Based on a complaint by Siddaratha’s wife, the Hebbal police have taken up a case against Manoj. “We are waiting for him to recover to question him,” said a senior police officer. His death has come as a shock to fellow scientists at NCBS. “We are following up with the hospital and authorities,” said Satyajit Mayor, director, NCBS, in a message to his colleagues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ncbs-scientist-dies-in-road-accident/article33723227.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools continuing to collect full fees: Parents||Many private schools are reportedly not adhering to the government order to reduce tuition fees and are continuing to collect the full amount for the 2020-21 academic year. B.N. Yogananda, member of the Karnataka State Private Schools Parents Associations Coordination Committee, said they had received complaints from parents that schools were still calling them and pressurising them to pay the full fees. Instead of reducing tuition rates by 30% as prescribed by the government, managements are asking parents to pay fees for two terms, with the promise that the charges for the third term will be waived, he said. “We want schools to calculate and collect only 70% of the tuition fees and waive amounts collected under other heads. We do not want schools to take part in tokenism and simply waive a portion of the fees,” Mr. Yogananda said. A parent of a CBSE affiliated school in Bengaluru North shared the fee structure of the school displayed on their portal on Monday. It showed that the school continued to demand activity fees and outsourced fees. “Despite clear instructions by the government, the school continues to show the old fee structure. If they do not modify the fees, we will file a complaint with the district-level committee formed by the Department of Public Instruction (DPI),” the parent said. Many schools had already removed the fee structure from their website or internal portals. An official of DPI pointed out that parents can lodge a complaint against school managements if they charged the same fee as last academic year. “If they produce the necessary documents such as the fee receipts along with the complaint, we will take action against the school after we investigate the matter,” the senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-continuing-to-collect-full-fees-parents/article33723229.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sharath Bache Gowda raises breach of privilege issue||Independent member Sharath Bache Gowda on Monday raised the breach of privilege issue against Hoskote City Municipal Council officials for violating protocol while launching development works of Rs. 8 crore in his constituency on Saturday. Officials conducted the programme at the behest of the Minister Nagaraj (MTB). He was invited to the programme on Friday evening, a few hours before the foundation stone-laying ceremony of development works, Mr. Gowda said, in the Legislative Assembly. The followers of Mr. Nagaraj and Hoskote MLA Mr. Gowda clashed during the foundation stone-laying ceremony, leading to a police lathi charge on them. Many supporters of Mr. Gowda had gathered at the ceremony that was being presided over by Mr. Nagaraj. Mr. Gowda and his supporters raised slogans against Mr. Nagaraj and police resorted to lathi charge. Earlier, Mr. Gowda submitted a notice to Speaker Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri seeking permission to raise the issue of breach of his privilege. When the Speaker told the member that he would give him time after lunch to raise the matter since he had not read the notice given to him, Congress members opposed the Speaker’s move and staged a dharna before the chair. Later, when Mr. Kageri said that Opposition cannot pressurise him to conduct House proceedings, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah appealed to party members to withdraw the dharna. After lunch, Mr. Gowda raised the issue and held the police accountable for the lathi charge that injured supporters. The Speaker has reserved his decision on the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sharath-bache-gowda-raises-breach-of-privilege-issue/article33722911.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister’s visit||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar visited a class 10 student who was hit by a KSRTC bus when she was on her way to write the National Talent Search Examination recently. The student, Yashaswini, is undergoing treatment at NIMHANS. The Minister directed officials to give her financial aid of Rs. 1 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ministers-visit/article33722904.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many schools start primary classes||Private schools, particularly in rural areas, have started primary classes despite the government categorically stating that only students in classes nine to II PU can come to the campus. School managements too admitted that they have resumed classes citing pressure from parents. “We are forced to violate orders and begin classes as parents in rural areas do not want online classes. Parents also feel that online classes are not effective and expressed willingness to pay tuition feels only if we restart physical classes,” a school management member said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-schools-start-primary-classes/article33723225.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||Kannada Book Authority has invited applications for procurement of books that were published in their first edition in 2017. Application forms can be downloaded from the authority’s website - kannadapustakapradhikara .com - from Tuesday. Applications have to be submitted before February 27 evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/applications-invited/article33722906.ece
02 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rape of minor: Police accused of making mistakes deliberately||G. Subramanya, chairman of Chikkamagaluru Child Welfare Committee (CWC), has alleged that the Sringeri police committed mistakes “deliberately” while registering an FIR on the alleged rape of a minor girl in Sringeri taluk to help the accused. The girl was allegedly raped by several men over the past four months. The Sringeri police registered a case on Saturday against 17 people, including the girl’s aunt. The police allegedly delayed registering the case and wrongly mentioned the committee’s chairman as the complainant. CWC chairman G. Subramanya said the police had information about the rape much before the committee received any details of it. “The locals had informed the police, but they delayed taking action. They took the girl to a Santhwana Kendra in Sringeri on Thursday itself. As per the norms, the police should have informed the CWC before taking the girl to the centre,” he said. The case was brought to the notice of the CWC only on Saturday, when its women members spoke to the girl and collected information about the incident. “I then wrote to the Child Development Project Officer of Sringeri to file a complaint with the police and get it registered. The police registered the FIR based on my letter to the CDPO, treating me as the complainant though I had not filed a complaint,” he said. The CWC chief has brought this issue to the notice of the Superintendent of Police of Chikkamagaluru. “Ideally, the police should have taken a complaint from the CDPO,” he said. When The Hindu contacted the SP, Akshay M. Hakay, he said he was not aware of the alleged police mistakes. The Sringeri police have arrested two more persons in connection with the case, taking the total number of those arrested to eight. Mr. Hakay said efforts were on to nab the remaining accused. The incident The victim had been staying with her aunt in a village near Sringeri. Her aunt was working in a stone crushing unit in Sringeri. When her hunt could not go to work because of health problems, the girl went instead. There she came in contact with Girish, who allegedly raped her in September 2020. Mr. Subramanya said Girish later took the girl to another accused, Abhi. Both allegedly took photographs of the girl in compromising positions. “Later, they forced the girl to have sex with many people. Whenever she refused to cooperate with them, the accused threatened her of posting the photographs on social media,” he said. The girl had even allegedly informed her aunt about the incident, but she did not file a complaint but only told the accused not to repeat their actions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rape-of-minor-police-accused-of-making-mistakes-deliberately/article33722901.ece
02 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Prajwal should get funds from Centre’||Expressing disappointment over Hassan not getting any project in the Union Budget, Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda of the BJP said it was the responsibility of Lok Sabha member Prajwal Revanna to get funds for the district from the Centre. Mr. Gowda told presspersons in Hassan on Monday that Mr. Prajwal Revanna should speak in Parliament on issues concerning the district and make efforts to bring projects. “Instead of attending marriages in the district, he should go to Parliament and get funds from the Centre. I wish former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda guides him in this regard”, he commented. GP elections Mr. Preetham Gowda said candidates supported by the BJP succeeded in holding power in five gram panchayats of Hassan Assembly constituency limits. The people supported the party as it had been working in tune with their expectations, he said. There were no contenders for the posts of president and vice-president from the JD(S) in the five panchayats. “BJP-supported candidates have come to power in Salagame panchayat, which had been considered to be the strong bastion of the JD(S)”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prajwal-should-get-funds-from-centre/article33723433.ece
02 February 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for death of minor girl||Holenarasipur police, on Saturday, arrested a person of Keregodu near Halli Mysuru in Holenarsipur taluk in connection with the death of a minor girl. Yogesh, the arrested, allegedly raped a minor girl, who was found dead on January 27. A press release issued by the district police said that the accused raped the girl after assuring her that he would marry her. Later, the girl was found dead on January 27. Based on a complaint filed by the girl’s parents, Holenarasipur police conducted an investigation and arrested the accused. Hassan Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda has appreciated the efforts of police team headed by Holenarasipur DySP B.B. Lakshme Gowda in arresting the accused.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-death-of-minor-girl/article33723432.ece
02 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Pillars identified for economic progress: Minister Joshi||The Union Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday received mixed response with the Opposition terming it anti-people and the ruling party leaders terming it as historic, while others calling it a status quo budget. Praising the budget Union Minister of Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi termed it as a historic one, aimed at building healthy and prosperous India. The Finance Minister has identified six pillars for facilitating economic progress and accordingly made allocations with focus on health and infrastructure development, he has said. Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar described the budget as one which promoted industries and manufacturing sector with focus on start-ups and MSMEs. The budget will bring about comprehensive change in the health sector and lead to doubling of farmers income, he has said. Janata Dal(S) leader and the former MLA N.H. Konaraddi has described the budget as tasteless which had nothing promising for the youth who have no employment opportunities and it has nothing for farmers. Congress leader and MLA Prasad Abbayya has termed it an election-oriented budget as special packages have been announced for the States of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and West Bengal where Assembly elections are due. The Finance Minister, who represents Karnataka, has not given anything to the State barring the allocation for metro in Bengaluru, he has said. Spokespersons for Hubballi Dharwad Urban District unit of Congress Robert Daddapuri and Devaki Yoganand have termed the budget anti-farmer. They have said that the budget touted as one for Atma Nirbhar Bharat lacked Atma (soul). Neglecting the two-month-long farmers agitation, the Finance Minister has further increased the burden on commoners, they have said. Chairman of Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank P. Gopikrishna has said that all the exercise has been done in the budget to normalise the economy post-coronavirus. The proposal to increase agricultural credit to Rs. 16.5 lakh crore will make loans easier for farmers. Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) office-bearers led by president Mahendra Ladhad have said that through the budget, efforts have been made to maintain status quo and facilitate infrastructure development. However, it is disappointing that the aspirations of the tax payers, including industrialists and businessmen, have not been met in the budget, the KCCI has said. Chartered accountant N.A. Charantimath has termed it a “balanced and progressive”. It was a welcome development that there were no additional taxes, both direct and indirect. Instead, steps have been proposed to reduce tax litigation, simplifying justice delivery system, among other measures, he has said. Chairman of Department of Economics, Karnatak University, B.H. Nagoor has described it as “a budget to reset the economy”. Emphasis on health, infrastructure, rationalisation of taxes and dramatic increase in capital expenditure are welcome steps. However, MSMES have not received expected the budgetary support, he has said. Professor of Economics R.R. Biradar has said that there are several progressive proposals in the budget but it was a matter of concern that there were no specific proposals on doubling farm income. While it was disappointing that there were no relief for income tax payers, cess on fuel will further burden the commoners, he has said. Another chartered accountant Khatavkar Y.M. said that there was no relief for tax payers. Despite repeated pleas for changes in GST rates, no relief has been given which was disappointing, he has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pillars-identified-for-economic-progress-minister-joshi/article33722880.ece
02 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Courts have been told to dispose of pending cases on priority’||Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka Abhay Shreeniwas Oka has said that instructions have been given to dispose of on priority those cases that are pending for the last five to 10 years in various courts of the State, including the High Court. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the new building of the Hubballi Bar Association which has been built at a total cost of Rs. 9.8 crore here on Saturday, Mr. Oka said that post-COVID-19-induced lockdown, the courts have resumed operations. “Judges of various courts have been instructed to dispose of pending cases. In 50 % of these cases, either the State or Union governments are respondents,” he said. He said that having such a large number of pending cases is not a good sign. And, the cooperation of advocates is essential in disposing of pending cases. Terming the court complex in Hubballi a model one in the country, Mr. Oka said that the State government is providing the infrastructure and amenities required for the State judiciary. Additional facilities have been sought for 35 to 40 courts in the State. Urging advocates to make the best use of the new building of the Bar Association and discharge their duties independently without any fear, he said that they [advocates] have a crucial role to play in protecting the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution. Mr. Oka said that during the freedom struggle and Emergency, advocates played crucial role. It is time for the courts and advocates to highlight their role in society with a stronger voice now. If the Bar Association and the courts worked in cooperation, citizens will get speedy justice, he said. Expressing happiness over the new building of the Bar Association, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that Hubballi now has a model and biggest court complex in the State, with an equally sophisticated Bar Association building. He hoped that the new building and facilities will further aid in speedy delivery of justice to the litigant public. He said that for the welfare of the general public, both the government and the judiciary are working in coordination. Mentioning that himself and his father were members of Hubballi Bar Association, Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar said that the including himself, the Hubballi Bar Association has given two Chief Ministers to the State. All the governments in the State have been providing the required infrastructure and amenities for the judiciary as it has been contributing towards strengthening the administrative and democratic set-up in the country, he said. High Court judge Ashok Nijgannavar recalled his initial days as an advocate in Hubballi and Dharwad courts. Presiding over the function, High Court judge and District Administrative Judge Sreenivas Harish Kumar hoped that the new building facilitated honest delivery of justice and model work by the Bar members. High Court judges G. Narendar, Shivashankar B. Amarannavar, Padmaraj N. Desai, High Court Registrar General Rajendra Badamikar, District Principal and Sessions Judge Umesh Adiga, the former Minister Basavaraj Patil, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil and others were present. President of the Hubballi Bar Association Ashok Baligar welcomed the gathering, while Secretary Guru Hiremath proposed a vote of thanks. On account of the death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, a two-minute silence was observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/courts-have-been-told-to-dispose-of-pending-cases-on-priority/article33722887.ece
02 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Recruits of Police and Prisons depts. told to develop professional qualities||Inspector-General of Police (Northern Range) Raghavendra Suhas has urged recruits of the Police and Prisons departments to develop professional qualities and the ability to handle any kind of situation. He was addressing a gathering of apprentices of the 22nd batch of the Police Training School and the second batch of prison woman warder during the passing-out parade in Dharwad on Monday. Mr. Suhas said that those serving in the department required to be strong physically and emotionally and they should also have the mental ability to handle any sort of situation. “Each apprentice will be given training that enhances confidence and also training on developing various skills. They should follow what they have learnt during training through their service,” he said. He said that several graduates and post-graduates were joining the department and joining the service was just the first step. Those who intend to join other departments or try for higher posts through competitive examinations would be given opportunities to appear for them. Mr. Suhas thanked the family members of the apprentices for allowing them to join the police and prison services. Hubballi Dharwad Police Commissioner Labhu Ram, Deputy Inspector-General of Police (Prisons) of Northern Range M. Somashekhar, Superintendent of Police P. Krishnakant and others were present. Earlier, Mr. Suhas inspected a parade and received a guard of honour from the contingents of apprentices who have successfully completed their training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recruits-of-police-and-prisons-depts-told-to-develop-professional-qualities/article33722883.ece
02 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Seer takes exception to Uddhav’s statement||Taking exception to the border row raked up by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Sri Siddarama Swami of Gadag Tontadarya Mutt has said that it probably seemed that the Maharashtra Government understood only rustic language and not literary language. He was addressing a gathering in Belagavi on Monday after conferring the Kengal Hanumanthaiya Samskruti Award instituted by Kannada Sahitya Parishat on Prabhakar Kore. The swami said that the Maharashtra government was under the illusion that Belagavi would be included under Maharashtra and some organisations that were raking up the issue should stop day-dreaming about it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-takes-exception-to-uddhavs-statement/article33722884.ece
02 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘I’ll raise issues concerning Khadi with the govt.’||Emphasising the need for wearing Swadesi Khadi products, founder of Mahatma Gandhi Seva Trust Sri Vinay Guruji has said that he will take up the issues concerning Khadi weavers and workers with the government to get them resolved. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Saturday, Vinay Guruji said that he will also take up the issue of making wearing Khadi compulsorily once a week for government employees and if needed, he will also stage a hunger strike. Mentioning about the trust’s programme to distribute food packets (groceries for two months) to the employees of National Flag Manufacturing Unit at Bengeri in Hubballi on Saturday, Vinay Guruji said that while it was just a helping hand to the needy weavers, the trust will take up issues concerning the weavers with the government and will try to get them resolved in the next six months. To a query, Vinay Guruji said that the trust has also started “Raita Nidhi” for helping farmers and it will take up their issues with the government agencies concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ill-raise-issues-concerning-khadi-with-the-govt/article33722885.ece
02 February 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Implement Ordinance strictly, officials told||Deputy Commissioner of Belagavi M.G. Hiremath has directed the officials concerned to strictly implement the provisions of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance 2020. Chairing a meeting of the Zilla Prani Daya Sangha in Belagavi on Saturday, Mr. Hiremath asked the officials concerned to take necessary steps so as to ensure effective and strict implementation of the Ordinance. Deputy Director of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Ashok Kolla coordinated the meeting and briefed about the provisions of the Ordinance and the steps to be taken by different designated officers in the district. Deputy Superintendent of Police Karunakar Shetty, Regional Transport Officer Shivanand Magdum, Member of the Animal Welfare Board Sarnobat, member of the Zilla Prani Daya Sangha Rajendra Jain and various officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/implement-ordinance-strictly-officials-told/article33722881.ece
02 February 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Congress says budget has no vision, BJP hails it as being comprehensive||Member of Legislative Assembly from Jewargi and the Chief Whip of the Congress Ajay Singh has criticised the Union Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Parliament on Monday as one that failed to address crucial issues. “The budget has no vision. It failed to address the crucial economic issues of the country. There is no announcement for the revival of crisis-ridden agriculture and industrial sector. We had hoped that the government would announce free COVID-19 vaccination for all the 130 crore people of India. But, our hopes are shattered. In a nutshell, it is an anti-people budget,” he said. Mr. Singh also expressed disappointment over what he said the negligence towards Kalyana Karnataka region in the budget. “We had expected that the Union government would make some budgetary allocations for Kalyana Karnataka region which is accorded with Special Status under Article 371(J) of the Constitution. We also expected that the government would announce AIIMS and National Investment and Manufacturing Zone for Kalaburagi. But no such announcements are made in the budget,” he said. Sharanabasappa Mamshetty, a farmer leader associated with Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha, criticised the budget as anti-farmer. “The farm sector is in deep crisis and the distressed farmers are increasingly quitting agriculture. We had expected that the Union government would make some special announcements in the budget to revive the agriculture economy. But, we found no such subsidies for seeds and fertilizers and waiver of farm loans. It has also not considered the floods as a national calamity,” he said. BJP leaders, however, hailed the budget as development-oriented and pro-people. Lok Sabha member from Koppal Sanganna Karadi said that the “budget gave us more than what we had expected during the time of COVID-19 crisis.” “It is a comprehensive budget that gave importance to key sectors such as agriculture, industry, health, education, railway, road transport and rural infrastructure. The measures announced the budget would hasten progress in the days to come,” he said, focusing on the announcement for the development the Belagavi-Raichur National Highway that would cover Hungund and Lingsugur, apart from Belagavi and Raichur. Member of Legislative Council Shashil G. Namoshi said that the budget did not mount any burden on the shoulders of the common people. “Not making any hike in income tax rates or any alterations in the slabs is a big relief for the salaried class. The Jal Jeevan Mission [Urban], allocation of Rs. 35,000 crore for COVID-19 vaccine and Rs. 2 lakh crore for each State for development works, development of 11,000 km of national highways and one nation-one ration card are among the promising initiatives announced in the budget,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-says-budget-has-no-vision-bjp-hails-it-as-being-comprehensive/article33722878.ece
02 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Budget is consistent in giving continued push to reforms, say experts||Experts in finance termed the Budget 2021-22 as consistent so as to give a continued push to reforms while stating that it made no efforts to increase money in the hands of people who were hit by the pandemic. On the other hand, political parties termed the budget as one triggering inflation. The underlying tone was giving a push to employment, jobs or entrepreneurship, said Vishwanathan Iyer, professor in accounting, economics and finance and Dean (Academics), T.A. Pai Management Institute, Manipal, in a statement. The large outlays for roads, ports, power and urban infrastructure results in economic revival. The budget also stays inclusive with focus on human capital development and vulnerable populations through education and employability. Aditya Mohan Jadhav, professor in accounting, economics and finance, TAPMI, said that an increase in health budget by 134 % was needed following the pandemic. National Asset Monetisation Pipeline, disinvestment target of Rs. 1.75 lakh crore and IPO of LIC was important given that the fiscal deficit is expected to be 6.8 %. The key miss, Prof Jadhav said, is the lack of focus on households that have taken an income hit from the pandemic. While it might result in retail banking NPA surge, the budget did not take substantial initiative to increase money in the hands of people. The focus on implementing NEP through 15,000 schools across the country as mentors is welcome, said Rajiv V. Shah, professor in accounting, economics and finance, TAPMI. Higher Education Commission for accreditation of colleges is much awaited as accreditation is currently being done by multiple agencies. The move to pre-fill income tax returns with data from sources other than employers is a subtle move towards the increased use of IT in governance. Meera L.B. Aranha, professor and chairperson, banking and financial services, TAPMI, said that the proposal to enhance investor protection to financial investors and to amend the DICGC Act for streamlining protection to bank depositors is a clear positive. The amount kept for re-capitalisation of banks is inadequate indicating that the government is going ahead with privatisation of banks. Increased burden DYFI State president Muneer Katipalla said that the only achievement of the present budget is increased taxes. Insurance companies and the Railways will get privatised through PPP and increase in FDI. The budget is silent on employment generation. While there is a large outlay for States facing Assembly elections in April-May, Karnataka did not get enough outlay even during elections. Communist Party of India district secretary V. Kukyan said that the budget is found to cause price rise of essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/budget-is-consistent-in-giving-continued-push-to-reforms-say-experts/article33723414.ece
02 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three arrested for assault||The Mangaluru East Police have arrested three persons, including a former lover of a girl, for what they said an attempt to assault the girl who was partying with her friends at a hotel in the city on Sunday afternoon, and also injuring her friend. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar gave the names of the accused as Trishool Saliyan (19) and his friends, Santosh Poojary (19) and Danish Aran D’Cruz (18). Mr. Kumar told reporters on Monday that the 18-year-old girl, who has finished her second pre university in a college in Falnir, is residing with her grandmother in a village in Puttur taluk, as her parents are in Canada. The girl got to know Saliyan through social networking and the latter had given her some gifts, including a ring. On Sunday, the girl asked Saliyan to go to Bunts Hostel Circle at around noon where she returned the ring. She asked him to end their relationship and asked him not to continue to follow her again. Saliyan reportedly threatened her with her life as she left him for a birthday party of her friend that was being hosted at a hotel in Kadri. As she was with her friends, Saliyan entered the hotel along with the two other accused at around 1 p.m. and threw a chair at the girl. As the girl turned away, the chair hit Prateesh (22), the girl’s friend, who intervened to prevent the assault. The accused then assaulted Prateek with a knife and then, with a helmet and also physically rained blows on him. “There are five injuries on Prateesh’s body but he is safe. There is no injury to his vital organs,” Mr. Kumar said. The CCTV footage of the attack went viral on the social media. Based on a complaint by the girl, a team launched a search and arrested the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-arrested-for-assault/article33723421.ece
02 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two involved in temple theft cases arrested||A team of police from the South Sub Division Police has arrested two of the six persons said to be involved in nine criminal cases, including five cases of theft in temples, reported in Mangaluru and other police limits in Dakshina Kannada. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar gave the names of the accused as Mohammed Suhail (19) and Nizamuddin (21), both from K.C. Road, Talapady. A search is on for four of their associates, Mr. Kumar told reporters here on Monday. Mr. Kumar said that a special team had been formed to trace the accused in the wake of the recent thefts at temples in Konaje, Ullal and Mangaluru Rural police limits. CCTV footage related to the theft at the Gopalaswamy Temple in Konaje, which clearly showed the accused and contained other technical evidence, led to the arrest of the accused. Initial investigation revealed the involvement of the accused in five temple thefts, two thefts at petrol bunks and a case of mugging of a few pedestrians. Three criminal cases were registered in the Konaje Police Station, two in Ullal Police Station and a criminal case each in Punjalkatte, Bantwal, Mangaluru Rural and Kankanady Police Stations. The police have recovered from them money and other articles stolen from the temples, he said. After the theft at the Gopalaswamy Temple, Mr. Kumar said, the accused had defecated on the temple premises. Stating that these accused were not involved in the cases related to throwing unwanted material in and desecration of Daivastanas and Bhajan Mandir, Mr. Kumar said that there was another group of offenders involved in those acts and a special team is trying to trace it. Mr. Kumar asked people to share with police information, if any, they have about those accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-involved-in-temple-theft-cases-arrested/article33723424.ece
02 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Artiste Vandse Narayana Ganiga dead||Yakshagana artiste Vandse Narayana Ganiga passed away in Udupi on Monday. He was 84. He is survived by his wife, three sons and a daugh- ter. A recipient of the Rajyotsava Award for 2014, Mr. Ganiga was a professional artiste for about four decades. He took to Yakshagana performance at the age of 12. The late artiste had mastered both the Tenku Thittu and Badagu Thittu forms of Yakshagana. Condoling his death, president and secretary of the Udupi Yakshagana Kalaranga M. Gangadhar Rao and Murali Kadekar, respectively, said that his roles of Mohini, Shive, Prabhavathi, Rooparekha and Susheele were exemplary. He was able to exhibit the shrungara, karuna and bhakti rasas perfectly. He had performed in Yakshagana melas (touring troupes) such as Maranakatte, Mandarthi, Kolluru, Dharmasthala, Kundavu, Koodlu, Surathkal and Idagunji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/artiste-vandse-narayana-ganiga-dead/article33723416.ece
02 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||18-year-old girl sexually harassed||An 18-year-old hearing and speech impaired girl is said to have been sexually harassed by a 21-year-old man in Konaje Police limits on Sunday. The police have taken the accused, who lives near the house of the victim, into custody. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters on Monday that the accused entered the house when the girl was alone. When he was making advances to the girl, her uncle came to the house and the accused escaped. Following interpretation of utterances regarding the incident by an interpreter, a doctor and her mother, the police traced the accused. “We have taken the accused into our custody and are questioning him,” Mr. Kumar said. Mr. Kumar said the accused had seen the girl sitting at a tailoring shop, which is adjoining the house, run by the girl’s mother. The house was located in a secluded area. The victim was handling clients when the mother was inside the house for household chores. “The accused kept a close watch on the girl’s movements and made sexual advances when she was alone,” he said. The Police Commissioner appealed to people living in secluded areas to keep a watch on people moving suspiciously in the vicinity. “If you find any suspicious movement, please call 112 and inform us. We will quickly take action. We do not want lonely women and senior citizens to be targeted,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/18-year-old-girl-sexually-harassed/article33723422.ece
02 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 patient dies||A COVID-19 patient died while 16 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Monday. With 18 patients discharged, the number of active cases in the district stood at 286. With eight new cases and five patients discharged, the number of active cases in Udupi stood at 47. A fine of Rs. 22.88 lakh has so far been collected in 21,303 cases of people not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms, said a bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-patient-dies/article33723426.ece
02 February 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Taxi driver dies after being hit by bus||A 38-year-old taxi driver from Bengaluru who was crossing the road near Kaikamba Junction of Bilinele village in Kadaba taluk on Monday died after being hit by a KSRTC bus. The Kadaba Police gave the name of victim as Bhootesh P.J. The incident occurred at around noon. The police said that an injured Bhootesh was treated first at the government hospital in Kadaba and then shifted to the Government Wenlock Hospital here, where he died. The police have registered a case against KSRTC bus driver Raghu under Sections 279 and 304 (A) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/taxi-driver-dies-after-being-hit-by-bus/article33723425.ece
02 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Classes for first PU, Class 9 begin||Offline classes for first PU and Class 9 students began after a gap of nearly 10 months. And the classes saw a reasonably good attendance as the ecstatic students, who had been engaged in online classes all these months within the four walls of their house, were cheerful to attend the classroom teaching. With necessary precautions in view of COVID-19 pandemic, the classes began amidst the implementation of standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the government. Wearing of mask, maintaining physical distance and thermal screening have been made mandatory in all schools and colleges. Maharani’s PU College saw nearly 70-80 per cent attendance on day one of first PU class. In colleges where the attendance was not very encouraging, the authorities hope the attendance will improve in the days ahead and the parents and students would be informed about the start of classes and lab sessions. The second PU classes had commenced since the beginning of last month after the government eased the curbs on the reopening of PU colleges. Also, the classes for Class 10 had also resumed following the government’s directions. Before the classes were resumed on Monday, the students in the colleges and schools were briefed about the SOPs and the precautions to be complied with when they were in the classes and on the school/college premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/classes-for-first-pu-class-9-begin/article33723436.ece
02 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||No film screening in Mysuru despite easing of restrictions||It’s official. There won’t be any screening of films at the single-screen cinemas in Mysuru city as they have continued to remain shut despite the Centre allowing 100 per cent capacity, easing all curbs that were prevalent since over 10 months post-COVID-19. The reason: the impasse between exhibitors and producers/distributors over the sharing of revenue. While the exhibitors are seeking weekly revenue sharing on percentage terms, the producers are insisting on fixed charges like it has been there for many years. They are not keen to make any change to the model though the exhibitors are citing loss and negative impact of COVID-19 pandemic on their earnings for seeking modification. The stand-off may delay screening of films in single-screen cinemas across the State barring Bengaluru where majority of exhibitors are not the members of the Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Federation, which is seeking revenue based on percentage. Barring one cinema in Mysuru, all others continue to remain shut here and they are in no mood to reopen until the revenue sharing was resolved similar to the model prevailing in other Southern States where the cinemas are thriving unlike the State, the federation said. Confirming this to The Hindu , M. .R Rajaram, Vice-President, KFEF, said, “The talks with the producers and exhibitors remain inconclusive as they have not agreed to the model suggested by us though it is mutually beneficial. They want us to stick to the fixed charges but we want the percentage system. This stalemate has caused non-screening of movies in spite of the curbs being eased for the shows permitting 100 per cent capacity.” The exhibitors are firm this time and don’t want to back-off from their demand as they claimed that the revenue sharing model that existed all these years had caused the downfall of the cinemas whose numbers are fast dwindling over unviable business terms. “If the same model continues, more cinemas may shut down business, like what has been happening since past five years where 11 had been shut down in Mysuru city alone,” said Mr. Rajaram, who is also the Secretary of Mysuru Film Exhibitors’ Association. ‘Not unreqasonable’ Arguing that the exhibitors were not making any unreasonable demand, he said the revenue was shared on a percentage system based on weekly earnings in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. “Why cannot we have the same system in Karnataka too? I don’t think it is impossible to have an amicable solution that works out beneficial to both. The producers/distributors have to realise the hurdles faced by the cinemas, especially after COVID-19. Moreover, they are aware that about 80 per cent of the revenue comes from cinemas and not from multiplexes where the revenue was shared on percentage. The dual policy adopted in sharing of revenue was unacceptable and it is also proving to be disastrous to the survival of cinemas,” Mr. Rajaram said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-film-screening-in-mysuru-despite-easing-of-restrictions/article33723440.ece
02 February 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Some relief in sericulture sector||Union Budget 2021-22 has sought to increase the import duty on raw silk, providing some much-needed relief for sericulture farmers and raw silk reelers. The customs duty on raw silk, silk yarn, and yarn spun from silk waste will go up from 10% to 15%. “We welcome the increase. But it would have been better if the duty had been raised to 25%,” said Gautham Gowda, president of Ramanagaram District Sericulture Farmers’ Welfare Association. For almost a decade now, sericulture farmers and reelers in Karnataka, which accounts for more than a third of the country’s raw silk production, have been demanding an increase in import duty on silk. For, the availability of superior-quality raw silk, imported mostly from China at a reasonable rate, drives down the price of indigenously produced silk, hitting both the reelers and the sericulture farmers producing cocoons. An import duty of 30% prevailed till a few years ago. It was slashed to 5% about a decade ago and eventually increased to 10%. The Centre’s move to further increase the duty to 15% in 2021-22 Union Budget comes close on the heels of the difficult times that sericulture farmers and reelers of Karnataka went through because of COVID-19 in finding a market for their huge stockpile of unsold raw silk. N.Y. Chigari, retired Deputy Director of Sericulture, Government of Karnataka, said the increase in duty would make the price of indigenous raw silk more competitive against the superior-quality imported silk. This would also help keep up the price of cocoons. The price of a kilogram of indigenous raw silk ranges between Rs. 2,500 and Rs. 3,500, depending on quality, while imported silk is available for barely Rs. 300 more than that. With the increase in duty, Mr. Gowda expressed hope that the difference in price would widen to between Rs. 700 and Rs. 800 a kg. Weavers unhappy But the weavers’ community, who manufacture silk fabrics, is not too pleased with increase in duty. Karnataka Silk Weavers’ Federation president T.V. Maruti said the use of some quantity of imported Chinese silk was necessary while manufacturing silk garments meant for export. “We have to use imported silk because of its good quality. Or else, it will have an impact on our exports,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/some-relief-in-sericulture-sector/article33722903.ece
02 February 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Farmers’ body criticises Budget, MSME Council lauds it||The Union Budget 2021-22 presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Parliament on Monday elicited both brickbats and bouquets from different sections of the society. While President of Karnataka State Sugarcane Farmers’ Association Kurubur Shanthakumar, who is also the President of Federation of Karnataka State Farmers’ Association, criticised the Budget for not having any schemes for the development of the agriculture sector, the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Council termed the Budget as “pro-development” and “industry-friendly”. Mr. Shanthakumar said the Union government’s promises to increase support price for agriculture produce and enhance the farmers’ income appear to be assurances given only for the sake of publicity. Also, he said the Budget does not spell out any loan policy nor makes any promise to waive the interest on crop loans of the farmers, who are in grave difficulties. Mr. Shanthakumar said the Budget does not provide any clear picture about crop insurance. With regard to the levy of agriculture infrastructure cess, he said the farmers will have to wait and see if it benefits them. If the Centre withdraws the three farm bills that are inimical to the interests of the farmers of the country, it will be of great help to the farmers, he added. Meanwhile, MSME Council’s President Ravi Koti and General Secretary Suresh Kumar Jain, in a joint statement, welcomed the introduction of pre-paid electricity meters, allocation of Rs. 27,000 crore for the industry and Rs. 1.7 lakh crore for creating basic infrastructure for transport in the country. However, the MSME Council has criticised the Budgetary proposal to sell the shares of LIC and IDBI. The Mysore Industries Association (MIA) has criticised the Budget. President of MIA Vasu, in a statement, has expressed disappointment over the Budget failing to provide financial assistance at a concessional rate of interest to the industrial sector, particularly the small and medium enterprises that were reeling under the impact of COVID-19.  Budget does not have any schemes for the development of the agriculture sector, says President of Karnataka State Sugarcane Farmers’ Association Kurubur Shanthakumar.  There is no clear picture about crop insurance either in the Budget, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-body-criticises-budget-msme-council-lauds-it/article33723437.ece
02 February 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||38 pourakarmikas to soon get houses in Yadgir district||The Committee of the District Pourakarmikas Gruha Bhagya Yojane, headed by the Deputy Commissioner, has decided to send a proposal to the State government to construct houses for 38 pourakarmikas in Yadgir district at a cost of Rs. 7.50 lakh each. Deputy Commissioner and Chairperson of the Committee R. Ragapriya said on Saturday that these 38 beneficiaries have been selected by the committee after going through the eligibility criteria. “Out of the 171 homeless pourakarmikas in the district, 133 have already been selected and houses for 69 beneficiaries have already been constructed and the remaining are under process,” Dr. Ragapriya explained. “Now, houses for these 38 beneficiaries will come up at a cost of Rs. 7.50 lakh each, with Rs. 6 lakh coming from the State and Rs. 1.50 lakh from the Centre” she said. She also said that health check-up for pourakarmikas should be conducted compulsorily and they should be provided other benefits extended by the government as the service being rendered by them to society was commendable. Dr. Ragapriya also said that the proposal from all CMCs and TMCs should be sent for purchasing land for the landless pourakarmikas in case of non availability of government land within a 5 km radius in their jurisdiction. She specifically told the officials of Surpur CMC to send a proposal to distribute sites for the pourakarmikas on 1.20 acres of available land in Surpur city limits. She directed the officials to distribute land right records to the beneficiaries concerned and ensure that quality works are sanctioned to local bodies using the grants from the 14th Finance Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/38-pourakarmikas-to-soon-get-houses-in-yadgir-district/article33722891.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Stand-off and new film releases in the city||Will the stand-off between single-screen theatre owners and producers/distributors come in the way of new film releases? The last five meetings between the two ended in a stalemate, with no consensus emerging on the issues. Now, with cinemas allowed to run shows with 100 per cent capacity, the two have to further their talks and resolve business terms ahead of the release of some big-budget big-star movies after a gap of nearly a year. As being claimed by the exhibitors that nearly 80 per cent of revenue comes from single screens, the decision on the demands raised by the cinemas was expected in the days ahead as it cannot be prolonged any more when the new films are slated for release, say industry sources here. The film-starved enthusiasts are curiously awaiting the new Kannada film releases which are happening for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic that had badly hit the film industry, disrupting shootings. The film shootings resumed only recently after the lockdown curbs were eased and the production units are now busy wrapping up shootings that were abruptly stopped after the COVID-19 cases rose last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stand-off-and-new-film-releases-in-the-city/article33723434.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bill of patient in hospital adds up to Rs. 6 cr.||When the family of 28-year-old Poonam Rana took her to the Emergency ward of Manipal Hospitals on Old Airport Road in the wee hours of October 3 in 2015 for abdominal pain, little did they imagine that she would be hospitalised for several years with no sign of recovery or discharge. Ms. Rana turned 33 on January 1 this year. Over the years, she has gone through multiple complications and is lying comatose in the ICU with the bill running up to Rs. 6 crore till September 7, 2020. Her husband Rejish Nair alleged that her vegetative state was “due to negligence... causing oxygen deprivation to the patient by doctors at the hospital during a surgery” for closing a leak in the intestine. This has resulted in severe brain damage, he alleged. The hospital has categorically denied the allegation. Hoping that his wife will recover if treatment as per rehabilitation protocols is administered, Mr Nair told The Hindu on Sunday, “For abdominal pain, she underwent an emergency surgery as doctors said she had a perforation in the small intestine. Although she was conscious post-surgery and spoke to me about trivial things (asking me if I had collected her footwear from the emergency ward), two days later doctors said she suffered multi-organ failure and asked me to take the ‘body’ home.” On his insistence, the family put her on continuous renal replacement therapy. “However, she subsequently suffered brain damage, and doctors said she had gone into an irreversible deep coma. But she came out of coma. However, when the hospital stopped a particular medicine that had led to an improvement in her condition, her health deteriorated. From then on, she suffered multiple complications. The doctors had written her off several times and had always been insisting that we take ‘the body’ home,” he alleged. Mr. Nair said numerous representations to the hospital, complaints to police, National Commission for Women, National Human Rights Organisation and various government bodies, including Central agencies, has not helped in this case. ‘Access denied’ “We have witnessed, unearthed and exposed numerous severe wrongdoings, criminal negligence, malpractices and manipulations by doctors and other individuals of the hospital. In retaliation, the hospital revoked our 24/7 access to our patient (which was available for up to two years),” he said in a petition to the City Police Commissioner. Of the Rs. 5.99 crore that the patient was billed till September 7, 2020, the family has so far managed to pay Rs. 1.34 crore through health insurance and their own resources. “The very fact that the hospital is not demanding further payment shows that they are trying to cover up their wrongdoings,” he alleged.  Manipal Hospitals, in a statement, said: “She presented with delayed blunt injury of the abdomen resulting in small intestine perforation and severe abdominal sepsis with multi-system organ failure. Recently, she developed a catastrophic bleeding from the trachea leading to a critical condition. She is under doctors’ observation and continues to fight for her life under ventilator support.” The hospital said the medical team had provided the best possible treatment to her despite the constant abuse and non-cooperation by the family. “Every clinical decision taken has been done in complete concurrence with the patient’s father, who is well aware of the unique nature of this case,” the statement said. “The hospital has also sought legal opinion and support from the investigating authorities as it felt that there has been foul play or domestic violence, which caused the abdomen injury,” the statement added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bill-of-patient-in-hospital-adds-up-to-rs-6-cr/article33723442.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||On the park bench||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/on-the-park-bench/article33723428.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Leopard seen in apartment complex caught||Days after a leopard was spotted at an apartment complex in Begur in the city, creating panic among residents, it was finally trapped near the apartment early on Monday. S.M. Shivaratreshwara, Range Forest Officer, K.R. Puram range, who was heading the operations, told The Hindu that the leopard was caught near a rock hill right outside the apartment, where a trap was laid for it. “The leopard has been taken to the rescue centre at Bannerghatta Biological Park. Higher officials will decide as to where it will be rehabilitated,” he said. CCTV sighting The leopard was first sighted by a CCTV camera at the Prestige Song of the South apartment complex on January 23. Forest Department officials and the police then launched an operation to capture it, apart from launching combing operations and setting up drones with cameras to follow its movement after it was spotted on two days. It was then suspected to have migrated towards Hulimavu lake. The Forest Department officials suspected the leopard strayed in from the nearby Bannerghatta park in search of food and landed at the apartment as it has around 50 acres of space around with a lot of bushes and rock hill.  Forest Department officials suspect the leopard strayed in from the nearby Bannerghatta park in search of food and landed at the apartment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/leopard-spotted-in-apartment-caught/article33723231.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Funding for ORR-KIA Namma Metro line announced||Commenting on the status of the tender for civil work, Mr. Seth said, “The tender contract for civil works of the metro line from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram will be awarded as soon as formal approval is received. This can be expected in the next two months. Tenders have been floated for the K.R. Puram to KIA stretch”. The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. had also reached an MoU with Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), the operator of KIA, on the construction and maintenance of two metro stations on the airport campus.  Last year, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) had agreed to provide a loan of $500 million for providing the metro rail link to the airport. In his response, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said: “As much as 58 km of the new route can be constructed due to this provision. This is the biggest gift to Karnataka from our own Finance Minister”. The State Cabinet approved the metro project to the airport in January 2019 as per the revised alignment plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/funding-for-orr-kia-metro-line-announced/article33723232.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Seven held for targeting car owners who default on EMI||The East Division police on Monday unearthed inter-State racket and arrested a gang of seven who allegedly targeted car owners who had defaulted in paying their EMIs. The gang would offer to purchase the car and take on the loan. When the owner agreed, they paid a token amount as deposit, took the original papers and the cars with the promise that they would pay the full amount soon. Instead, they took the cars to Andhra Pradesh and got new registration numbers for the vehicles without the mandatory NOC. “The scam was perpetuated with the help of RTO officials in Anantapur,” said a police officer. The police have recovered 48 cars valued at Rs. 4 crore from the accused. The racket came to light when one of the people they had cheated approached the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-held-for-targeting-car-owners-who-default-on-emi/article33723228.ece
02 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Santhwana Sparsham: 4,287 pleas addressed||Grievances brought by 4,287 applicants were resolved in the first leg of the Santhwana Sparsham, the grievance redressal adalat that was organised under the aegis of the State government in the district on Monday. A total of 4,839 applications were received for consideration for the programme, held for the people of Cherthala and Ambalappuzha taluks at Lajanathul Muhammadiya School, Alappuzha. Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran said that a sum of Rs. 3.05 crore had been allotted from the Chief Ministers Distress Relief Fund. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman, and others attended the adalat. Second adalat The second adalat, for the people of Kuttanad and Chengannur taluks, will be held at St. Aloysius College, Edathua on Tuesday. On February 4, adalat will be held at Bishop Hodges Higher Secondary School, Mavelikara. It will be for the people of Mavelikara and Karthikappally taluks. The Santhwana Sparsham adalats will be held from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/santhwana-sparsham-4287-pleas-addressed/article33723393.ece
02 February 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||No measures to boost the economy: Isaac||The Union Budget lacks measures to arrest the economic slowdown and accelerate growth, says Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac. “The Economy Survey has stated that India's GDP is expected to grow by 11.5% in 2021-22. But, this Budget ensures that it is not going to happen. The 11.5% GDP growth is total nonsense,” Dr. Isaac said responding to the Union Budget proposals here on Monday. The Minister said the Budget lacks initiatives to spur such high growth anticipated by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. “Our economy is not going to rebound to the pre-COVID-19 era with this Budget,” he said. The allocation for the agriculture sector and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) was less compared to last year’s. “The allocation for the agriculture sector has gone down to Rs. 1.48 lakh crore from Rs. 1.54 lakh crore. The allocation for the MGNREGS has come down to Rs. 73,000 crore from Rs. 1.11 lakh crore,” he said. “The development of National Highways was announced earlier and the amount will be taken as a loan by the NHAI. Of the Rs. 1,957 crore allotted for Phase II of the Kochi metro, the Centre will provide only Rs. 358 crore. The State should provide an equal amount and the rest will be loan,” Dr. Isaac added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-measures-to-boost-the-economy-isaac/article33723365.ece
02 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Railways to get Casnub bogies from Autokast||Writing a new chapter in the industrial development of the State, Autokast Limited, a ferrous foundry manufacturing unit in the public sector at S.N. Puram, near Cherthala, is all set to hand over the first batch of Casnub bogies to Indian Railways. V. Anil Kumar, managing director, Autokast, says Casnub bogies would be dispatched by mid-February. “An inspection by Lucknow-based Research Design and Standards Organisation (RDSO) of the Union Ministry of Railways is scheduled for the second week of February. Once the inspection is completed, two bogies will be sent to North Western Railway,” Mr. Kumar says. Class ‘A’ status Earlier, the RDSO accorded Class ‘A’ Foundry status to Autokast. Following this, the company participated in a bidding process and bagged a pilot order for manufacturing five Casnub bogies for goods trains in 2019. “Three bogies will be given in a time-bound manner. By successfully delivering the initial order, Autokast is ready to receive subsequent orders and step up the production,” Mr. Kumar says. In the initial years, Autokast plans to manufacture at least 5% of the bogies needed. Each Casnub bogie costs around Rs. 2 lakh. Autokast, once listed for privatisation, has made a remarkable turnaround with the Left Democratic Front government injecting money into the company. It helped the company to modernise the unit. Maruti Suzuki order Apart from manufacturing Casnub bogies, it recently received an order from Maruti Suzuki for supplying brake drums. Autokast will supply 25,000 units per month for Rs. 1.43 crore. Another order for 126 tonne of castings per month has been received from a company in Tamil Nadu. “We are awaiting the final approval to start mass production of brake drums for Maruti Suzuki. The revival of Autokast can be attributed to government funding, installation of modern machinery, and a change in the marketing strategy. With the production touching 400 tonnes, we reached the break-even point in December 2020. Our next target is to achieve 500 tonnes in March 2021,” the managing director adds. In a bid to reduce electricity cost and become more competitive, a two-megawatt solar plant is being set up at the unit at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. Besides, an electric vehicle charging station set up on the unit premises will be thrown open to the public on February 7. The unit, established in 1984, employs 370 permanent and 180 temporary staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-to-get-casnub-bogies-from-autokast/article33723399.ece
02 February 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Probe sought into death of sailor||The family of Abin P. Vavachan, 31, a native of Thaickal near Cherthala, who died on-board a ship while in the territorial waters of Ghana last month has sought an inquiry into his death. In a complaint lodged with the Director General of Shipping, P. J. Vavachan, father of Abin, alleged that his son was denied treatment. “Abin died on-board reportedly on January 18 in the ship named Laperouse bearing IMO No. 9409156 managed and operated by M/S Executive Ship Management Pvt Ltd Mumbai. We had telephonic conversations with Abin till January 12. After that, we could not contact him in person. His colleague Arun informed us that Abin is having health issues and required urgent medical attention, but the captain or the second officer is not attending to him,” the complaint reads. Mercy pleas The family said they had made mercy pleas before the company authorities, but it did not take steps to provide medical assistance to Abin. “His wife Gifty, though bed-ridden following her delivery on January 14, called the crew manager, but they did not take any action. The cause of death is meningitis. The Captain of the ship failed to carry out his duty,” Mr. Vavachan said. He said the ship, a gas tanker was operating as a supply ship along the shore. “Hence the ship could have access to any port like Lagos or Tema within three hours or could have easy access to local boats and other emergency services. The captain could have air rescued my son,” Mr. Vavachan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-sought-into-death-of-sailor/article33723392.ece
02 February 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||New app to guide tourists in Munnar||The district administration has developed a mobile app VIBJYOR to guide tourists who reach the hill station of Munnar. A three-day hackathon, Code4Munnar, developed the mobile app and website. VIBJYOR has seven routes from Munnar — Munnar-Koviloor-Vattavada, Munnar-Eravikulam National Park-Marayur, Munnar-Suryanelli- Kolukkumalai, Munnar-Anachal-Adimali, Munnar-Mankulam, Munnar-Mattupetty, and Munnar town-Old Munnar CSI church, including historical places en route. The app also has details of Munnar’s famous Neelakurinji plant and Nilgiri tahr. Feb. second week Devikulam Subcollector S. Premkrishnan said the app would be functional in the second week of February. The app gives the distance from Munnar to each place, tourist destinations and the time to visit them, accommodation facilities, hospitals, petrol bunks, and police assistance. Once opened, the app does not need a mobile network to function. It will be helpful for travellers to areas with poor connectivity, he said. The app also has segments for families, photographers, and single travellers. In the second phase, details of trained guides will be available. The district administration will train guides through the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) and their name will be uploaded in the app. The project is implemented in association with Kites Foundation, an NGO, and the DTPC. QR (quick response) code will be on display at major centres in Munnar. When a tourist scans the QR code they will get details about the proper destination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-app-to-guide-tourists-in-munnar/article33723388.ece
02 February 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||UDF will accord top priority to Kasaragod, says Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Monday said that if the UDF came to power, Kasaragod would be given high priority. The UDF would support the ongoing agitation at BHEL. He said the Central government’s disregard for BHEL was due to the State government’s inability to take up the issue with the authorities in Delhi. Mr. Chennithala was peaking to the media in Kasaragod on the first day of Aishwarya Kerala Yatra. He said that the Left Front government had neglected Kasargod district. The work on the Kasaragod Medical College was progressing at a snail’s pace. None of the plans for the endosulfan victims had been implemented. He said CPI(M) State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan had taken a stand against the Muslim community on the issue of reservation for forward castes. He said that the UDF had welcomed the forward caste reservation and the Muslim League had only shared its concern that the community should not be neglected in the reservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-will-accord-top-priority-to-kasaragod-says-chennithala/article33722923.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Smuggling accused set up terrorist gang: NIA||The accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case formed a terrorist gang, recruited people, raised funds and smuggled gold from the UAE through import cargo addressed to diplomats at the Consulate General of the UAE, Thiruvananthapuram, according to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The NIA raised the allegations of formation of the terrorist gang against the accused in a chargesheet filed at the NIA Special Court, Kochi, recently. The accused had knowingly conspired with each other since June 2019 to become members of the gang and facilitated the smuggling of around 167 kg of gold to India between 2019 and June 20202, it said. The motive The accused had the motive to gain money, by causing extensive and irreparable damage to the security and economic stability of the country. They conspired among themselves for committing the terrorist activity. They had the knowledge that smuggling of gold would threaten and destabilise the security and economic security of the county and damage the friendly relationship with the UAE, according to the chargesheet. The chargesheet mentions the name of 20 accused, including P.S. Sarith, Swapna Suresh, K.T. Ramees, A.M. Jalal, P. Mohamad Shafi, Saidalavi, P.T. Abdu, Rabins Karikkankudiyil Hameed, Muhammedali Ibrahim, Muhammed Ali and K. T. Sharafudeen. The names of A. Muhammad Shafeeq, Hamzath Abdulsalam T.M. Samju, K. Hamjad Ali, C.V. Jifsal, Aboobecker Pazedath, K.V. Muhammad Abdu Shameem, Abdul Hameed and A. Shamsudheen have been listed in the chargesheet. Tthe accused committed offences punishable under Sections 16, 17, 18 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, it was reported. The document also speaks about the alleged connections that existed among the 20 accused in the case and how they financed the purchase and smuggling of gold to India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smuggling-accused-set-up-terrorist-gang-nia/article33723362.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Reboot higher education: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the State requires centres of excellence focussing on interdisciplinary research and niche courses aimed at improving the research and job potential of the aspirants in the higher educational sector. “We need to introspect on why the State lags behind in scaling up progress in the higher education sector. The universities and other higher educational institutions have to step up academic and infra facilities by getting elevated into centres of excellence,” he said at the CM@Campus programme held at the Cochin University of Science and Technology on Monday. Urging the Vice Chancellors to interact with the heads of industry, Mr. Vijayan recalled that a multinational company failed to find candidates suitable to its needs when it held interviews among the students in the State. “We have to equip them in tune with the requirements of the industry. Mutual interactions would help in identifying it and design courses in accordance with their needs. This would enhance the job potential of our students,” he said. Govt. programmes The Chief Minister said the government had initiated various programmes to support improved research in the fields of basic sciences and social science. “But we need to step up the quality of the courses to attract students from other States to take up such programmes. The libraries in higher educational institutions have to offer international journals and related resources to the student community,” he said. On the proposed changes in the higher education sector, Mr. Vijayan said the centres of excellence recommended in the State Budget would take up interdisciplinary learning and research initiatives. “These centres will invite scholars from across the world and also focus on improving the number of qualified research professionals and faculty members,” he said. About 200 students from five universities that included the Cochin University of Science and Technology, APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University, the Kerala University of Health Sciences, National University of Advanced Legal Studies, and Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Sciences, attended the programme. K.T. Jaleel, Minister for Higher Education, presided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reboot-higher-education-cm/article33723385.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Metro Pink Line gets Centre’s approval||The Kochi metro’s long-overdue 11.2-km-long Kakkanad (Infopark) extension – christened the Pink Line – has got the Centre’s approval, with Rs. 1,957 crore being earmarked in the Union Budget on Monday. The amount includes the expenses for the project’s taxes and duties for the metro’s Phase Two extension to Kakkanad, that will take off from the Jawaharlal Nehru International (JLN) Stadium and terminate at Infopark. This will provide a metro-rail link between the city hub and the expanding IT hub, while also establishing metro connectivity from the city to the district headquarters, residential and industrial areas, and the SEZ located in Kakkanad. The plan is to complete the project, which will seamlessly integrate with the 27-km-long Aluva-Thripunithura Phase One metro corridor, in another four years. It would considerably augment passenger patronage for the 27-km-long Aluva-Thripunithura metro network (referred to as the Blue Line), said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, Managing Director of Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL). SilverLine connectivity There will be 11 elevated stations in the proposed metro corridor. Once realised, the corridor will also provide city connectivity to SilverLine, the semi-high speed rail corridor proposed from Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod, which is to have its Ernakulam station near Infopark. Both the mass rapid transport systems will most likely converge on the same premises or have a common station, so that commuters would not have to depend on alternative modes of transport while switching from the SilverLine to the metro rail and back. Apart from SilverLine, the extension will provide multi-modal integration through the seamless integration of the metro with public transport buses, ferries and other commuting modes. The metro will act as a feeder service of the SilverLine. It would integrate with the Water Metro at Kakkanad and Infopark jetties, said KMRL sources. Development plan “We will now start the development plan and the design process of the extension. The tendering process would be completed in the coming four to six months, following which the shortlisted engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contractor can begin implementing the project,” said Mr. Sharma. KMRL, which is implementing the metro’s extension from Pettah to Thripunithura, will execute the Kakkanad extension too. The Aluva-Pettah corridor was implemented by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). Preparatory work KMRL has begun preparatory work to carve out space for a metro viaduct along the 30-metre-wide Seaport-Airport Road, from the Collectorate Junction. Land acquisition, for which paper work is getting over, will shortly begin, to widen the JLN Stadium-Collectorate Junction stretch into a 22-m-wide stretch. The proposed metro extension will also reduce congestion on roads, since it will offer a safe, fast and comfortable mode of commute. It will also provide continuous availability of affordable, reliable and energy-efficient transport system in the urban agglomeration of the city. The other benefits include reduction in number of accidents, pollution and travel time, said metro sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/metro-pink-line-gets-centres-approval/article33723349.ece
02 February 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Enforcing COVID protocol gets tougher, say sector magistrates||While COVID-19 cases remain on the rise, enforcing pandemic-related protocol in public places has become increasingly difficult with penalties like fines often proving to be ineffective in some cases, according to sector magistrates in the district. Alertness to protocol like distancing, and the use of thermal scanners, sanitisers and masks in shops and other establishments, had dipped in the city, with even bank branches failing to adhere to requirements such as checking temperature and wearing masks within the premises, said E.K. Lal, sector magistrate for Kadavanthra, Thrikkakara and Palarivattom. A fine of Rs. 500 is imposed in the case of violations by an individual, while establishments are charged a fine of Rs. 3,000. Often, larger establishments were willing to pay fines without introducing any corrective measures, he added. Nearly 1,600 offences were registered on January 29, followed by over 1,400 on January 30. A total of 15 sector magistrates were newly appointed in the district in January, with each magistrate holding charge of three or four police station limits. While it might still be possible to ensure that people wear masks in public spaces, ensuring distancing had become nearly impossible, said Sreejesh P.R., magistrate for the Ernakulam north and central areas, and Mulavukad. In shops in the central areas of the city and markets, distancing had gone for a toss, he said. In some cases, inspections had ensured that protocol was followed at least in the past few weeks, he added. Maintaining registers of visitors to establishments had also largely been neglected, said Navas C.A., magistrate for the Thrippunithura, Udayamperoor and Ambalamedu areas. There were repeat offenders as well, but the threat of having to pay a fine had worked to some extent, he added. Joseph Cherian, magistrate for Eloor, Cheranalloor, Kalamassery and Elamakkara, said enforcing protocol in places like malls, particularly in food courts, large stores and warehouses, was no longer feasible. “People might adhere to directions as soon as they are told, but will return to their old ways in no time,” he said. Smaller shops had been attempting to adhere to protocol, but large crowds of customers had been difficult for them to handle, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/enforcing-covid-protocol-gets-tougher-say-sector-magistrates/article33723345.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Keralite’s arrest in Kuwait: HC orders Crime Branch probe||The Kerala High Court has directed the State Police Chief to order a probe by the Crime Branch into the arrest and detention of a Keralite who was allegedly entrapped into carrying contraband by an organised gang in Kuwait. Justice V.G. Arun issued the order on a petition filed by S.J. Cleetus of Ernakulam, the father of the detenue, seeking an investigation into the incident. According to the petitioner, his son Jomon was undergoing imprisonment in Kuwait following his arrest by the Kuwait police on charge of attempting to smuggle drugs into the country. According to him, Jomon was trapped by a well-organised gang, which lured unsuspecting youth with the offer of employment abroad and used them as conduits for smuggling drugs. Embassy’s response He had informed the Excise Department about the incident and helped the department track down the notorious gang. Despite nabbing the gang involved in sending the petitioner’s son to Kuwait with the contraband, no investigation into the specific incident was conducted. When the Indian Embassy was contacted, the petitioner was informed that his son would be released on pardon, if proof of investigation conducted by the agencies concerned in Kerala and evidence regarding Jomon’s innocence was produced before the authorities in Kuwait. The Central government submitted that all necessary steps for securing pardon for the petitioner’s son would be taken by the authorities, if proof of Jomon’s innocence could be provided, by arresting the actual culprits behind the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keralites-detention-hc-orders-crime-branch-probe/article33723353.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Students, CM exchange ideas||Aardra Joy of the Cochin University of Science and Technology wished that higher education should not get confined to mere data collection process. “Instead, it needs to expand its realms by including knowledge about gender equality, law, and agriculture among many other aspects,” she told Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at the CM@Campus initiative held on Monday. Ms. Aardra was among 33 students selected from five universities who had the opportunity to present their ideas before the Chief Minister on how to improve the State’s higher education sector. Singapore example Mr. Vijayan supported her view while recalling an incident where children in Singapore had reminded a few visitors to the country about the need to ensure proper disposal of waste after they found them littering the road. “We need to teach them such valuable lessons along with their learning process,” he said. Start-ups Gokul Krishna suggested that the government could focus more on start-ups in the field of space research. The Chief Minister replied by stating that discussions could be held with organisations such as the Indian Space Research Organisation to hand-hold universities to foster such innovations. Vinod Mancheeri, the first research scholar from the Cholanaikkan tribal community, recommended programmes that would help the aspirants among Adivasi communities in improving their skill levels. The Chief Minister reminded that the government had already implemented programmes to uplift the aspirants among socially and economically backward communities. Anand of the National University of Advanced Legal Studies, Kalamassery, said the government could initiate programmes to help women who had lost their jobs during the COVID-19 pandemic and had to remain in their homes without any livelihood. Mr. Vijayan said the Budget had envisaged such a project for homemakers. “I have learnt that even major multinational companies have supported the idea. We plan to create co-working spaces near to their homes,” he said. The Chief Minister rejected a view by a participant that agencies such as the State Youth Commission had turned redundant as it failed to take up meaningful programmes. He said non-teaching staff in universities had to ensure that certificates and other documents are issued to the students without delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-cm-exchange-ideas/article33723386.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Fisheries harbour gets support||The Union Budget 2021-22 has stated that substantial investments would be made in improving facilities at some of the major fishing hubs in the country, including Kochi. The other harbours and fish landing centres that found a place in the Budget speech were Chennai, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Petuaghat. The five hubs will be developed into centres of economic activities. The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) and the Cochin Port Trust had signed an agreement towards the end of September last year to launch a Rs. 140-crore project to modernise the fish landing centre and harbour at Thoppumpady. According to an official communication at the time of the signing of the MoU, the resources for the project would be mobilised from various Central government schemes and a special purpose vehicle would be launched to implement the project. The Cochin Fisheries Harbour is one of the oldest in the State and was brought under the control of the Cochin Port Trust. The facility is located on 27 acres and is the centre of business activities in West Kochi. Hundreds of seafood businesses in Ernakulam and Alappuzha depend solely on the supply of raw materials from the Thoppumpady harbour. Facilities Air-conditioned auction halls, packing hall and bays for loading and unloading, a reverse osmosis plant, rainwater harvesting facility, automated equipment such as tripods, conveyor belts and pallet jacks for better movement of fish within the harbour will be the key features of the developed harbour. There will be an effluent treatment plant, facilities for drivers as well as canteen and restrooms. ‘Fishers ignored’ Meanwhile, the Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedi has welcomed the Budget announcement and called it the right step forward for the fishing sector. But, Aikya Vedhi convenor Charles George said the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the fishing sector and traditional fishers had been ignored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fisheries-harbour-gets-support/article33723355.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Oommen Chandy’s statement recorded||The statements of senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy and Anwar Sadath, MLA, were recorded in a case booked by the Aluva police for violating the provisions of the Metro Railways (Operation and Maintenance) Act, 2002. The statements were recorded at the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Ernakulam. The case is that the Congress leaders, accompanied by hundreds of United Democratic Front workers, travelled on a metro train from Aluva to Ernakulam on June 20, 2017. The police have also invoked the provisions of the Indian Penal Code against the accused. The party workers had shouted slogans on the platform and on the train protesting against what they alleged politicisation of the launch and first ride on the metro train. The mobbing of the metro station and the train had derailed the safety systems. Cases have been booked against 27 leaders, including Aryadan Mohammad, Anoop Jacob, V.D. Satheesan, Benny Behannan, Shafi Parambil, V. K. Ebrahim Kunju, Hibi Eden, and others. The statements of the other accused in the case will be recorded in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/oommen-chandys-statement-recorded/article33723361.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New Command Medical Officer takes charge||Surgeon Rear Admiral  Dinesh Sharma has assumed charge as Command Medical Officer at the Southern Naval Command (SNC) here. He is an alumnus of the prestigious Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC), Pune, and was commissioned into the Armed Forces Medical Services in December 1985. He is a public health specialist with vast experience and acquired his MD degree in Preventive and Social Medicine from Bombay University in 1993. He has served in various important tri-service and naval hospitals/establishments, including as Professor of Community Medicine in AFMC, and staff appointments at the office of DGAFMS/Min of Defence, and Naval Headquarters, New Delhi. In his earlier stint in Kochi, he commanded INHS Sanjivani from 2015 to 2017.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-command-medical-officer-takes-charge/article33723351.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||424 new cases in district||With testing falling to 3,442 samples tested on Monday, 424 new COVID-19 cases were recorded in the district. Thripunithura recorded 22 new cases, Aluva and Edathala 16 each, and Thuravoor 14.  10,581 active cases  A total of 908 people tested negative, while 10,581 people are being treated for the infection. As many as 8,721 people are recovering at home, 160 at FLTCs, 241 at SLTCs, 47 patients at the Government Medical College Hospital and 73 patients are at PVS Hospital. On Monday, 143 new admissions were made to hospitals and FLTCs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/424-new-cases-in-district/article33723346.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vacant seats in Maharaja’s College||Admission to a few vacant UG seats in Maharaja’s College will be held on February 4. Those who have applied online and are on the list may report at the office at 10 a.m. with original certificates and related documents. For details, visitwww.maharajas.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacant-seats-in-maharajas/article33723356.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sanction was delayed: Hibi||The Union Budget had little new to offer for Kerala, Hibi Eden, MP, said on Monday. The second phase extension of Kochi metro had been announced during the UPA rule, following which the Centre had accorded in-principle sanction in 2019. The Centre had unduly delayed the official sanction, and has now accorded it just before the Assembly polls. The time was overdue for according sanction for the metro’s third phase extension up to the airport, he said. The budget had not mentioned any scheme that would benefit ordinary people, Mr. Eden said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sanction-was-delayed-hibi/article33723352.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court seeks response to plea by V4Kochi leader||The Kerala High Court on Monday sought the response of the police to a plea by Nipun Cheriyan, leader of V4 Kochi, for quashing the FIR registered against him in connection with a protest against what he called encroachment by Kochi Metro Rail Limited on the Chilavanoor lake near Elamkulam metro station. When the petition came up for hearing, the prosecutor submitted that the petitioner and others had trespassed into the water metro work site and introduced themselves as the workers of the Chilavannur Canal Samrakshana Samithi, threatened the workers and taken away 55 soil samples kept in a box on the site. KMRL had incurred a loss of Rs. 2.25 lakh. The petitioner alleged that more than 100 acres of the Chilavannur lake were under the custody of different persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-seeks-response-to-plea-by-v4kochi-leader/article33723354.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Nationwide stir by electricity staff tomorrow||Fifteen lakh workers in the electricity sector in the country will go on a nationwide strike on February 3 in support of the farmers who are protesting in Delhi demanding the withdrawal of the recent agricultural reforms and a Bill on electricity. The employees will keep off duty for the whole day on February 3, said a statement issued here on Monday by A.N. Rajan, additional general secretary of the All India Federation of Electricity Employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nationwide-stir-by-electricity-staff-tomorrow/article33723373.ece
02 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pottery returns to Thottakam||After a long gap, the potter’s wheels have begun to churn along the lanes of Thottakam in Thalayazham grama panchayat, near Vaikom. The village, which is home to a community of potters, currently has about 20 families practising the tradition as their primary occupation. The timeless hand craftsmanship, which was slowly disappearing from the village here, has made a comeback through a programme implemented by the Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission, Kerala. The project, titled PEPPER (People’s Participation for Planning and Empowerment through Responsible Tourism), has helped the village and its pottery tradition to find a place on the official tourism map of the State government. The products being churned out by these families are now of great demand among tourists visiting the backwater destinations nearby. Launched on November 3, 2017, the project encompassed identification of the region’s tourism potential through special tourism grama sabhas, besides imparting training to the traditional craftsmen in making value-added products. Realising the huge potential of the craftsmanship, typically organic with no mechanical excesses, a network involving resorts and other agencies has been put in place for marketing these earthenware. “Lack of business over the years prompted the younger ones of the families here to leave the profession and take up other menial jobs for a living. The new programme, however, has brought many of us back into the occupation as our products have started to receive a better price and there is a marked increase in the overall volume of production,” said Rajesh Indamthuruthy, a potter. Among the products that are now being made here include flower pots, vessels, tumblers and plates in different shapes and sizes. Commenting on the project, K. Rupesh Kumar, coordinator of the RT Mission, Kerala, said plans were afoot to expand the existing network for the sale of these products to a chain of resorts in and around Kumarakom, a global destination. “The products will be also up for sale through the online platform called Kerala Responsible Tourism Network,” he said.  The timeless craftsmanship is re-entering the village, thanks to a Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission programme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pottery-returns-to-thottakam/article33723390.ece
02 February 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Encroachments on roads to be cleared||A meeting of the district road safety committee on Monday decided to clear wayside encroachments along all major roads in Kottayam on a war footing. The decision was taken in view of a High Court Directive in this regard. Observing that the roadside encroachments obstructed pedestrian paths and caused road accidents, the meeting, convened by Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, directed the local bodies to take urgent action. Further, the Enforcement wing of the Motor Vehicles Department, the Public Works Department and the National Highways Division were asked to raise awareness against encroachment. Last year, the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) had requested the Kottayam district administration to clear wayside encroachments. A survey identified over 230 wayside encroachments in and around Kottayam town alone. Considering an inspection report submitted by the MVD, the meeting on Monday directed the PWD to expedite works on filling potholes on its roads. The local bodies were asked to clear wayside vegetation near major curves under the MGNREGS. Street lights The local bodies should also initiate urgent action to repair street lights on the MC Road and along the Ponkunnam-Pala-Thodupuzha road. They were directed to construct a new drainage system by including it in the annual Plan. At the same time, obstacles in the existing drainage network should be cleared too. The police were tasked with regulating the entry and exit of buses in bus stops. The meeting also suggested the MVD to organise online classes for schoolteachers on road safety. District Collector M. Anjana, Nirmala Jimmy, president of the Kottayam district panchayat, and many officials attended the meeting.  A survey identified over 230 wayside encroachments in and around Kottayam town alone||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/encroachments-on-roads-to-be-cleared/article33723391.ece
02 February 2021||Kottayam,KERALA||302 cases reported in Kottayam||As many as 302 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 301 persons including a health worker contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 24 children and 62 persons aged above 60. About 680 people recovered. Alappuzha The district logged 256 COVID-19 cases on Monday. It also recorded three deaths. Of the fresh cases, 248 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of four people remains unknown. Three persons who came from abroad and one from another State also tested positive. Meanwhile, 493 people whrecovered. Kollam The district reported 253 new cases and 332 recoveries. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 247 contact cases, two NRIs, two health workers, and two cases without any known source. The Health Department has traced 1,63,180 primary and 14,230 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Pathanamthitta As many as 496 persons tested positive here. Of the fresh cases, 450 persons contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the source of 31 persons are yet to be ascertained. Meanwhile, the disease claimed one more life. The victim was identified as a 62-year-old person from Malayalappuzha. About 293 people recovered.  (With inputs from Kollam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/302-cases-reported-in-kottayam/article33723395.ece
02 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Santhwana Sparsham’ witnesses mass participation of people||Offering spot solution and prompt follow-up of public grievances, the first round of ‘Santhwana Sparsham’ special adalat was successfully completed at Koyilandy Town Hall on Monday. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran and Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan led the adalat, which drew mass participation of people from villages. A token system was in place to reduce the rush of complainants and ensure proper compliance of COVID-19 protocol. Fresh complaints were also considered at the adalat which mostly addressed the grievances of those who had registered their names in advance using the online system. State-level panel Opening the adalat, Mr. Saseendran said the ‘Santhwana Sparsham’ adalat was an attempt of the State government to lend an ear to the long-pending grievances of citizens and offer quick solution. He also made it clear that grievances which were not settled at the adalat would be sent for the consideration of a State-level committee. Addressing the event, Mr. Ramakrishnan said the State was fortunate to have a government led by the Left Democratic Front which strongly stood by people and addressed their concerns. “There may be complaints which were not settled on time due to various legal complications. At least there will be an option for the complainant to get a clear picture of the situation and clear direction on what to do next for a permanent solution,” he said. The majority of the applications considered at the adalat were related to treatment aid and financial support for house construction. Large number of senior citizens and differently abled persons turned up to present their grievances before the ministers and the assigned officers. Revenue Department officials said a front desk had been set up at the venue to guide the complainants to the counters concerned. Indian Red Cross volunteers offered their free service for effective coordination. The entry was given to all after a health screening using thermal scanners. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao and a team of 40 government officials representing various government departments were present at the spot to help the complainants. Assistant Collector Sreedhanya was the nodal officer to coordinate the event. The second round of adalat would be held at Vadakara Town Hall on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/santhwana-sparsham-witnesses-mass-participation-of-people/article33722926.ece
02 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||More COVID wards at MCH may leave others in lurch, say doctors||The surge in fresh COVID-19 cases in the district may have prompted the authorities at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, to set aside two more wards for the infected persons. But a section of doctors believe that this decision is affecting the treatment of non-COVID patients, whose numbers have tripled in the past few weeks. The authorities on January 22 proposed to discharge patients in wards 1 and 2 as soon as their condition improves or shift them to other wards, in view of the “filling of the wards in the hospital due to a surge”. It was pointed out that many patients from other government hospitals and those in the private sector were being referred to the MCH even in the night, without the knowledge of the COVID nodal officer. A doctor told The Hindu on Sunday that though some patients were discharged from the General Medicine wards in recent days, they had to readmit some of them because they could not be accommodated elsewhere. Some other doctors pointed out that of the 12 wards in the General Medicine Department, not even one-third is now being used for non-COVID patients now. Only one ward had ICU with oxygen support. The number of daily surgeries conducted was not even half of those performed in pre-COVID days. Lack of facilities In such a situation, taking away more wards for COVID treatment would leave the non-COVID patients in the lurch, they claimed. Being a major medical college hospital in the Malabar region, Kozhikode MCH gets patients from Malappuram, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod also. The doctors claimed that though additional wards had been allotted to compensate for the loss in General Medicine Department earlier, they don’t have facilities such as the equipment for oxygen support, which was necessary for at least some of the patients. Another issue is that though the Health Department is actively promoting home isolation, infected persons in the non-critical category are still being admitted to the MCH. “Looks like the authorities are concerned only about COVID patients. No thought is being given for the suffering others. Non-critical COVID patients should be referred to other government hospitals,” some of the doctors said. However, a senior hospital functionary told The Hindu that the decision was just to make use of some wards which were not being fully utilised. “We had taken over some wards from other departments for COVID treatment. They were recently restored. When there was a surge in the number of patients, we did not want to take them back,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-covid-wards-at-mch-may-leave-others-in-lurch-say-doctors/article33722924.ece
02 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Complaints mount over faulty street lights in city||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation is facing opposition from councillors, irrespective of party affiliations, in the matter of paying the monthly instalment to Karnataka State Electronics Development Corporation (KEONICS) on the grounds that the company had violated the contract with the corporation. The KEONICS has been entrusted with the conversion of all street lights in the city into LED lights and their maintenance for the next 10 years. The conversion process has been completed, but many councillors claimed that the street lights in their wards were soon damaged and that they were not replaced immediately as per the contract. The contract pertains to the maintenance of 39,600 street lights in the city. However, the corporation has requested the company to set up an additional 16,851 street lights, the monthly cost of maintenance of which will be calculated later. Councillor K.C. Shobhita, in a recent council meeting, pointed out that the company should replace faulty street lights within 48 hours of receiving information, as per the contract. But the lights often remain in the same condition even weeks after the information is passed. Several councillors complained of the same situation and advised the corporation not to pay the next instalment to the company. The Kozhikode Corporation pays a sum of Rs. 47.50 lakh every month to KEONICS for the maintenance of the lights. Secretary Binu Francis said that a software system to monitor the functioning of street lights will be added to the lamp posts so that the company gets notified immediately if any light gets damaged. Meanwhile, the corporation is planning a meeting, in which officials of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) will also attend, to clear misunderstandings, if any, between KEONICS and KSEB.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/complaints-mount-over-faulty-street-lights-in-city/article33722927.ece
02 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Ace cinematographer Nivas passes away||P.S. Nivas, who died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Monday at the age of 73, was a cinematographer who made his mark in various south Indian films, including some iconic ones such as 16 Vayathinile and Sagara Sangamam (Silangai Oli).  It was his superb work in the 1977 Malayalam film Mohiniyattam that first gave him wide recognition. He also won the national award for the best cinematographer (black-and-white) for that film directed by Sreekumaran Thampi. Born in Kozhikode, Nivas learnt cinematography from the Institute of Film Technology, Adyar, Chennai. After assisting in Malayalam films such as Kuttyedathi and Chembarathi , he became an independent cinematographer with Sathyathinte Nizhalil in 1975. “He had expressed the desire to work with me and I had faith in him as he was a product of the Adyar film institute,” Thampi told The Hindu. “He lived up to my expectations too, as he gave me some wonderful frames in Mohiniyattam. ” Debut Thampi recalled that it was after watching Mohiniyattam at a cinema in Chennai that Bharathiraja signed him up for his directorial debut 16 Vayathinile , which featured Kamal Haasan, Rajinikanth and Sridevi, who would all go on to become superstars of Indian cinema. Nivas's camera played a major role in making the film set in rustic Tamil Nadu attaining cult status. Nivas and Bharathiraja teamed up to make more memorable films such as Kizhakke Pogum Rail, Sigappu Rojakkal and Ilamai Oonjal Aadukirathu . When Bharathiraja turned actor with Kallukkul Eeram , it was Nivas who directed him. He directed a few more films, but it was as a cinematographer that he contributed more to cinema. “I think he got fewer opportunities as a cinematographer after he decided to become a director,” said Thampi. “He was one of the finest cinematographers in south Indian cinema in the 1970s and 80s.” He remained largely unsung though.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ace-cinematographer-nivas-passes-away/article33723359.ece
02 February 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||BJP gears up for Assembly polls||After drawing flak for its poor performance in the recent local body polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State unit has kick-started the process to better its performance for the Assembly polls due in April/May. Party president J.P. Nadda will be on a two-day visit to the State this week. He will attend a core committee meeting in Thiruvananthapuram on February 3 and hold parleys with various elected representatives and community leaders in Thrissur the next day. His meeting with senior leaders assumes significance even as the party State unit has been grappling with power struggles and leadership tussles in the past few months. Key segments Sources said the party would focus on some key Assembly segments, for which a survey has been conducted. In the 2016 elections, the BJP managed to open its account in the Assembly through O. Rajagopal who won from the Nemom segment in Thiruvananthapuram. Now the nonagenarian has indicated that the time has come for him to hang up his political boots. Several senior leaders are eyeing the seat and a few have hinted at throwing their hat into the ring. In the previous polls, the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) had garnered 14.96% of the total votes. The party nominees finished second in Manjeswaram, Kasaragod, Malampuzha, Chathannur, Kazhakuttam and Vattiyurkavu. Known faces of the party would be contesting the polls this time also. However, State president K. Surendran has announced his intention not to enter the fray. A positive decision on his candidature and that of Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan would give a fillip to the electoral fortunes of the party, the sources said.  To strike a chord with voters, the State leadership is strategically working hard to balance the caste quotient among Hindu communities, besides giving prominence to the Christian community. Also, the party will highlight the achievements of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-gears-up-for-assembly-polls/article33723397.ece
02 February 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||432 test positive in Kozhikode||A total of 432 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Monday. The daily test positivity rate was 12% when 3,599 samples were tested. There were 417 locally acquired infections and the source of infection of 12 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation had 97 cases of local transmission, Olavanna 23, and Omassery 21. As many as 390 people recovered from the infection and the active case load from the district now is 7,922. As many as 3,527 health workers were given the vaccine at 41 centres on Monday. Six deaths were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, between Saturday and Monday.  84 cases in Wayanad As many as 84 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Monday. All the patients, including two health workers, infected through local contact. The district has so far reported 23,299 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 19,781 have recovered from the disease, including 287 persons on the day . The total number of active cases as on date was 3,378 in the district. As many as 7,108 persons are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/432-test-positive-in-kozhikode/article33722921.ece
02 February 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Collector leads paddy harvesting||The enthusiasm of the students took to the skies when District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan led them to the field to harvest the paddy they had cultivated at Areekode on Sunday. Wearing a tucked-up dhoti and a traditional farmer cap made of areca-nut spathe, Mr. Gopalakrishnan began harvesting the paddy cultivated by the students of Sullamussalam Oriental Higher Secondary School at Areekode. The cultivation took place under the banner of the National Service Scheme (NSS). The students had different varieties of paddy in one acre field belonging to young farmer Noushar Kallada. They harvested the Gandhakasala variety on Sunday. The other varieties would be harvested soon, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-leads-paddy-harvesting/article33722930.ece
02 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Budget disappoints traders||The Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti (KVVES) has expressed disappointment at the Union Budget 2021. Its leaders said the Budget had ignored the trader community. They said they had expected some concessions from the government. The KVVES welcomed the slashing of customs tax on gold. It said that the move would help reduce illegal import of gold.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-disappoints-traders/article33723483.ece
02 February 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Karshaka Congress seeks Assembly seat||The State Karshaka Congress has asked the Congress leadership to consider its representatives for the Assembly election. Karshaka Congress State president Lal Varghese Kalpakavadi said at Puthusseri near here on Sunday that a Karshaka Congress representative could make effective interventions in the Assembly for the benefit of farmers, especially in Palakkad. Mr. Kalpakavadi was inaugurating a district level study camp organised by the Karshaka Congress. District president B. Iqbal presided over the function. KPCC general secretaries C. Chandran and A. Thankappan delivered the keynote address. Farm sector issues V.S. Vijayaraghavan, former MP, inaugurated the valedictory function. The camp titled Annam discussed various options to address the crisis thrown up by the agriculture sector. It also discussed the organisation’s preparedness to join hands with the agitating farmers in the North.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/karshaka-congress-seeks-assembly-seat/article33723484.ece
02 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. to reinvigorate city’s green army||The green army, the city Corporation’s initiative comprising school-college students to create awareness among city residents of the importance of waste treatment at source, will see an increased role in waste management as well as related activities. The Corporation will also introduce an internship programme for 10 persons aged between 18 and 35 years under the Mayor as part of the green army’s activities. The civic body had launched the green army three years ago, with a realisation that the messages regarding waste treatment at source can be taken to the grassroots through children. Several awareness campaigns, events and clean-up drives have been organised as part of its activities.  Social auditing The army will, from this year, also carry out surveys at the material recovery facilities of the Corporation. “This will be a kind of social auditing of the functioning of the material recovery facilities. The green army team, consisting of students, mentors and experts in the field of waste management, will visit these facilities, study its present state of functioning and prepare a report. They will also be handing over suggestions on how to improve their functioning, based on which we will bring in changes,” said an official of the Corporation’s health wing. As part of the internship, 10 persons can be part of the waste management activities of the Corporation. Making them a part of the Mayor’s complaint redressal cell is also being considered, as it will give them chances for interaction with the public on a wide variety of issues related to local governance. The internships can be applied for durations of three months, six months or one year. Honorarium or stipend will not be provided. Those who complete the internship successfully will be provided with certificates. New members The Corporation also plans to expand the activities of the green army to the rural regions of the capital, by involving youth organisations from these places. Registrations have now been opened for new memberships in the green army as well as for participation in the five-day ‘Haritha nagarolsavam’ summer camp. To promote the use of kitchen bins, the civic body is organising a kitchen bin challenge in three categories — individual, residents’ associations and institutions. The challenge will run from March 1 to May 31. On Monday, Mayor Arya Rajendran led a cycle rally of green army volunteers to mark the beginning of the army’s activities this year. Health standing committee chairperson P. Jameela Sreedhar flagged off the rally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-to-reinvigorate-citys-green-army/article33723520.ece
02 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||288 more cases in district||The district recorded 288 COVID-19 cases and 255 recoveries as the active caseload increased marginally to 4,342 on Monday. While 3,141 people were subjected to tests, the test positivity rate increased to 9.16%. Among the fresh cases, the source of infection is unknown in 80 cases. Three imported cases and three health-care workers were among the new cases. The pandemic has claimed 745 lives so far in the district. The district administration placed 1,497 people under quarantine, while 1,633 were excluded from quarantine after completing the mandated period in self-isolation. Vaccination A total of 20,831 persons have been administered COVID-19 vaccine in the district so far. As many as 80,349 people have registered for vaccination. These included 61,127 health workers and 19,222 front line workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/288-more-cases-in-district/article33723516.ece
02 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||All-cause mortality drops during pandemic year||Contrary to all assumptions that deaths in the State would have gone up in 2020 due to the impact of COVID-19, the absolute number of deaths went down by 11.1% in comparison with 2019. Between 2015 and 2020, it was only last year that this reduction in mortality had occurred, according to an official report released by the Health Department. Kerala registered 2,63,901 deaths in 2019, which dipped in 2020. The report says that most of the developed countries reported a huge increase in all-cause mortality during the COVID-19 pandemic. The annual crude death rate (per one lakh population) went up from 871 (2019) to 972 (2020) in the U.S. and from 1,447 (2019) to 1,571 (2020) in Italy. In comparison, this figure went down for Kerala from 755 (2019) to 681 (2020). The Health Department has used this reduction in all-cause mortality to claim that this is an indication of the success of the preventive and promotive services provided by the government during the pandemic. It is also piggybacking on this reduction in all-cause mortality in 2020 to claim that there was no under-reporting of COVID deaths in the State, an allegation raised by various quarters. The argument is that in Kerala, where registration of births and deaths is a continuous and fool-proof activity, any “hidden COVID deaths” would have reflected as a significant surge in the all-cause mortality rate in 2020. However, public health experts point out that it is highly likely that the additional COVID deaths are remaining invisible. This is probably because there would have been a natural reduction in deaths in 2020 due to fewer road traffic accidents and other respiratory illnesses like COPD, H1N1, pneumonia, and even food/water-borne illnesses etc. as people were indoors most of the time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/all-cause-mortality-drops-during-pandemic-year/article33723375.ece
02 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Meena holds meet on poll preparations||Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena on Monday held a meeting with the leaders of various political parties to discuss the preparations for the Assembly elections. He explained the COVID-19 protocols to be followed during the elections. Only two persons will be allowed along with the candidate for filing of nominations. A maximum of five vehicles will be permitted for vehicle rallies as part of the campaign. A time gap of 30 minutes should be there between two successive rallies. Facilities for online filing of nominations will be arranged for this election. The candidates filing their nominations online should download it and submit a copy to the returning officer. The security deposit can also be remiited online. Postal voting Mr. Meena said that facilities for postal voting would be arranged for those above the 80 years, for the differently abled and those who have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Those who wish to cast postal votes should submit an application in the 12D form to the returning officer. Applications can be made from the date of issuance of the election notification. The returning officer will prepare a list of postal voters on a booth basis. A special team of officials, consisting of two polling officers, a police person and a videographer, will distribute the postal ballot. The candidates will be informed of the time of distribution of postal ballots. Representatives of candidates can also be present during distribution. Mr. Meena requested the cooperation of all political parties for the smooth conduct of the election. He asked the parties to ensure that their polling agents are present in all booths to check bogus voting. On criminal cases The candidates have to submit the details of police cases and crime records against them. These also have to be published through media thrice. Mr. Meena said that the parties would have to provide an explanation along with the nomination papers for why they could not find an alternative candidate in case they were fielding candidates with criminal records. The maximum number of voters allowed per booth is 1,000. Auxiliary booths will be set up if there are more voters. Mr. Meena said that more than 15,730 booths would be required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meena-holds-meet-on-poll-preparations/article33723479.ece
02 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Budget surrenders country to commercial interests: Pinarayi||Terming the Union Budget ‘disappointing’, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said it reflected the National Democratic Alliance government's commitment to implement neo-liberal initiatives with greater vigour. The proposals to privatise more public sector units and increase foreign investment, including in the insurance sector, show the withdrawal of the government from all sectors, thus surrendering the country to commercial interests, Mr. Vijayan said. Terming it a challenge to the citizens, Mr. Vijayan said the Budget reiterated that the NDA government would continue with the new agricultural policies. “The talks with the agitating farmers were staged and the BJP-led government has made it clear through the Budget that it will not repeal the controversial farm laws,” he said. The Chief Minister said that instead of providing subsidy to the farmers the Centre was luring them into a debt trap by offering loans. Income inequality The Budget was silent on those who had lost income following the pandemic-induced lockdown. It did not increase social security pension or announce income tax rebate or financial packages for retailers and businesses. The Budget proposals showed that economic inequality would further increase in the country. Coming out against the cess for petrol and diesel under the guise of farm cess, the Chief Minister said it would only increase inflation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-surrenders-country-to-commercial-interests-pinarayi/article33723364.ece
02 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Government effects reshuffle in police||The government has ordered reshuffle in the Police Department. It has nominated Additional Director General of Police Yogesh Gupta as Chairman, Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco). Earlier, he was the managing director of the same. ICT and Telecom SP Divya V. Gopinath, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Thiruvananthapuram City, has been transferred and posted as Superintendent of Police, Information, Communication and Technology (ICT). She will also hold full additional charge of the post of Superintendent of Police, Telecom. Vaibhav Saxena, Additional Assistant Inspector General of Police, Headquarters, is transferred and posted as Deputy Commissioner of Police, Thiruvananthapuram City. He replaces Dr. Gopinath. Hari Sankar, Superintendent of Police, Vigilance & Anti-Corruption Bureau (Intelligence), Thiruvananthapuram, is transferred and posted as District Police Chief of Kasaragod. Shilpa D. is posted as District Police Chief, Kottayam. Sabu P.S. is posted as Superintendent of Police, State Special Branch, Ernakulam Range. Vijayakumar N. is posted as Superintendent of Police, Security, State Special Branch. District Police Chiefs G. Poonguzhali, District Police Chief, Wayanad, is transferred and posted as District Police Chief, Thrissur Rural. Viswanadh R. is posted as District Police Chief, Palakkad. Arvind Sukumar is the new District Police Chief, Wayanad. Madhu P.K., Superintendent of Police, Crime Branch, Idukki, was posted as District Police Chief, Thiruvananthapuram Rural, in place of Asokan B., who was transferred as SP, State Special Branch (Admin), Thiruvananthapuram. Sujith Das is the new District Police Chief, Malappuram. Abdul Karim U. is posted as Commandant, Malabar Special Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/government-effects-reshuffle-in-police/article33723379.ece
02 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Reinforce productive capabilities: Stiglitz||It is high time Kerala reduced its dependence on Gulf remittances and strengthened its productive capabilities for moving forward, Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph E. Stiglitz said on Monday, underscoring the need for the State to have a “diversified economy.” Delivering the keynote address at Kerala Looks Ahead, a three-day international conference and consultation organised by the State Planning Board, Prof. Stiglitz said Kerala could not continue to rely on remittances from the Gulf States any more. “The irony is Kerala has become, in that way, indirectly dependent on oil, on a carbon economy,” he said. Renewable energy Part of moving ahead is to recognise that by 2050 the world will largely be based on renewable energy. Which means the oil-dependent Gulf states may not have the position they enjoy today. In developing a diversified economy, Kerala needs to focus on areas such as manufacturing and agriculture even as it leverages its strengths in education, skills and health care, Prof. Stiglitz said. It is imperative for Kerala to evolve strategies that create more jobs in the State itself. It has to generate its own productive capabilities. Also, Kerala cannot rely on the Central government in New Delhi which has shown itself in so many ways to be “economically incompetent,” he said, adding that Kerala has to go its own way to the extent possible. “Unfortunately a lesson of COVID-19 is that one cannot be reliant on debt for the development strategy,” he said. Prof. Stiglitz attributed Kerala’s success so far to a competent government, participatory democracy and decentralisation, the reliance on science and the continued importance given to planning, education and health care. The COVID-19 pandemic has stressed the important role of government, Prof. Stiglitz said. Having governments that do not understand their important role is dangerous and leaves society vulnerable, he said, citing the example of the U.S. government under former President Donald Trump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reinforce-productive-capabilities-stiglitz/article33723381.ece
02 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Proposals offer no hope for State: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has slammed the Union Budget for offering no hope to Keralites laid low by the COVID-19 pandemic. He said here on Monday that the Budget singularly lacked any measures to buoy the foundering prices of rubber and other cash crops. It disregarded the long-standing demand for an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) campus in Kerala. The Rs. 65,000-crore Mumbai-Kanyakumari corridor passing through Kerala (600 km), the allocation for the second phase of the Kochi Metro Rail, and the Ernakulam fishing harbour development had found mention in previous Union Budgets. So, there was nothing new in these proposals. Also, railway expansion had bypassed Kerala totally, he said. Mr. Chennithala said the State and Central Budgets were comparable in one aspect: making false promises to voters. The Budget had no proposal to increase the productivity and wages of workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/proposals-offer-no-hope-for-state-chennithala/article33723367.ece
02 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) sees no relief||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretariat said here on Monday that the Union Budget offered no concrete relief for the COVID-19-cratered economy. The Budget offers no path to recovery. It was directionless. The Budget has laid down a definite road map to palm off national assets. The Centre hopes to raise Rs. 1,75,000 crore by disinvesting public sector entities. Two nationalised banks and at least one general insurance company are up for sale. COVID-19 packages have lavished substantial tax cuts on corporates. It proposed no direct cash transfer to the pandemic-ravaged population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-sees-no-relief/article33723368.ece
02 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Residents complain of erratic water supply||Erratic water supply has been causing intense hardships to households in the Tutors Lane residential area for the past several months, complain residents. Repeated petitions to the Kerala Water Authority (KWA), they say, have failed to produce any meaningful result. In the latest instance, taps went dry around 5 a.m. on Saturday and remained so till Sunday midnight. Such supply disruptions have become common in this locality which has more than a 100 households, according to the residents. “We are not demanding water supply 24 hours a day. But is it too much to ask for supply at least for five or six hours every day? KWA officials cite the elevation of this area as a reason. Every time pumping is disrupted at Aruvikkara, we are left without water for two days at a stretch,” a resident said. No action yet Residents allege that the KWA has failed to take any constructive action despite repeated complaints by the residents and the Tutors Lane Residents’ Association. Fed up with the unreliable water supply, the residents had submitted a representation to the Superintending Engineer, KWA, in May 2019. They had followed it up with a memorandum signed by the residents in July 2019 and another representation in November 2020. Residents point out that this situation persists in a residential area located just 300 metres from the Secretariat. 107 houses “There are 107 houses here. Majority of the households, barring three or four, face hardships due to erratic supply. We have given numerous petitions to the KWA, but to no avail,” said R. Jayaprakash, president of the Tutors Lane Residents’ Association. “A large percentage of our members are above 60 years old. It is hard for them if supply is erratic,” Mr. Jayaprakash said. “Disruption in water or power supply once in a while is understandable. But when it persists, it is tough. If this is the situation now, what will it be during the summer months?” said the secretary of the association K.C. Ajith Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/residents-complain-of-erratic-water-supply/article33723521.ece
02 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||3 held on burglary charge||The City police arrested Bahuleyan, 54, of Medical College ward, Sunil Gupta, 40, of Vilavoorkkal, and Sabu, 43, of Koovalassery, in connection with a series of recent burglaries. They allegedly stole gold ornaments weighting 6.5 sovereigns and Rs. 12,000 from St. Mary’s Lane in Pattom on January 10. They purportedly confessed to have stolen Rs. 35,000 and 35 sovereigns of gold from a house at Marappalam, Rs. 20,000 and 15 grams of gold from Elanjipuram lane in Vanchiyoor, seven sovereigns of gold and Rs. 40,000 from Vallamkode in Nemom, and Rs. 8,000, a mobile phone and a motorcycle from a house at Kunnukuzhy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-held-on-burglary-charge/article33723511.ece
02 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||3,459 new cases in State||A significant dip in testing over the weekend was reflected in the new COVID-19 cases reported in Kerala on Monday, with the State reporting 3,459 new cases when 33,579 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The cumulative case burden of the State has risen to 9,32,637 cases. Test positivity rate on the day remained at 10.30%. Kerala reported more recoveries than new cases on Monday with 5,215 patients testing negative. With this, the active case pool of the State dipped to 69,207. The cumulative recoveries till date has risen to 8,59,421. The addition of 17 new deaths on Monday to the official list of COVID fatalities has taken the State’s toll to 3,760. Kannur reported four deaths, Alappuzha and Ernakulam three each, Kozhikode two, while Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, Malappuram and Wayanad reported one death each Among districts, Malappuram reported 516 cases, Kozhikode 432, Ernakulam 424, Kottayam 302, Thiruvananthapuram 288, Thrissur 263, Alappuzha 256, Kollam 253, Pathanamthitta 184, Kannur 157, Palakkad 145, Idukki 114, Wayanad 84 and Kasaragod 41 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3459-new-cases-in-state/article33723376.ece
02 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Forged certificates: mastermind arrested||The Thiruvananthapuram Cyber Cell police have arrested the alleged mastermind of a racket that created fake websites and forged certificates of various State examination boards and universities. The accused, Avinash Roy Varma, 23, was arrested by a special investigation team led by Cyber Crime Dy.SP Syamlal and Inspector Siju K.L. Nair from Noida. The interstate operation had extended to Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi. Of 40 exam boards The racket created fake websites of 40 State examination boards, including the Kerala Pareeksha Bhavan and Kerala Higher Secondary Directorate, and universities, including the Cochin University of Science and Technology, in 22 States. The probe was instituted on the basis of the complaint submitted by the Kerala Pareeksha Bhavan that detected fake certificates issued in its name.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forged-certificates-mastermind-arrested/article33723517.ece
02 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Focus needed on public health care’||The COVID-19 pandemic has taught the importance of investing in public health care, Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist at the World Health Organization, has said. Speaking at Kerala Looks Ahead, she lauded Kerala for its excellence in development and its high health indicators. “The COVID-19 pandemic, however, has overtaken the capacity of the best health systems in the world. Therefore, this is a good time to review and identify where policies can be improved and also the gaps in human resource and institutional capacity.” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the three-day meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/focus-needed-on-public-health-care/article33723382.ece
02 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Bamboo Fest to be held on virtual platform||The 17th Kerala Bamboo Fest will be organised by the Kerala State Bamboo Mission as a virtual event from February 16 to 20. Bamboo artisans and artisans will be allowed stalls free of cost. For application form and details, visitwww. keralabamboomission.orgor dial +91 471 2321882, +91 471 2322883.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bamboo-fest-to-be-held-on-virtual-platform/article33723383.ece
02 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Temple town gets rid of garbage stench||Segregation at source and decentralised treatment will go a long way in getting rid of garbage menace. This is the message of the Guruvayur-model waste management, hailed by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac. Until recently, the temple town used to be in the eye of a storm for indiscriminate dumping of waste, unhygienic surroundings, and nauseating stench from waste dumps. It is estimated that Guruvayur is visited by more than 3.5 crore pilgrims a year. The number of visitors is around 500 times that of the local people. The municipality generates six tonnes of waste a day and it becomes almost double that amount during pilgrimage seasons. In the absence of a scientific waste management plan, hundreds of lodges and wedding halls used to dump garbage at Choolpuram, the dumping yard of the municipality.  Sewage discharge Heaps of rotten garbage made life horrible for the residents and shop owners in three wards around the yard. Making the situation worse, lodges and restaurants discharged their raw sewage containing human excreta and other waste directly to the Valiathode, a drain running through the town. The High Court intervened many times, directing the municipality to find a permanent solution to the issue. Now, Choolpuram is a symbol of sustainable development. “The remarkable change happened when the municipality started a bio-fertilizer unit with the support of the Integrated Rural Technology Centre (IRTC) of the Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad in September 2017,” said M. Krishnadas, Guruvayur municipal chairman. Rs. 1.08-crore building A 11,000-sq ft building was built at Rs. 1.08 crore and it can treat three to five tonnes of waste a day, including food waste and plantain leaves from the wedding halls and restaurants at Guruvayur. “Strict segregation of organic and inorganic waste is the key to successful waste management. Kudumbashree workers collect waste from eateries. If inorganic waste is found mixed with organic waste, it will be sent back. The IRTC has developed a special shredder for the plantain leaves as it constitutes a major chunk of waste. The bio-fertilizers will be ready within 30 days.” The unit could be a good source of income for the municipality. The municipality encouraged households, wedding halls, and restaurants to install decentralised waste management systems to reduce the amount of garbage. Decentralised waste management units like biogas plants, bio-digester pots, and pipe composts were distributed. Steel plates Disposable glasses were banned and eateries were urged to use steel plates instead of plantain leaves as far as possible. Steel plates and glasses were supplied on rent at wedding halls. Most of them cooperated with the mission. Aerobic bins were set up to collect waste from public places. A Green Action Force was set up for collecting inorganic waste. The municipality has a modern plastic-shredding and baling unit, the chairman said. The local body has developed an agro-nursery of 1,000 sq ft at Choolpuram, once a stinking dumping yard. The new bio-park attracts a lot of visitors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/temple-town-gets-rid-of-garbage-stench/article33723481.ece
02 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||263 test positive, 523 recover in Thrissur||A total of 263 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Monday while 523 people recovered from the pandemic. There are 4,423 active cases in Thrissur. Seventy-five people from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 87,821 COVID-19 cases have been reported in Thrissur, and 82,825 people have recovered. According to the official statistics, 255 people, including four health workers, contracted the disease through local transmission on Monday. Of them, 50 people are above the age of 60 and 10 children are below the age of 10. In all, 3,214 people were under home care and 105 people were admitted to the hospital for treatment of the COVID-19 on Monday. A total of 3,561 samples were collected for test on Monday. In Palakkad, 145 people tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. Health officials said that 64 of them had contracted the disease through direct contact with the infected persons. However, there were 76 people whose source of infection could not be determined. District officials said that 273 people recovered from COVID-19 in Palakkad on Monday.  (With inputs from Palakkad bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/263-test-positive-523-recover-in-thrissur/article33723477.ece
02 February 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Succour for many at Santhwana Sparsham||Hundreds of people attended the Santhwana Sparsham adalat at Thrissur Town Hall on Monday, seeking redressal of their grievances. The mass contact programme was initiated by the State government to find solution for long-pending issues. Ministers A.C. Moideen, C. Ravindranath, and V.S. Sunil Kumar attended the adalat. The grievances mostly pertained to medical aid, ration card, title deeds, and housing and social welfare measures. In addition to 1,772 online petitions, petitions of hundreds of people who came directly to the adalat were also considered on the first day. Petitions of people from Thrissur taluk were considered on Monday at the adalat that was held by maintaining COVID-19 protocols. Complaints scrutinised by officials of Revenue, Civil Supplies, Local self-governments, Social Justice, and Agriculture departments were passed to the Ministers. Complaints regarding title deeds were handed over to the tribunal led by the District Collector. People who were waiting for long for power connections and ration cards were allotted them at the adalat. Ministers allotted relief funds, medical aid, and other welfare measures to eligible candidates.  Power connections, ration cards allotted to many who had been waiting for long||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/succour-for-many-at-santhwana-sparsham/article33723478.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Packed with health||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/packed-with-health/article33723486.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Reason and justice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reason-and-justice/article33723378.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against price hike||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-price-hike/article33723523.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Against ‘mixopathy’||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/against-mixopathy/article33722932.ece
02 February 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union Budget betrayed ryots, State got a raw deal, says MP||The Union Budget has betrayed the State and nothing was said about the Special Category Status (SCS) or an alternative financial package, even as it spoke abundantly about selling the public sector units (PSUs), Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah said on Monday. “Except for the fishing harbour hub in Visakhapatnam and a railway freight corridor, it looked like the Budget was only for the four poll-bound States of Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The BJP must keep the poll politics at rest and get down to working for the real development of people. We expected a lot on the employment generation and livelihood creation fronts,” Mr. Rangaiah told The Hindu over phone from New Delhi. The MP said that at a time when farmer community was angry over the new laws, ‘the Centre chose to to do nothing about it.’ “The Budget speech publicised how the Centre had given Rs. 75,000 crore towards MSP. But, it was silent on the payment of Rs. 4,282 crore due to Andhra Pradesh for the quantum of rice it had procured for the Central government,” the MP pointed out. Anantapur Urban MLA and former MP Anantha Venkatarami Reddy also expressed displeasure over ‘the lack of thoughts to address the difficulties of the farmers’. “The Budget did not promise anything in that direction. Rather, it focussed on pumping money into the metros and urban locations,” he said. During the coronavirus pandemic, farmers had suffered a lot and an agriculture revival package was expected. But, the Budget only concentrated on benefits to the corporates, which was evident from the cheer in the stock market as disinvestment would help the big companies, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-budget-betrayed-ryots-state-got-a-raw-deal-says-mp/article33723455.ece
02 February 2021||BANDLAPALLI (ANANTAPUR DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||NREGS transforms Bandlapalli, where it was launched in 2006||This village is a synonym for the National Employment Guarantee Scheme, going by its transformation from being a landmass without any water resources and known for mass migrations to a green village with more than 30 families returning to their roots to grow horticulture crops and make a decent living. Situated on an elevated plain with no overground water storage facilities and a non-dependable groundwater table, till 2006 Bandlapalli used to be a typical dryland Rayalaseema village as rainwater used to run down to B. Pappur tank. But with the infusion of Rs. 8.88 crore in the form of wage payments and material components, the transformation is visible. On the 15th anniversary on Tuesday (February 2) of the launch of the scheme from this remote village in Narpala mandal by the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in 2006, The Hindu met Cheemala Peddakka, the first woman to receive the ‘Job Card’ under the MGNREGS and ascertained her views on its impact. A Dalit widow with two kids to support, she used to get Rs. 20 a day as wages for any agriculture work, but the implementation of the NREGS ensured she got Rs. 50 a day for at least 100 days in a year, but more importantly, it wiped out the gender inequality in wages, she opines and that has improved her standard of life with non-NREGS work also fetching her twice the amount she used to get. “Today I get more than Rs. 200 a day for the hard work I put in either in agriculture fields or for assets creation under the NREGS,” explains Peddakka, who treasures the Job Card given back then as a souvenir for being the agent of change in her life. “I grow groundnut and Bengal gram in a 2-acre farm with the help of my two sons, who too have Job Cards. Unable to sink a borewell, we had left the land barren earlier, but now with the creation of ‘farm ponds’ on the periphery of our panchayat, we have sufficient water,” she explains. Velpula Narayana Reddy, the then Sarpanch who had shared the dais with the Prime Minister, who is 83 years old now, proudly recollects how he along with other villagers had ensured every needy person got a Job Card and developed water storage infrastructure to store runaway water from the hill slopes. “We developed watersheds on the two hill streams and got farm ponds, which significantly improved the groundwater table and my own 17-acre farm is an example. We had five bores, which never yielded water, but today we grow bottle gourd, maize, green gram and Bengal gram,” says Mr. Narayana Reddy. District Water Management Agency project director N. Venugopal Reddy told The Hindu that 5.04 lakh man days were created in this panchayat of 3,000 people in 15 years and Rs. 7.61 crore paid as wages and Rs. 1.27 crore as material component, which has helped in developing the village. Currently, 777 job cards are active and many have benefited immensely during the pandemic, he observes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nregs-transforms-bandlapalli-where-it-was-launched-in-2006/article33723453.ece
02 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||19,491 nominations filed for sarpanch posts on last day||The last day of nominations for the first phase of the local body elections on Sunday (January 31) saw record number of filling of papers by the candidates, amid allegations and counter-allegations by both the ruling YSR Congress Party and the opposition TDP. The cumulative number of nominations for the sarpanch posts stood at 19,491 and while the same for the ward member posts was 79,799. As many as 10,715 nomination papers were filed for the post of sarpanch and 54,256 for the post of ward members on the last day itself. The maximum number of nominations for sarpanch posts were filed in Chittor district (2,890), followed by East Godavari (2,135) and Visakhapatnam (2,009). Even as the local body elections are apolitical, senior leaders of the YSRCP and the TDP were busy finalising the candidates who would fight the polls with the support of the parties. Minister for Industries Mekapati Gowtham Reddy, former MP Mekapati Rajamohan Reddy, former Minister Anam Ramanarayana Reddy, Minister for Irrigation Anil Kumar Yadav and Adviser to Government (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy discussed the strategies for the elections atr a meeting in Nellore on Monday. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had been advocating unanimous elections to avoid the possible violence, ensuring that the process was completed in a peaceful manner. The State government has even announced cash incentives for the gram panchayats where candidates will be chosen unanimously.  Action sought against Atchannaidu Meanwhile, the YSRCP leaders continued to turn the heat on the TDP. YSRCP general secretary Lella Appi Reddy on Monday submitted a memorandum to Satate Election Commission Secretary K. Kanna Babu, seeking action against TDP State president K. Atchannaidu. Mr. Appi Reddy alleged that the TDP leader was trying to intimidate a candidate at his native village of Nimmada in Srikakulam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/19491-nominations-filed-for-sarpanch-posts-on-last-day/article33723467.ece
02 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC’s comments on CBI cases draw ire of YSRCP leaders||YSRCP leaders expressed displeasure over certain comments made by State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar during a media conference in Kadapa on Saturday that no force could stop him from deposing again in the special CBI Court in some cases. Mr. Ramesh Kumar told media persons that he, in the capcity of Finance Secretary during the tenure of former Chief Minister Y.S Rajasekhara Reddy, had earlier deposed before the special CBI court as a ‘prime witness’ without any fear or nfluence. Mr. Ramesh Kumar, during the media conference on local body elections, reminisced of his association with Mr. Rajasekhara Reddy. He said that his career had taken a turn after YSR had elevated him to the post of Finance Secretary. Later, he was posted at Raj Bhavan where he had worked for seven years before becoming the SEC. “YSR was a unique personality. I had signed on many important files as Finance Secretary. I had been given the freedom to express my views. Even as I had deposed as a prime witness in the past in CBI cases, I had never faced any difficulty. I will depose in future without any fear and with a clear conscience as I have the protection of the apex court under the witness protection laws,’’ said Mr. Ramesh Kumar. His comments, however, drew the ire of YSRCP leaders who now say that they would file criminal cases against the SEC for making comments on the issues that are sub judice . “The remarks of Mr. Ramesh Kumar on issues which are sub judice are objectionable. We will lodge complaints. The SEC crossed the line many a time by directly attacking the Chief Minister of the State in the past. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy won a landslide victory as the YSRCP won 151 seats. Now, the SEC wants to use his official position and power to cast aspersions on the Chief Minister,” said a YSRCP senior leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/secs-comments-on-cbi-cases-draw-ire-of-ysrcp-leaders/article33723468.ece
02 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Little for State in Budget’||Union Budget-2021 has meant little for the people of the State and apart from the lack of substantial allocations to infrastructure, the Budget is discouraging as it has little for the people of the State, observed a section of people here. Former MP Yelamanchili Sivaji said that the Budget had offered more sops to the corporate sector and this is evident in the manner in which the stock markets have reacted in a “joshful” manner. “The need of the hour is to support the service sector. A massive fiscal support is needed to revive the sector which had suffered a death blow under the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. I also urge the Centre to provide vaccination free of cost. I am also not optimistic about the Agriculture Infrastructure Cess, for which there is no efficient delivery system in our vast rural areas,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/little-for-state-in-budget/article33723457.ece
02 February 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Harinarayan appointed as Chittoor Collector||The State government has approved the name of M. Harinarayan, an IAS officer belonging to 2011 batch, as Collector of Chittor district, following the recommendation of the State Election Commission. Mr. Harinarayan was earlier vice-chairman and managing director of AP Mineral Development Corporation and replaces Markenduyulu as Collector of Chittoor district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/harinarayan-appointed-as-chittoor-collector/article33722780.ece
02 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Biodiversity park to come up in Kakinada||Adikavi Nannaya University Vice-Chancellor M. Jagannadha Rao on Monday announced that the university would sign a Memorandum of Understanding with the AP Biodiversity Board to set up a biodiversity park and museum on the university's campus in Kakinada. In an official release, Prof. Jagannadha Rao said that talks were complete with Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (wildlife) and AP Biodiversity Board member D. Nalini Mohan would sign the MoU for setting up the biodiversity park and museum. The team of AP Biodiversity Board has recently inspected the Kakinada campus and expressed its willingness to be part of the project, apart from extending necessary support from the board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/biodiversity-park-to-come-up-in-kakinada/article33723501.ece
02 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State police seek help from Odisha, Chhattisgarh||Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohana Rao on Monday sought the help from Odisha and Chhattisgarh police to ensure smooth conduct of the panchayat elections in the areas affected by left wing extremism in East and West Godavari districts. Mr. Mohana Rao, East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi and CRPF 42nd Battalion Commander Sateesh Babu discussed the strategy to counter any possible disturbance by the left wing extremist groups during the polls in the bordering districts. The SPs from Sukma district in Chhattisgarh and Malkangiri in Odisha participated in the meeting held in virtual mode. The Andhra Pradesh police explained the prevailing situation and sought strategic support to ensure smooth conduct the elections in 78 panchayats affected by the left wing extremist activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-police-seek-help-from-odisha-chhattisgarh/article33723470.ece
02 February 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Husband of sarpanch aspirant found dead||Sabbella Srinivas Reddy (45), who was allegedly abducted by miscreants on Sunday, was found hanging from a tree in a field on Monday under mysterious circumstances at Gollalagunta under Jaggampeta police limits in East Godavari district. Srinivas Reddy is husband of S. Pushpavathi, who filed her nomination papers for sarpanch of Gollalagunta panchayat on Sunday. Miscreants had allegedly abducted Mr. Srinivas Reddy, to prevent his wife from filing her papers. However, he was later traced in a nearby forest with his hands and legs tied and his mouth gagged. On Sunday night, the couple lodged a police complaint seeking a probe into the alleged abduction. The couple was being supported by the TDP in the election. Peddapuram DSP A. Srinivasa Rao said on Monday, Srinivas Reddy showed the police the place where he was left by the miscreants after the alleged abduction. “By evening, he left for his house following preliminary inquiry. Later, he was found hanging from a tree,” he said. “The family of the deceased did not lodge a complaint regarding the incident. We are investigating the case,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/husband-of-sarpanch-aspirant-found-dead/article33723469.ece
02 February 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Valuables worth Rs. 2.30 cr. seized in Kurnool||The Kurnool rural police on Monday confiscated 3.79 kg gold and 435-carat diamonds, all worth 2.30 crore, and took into custody two persons at the Panchalingala checkpost on the outskirts of the city on Monday evening. Displaying the seized items at a press conference, Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli said that two persons, Vijay Sharma and Suresh Muniswamy, both hailing from Hyderabad, were transporting the valuables from Hyderabad to Salem(Tamil Nadu)without valid documents. The car was seized and the persons were arrested when Police Circle Inspector Lakshmi Durgaiah and Special Enforcement Bureau’s Static Surveillance team were checking all vehicles in view of the panchayat elections. In all, 170 different items like rings, bracelets, pendants, and chains were being shipped without any proof, the SP said. The police have booked a case under section 102 of the CrPC and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/valuables-worth-rs-230-cr-seized-in-kurnool/article33722779.ece
02 February 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure unanimous election of sarpanches, YSRCP MLAs told||State government advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has exhorted YSRCP MLAs in Nellore district to ensure that the sarpanchs are elected without any contest in as many villages as possible. Taking part in a meeting to chalk out the strategy for the polls with the party MLAs , he said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was keen on ushering in decentralised development in the State and wanted them to encourage unanimous elections . The party had blanked the TDP winning all the 10 Assembly seats and two Lok Sabha seats at stake in 2019 elections, he noted, adding that it was their responsibility to ensure that the party-backed candidates repeated the same performance in the local body elections. He wanted them to ensure that rebel candidates did not enter the fray . Former YSRCP MP Mekapati Rajmohan Reddy gave valuable inputs at the meeting . The meeting chaired by district party chief Kakani Govardhan Reddy was attended by, among others, Ministers Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, P. Anil Kumar Yadav and MLAs Anam Ramanarayana Reddy, V. Varaprasad, K. Sanjeevaiah, Ramireddy Pratapkumar Reddy, Nallapareddy Prasanakumar Reddy and Kottamreddy Sridhar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-unanimous-election-of-sarpanches-ysrcp-mlas-told/article33723473.ece
02 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only against forced unanimous elections, says Ramesh Kumar||State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar has said that the commission would keep a watch on the unanimous local body polls closely in the wake of many complaints from the opposition parties and other organisations. “The SEC was forced to move the court as the Andhra Pradesh government tried to interfere in discharging responsibilities of the commission,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar told the media here on Monday. Mr. Ramesh Kumar, who visited Srikakulam district to review the preparedness for the local body polls, interacted with Collector J. Nivas and Superintendent of Police Amit Bardar and discussed the ground level situation. He directed them not to leave any scope for violence and tension in villages and ensure a free and fair election. ‘Transparency is top priority’ “The SEC is according a top priority to transparency in the election process. We are not against unanimous elections, but it should not be held forcibly. Nearly 20 % of the unanimous elections led to criticism and complaints from various political parties. The SEC will accept complaints, suggestions and other issues through a specially designed cellphone application from Wednesday onwards,” said Mr. Ramesh Kumar. Referring to the rift between the SEC and the State government, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said the Constitution and various Acts have empowered the SEC to conduct the elections in a free and fair manner. “We don’t want any confrontation with the government. Our aim is to ensure the smooth conduct of the elections. We will keep a watch on unanimous elections. If they are done forcibly, we will review them,” he added. Mr. Ramesh Kumar complimented the Collector and the SP for making arrangements for the elections in accordance to the rules. He recalled his association with Srikakulam district where he had worked as the Collector for nine months. Earlier, Mr. Nivas gave a power point presentation about the elections and the sensitive areas. Mr. Bardar said special teams have been formed to ensure a free and fair election. “ The police deployed in all the 38 mandals are alert. No untoward incident have been reported so far,” he added. Mr. Ramesh Kumar also visited Vizianagaram and interacted with Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal and SP B.Rajakumari and others. “We observe neutrality and treat all political parties equally,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/not-against-unanimous-polls-unless-forced-upon-says-sec/article33723463.ece
02 February 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aspirant ‘not allowed’ to file papers at Atchan’s village||Tension prevailed at Nimmada, the native village of TDP State president K. Atchannaidu as the YSRCP leaders alleged that K. Appanna, a candidate backed by the ruling party, was not allowed by the TDP cadres to file his nomination papers for the local body elections. The family of Mr. Atchannaidu, who represents Tekkali Assembly constituency, enjoy a stronghold at Nimmada in Srikakulam district. YSRCP Tekkali in-charge Duvvada Srinivas alleged that Mr. Atchannaidu’s family had threatened Mr. Appannna with dire consequences, if he filed his nomination in Nimmada panchayat. “Mr. Atchannaidu family had indulged in violence in previous elections. That is why I accompanied Mr. Appanna when he went to file his nomination papers. Some TDP activists attacked us and damaged our vehicles. The SEC has not taken any action yet,” said Mr. Srinivas. Meanwhile, TDP leaders alleged that Mr. Srinivas used unparliamentary language and provoked the TDP cadre. They said that they did not stop anyone from filing nominations. Vijaya Sai’s visit today Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas alleged that the SEC had failed to take action in the incident. “The Election Commissioner who visited Srikakulam on Monday showed no interests in inquiring into the incidents at Nimmada. A high level inquiry is needed in this matter,” he said. YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy is scheduled to visit Nimmada on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aspirant-not-allowed-to-file-papers-at-atchans-village/article33723471.ece
02 February 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union Budget is futuristic with macro indicators, says industry||Captains from both the public and private sector enterprises welcomed the Union Budget that was presented by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. They said that the Budget was futuristic with a lot of macro indicators. “The budget focussed more on macro economy, keeping nation building in mind, and very little space for micro economy,” said Director (Commercial) of RINL and vice-chairman of CII (Visakhapatnam chapter), D.K. Mohanty. He was speaking at a meeting organised by the CII, post the budget session, here on Monday. Datla Tirupati Raju, vice-chairman of CII, said that the budget addressed both the present and the future and has some spillover benefits for Visakhapatnam. But the highlight was enhancement of expenditure in health and well-being from Rs. 94,452 crore to Rs. 2,23,846 crore. This will have some impact in the health care infrastructure in Visakhapatnam and in the State, said J. Srinivasa Raju, Chairman of CII (Visakhapatnam zone). Chief Financial Consultant of Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital & Research Institute Lalitha Sundari said that 137% hike in expenditure in health-care was phenomenal and for the first time emphasis has been laid on primary, secondary and tertiary health care. Keeping in mind the pharmaceutical zones and AP MedTech Zone in Visakhapatnam, K.V.V. Raju, CEO of Ajinomoto Bio-Pharma Services, said that the investment in health and wellness sector will have a positive effect on the pharmaceutical industries and medical equipment manufacturing companies in Visakhapatnam. Demand for steel Mr. Mohanty said since the Union Budget has laid a lot of emphasis on infrastructure building and it will create a demand for the steel industry, especially PSU steel plants such as RINL. Abhishek Gupta, head of MSME Panel, said that the investment in fishing harbour and fish landing centre in Visakhapatnam, would benefit the MSME and also generate employment. Two major things such as scrapping of vehicles and the new fishing harbour will benefit the MSME in Visakhapatnam. Chairman of Visakhapatnam Port Trust K. Rama Mohana Rao said that the announcement of allowing PPP (public-private-partnership) in major ports, would benefit VPT, as new and modernised berths would come up, facilitating more handling of different types of cargoes. Baargav Duggurala, Chair, Young India Visakhapatnam Chapter, said that extending the tax holiday and exempting capital gains for one more year to startups would encourage them in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-budget-is-futuristic-say-industry-leaders/article33723506.ece
02 February 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leopard pug marks sighted on agri college campus||The sighting of pug marks, evidently belonging to leopards, has confirmed the scare prevalent among a section of campus dwellers on the sighting of wild animals on the Sri Venkateswara Agricultural College campus. Following the commotion on the reported foray of a leopard, with two of its cubs in tow, the campus has been agog with rumours. The security staff initially expressed doubt over the movement of “some wild animals” in the hazy backdrop of darkness, following which forest officials zeroed in on the spot to identify the pug marks. On Monday, they finally confirmed the marks to be those of a leopard, which could have entered the campus from the abutting area on Friday or Saturday. The animals could have either lost track of their actual habitat or ventured into the campus in search of prey. The forest officials have asked the college management to improve lighting and clear wild growth of shrubs on the campus, besides an appeal to the staff not to venture out during darkness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/leopard-pug-marks-sighted-on-agri-college-campus/article33722782.ece
02 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre did grave injustice to A.P. in Budget, says Vijaya Sai Reddy||YSR Congress Parliamentary Party (YSRCPP) leader V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said the Central government did grave injustice to Andhra Pradesh by making no substantial allocations to it in the Union Budget while giving many boons to the States where Assembly elections are due to be held soon. The Centre once again dodged the issue of the State’s legitimate right to Special Category Status (SCS), which was an assurance given in the Parliament at the time of bifurcation, he stated, while observing that the only useful thing to the masses is the provision of Rs. 35,000 crore for the COVID vaccination programme. Addressing media persons along with YSRCP floor leader in the Lok Sabha P.V. Mithun Reddy and other MPs in New Delhi on Monday, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said the Budget had no mention of the revised cost estimate (Rs. 55,656 crore) of the Polavaram project. The Metro Rail Projects (MRPs) in Bangalore, Chennai and Nagpur got massive allocations even as the MRPs in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada remained non-starters mainly for want of funds. The funds given for the freight corridor between Kharagpur and Vijayawada would be of no great use to the State, and there was no mention of the Kadapa-Bangalore railway line, he commented.  Virology lab On the health care front, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said the Budget was silent about the demand to set up a virology lab in the State. There was no commitment about establishing a textile park in the State. The Centre should set up a Kendriya Vidyalaya in each district as the State government contemplated to carve 13 new districts out of the existing ones (total 26). As far as the tax reforms were concerned, the Centre ignored the popular demand to increase the standard deduction to Rs. 1,00,000. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy further said the sanction of a fishing hub in Visakhapatnam was of little consequence as the State government undertook the establishment of eight fishing harbours on its own. The Central government’s share in the PM Kisan programme remained the same as earlier. Not a single rupee was given for the establishment of new medical colleges in the State, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-did-grave-injustice-to-ap-in-budget-says-vijaya-sai-reddy/article33723449.ece
02 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees upsurge in MGNREGS works, but fewer women participate||The turnout for work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) increased in the State in the 2020-21 financial year, but participation of women workforce saw a decline. The difference between the amount of person days (employment) generated by men and women is striking. The share of person days by men has seen a growth of 10.85% in the pandemic-hit year, while the share of women person days has registered a negative growth of 3.72%, when compared to the date of 2019-20 fiscal year. “Had women workers’ participation been the same as the previous year, they would have received an additional Rs. 199.39 crore in term of wages,” says Chakradhar Buddha of the Liberation Technology, popularly known as LibTech India, comprising a team of engineers, social workers and social scientists who focus on improving transparency, accountability and democratic engagement in rural public services delivery, using the RTI Act as an effective tool. In Andhra Pradesh, 6,28,349 new workers were added to the work force of MGNREGA through 3,85,833 job cards in 2020-21 fiscal year. This is almost 6 % of all the job cards issued under the employment guarantee programme since its inception in the State, says Mr. Chakradhar, adding that the report prepared by the LibTech is based on the data available in the public domain. Mr. Chakradhar, Director of LibTech for Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, said employment provided to the beneficiaries in 2020-21 fiscal is the highest in the last three years, barring the districts of Kadapa, Kurnool, Prakasam and Nellore. A majority of the districts in the State have witnessed smaller growth patterns. Prakasam district generated the maximum employment, while Nellore the least. Not 100 % days of work While the MGNREA guarantees 100 days of work per household, on an average, each household registered for the scheme in the State received a little more than 47 days of work. The beneficiaries in Vizianagaram district got more than 60 days of work while their counterparts in Kurnool got 35. Of the total 12,923 gram panchayats in the State, beneficiaries from around 5,000 of them generated more person days on average than the entire State. In other words, more than 60% of the panchayats have failed to generate as many as the State’s average person days in 2020-21 fiscal, said Mr. Chakradhar. Payment woes Speaking about the hardship of the beneficiaries who slog it out for the money they depend on to fulfill their basic needs, Mr. Buddha said while the country had registered ‘rejected payments’ worth Rs. 209.72 crore, workers of Andhra Pradesh alone were to receive 2.46 % (more than Rs. 5.16 crore) of the amount related to 40,000 transactions stuck at the bank-level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-upsurge-in-mgnregs-works-but-fewer-women-participate/article33723548.ece
02 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC dumps garbage issue in Prasadampadu||Heaps of garbage left on the roadsides and other locations in Prasadampadu area on the outskirts of the city has become a cause of concern for the local residents. Apart from the garbage that was left on a few roads, at least three transport vehicles filled with heaps of garbage were stationed in the area as there was no place to dump. Garbage collected in Prasadampadu area was supposed to be dumped at Pathapadu garbage dumping yard, which is maintained by the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation. ‘No alternative’ Officials say that the VMC has stopped Prasadampadu vehicles from dumping the garbage at the site leaving no alternative. “We are scouting for a place to dump the garbage and the issue has been in the notice of all officials concerned. Arrangements are being made and the issue will be resolved soon," said Panchayat Secretary J. Rajendra Prasad when contacted. Meanwhile, officials were busy in Panchayat elections duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vmc-dumps-garbage-issue-in-prasadampadu/article33723545.ece
02 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anganwadi centres, primary schools reopen||After a gap of 10 months, primary schools and Anganwadi centres reopened in the State. Children were seen attending classes in play way in the Anganwadi Pre-Primary Schools on Monday. Following the directions of the government, all the 55,607 Anganwadi schools, renamed as Pre-Primary Schools, were reopened. Teachers, Anganwadi supervisors, Child Development Project Officers and staff of Women Development and Child Welfare officials decked up the centres. Children were seen attending classes by wearing masks and face shields. In some primary schools, children brought willingness letters from their parents as many private schools insisted on submitting the consent letters. Ayahs were seen busy preparing mid-day meals for the children in the centres and the teachers taught rhymes, good habits and alphabets by showing play material in the pre-primary centres. Managements of the schools sanitised the classrooms and the premises, and cleaned the toilets before opening. Students brought water bottles and hand napkins on their own. Parents dropped their children at the Anganwadi centres and at the government primary schools. WD&CW Director Kritika Shukla said instructions had been given to take up sanitation drive in all Anganwadi Centres and keep the premises clean. The teachers and ayahs had been directed to arrange drinking water and other facilities in the centres across the State, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anganwadi-centres-primary-schools-reopen/article33723550.ece
02 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rare bird species sighted in wetlands during census||Many rare, uncommon and near-threatened water bird species have been sighted in the wetlands in the State during the Asian Waterbird Census – 2021. The count of migratory birds is good in all mudflats, say the wildlife officials. There are 27 wetlands in Andhra Pradesh, and rare species of birds, which have not been seen for the last few years were noticed in Nelapattu, Kolleru and Coringa sanctuaries during the census carried out in January this year, said Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF-Wildlife) Rahul Pandey. About 80 teams, including forest authorities, ornithologists, NGOs and the bird watchers carried out the Asian Waterbird Census in the wetlands, creeks, sanctuaries, mudflats, marshy areas and the bird habitats in the State. “I visited Kolleru, Nelapattu, Uppalapadu, Coringa and other bird sanctuaries. In Nelapattu, spoon billed storks, which are not sighted for more than two decades, were seen nesting with their younger ones this year,” said the CCF. In Kolleru lake, altogether about 3 lakh birds, especially pelicans, open billed storks, painted storks and other species were found. Some rare species were also noticed. At Uppalapadu in Guntur district, more than 25,000 birds were counted in the census, Mr. Pandey said. Eluru Divisional Forest Officer (DFO-Wildlife) C. Selvam said as many as 92 bird species were found in Kolleru, the largest freshwater lake in the country. In Coringa, 34,207 birds of 102 species were counted, of which 15 were globally near-threatened bird species, he said. “We found peregrine falcon, oyster catcher and other uncommon waterbirds in Coringa sanctuary, and rare species such as great knot and Indian skimmer are also found in good numbers,” Mr. Selvam said. Compared to the previous census, population of migratory birds was good in Krishna, Kolleru, Coringa and other sanctuaries. Besides, kingfishers, egrets, storks, ducks, cormorants and other waterbirds were counted in large numbers, the DFO said.  Postal covers The CCF said that posters and special postal covers would be released jointly by the Forest Department and the India Post on protected wetlands – Pulikat, Krishna, Kolleru, Coringa and Nelapattu – on the occasion of World Wetland Day on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rare-bird-species-sighted-in-wetlands-during-census/article33723552.ece
02 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM tells officials to mobilise more funds from Centre||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday held a meeting with officials on the Union Budget 2021-22 and financial allocations to various sectors. He wanted a concerted efforts to be made to get more funds from the Centre by properly liaisoning with it. Officials informed him that there were no major Budget allocations to the State, which suffered a heavy loss in terms of finances and infrastructure due to bifurcation, and that Tamil Nadu and Karnataka received a good share of allocations. Also, the officials said the allocations to various sectors and programmes were nothing special to the State. There was a slump in the allocations for PM Kisan, PM Awas Yojana and NREGS compared to previous years besides a cut in subsidy on food grains, petrol and fertilizers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-tells-officials-to-mobilise-more-funds-from-centre/article33723451.ece
02 February 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chairpersons, directors of corporations barred from ‘district tours’||State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar in a letter to Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das on Monday said that the district tours undertaken by chairpersons and directors of corporations of various departments when the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) was in force for the Gram Panchayat elections, would be deemed to be “election tours”, and that no government servant, except those deployed for security purposes, was supposed to accompany the chairperson and directors. No government vehicles and other facilities should be made available to them for such tours. Besides, Mr. Ramesh Kumar said vehicles belonging to the government or vehicles engaged by it or officials with public money should not be used for canvassing in any manner from the date of notification of election to the date of announcement of results. Official visits must not be combined with electioneering work and no official machinery and government personnel or resources, including government vehicles, should be used in furtherance of interests of any candidate. Such violations of the model code and the provisions of A.P. Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 and the Representation of Peoples Act, 1951 would be dealt with seriously, he said. Even if the vehicles were private, the chairpersons and directors should refrain from displaying their names and positions in the corporations represented by them, the SEC added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-sec-warns-officials-against-code-violations/article33722747.ece
02 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Intellectuals favour 3 commissioners for SEC||AP Intellectuals and Citizens Forum (APIC) founder president and former RTI Commissioner has said that governments should consider appointing three commissioners for the State Election Commission on the lines of Election Commission of India to avoid issues like the one happening between the State government and the State Election Commissioner. Mr. Vijaya Babu along with other members of APIC addressed a press conference on Monday. He said feud between the government and the SEC became worrisome. “Both the government and SEC are constitutional bodies but SEC cannot dictate terms to the government in the guise of election code,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/intellectuals-favour-3-commissioners-for-sec/article33723546.ece
02 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CII welcomes focus on healthcare, infrastructure||The Andhra Pradesh (AP) branch of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has applauded the proposal in the Union Budget to halve the time-frame for reopening of income-tax assessment cases from six to three years and the reduction in Customs duty on certain inputs and raw materials, including long products of alloy and non-alloy stainless steel and copper scrap, among others. CII A.P. chairman D. Ramakrishna said the 2021-22 Union Budget had laid out a clear roadmap for accelerating growth in the coming days and that the impetus given to the infrastructure sector was a welcome move. He told mediapersons that the major allocation to the healthcare sector would help in tackling the COVID pandemic and that the overall budget had a vision for the government’s flagship ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat Programme’. CII Vijayawada zone chairman V. Venkateswara Rao felt that the budget had charted the right course to stoking growth in the post-COVID scenario. CII Andhra Pradesh primary sector panel convener G. Venkateswara Rao was of the view that aqua fisheries hubs would help in creating the required value addition in the farming sector. Andhra Pradesh water taskforce convenor M. Lakshmi Prasad and co-convenor Y.V. Krishna Mohan, CII Vijayawada zone vice-chairman S. Narendra Kumar and past chairmen M. Venugopal and V.V.M. Krishna and past chairperson V. Nagalakshmi expressed their views on the budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cii-welcomes-focus-on-healthcare-infrastructure/article33723450.ece
02 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DGP lauds police officers’ decision on COVID vaccine||Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has praised the Andhra Pradesh Police Officers’ Association (APPOA) members for agreeing to take the COVID-19 vaccine after the gram panchayat elections. Speaking to the media at the AP Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri on Monday, the DGP said: “Police are facing a challenging situation to attend for election duties, take COVID vaccine and provide bandobust for vaccination (at the centres).” After a series of deliberations, the association members have decided to take the COVID vaccine later and attend to bandobust and cooperate for peaceful conduct of the elections, he said. Association president J. Srinivas, honorary presidents Chandrashekar and Y. Srihari, and vice-president B. Jagan Mohan Reddy held discussions with the DGP, Additional DG (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar, IG (Police Welfare) P.V.S. Ramakrishna and other officers on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dgp-lauds-police-officers-decision-on-covid-vaccine/article33723461.ece
02 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VRO found dead||A Village Revenue Officer (VRO), G. Srinivas Rao (41), died under suspicious circumstances. His body was found near the tracks at West railway booking counter on Monday. The victim was working in Ward Secretariat in Two Town. The Two Town police registered a case and took up investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vro-found-dead/article33723553.ece
02 February 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC adjourns hearing on SEC petition to February 15||The High Court on Monday adjourned the hearing on the contempt petition which the State Election Commission (SEC) had filed against the government for alleged non-cooperation in conducting the local body elections, to February 15. While objecting to publication of the content of SEC petitions in the media before it took up the matters, the court sought to know whether the SEC was invoking contempt jurisdiction to pressurise the respondents. It also directed that if the respondents had not filed the compliance reports as directed in the interim order, they should be present for the next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-adjourns-hearing-on-sec-petition-to-february-15/article33723465.ece
02 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parties rue non-allocation of funds for railway zone||The non-allocation of funds for the new railway zone, no mention of Special Category Status (SCS) to the State and non-allocation of funds to backward districts in the State, has drawn flak from leaders of various political parties. Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana has said that the YSR Congress Party MPs from north Andhra would raise their voice in Parliament on the ‘injustice done to the region’ due to the non-allocation of funds for establishment of the new railway zone. He said that the party MPs had raised the issue of funds for the new zone and met Union Minister and Railway Board Chairman several times but no mention was made on funds for it in the budget. The only solace was the announcement of making Visakhapatnam as a ‘fishing hub’. CPI(M) District Committee secretary K. Lokanadham has expressed resentment at the injustice done to the State in the budget. He alleged that the Centre was trying to hand over the railways, airports and defence sector to the private sector. There was no mention on allocation for the newly announced S Co R zone. CPI State Assistant Secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy alleged that the budget laying the red carpet for corporates while taxing the common man. The proposed additional cess on petrol and diesel would have a cascading effect on the prices of essential commodities, he said. The gap between the haves and have- nots was increasing and no attempts have been made in the budget to reduce it, he alleged. CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao has decried the non-allocation of funds for Visakhapatnam Railway Zone (S Co R) and funds for backward regions in the State. He described the budget as ‘corporate-friendly’ and ‘anti-poor’. BJP Parliamentary district president Raveendra Medapati hailed the allocation of Rs. 2.34 lakh crore for health sector and Rs. 35,000 crore for COVID-19 vaccination in the Union Budget. A 464-km long expressway would be constructed from Visakhapatnam to Chhattisgarh via Odisha. He also hailed the proposal to develop 1,500 schools under the New Education Policy (NEP) apart from 750 schools for OBCs in India and residential model schools in tribal areas  Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana says that the YSR Congress Party MPs from north Andhra will raise their voice in Parliament on injustice done to the region||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-funds-allocated-for-rail-zone-rue-parties/article33723503.ece
02 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No allocation for railway zone a big disappointment||The lack of any announcement on allocations in the Budget for the Visakhapatnam-headquartered South Coast Railway Zone (SCoR), which was announced in Feb. 2019, or any new projects for A.P. has disappointed the people of the State. The railway zone was announced after nearly two decades of struggles by the people of the region to protest against the injustice done to the Waltair Division over the years. An Officer on Special Duty (OSD) had submitted a Detailed Project Report (DPR) in this regard in September 2019. People of North Andhra are eagerly awaiting the establishment of the zone as it would also lead to the setting up of a Railway Recruitment Board (RRB). There is also a demand to continue the Waltair Division, with the residual part after merger of one portion with the new Division being created at Rayagada in Odisha. It is felt that the delay in the establishment of the zone would deprive the Waltair Division of its share in development. Also, there is no mention of the Marripalem Maha Terminal, which was proposed long ago, to ease the congestion at the main railway station. A survey for the construction of a third line from Visakhapatnam to Gopalapatnam was completed long ago but there is no mention of any allocation for it in the Budget. New trains, originating from Visakhapatnam, which were announced in the past, have not materialised to this day. Long distance trains are bypassing the main station in Visakhapatnam, which is poised to become the Executive Capital of A.P., causing hardship to the people of the city. It is learnt that proposals have been sent to the Railway Board for starting a Garib Rath-type express from Visakhapatnam to Tirupati, a direct train from Visakhapatnam to Yesvanatapur (Bengaluru) and a daily train from Visakahaptnam to Chennai. Clear picture yet to come Railway sources, however, say that it is too early to conclude that no allocations have been made to A.P. or Waltair Division, which is presently under the jurisdiction of Bhubaneswar-headquartered East Coast Railway (ECoR) Zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-allocation-for-railway-zone-a-big-disappointment/article33723458.ece
02 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre’s move to bring LIC IPO opposed||The members of All India Insurance Employees Association (AIIEA) have criticised the Finance Minister’s announcement in the Union Budget that the Central government would bring the LIC IPO in this financial year. They pointed out that the LIC IPO is primarily against the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat. It is an institution which does not create any profit for itself, as it distributes the entire surplus generated to the government and the policyholders, they said. AIIEA General Secretary Shreekant Mishra said that the LIC IPO will undermine the very objectives of its creation. Rather than delivering value to the nation and its policyholders, it will be forced to work for creating value and generating profits for the shareholders, he said. Therefore, the asset owned by all Indians will be exploited for profits by small number of rich in the country, he alleged. The AIIEA members also oppose the Finance Minister’s budget proposal to increase FDI in insurance sector from 49% to 74% and allow foreign ownership in insurance sector with some safeguards. “We also oppose the plans to privatise one general insurance company along with two public sector banks,” said Mr. Mishra.  FDI hike criticised “There is absolutely no justification for FDI hike in the insurance industry. The actual share of FDI in the total investments in the private insurance industry today is much less than the current limit of 49%. Scarcity of foreign capital has never been an impediment to the growth of the insurance industry. FDI hike in insurance will only help foreign capital gain greater control over our precious domestic savings,” said Mr. Mishra. He said that the insurance employees under the banner of the AIIEA are determined to carry forward the resistance against the moves to increase FDI, bring IPO of LIC and privatise one general insurance company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centres-move-to-bring-lic-ipo-opposed/article33723460.ece
02 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ECoR to run special trains from Feb. 5||Special trains will be operated by the railways between Howrah and Chennai Central with effect from February 5. Train no.02821 Howrah-MGR Chennai Central Special Express, will leave Howrah daily at 11.55 p.m. with effect from February 5 to arrive in Visakhapatnam at 1.50 p.m. on the next day and leave at 2.10 p.m. to reach MGR Chennai Central at 3 a.m. on the 3rd day of its journey. Train no.02822 MGR Chennai Central-Howrah special express will leave MGR Chennai Central at 7.15 p.m. with effect from February 7 to arrive in Visakhapatnam on the next day at 8.05 a.m. and leave at 8.25 a.m. to reach Howrah on the same day at 11 p.m. These trains have stoppages at Kharagpur, Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur Keonjhar Road, Cuttack, Bhubaneswar, Khurda Road, Balugaon, Chatrapur, Brahmapur, Ichchapuram, Sompeta, Palasa, Naupada, Srikakulam Road, Chipurupalle, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Anakapalle, Tuni, Annavaram, Samalkot, Rajahmundry, Nidadavolu, Tadepalligudem, Eluru, Vijayawada, Tenali, Bapatala, Chirala, ongole, Safety protocols Passengers are requested to follow the safety protocols during journey in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ecor-to-run-special-trains-from-feb-5/article33723504.ece
02 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 youth attend ‘Marpu’ counselling centre||‘Marpu’, the counselling centre which was opened to reform drug addicts, rowdy-sheeters and bike racers by the city police, was attended by 11 youth along with their parents on the first day of launch, here on Monday. All the 11 cases were related to usage of drugs. “Out of the 11 cases, one youth was about 27 years of age and others were below 25 years, including a 15 year-old. All were occasional users of ganja and we have counselled them,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police (CCS) Sravan Kumar. Mr. Sravan said that the counselling centre will be having four panellists — U. Nageswara Rao from Social Welfare Department, Kasi Viswanadh, Medical Officer from GVMC, and a counsellor, apart from himself. The centre would function at room number 12 in Swarna Bharathi Indoor Stadium, every Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-youth-attend-marpu-counselling-centre/article33723554.ece
02 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police intervene to stop ‘unusual’ religious practice at a house||Gajuwaka police were shocked when residents of an area complained that a family of four persons were reportedly indulging in an unusual religious practice, in the early hours of Monday. Police said that the residents panicked, as the Madanapalle double murder incident was still fresh in their minds. They informed the police after they heard some screams from inside the house. The family members allegedly threatened that they would commit suicide if the police tried to intervene or disrupt the religious practice. However, after waiting for some time the police barged in and rescued the family. According to the police, the family was initially shifted to a hospital and later referred to Government Hospital for Mental Care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-intervene-to-stop-unusual-religious-practice-at-a-house/article33723555.ece
02 February 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. chamber hails Budget||Pydah Krishna Prasad, president-elect, the AP Chamber, has hailed the first ever digital Union Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. “Various reforms being introduced in the Budget are a welcome initiative which will boost investors’ sentiment and improve the Ease of Doing Business. Though direct taxes are left unchanged, introduction of Agriculture Infrastructure Cess on various commodities may lead to an unhappy situation,” he said. Sudhir Mulagada, chairman, Visakhapatnam Zone, said, “One of the positives of the Budget was allowing consumers of electricity alternatives to choose from more than one distribution company.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-chamber-hails-budget/article33723459.ece
02 February 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, Jana Sena welcome Budget||Bharatiya Janata Party and Jana Sena leaders on Monday welcomed the Union Budget saying that it would improve rural infrastructure and benefit the farm sector in many ways. BJP Srikakulam Parliamentary Party wing president Attada Ravi Babji said the Union government’s new plans would benefit the Srikakulam district. “Allocation of Rs. 16.5 lakh crore for the agriculture loans will boost the farm activity in backward areas. The government's allocation of Rs. 40,000 crore for rural infrastructure will ensure overall development of villages which are being neglected,” said Mr. Babji. Quality education. Vizianagaram Assembly in-charge Kusumanchi Subbarao said the Narendra Modi government’s plan to modernise 15,000 schools across the country would help students of poor and middle class sections to get quality education. “A proposal to establish 100 Sainik Schools is also a welcome step. The students, who get admission in Sainik Schools will serve the nation in future,” he added. BJP Vizianagaram Parliamentary party president Reddi Pavani and general secretary Baggam Rajesh said the proposal to establish freight corridor between Kharagpur and Vijayawada would also benefit the North Andhra region. They said that huge allocations for the health sector would ensure medical facilities at an affordable cost. BJP senior leader Birlangi Umamaheswara Rao said that one nation card would enable many migrant labourers to get ration anywhere in the country. “Thousands of migrated labourers of Srikakulam district are denied ration when they work in cities due to lack of proper address proof. The proposal will benefit nearly 5.5 lakh labourers of Srikakulam district," he said. ‘A balanced one’ Jana Sena Party senior leader Adada Mohana Rao said the Narendra Modi government balanced both development and welfare in its 2021-22 budget proposals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-jana-sena-welcome-budget/article33723502.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||73,000 police personnel will be deployed, says DGP||The Police Department will deploy 73,000 personnel on the bandobust duty at 1.37 lakh polling stations set up for the panchayat elections in the Stated. A strict vigil are being maintained along the inter-State border to prevent the entry of trouble mongers. Sensitive villages The police have started binding over the people with criminal antecedents and those were involved in poll-related violence. “We have identified the troublesome villages, sensitive and hyper-sensitive polling stations, apart from the execution of non-bailable warrants and deposit of licensed weapons for smooth conduct of the elections,” a police officer said. Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said many polling stations were located in the areas affected by left wing extremism in East Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts. “Additional forces will be deployed as a precautionary in those villages. A posse of 1.06 lakh security personnel were deployed during the general elections that ensured an incident-free polling in the State. We hope that panchayat elections will be conducted smoothly,” said Mr. Sawang and urged the voters to exercise their franchise without any influence and fear . He said that all the police force would be deployed on bandobust duty, apart from a few aged staff who would be posted at police stations. “Flag marches, cordon and search operations, vehicle checking, border meetings with the neighbouring State police and coordination meetings with the village and community heads are being conducted,” the DGP said. Security will the strengthened in Krishna, West Godavari, East Godavari, Srikakulam, Anantapur, Chittoor, Kurnool and Nellore district that share the inter-State borders, he added.  Border checkposts Meanwhile, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) Commissioner Vineet Brijlal said that the Inter-State borders already have 25 excise checkposts and 389 more to check smuggling of sand and liquor. “Apart from these, 30 checkposts have been set up exclusively for the local body elections and a separate control has been set up. “Vigil has been stepped up to prevent the flow of money and liquor and entry of criminals from the neighbouring States. The police are also holding meeting with the boat owners to avoid infiltration of criminals and liquor and cash through rivers and canals during the elections,” Mr. Brijlal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/73000-police-personnel-will-be-deployed-says-dgp/article33723475.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three districts report zero COVID cases in 24 hours||The State recorded one coronavirus death and 64 new infections in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. The cumulative tally increased to 8,87,900 while the toll stodd at 7,154, with a recovery rate of 99.05% and the death rate of 0.81%. Three districts including Prakasam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari reported no new cases during the period. Recovery count With 99 recoveries in the past day, the cumulative count increased to 8,79,504. The number of active cases was out at 1,242 as of Monday morning. Only 21,922 samples were tested in the past day. However, the positivity rate was put at 0.29%, one of the lowest. The overall positivity rate of 1.315 crore samples was at 6.75%. East Godavari reported 15 new cases, the highest single-day tally among the districts. It was followed by Visakhapatnam (10), Krishna (9), Nellore (8), Guntur (7), Anantapur (4), Chittoor (4), Kadapa (4), Kurnool (2) and Srikakulam (1). District tallies The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,24,275), West Godavari (94,236), Chittoor (87,039), Guntur (75,511), Anantapur (67,648), Nellore (62,333), Prakasam (62,175), Kurnool (60,818), Visakhapatnam (59,773), Kadapa (55,268), Krishna (48,670), Srikakulam (46,126) and Vizianagaram (41,133).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-districts-report-zero-covid-cases-in-24-hours/article33723464.ece
02 February 2021||Abhinay Deshpande,TELANGANA||DSP brings light into tribal villagers’ lives||A tribal man’s request to provide assistance to 20-odd villagers who had different degrees of vision that needed immediate medical assistance turned Utnoor’s Deputy Superintendent of Police N. Uday Reddy into taking it up as a mission. What started with a genuine concern for 20 tribals of Jamda village in Adilabad district has now crossed 260 and they are back to normal life. Mr. Reddy had set a target of getting vision back to at least 600 people till the end of this March and the entire medical expenditure is borne by him from his personal savings. Speaking to The Hindu , the 29-year-old officer said that during a customary visit to Jamda on Diwali last year, village head Durgu Patel informed him about vision impairment. Moved by their plight, he wrote to LV Prasad Eye Institute for medical assistance. So far, they have performed 67 eye surgeries.“From my end I’m paying for their pre-operative screening, eye-wear and medicines as it might be heavy on their pockets,” he said, refusing to specify the amount he has spent so far. Apart from this, the police also conducted over 550 medical camps in 300 villages in the Utnoor sub-division. Further to harness the tribal youth power towards a desired goal, the the DSP formed Police Youth Clubs in every gram panchayat, thus providing a platform to youngsters to interact and hone their skills. “We created Police Youth Club WhatsApp messaging group for every village to share awareness messages, including cyber crimes, and fight fake news,” Mr. Reddy said, adding that every youth should be a cyber warrior. Police also conduct sports events, job melas, and other activities to engage tribal youth. “Corporates like Amazon, Flipkart and Big Basket have hired people from Utnoor and surrounding villages. Another job mela was held at Ichoda on Monday,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dsp-brings-light-into-tribal-villagers-lives/article33723311.ece
02 February 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Rs. 4 lakh given to surrendered Maoist||Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt on Monday handed over a cheque for Rs. 4 lakh to surrendered Maoist Kaluma Devi in Kothagudem. Kaluma Devi, who carried a reward of Rs. 4 lakh on her head, surrendered before the district police in September last year, according to a press release. Speaking after handing over the reward money to the former woman Maoist, the SP said the police department will help the surrendered Maoists in getting assistance from the government departments as per the surrender and rehabilitation policy to lead a normal life. The Maoists can surrender before the police at the nearest police stations or through their relatives and join the mainstream, the SP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-4-lakh-given-to-surrendered-maoist/article33723340.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Municipalities to focus on property tax collection||Identification of top 500 defaulters in each of the Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) bill collector or docketwise, formation of special teams involving officials from every department, daily area-wise targets and a publicity blitz is to be unleashed to alert the house owners of the urban areas across Telangana to pay property tax by the end of March 2021. Time schedules Director of Municipal Administration N. Satyanarayana, in a communication to the municipal commissioners concerned, has instructed for preparation of time schedules for 100% collection of property tax by roping in sectional heads of all departments. Top defaulters should be identified based on the demand raised and the assessment amount made in descending order, and those who have been found to be defaulting on the payments on a regular basis should be contacted personally by the municipal commissioner concerned, apprising them of the need to pay up or face legal action. Top defaulters, whether government or private, should be displayed prominently on the municipal websites and also on the notice boards of the municipality concerned. Bulk messages should be sent to the property owners’ mobile phones on a daily basis if they are found to have not paid the property tax yet. Collection break-up While 85% of tax should be collected by the bill collector, the other 10% consisting mostly of high tax defaulters and chronic ones should be handled at the supervisory level of engineers, planning officers and managers. The municipal commissioners should be personally involved in the collection of the remaining 5%. With regard to the government buildings tax collection, the respective district collectors should be contacted for payments on time. The director wanted the commissioners or the additional commissioners in his or her absence to hold meetings with the special teams to review the collections on an everyday basis with the regional directors monitoring. Tax redressal melas should be held in all the municipalities and in ward offices, community halls, with residential welfare associations to deal with any kind of revision petitions for taking on-the-spot decisions wherever possible or make use of the online correction provisions made feasible recently. The regional directors of Hyderabad and Warangal have been asked to keep a watch on ULBs with low tax collections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/municipalities-to-focus-on-property-tax-collection/article33723305.ece
02 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Schools reopen after gap of 10 months||Educational Institutions across the State for students from Class IX onwards were re-opened on Monday after gap of over 10 month due to the Covid-19 pandemic. All high schools, junior colleges, degree and post-graduate colleges and professional education colleges including residential institutions were re-opened for conduct of regular classes. The students were thermal scanned for their body temperature and were provided hand sanitiser in all the educational institutions. Although most of the students turned up by wearing masks, there were reports of some students turning up without masks and they were provided masks by the teachers or other staff monitoring the norms. As decided, only one student per bench/desk were allowed in schools and colleges so as to maintain distance between one student from another. Safety measures in place With the stipulated COVID-19 safety measures in place, physical classes resumed for students of classes IX and X in around 458 schools including 280 government and 178 private schools in Khammam district on Monday. Of the total 36,804 students of classes IX and X enrolled in the government and private schools, the parents of an estimated 31,754 (75%) of the total students had given their written consent to send their wards to schools in adherence to the safety measures mandated by the School Education Department. However, the first day of reopening of schools in the current academic year (2020-21) for classroom instruction saw good attendance in several schools mainly located in urban areas and relatively thin attendance in rural schools, sources said. In all, around 15,535 (49%) of students attended the physical classes in both government and private schools across Khammam district on Monday. The present academic year began belatedly on September 1, 2020 in the form of online classes through Doordarshan, TSAT and other digital platforms due to the pandemic. Student-specific transactional plans were rolled out to reach out to all students for effective implementation of the online instruction, sources said. However, the digital divide and various other issues such as poor access to the Internet connectivity and electronic gadgets in rural areas posed major challenges to the implementation of the online classes/digital education. While continuing with the digital classes for classes II to X in all subjects, the school education department has resumed the physical classes for class IX and X students by making a blended form of learning (online and offline modes) available to the latter, sources said. Initially, focus will be laid on revision of lessons conducted through various digital platforms in remote learning mode so far during the physical classes in the first few weeks followed by completion of the remaining syllabus and exams within the stipulated working days of 89 days, sources added. In Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, the parents of around 80% of the total enrolled class IX and X students of both government and private schools had submitted consent letters to send their children for physical classes. The physical classes got underway across the district with several schools registering moderate attendance of students on the first day. As many as 103 students of the total 276 students attended physical classes at the Zilla Parishad Secondary School in Palvancha town. Collector M V Reddy visited the school and interacted with the SSC students. He wanted the staff concerned to ensure hygienic conditions while serving mid-day meals, provide adequate drinking water and other basic amenities to students. Thin attendance The High schools and colleges that were opened on Monday, the first day after a gap of about 11 months, witnessed thin attendance with many parents following ‘wait and watch’ policy. The High School located at Pothireddypalle witnessed attendance of 60 students out of the total 191 student strength in both 9th and 10th classes. Similarly, the High School at Mamidipally had an attendance of 17 students out of total 34 students. All the schools followed Covid -19 regulations like sanitising benches and classrooms, putting sanitisers for use by students, offering them masks and keeping prescribed distance among the students while attending classes. Siddipet stood on the top in getting highest number of students with 51 per cent of students attending classes. Out of the total 34,389 students 17,434 students attended classes. At Shivampet Government High School in Andol constituency 111 students out of the total 170 came to school . In Sangareddy district 18,241 students attended classes against the total 51,769 students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/schools-reopen-after-gap-of-10-months/article33723339.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Senior BJP leaders welcome budget||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy and TS party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar welcomed the Union Budget presented by Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. The budget reflected the Modi's government's focus on infrastructure, health, social welfare and human resource development. The proposal to set up more textile parks will help generate employment, observed Mr. Kishan Reddy in his message. The importance given to COVID vaccination by allotting Rs. .35,400 crore shows the government's commitment and its self-reliance policies towards building a five trillion economy, he said. Mr. Sanjay Kumar was especially pleased that womenfolk will get benefitted with the free cylinder scheme extension and said the proposals will help the country's economy to recover from the pandemic. The budget figures showed that the government had allotted Rs. .1.72 lakh crore for minimum support price and this should put an end to the Opposition criticism against the farm laws. More funds for health and extending the home loan subsidy by another year will be beneficial to people at large. Arrests condemned Meanwhile, the BJP has strongly condemned the arrest 38 of its leaders and party workers in Warangal and accused the Minister for IT, Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao of forcing the police to take such an “one-sided action.” The party was protesting before the house of TRS Parkala MLA Dharma Reddy for his comments on collection of funds for Ram Janmabhoomi Temple when the police swooped down on them without any provocation, said the party president in a press statement. He demanded the MLA to withdraw his comments and apologise or he will continue to face protests from the party. The police have been acting in a partisan manner and were mute spectators when party leader Vijaychandra Reddy's house compound wall was demolished using a JCB by TRS activists, he said. At the same time the police had registered non-bailable cases against district party chief Rao Padma and four other women even while taking no action against the ruling party workers. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao should also make public his stance on this issue as his party MLAs have been making objectionable remarks on the funds collection, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/senior-bjp-leaders-welcome-budget/article33723326.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State govt. sees some positives in Union Budget||The State government is seeing some positive points in the Union Budget 2021-22 presented in the Lok Sabha on Monday notwithstanding the fact that there is not a single mention about the repeated requests made by Telangana for sector specific releases in the 64-page budget speech read out by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman. “There is nothing specific to Telangana in the budget. We will be getting resources on par with other States,” was how a senior Finance official reacted when contacted. The central government has no doubt made huge allocations on infrastructure front, but the spending is aimed at States that are going to polls in the coming days. The budget, however, laid more emphasis on revenue earning than borrowings unlike the current year where the situation was quite opposite in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Centre’s decision to peg the borrowing limit of the States at 4% of the GSDP was a welcome measure as it would go a long way in taking care of expenditure. The State had been requesting the Centre to raise the limit to 5% as it would give more leverage to the government to focus on welfare as well as accelerated development. Another announcement that is expected to augur well for the State is the announcement that Rs. 2 lakh crore would be provided with Rs. 2 lakh crore over and above the quantum proposed to be spent by the Centre on capital projects. “This is a good measure as the States can prioritise their projects,” the official told The Hindu . Another area where the State could expect release of funds was through the proposed spending of Rs. 60,000 crore on safe drinking water supply and sanitation programmes. “We might expect some releases on this front,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-govt-sees-some-positives-in-union-budget/article33723328.ece
02 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||DeMon scam: ED attaches assets of Musaddilal Gems worth Rs. 130.57 cr.||Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs. 130.57 crore, including 41 immovable properties of M/s Musaddilal Gems and Jewels Private Limited and others involved in demonetisation scam. Officials said the assets include movable properties in the form of stock in trade Rs. 18.69 crore and investments made in the stock market in the form of shares Rs. 0.63 crore. The attachment also included gold jewellery, bullion and ornaments seized during the earlier searches which are valued at Rs. 83.30 crore. The enforcement agency initiated an investigation against M/s Musaddilal Gems and Jewels and others based on the FIR registered by Hyderabad Police. During investigation, it was revealed that M/s Musaddilal Gems and Jewels Pvt Ltd, M/s Vaishnavi Bullion Private Limited and M/s Musaddilal Jewellers Pvt Ltd had deposited demonetised notes of Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000 to the tune of Rs. 111 crore in their bank accounts immediately post November 8, 2016. They had raised fake cash receipts and sale invoices showing that around 6,000 fictitious customers visited their showrooms to purchase gold jewellery between 8 p.m. to midnight, on November 8, 2016 immediately after the announcement of demonetisation, officials said. Investigation under PMLA revealed that the accused companies of Kailash Chand Gupta and his sons in connivance with his chartered accountant Sanjay Sarda fabricated invoices to justify the fictitious sources of income to justify the large amounts of cash deposits. Mr. Sarda advised them to raise fabricated invoices below Rs. 2 lakh, so that there would be no requirement of recording the KYC proof or PAN of the customers, they said. He also also contributed demonetised cash for conversion and also received hefty commission for rendering this advice. Immediately after depositing around Rs. 111 crore cash into their bank accounts, a major portion of these deposits were transferred to gold bullion dealers to buy bullion, which was delivered to various jewelers, individuals and entities involved. “Demonetised notes were successfully placed and layered and finally integrated into the financial system,” the officials said. Further investigation revealed that the amount to the tune of Rs. 111 crore was pooled from various jewelers, individuals and entities. “Majority of the jewellers admitted that they had contributed cash. They again claimed that the demonetised notes were sourced from unknown customers. But they could neither provide the list of the customers nor explain the reason for depositing it in the accounts of Mussadilal jewellers instead of their own,” they said. The investigators also found that by selling the converted gold at exorbitant profit, the family of Mr Kailash Gupta derived further profits to the tune of around Rs. 28 crore. “The total proceeds of crime in this case is thus worked out at Rs. 139 crore,” officials said. Earlier two searches were conducted by ED and jewellery worth an amount of Rs. 83.3 crore was seized. A prosecution complaint is also filed before the PMLA Court and a supplementary prosecution complaint has also been filed on September 25 last year. The court has taken cognisance of the ED’s charge sheet and with the provisional attachment order, the total attachment of the proceeds of crime has reached Rs. 130.57 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/demon-scam-ed-attaches-assets-of-musaddilal-gems-worth-rs-13057-cr/article33723309.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CPI vows to defeat BJP in five States||Communist Party of India’s national general secretary D. Raja affirmed that primary objective of the party with regard to the upcoming elections in five States is to defeat the BJP and not allow it any foothold in these States. Electoral alliances will be forged with this objective in mind, Mr. Raja said at a press conference organised on Monday, briefing the media about the resolutions taken during party’s two-day National Council meetings which ended on January 31. In Kerala, the party is part of the Left Democratic Front, which had recently swept the local body elections, while in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, it is working in alliance with DMK, MDMK and other parties. In West Bengal, the Left and Congress party are holding deliberations for an alliance to emerge as credible alternative, while in Assam all secular forces are set to come together to support the people who are disgruntled with the Citizenship Amendment Act, Mr.Raja averred and said BJP will be denied a foothold in all these States. Calling the latest budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as continuation of the Centre’s aggressive, pro-corporate policies, Mr.Raja said it had nothing for suffering masses. India has hit the nadir of all developmental indices, he said. Launching a broadside against the ruling NDA government, Mr. Raja said the BJP-RSS combine has become very aggressive in pursuing its divisive, sectarian, communal agenda, aimed at changing the character of Indian State. Since coming to power, BJP has been brazenly violating constitutional values of secularism and welfare state, and trying to build theocratic State based on ideological commitment to Hindutva. He affirmed the party’s commitment to the fight against communal, fascist forces through broad-based ideological and secular campaigns, towards reclaiming the republic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpi-vows-to-defeat-bjp-in-five-states/article33723334.ece
02 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||JNNURM beneficiaries edged out of allocated homes||Scores of beneficiaries under the JNNURM Housing scheme are unable to take possession of their allotted homes, even after they have paid full amount as required under the scheme. A total of 512 original beneficiaries of the housing units received the shock of their life, when they discovered that their homes at Karmanghat had already been broken into and occupied by hooligans and henchmen of political leaders. Repeated trips to police stations and officials not yielding any result, they came to GHMC head office on Monday, and staged a demonstration. “ The police refused to file a case, and asked us to wait till GHMC elections were over, because all the occupants were henchmen of a leader from ruling party. Later, we made rounds of Ranga Reddy district collector, but to no avail. We are being beaten up whenever we went to our homes for peaceful resolution,” said P.Raju, husband of one beneficiary who came to protest site. All the 512 beneficiaries have formed a social media group and began to launch their own fight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jnnurm-beneficiaries-edged-out-of-allocated-homes/article33723332.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||File a counter affidavit over TSCHE chief continuation: HC||Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili of Telangana High Court on Monday instructed the State government to file counter affidavit in a writ petition challenging continuation of T. Papi Reddy as chairman of Telangana State Council for Higher Education (TSCHE). The judge passed the interim direction after hearing the plea filed by a post doctoral fellow K. Vijay Kumar of Osmania University. The petitioner contended that the rule did not permit appointment of a person above 65 years of age as TSCHE chairman. According to the petitioner, Mr. Papi Reddy retired as professor of Economics from Kakatiya University on attaining superannuation at the age of 60 years on June 30, 2014. He reached the age of 65 years by June 30, 2019. The petitioner maintained that State government appointed Mr. Reddy as TSCHE chairman through GO MS no. 8 of Higher Education department issued on August 5, 2014, for a term of three years. After the tenure was over, the government extended his term for another three years. The second term expired on August 4, 2020. The government issued another GO Rt no 115 on July 17, 2020, extending the term of TSCHE chairman, vice-chairman and its members till further orders. This was in violation of the Act under which the Council was created. Already, the Osmania University Students’ Joint Action Committee on June 20, 2019, represented to the government that Mr. Reddy cannot continue as the council chairman since he has crossed the age of 65 years, the petitioner argued. Extension of his term was against the statutory provisions and hence, liable to be set aside, the petitioner argued. The judge directed the government to secure instructions on the matter and posted it after two weeks for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/file-a-counter-affidavit-over-tsche-chief-continuation-hc/article33723303.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central govt. neglected Telangana, alleges Uttam||The Union Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday was highly disappointing as Telangana was grossly neglected in the allocation of funds, said Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy. Speaking to media persons on the premises of Parliament premises after the presentation of budget, he accused the BJP government of misusing the public exchequer for political gains. He pointed out that disproportionate and higher allocations were made for election-bound States like West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and a few others, while other States were totally neglected. “The BJP government has failed to ensure equitable distribution of resources among all States. It’s a wrong practice and if continued, all States will get new projects and funds only during election years,” Mr. Uttam Reddy said. “All four BJP MPs from Telangana should be ashamed of themselves for having failed to get a single rupee for Telangana in the Budget,” he said and asked them to stop making tall claims and fake promises with regard to Telangana henceforth. Further, he said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao must explain as to what he had achieved by supporting the BJP government at the Centre since 2014. “Mr. Rao has supported all the policies and decisions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the beginning,” Mr. Uttam Reddy stated. However, Telangana did not gain anything in any of the budgets presented by BJP government so far, he said. There was no mention of allocations to even the promises made to Telangana including on according national status to an irrigation project under Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act. “There is nothing to cheer for people of Telangana from this budget,” Mr. Uttam Reddy said. The budget has nothing for common people and the imposition of cess of Rs. 2.5 per litre on petrol and Rs. 4 per litre on diesel would burden common man badly as it would lead to inflation and price rise. “It has been proved that BJP is incapable of managing the country’s finances and it wants to survive either by selling public assets or by borrowing loans as it has proposed to borrow Rs. 12 lakh crore in addition to large-scale disinvestment plans,” the TPCC president said.  If the wrong practice continues, States will get new projects and funds only during election years. N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, TPCC chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/central-govt-neglected-telangana-alleges-uttam/article33723317.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Growth-oriented budget, say FTCCI, CII-TS leaders||Leaders of CII-Telangana and the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) have hailed Union Budget 2021-22 as growth oriented. The budget is favourable towards improving overall economy with its emphasis on building strong infrastructure, developing a healthy India and reinvigorating education sector. Its stress on Minimum Government and Maximum Governance will strengthen the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat, CII-TS Chairman Krishna Bodanapu said in a statement. Noting the focus it laid on skilling by reviving apprenticeship programme, he welcomed the proposal to set up seven mega textile parks in three years, revising the SME definition and capacity building in health sector by way of either setting up or strengthening rural and urban health centres. Vice chairman Sameer Goel appreciated the Centre’s efforts to ensure good returns to farmers through procurement. He said extension of the ‘Operation Green Scheme’ to 22 more perishable products may help increase exports and boost value addition. FTCCI president Ramakanth Inani, who also described the Budget as growth oriented, said increased allocation for capital expenditure, mainly for roads and railways, would help create large number of employment opportunities and demand generation for goods and services. Measures such as infusion of Rs. 20,000 crore into public sector banks and setting up a company to manage bad debts for banks would provide scope for increase in credit disbursement helping MSME sector and consumers in general, he said. “We welcome government decision not to increase taxes or imposing any COVID-19 related cess despite the revenue deficit,” he said, while expressing disappointment at the Budget not providing any additional exemption to tax payers in the times of crisis. Industry, he said, was expecting extension of the production linked incentive (PLI) scheme to a few more sectors. Raw deal for State Telangana has received raw deal as in previous budgets and no major projects were sanctioned for the State, Mr.Inani said. Echoing similar sentiments, senior vice president K.Bhasker Reddy said while the Budget overall is “bold and progressive”, there was not much for Telangana. Given that it is a performing State, the expectations were more, especially in terms of getting infrastructure projects such as expressways, he said, adding Warangal may get one of the seven mega textile parks announced in the Budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/growth-oriented-budget-say-ftcci-cii-ts-leaders/article33723322.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Covaxin maker welcomes Rs. 35,000 cr. vaccination proposal||A great step, far-reaching budget announcement was how Bharat Biotech founder and CMD Krishna Ella described the Budget proposal for providing Rs. 35,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccination in 2021-22. The Finance Minister’s commitment to provide more funds for containing the pandemic spread and (thereby) an effective, smooth path for the vaccination scheme will help contain and lead towards accomplishing a COVID-19 disease free country, he said in a statement. Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech with ICMR-NIV, is one of the two COVID-19 vaccines approved by the Drugs Controller General of India and being administered to frontline healthcare workers since last month. The government’s focus on preventive health, curative health and well-being is reassuring, he said. Joint managing director Suchitra Ella said new health infrastructure schemes and the Rs. 35,000 crore towards the vaccination is a “huge fiscal medicine to contain the pandemic, reduce disease burden for the population and the economy. The Budget proposal on setting up of nine Bio Safety Lab (BSL) in the Budget will boost research and scientific discoveries. Execution matters Chairman of Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Satish Reddy said the Budget was growth-oriented, with a lot of positive interventions and having something for everyone. On healthcare, the government has taken a big step with an outlay of Rs. 2.23 lakh crore, while on innovation and research and development, the additional allocation of Rs. 50,000 crore, over five years, through the National Research Foundation marks a good beginning. “As with all budgets, there are concrete proposals that are encouraging but it is the execution that finally matters. I hope this time the government gets it right,” he said. Welcoming the Budget’s thrust on healthcare, Indian Immunologicals Managing Director K. Anand Kumar said the higher allocation for primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare along with steps to set up health and wellness centres across the country would immensely help, especially the economically weaker section and make quality healthcare more affordable. Making specific funds available for the vaccination for COVID-19 as well as pneumococcal will help combat the pandemic and save precious lives. Right stimulus Cyient Executive Chairman BVR Mohan Reddy said “in the unprecedented times, the Budget is well balanced and provides the right stimulus to strengthen economy and create jobs. Finance Minister did a commendable job with substantial allocation to key sectors like healthcare, infrastructure, education and manufacturing. No additional burden on account of direct taxes is very relieving.” TalentSprint CEO and Managing Director Santanu Paul said the “Budget has been a letdown for edtech firms which performed extremely well during the pandemic and were revenue drivers. Platforms promoting hybrid and blended learning will play a pivotal role in accelerating reach in tier 2/3 towns and the government should have taken cognizance of this and provided special incentives. As an NSE group company, we welcome the Rs. 1,500 crore fund for digital payments as this will drive the need for more skilled talent in the fintech sector and drive employment opportunities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covaxin-maker-welcomes-rs-35000-cr-vaccination-proposal/article33723324.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||One-day strike by power staff||Employees working in all power utilities in the State have decided to boycott work for a day on February 3 against the privatisation policies of the Centre in the energy sector. The protest boycott of duties would be in response to the nationwide call given by the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers (NCCOEEE). The Telangana unit of the body has announced its decision on Monday alleging that the Centre was conspiring to hand over the power distribution business to the corporate companies close to the BJP-led government at the Centre to deny any subsidy to any category of consumers. The committee has alleged that the Centre was going ahead with its privatisation plans in spite of witnessing the adverse impact of handing over the distribution business to private players on several categories of consumers including the poor and middle class domestic, agriculture and allied sectors consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/power-staff-oppose-privatisation-to-boycott-work-tomorrow/article33723331.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Infant dies hours after taking polio drops||Post-mortem examination on the two-and-half-month-old baby girl, who died within hours of taking bivalent Oral Polio Vaccine (bOPV) on Sunday, was completed on Monday. Officials were yet to receive the report. The infant did not suffer from fever or any health complications. However, officials from the Telangana Health department said the vaccination might not be the reason as 17 more children were given the vaccine from the same vial and none of them developed any adverse effect. The Pulse Polio programme was launched on Sunday. Around 36,42,598 children in the 0-5 years age group across rhe State were vaccinated. The infant was administered polio drops at an anganwadi centre in Shambipur village near Dundigal, Medchal-Malkajgiri, at around 11.30 a.m. on Sunday. After an hour, her mother alerted Health department staff that the baby was not responding. Officials from Medchal said she was rushed to a private hospital in Miyapur where she was declared brought-dead. Medchal-Malkajgiri District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) K. Mallikarjun Rao said he, along with District Immunisation Officer and others, filed a case investigation report, and verbal autopsy conducted by District Immunisation Officer was recorded. As per procedure, post-mortem was conducted on the infant. A District Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) committee would examine the death and send a report to the State AEFI committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/infant-dies-hours-after-taking-polio-drops/article33723302.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Corporate hospitals welcome budget||Corporate hospital managements in Hyderabad have welcomed Union Budget 2021-22 for health sector, and gave suggestions, their needs. Chairman of Apollo Hospitals Group, Dr Prath ap C Reddy said that Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement to develop primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare system has gladdened his heart. “We must now look at the next crisis of non-communicable diseases, which will be responsible for 80% of deaths and cause a 3.8 trillion USD burden to the country by 2030. It is important to focus on prevention, early detection and possible cure to protect Indian families from grief, financial burden and to help the GDP grow,” he said. D.V.S. Somaraju, ED of SLG hospitals, said that the PM AtmaNirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana with the proposed outlay of Rs. 64,180 crore over a period six years, along with the total proposed spending of Rs. 2.23 lakh crore is likely to provide the much-needed impetus to the health sector. “Indian healthcare is moving in the right direction, but needs government and investment support to speed up the process of providing best possible healthcare across the country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corporate-hospitals-welcome-budget/article33723319.ece
02 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Panel studying financial implications of PRC||The three-member committee headed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar started evaluation of financial implications of the recommendations made by the Pay Revision Commission on the State exchequer. The panel resolved to examine in detail the financial implications on account of the requests made by the employees’ associations. The Finance department was asked to submit a report in this regard to the committee duly examining all applications in detail and the financial implications to help decide further course of action. The committee comprising principal secretaries K. Ramakrishna Rao (Finance) and Rajat Kumar (Irrigation) summarised the representations received from the employees’ unions requesting steep increase in the fitment benefit over and above the 7.3 % recommended by the PRC. Mr. Ramakrishna Rao recalled that a large number of employees associations requested that they should be given an opportunity to meet the three member committee and submit their representations regarding the PRC recommendations. He explained about the highlights of the Union Budget presented in the Lok Sabha as also the recommendations of the XV Finance Commission applicable to States over the next five years. The meeting discussed the implications of the Union Budget proposals for the State. The Chief Secretary directed the officials concerned to formulate a schedule for further meetings with the representatives of the employees associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/panel-studying-financial-implications-of-prc/article33723320.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State records 118 fresh COVID cases on Sunday||Telangana recorded 118 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total to 2,94,587. While 17,686 people were examined, results of 525 were awaited. Two more COVID-19 patients died, pushing the death toll to 1,601. The new cases include 26 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and 13 from Rangareddy. No case was reported from Yadadri-Bhongir, Narayanpet, Nirmal, Mahbubnagar, Kamareddy, Jogulamba-Gadwal, and Jayashankar-Bhupalapally. So far, a total of 78,79,047 people have been put through tests. Of the total cases, 2,092 were active while 2,90,894 have recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-records-118-fresh-covid-cases-on-sunday/article33723300.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||INCOIS Foundation Day tomorrow||Special lectures and symposiums will mark the 23rd foundation day lecture of the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), Ministry of Earth Sciences, on Wednesday. The foundation day lecture will be delivered by executive secretary, Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO, and Assistant Director-General of UNESCO Vladimir Ryabinin, on “United Nations Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development (Ocean Decade)”. It will be followed by an online meeting of “National Decade Coordination Committee (NDCC)” which will be presided over by MoES secretary M. Rajeevan. The celebrations will be preceded by ‘Early career researchers' symposium on Tuesday where Raghu Murtugudde (University of Maryland, USA) and Shubha Sathyendranath (Plymouth Marine Laboratory, UK) will deliver the plenary talks. INCOIS services include tsunami and storm surge early warnings, ocean state forecasts, potential fishing zone advisories and ocean data services. The livecast can be followed at https://incois.gov.in/Live.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/incois-foundation-day-tomorrow/article33723306.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Agri varsity signs MoU with AIOI||Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) and New Delhi-based Association of Indian Organic Industry (AIOI) have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) here on Monday with an aim to create collaborative research in organic farming, training and marketing for organic products. According to the university officials, the agreement would also help the university offer a certificate course in skill development and entrepreneurship in organic products. The association between the two would further help improve quality standards in organic crops, reduce post-harvest losses and improved storage technologies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/agri-varsity-signs-mou-with-aioi/article33723509.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revanth against presidential type of democracy||The idea of “one-nation one-election” or simultaneous elections to Parliament (Lok Sabha) and State Legislative Assemblies would divide the nation, Congress MP from Malkajgiri and working president of TPCC A. Revanth Reddy said here on Monday. Speaking to media persons here he said the plans of BJP, particularly those of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to change the system of democracy from the existing Parliamentary form to Presidential form would render the people of South India voiceless as a direct election to the post of President would not require the support of the electorate in the South as the result would be dictated and decided by the North. In the event of such a possibility the demand for division of India would gain strength, the Congress MP said adding that the importance of Southern States was reduced drastically after Mr. Modi took over and all key Cabinet posts in the Union Cabinet were being garnered by non-South leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/revanth-against-presidential-type-of-democracy/article33723330.ece
02 February 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 16 BSNL offers||BSNL has announced 5-10% discount on landline, broadband and fibre to home services to all the serving and retired Central, State government and public sector employees. It has also introduced annual payment option for newly introduced high speed fiber broadband plans — Fiber basic plus at Rs. 599, Fiber value at Rs. 799, Fiber premium at Rs. 999 and Fiber Ultra at Rs. 1,499 with one month extra validity. For further details, one can visit their nearest customer service centre, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-16-bsnl-offers/article33723307.ece
02 February 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Flood gates opened for foreign players: CPI(M)||CPI (M) district secretary Nunna Nageswara Rao lashed out at the Union Budget alleging that the BJP dispensation at the Centre opened the floodgates for foreign players to loot public wealth by increasing the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in insurance sector from 49% to 74%. In a statement, he alleged that the Centre stipulated the disinvestment target at 1.74 lakh crore and proposed to dole out crores of rupees worth subsidies to the corporates by presenting a “pro-corporate” budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flood-gates-opened-for-foreign-players-cpim/article33723327.ece
02 February 2021||MAMIDIPALLY (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Heavy vehicles damage Manjeera water pipeline||The Zilla Parishad High School at Mamidipally in Kandi mandal is just off the National Highway 65 and it is less than 10 kilometres from the district headquarters. The school re-opened after a gap of about 10 months and the first day the school saw attendance of less than 20 students of both class 9 and 10. The total strength in these classes is 44. However, the ZP School could have been in some remote corner of the district. The staff and the students who reached the school as it reopened found heavy vehicles had not only damaged the road but also the Manjeera water pipeline that passes by the school. The pipeline carrying water to Hyderabad from Manjeera dam was broken in places and the entire road had turned into slush. Such was the damage that two teachers fell off their vehicles while trying to drive on the road. Under normal circumstances any report of damage to the pipeline would have brought officials to the spot to repair it. Repeated complaints by the villagers have fallen on deaf ears and no one has responded to the problem. The heavy vehicles are carrying earth fill and reportedly unloading them in the full tank level of a tank located in the Mamidipally village, which some of the villagers claimed was patta land. Though hundreds of heavy vehicles have been passing on the road and damaging the approach road, none of the villagers was ready to raise their voice fearing reprisal. “We are being threatened by those who are filling the tank. Hence we have preferred to remain silent,” said a villager on condition of anonymity. “Being president of the village, I had lodged a complaint with Revenue Inspector and some other officials. But there has been no response so far,” sarpanch P. Ramulu told The Hindu . When contacted Tahsildar Parameswar said that he had visited the place in the past and directed the people to stop the filling of the village tank and had also informed the Irrigation department about it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-vehicles-damage-manjeera-water-pipeline/article33723313.ece
02 February 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Pillar of blood’ megalith seeks attention||Every summer, when Nalgonda features among the hottest districts in the State, residents of Padurivarigudem village in Nakrekal, about 30 km from here, know it is also anniversary time for one of its landmarks — Netturu Sthambham (pillar of blood). Common knowledge in the village is that the stone pillar changes its colour to red during summer, and hence its name. But consequently, the landmark drove researchers and enthusiasts here to eventually discover it as a menhir, upright stones planted in the earth during the megalithic age or the Iron Age, to indicate memorial sites. In March 2017, E. Sivanagi Reddy of Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravathi (CCVA), along with locals and amateur archaeologists, was one of the first to inspect the site at Padurivarigudem and announce the discovery. The structure was in memory of a chief leader in the megalithic culture, he had said. The nearby Kandimallavarigudem hamlet also showed a 1289 AD inscription and Iron Age burials made of blocks and slabs in near-extinction state, besides the remnants of the characteristic pottery of the period. “The menhir is 11-foot high and planted six feet below the earth; its changing colour in summer is because of its mineral composition. Only 10 burial sites are remaining, and their existence is doubtful if they are not protected now,” Mr. Reddy says, visiting the sites on Sunday. According to him, several burials, were destroyed during agricultural operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pillar-of-blood-megalith-seeks-attention/article33723337.ece
02 February 2021||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||New cancer care centre coming up in Sangareddy||A new specialty cancer care and palliative centre would be coming up at MNR Homoe Medical College and Hospital, for the first time in Telangana. It will be inaugurated on February 4. According to Manilal, Medical Superintendent, the centre aims at attending to healthcare needs of cancer patients. He said homeopathic treatment improves quality of life, survival rate and reduces the adverse impact of chemo and radio therapy treatments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/new-cancer-care-centre-coming-up-in-sangareddy/article33723314.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Centre ‘concedes’ State’s request||The Centre, however, departed from this practice for the first time in respect of recommendation relating to special grants to three States to make up for shortfall in tax devolution in 2020-21. As a result, Telangana was denied special grant of Rs. 723 crore during the current fiscal, he said, requesting the Union Minister to consider releasing this grant and restore the practice of treating the recommendations of the Finance Commission as an award while considering the report of the XV Finance Commission for the years 2021-26. The Centre is yet to make its stand clear on the issue as there was no mention of release of the special grant to the State in the budget speech made by Ms. Sitaraman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-concedes-states-request/article33723329.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||CPI All India Congress in 2022||The All India Party Congress of the Communist Party of India will be held at the beginning of 2022, and the venue has been decided as Vijayawada. Party’s national general secretary D.Raja has announced this at Monday’s press conference, and said due to the pandemic situation, the congress could not be held within three years as has been the tradition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpi-all-india-congress-in-2022/article33723335.ece
02 February 2021||Mumbai,||Mumbai local trains open for all after 10 months||After a gap of about 320 days, the Railways permitted all members of the general public to travel in local trains in Mumbai from Monday morning, though for limited hours. Help of the local police was taken to manage the crowd and all authorised entry/exit points and ticket counters had been opened for smooth conduct of the services, Central Railway’s chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said. The general public is allowed to travel in the suburban trains from the time of start of services for the day till 7 a.m., from 12 noon to 4 p.m., and from 9 p.m. till the closure of services for the day. From 7 a.m. to 12 noon and from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m., only employees of the essential services and categories of commuters specified by the Maharashtra government and the Ministry of Railways are permitted to travel in local trains. “Wearing of masks is compulsory and coordination will be ensured with civic authorities for collecting fines from those who violate the COVID-19 prevention norms,” Mr. Sutar said. The suburban train services were suspended on the midnight of March 22 last year due to the COVID-19 outbreak and gradually resumed from June 15. All the commercial ticket counters and automatic ticket vending machines have been opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/mumbai-local-trains-open-for-all-after-10-months/article33722970.ece
02 February 2021||Mumbai,||HC reserves order on plea seeking immediate release of Varavara Rao||The Bombay High Court on Monday reserved the order on a plea seeking the immediate release of poet Varavara Rao, 82, on medical grounds. Arguing before a division bench of Justice SS Shinde and Manish Pitale, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, on behalf of the National Investigation Agency, which is probing the case, said charges on Mr. Rao were very serious. Justice Shinde interrupted, saying said charges were not being framed and speedy trial was also part of the fundamental rights. Referring to the charges (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act), he said the police and military have lost their lives over this. The court asked why there has been no mention of test for dementia in the latest medical report of Mr. Rao. Mr. Singh said it was because the test was not suggested by the neurologist. The court then asked senior advocate Anand Grover, representing Mr. Rao, what is his response to the statement made by the Maharashtra government on shifting him to JJ Hospital from the private hospital Mr. Rao is currently admitted to. He said his family and relatives have to come and visit him from Hyderabad. The court said it was not about convenience but about his health. Mr. Grover suggested if he could be kept in Hyderabad for three months on a trial period with all conditions. Justice Shinde said, “You cannot dispute that the best treatment possible has been given to him. Also people come to Mumbai from other States for their treatment”. The court said there was an apprehension that if Mr. Rao is released, then other co-accused would take undue advantage. Mr. Grover said Mr. Rao had 24 serious cases against him and he had appeared for trial. The trial in the Bhima Koregaon case would not start for another two years. The court said, “We will hear this when we are hearing your case on merits”. Mr. Grover urged the court to release him on bail for three months with stringent conditions. However, the court said, “We cannot say, don’t do this and don’t do that”. Senior advocate Indira Jaising, appearing for Mr. Rao's wife Hemlata, who is seeking her husband’s release, reiterated that “his continued incarceration is incompatible to his health”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-reserves-order-on-plea-seeking-immediate-release-of-varavara-rao/article33722968.ece
02 February 2021||Mumbai,||Plea filed in HC seeking NCLAT Bench in Mumbai||A petition has been filed before the Bombay High Court seeking that a Bench of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) be set up in Mumbai. A Division Bench of Justices A.A. Sayed and Madhav Jamdar was hearing a plea filed by advocate Nicky Pokar seeking a NCLAT Bench in Mumbai pursuant to a Supreme Court ruling that had directed the Central government through the Ministry of Corporate Affairs to establish circuit Benches of NCLAT outside Delhi within six months. The plea also said, “NCLAT’s operating procedure mandates filing of physical/hard copies of appeal interim applications causing difficulty for advocates and petitioners outside Delhi given the current pandemic situation. The poor financial health of a large section of the public, coupled with travel and other restrictions, aggravates the difficulties. Seeking speedy and cost-effective justice is the casualty in corollary.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/plea-filed-in-hc-seeking-nclat-bench-in-mumbai/article33722966.ece
02 February 2021||Mumbai,||HC directs State to file report on Indrani’s medical condition||The Bombay High Court on Monday directed the Maharashtra government to file a report on the medical condition of Indrani Mukerjea, an accused in the Sheena Bora murder case. A single judge Bench of Justice P.D. Naik was hearing a bail plea filed by Ms. Mukerjea through advocate Gunjan Mangla on October 29, 2020, on medical grounds. The plea said that she had developed a neurological condition and was suffering from chronic ischemic changes in her brain arteries which could affect the supply of oxygen to her brain, resulting in a stroke. She had also suffered from blackouts time and again and had been on medication, it said. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probing the case sought time to file a reply. The HC adjourned the matter to be heard on February 22. Ms. Mukerjea (48) was arrested in August 2015 and has been lodged at Byculla jail since October that year, on the charge of killing her daughter Sheena on April 24, 2012. On July 15, 2020, a special CBI court had rejected the 45-day interim medical bail on the basis of the spread of novel coronavirus inside the prison. She had also relied on recommendations of a high-powered committee constituted to release undertrials charged with murder. On October 16, 2018, Ms. Mukerjea had filed her third bail application on medical grounds and said she had developed a neurological complication.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-directs-state-to-file-report-on-indranis-medical-condition/article33722965.ece
02 February 2021||Navi Mumbai,||First bird flu cases detected in Navi Mumbai||The first positive cases of bird flu in Navi Mumbai were reported from Mahape and Ghansoli. On January 25, a total of 10 samples including six poultry — two from Mahape and four from Ghansoli — were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune. Reports of all those sent from Mahape and Ghansoli have been found positive for H5N1. “The report came on Saturday night, and on Sunday, the Thane Collector issued a notification to cull the birds within a radius of one km of the farms in Mahape and Ghansoli. The people who handled the poultry will also be screened and the area has been sanitised,” Navi Mumbai Municipal Commissioner Abhijit Bangar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/first-bird-flu-cases-detected-in-navi-mumbai/article33722961.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||‘Sero survey shows 56% with antibodies’||About 56% of 28,000 people, whose blood samples were collected in January from across the city, have developed antibodies against COVID-19, officials told The Hindu . The Delhi government conducted the fifth serological survey — the largest till now — to get an idea about the percentage of the population with antibodies against COVID-19, before the vaccination drive. As a part of the survey, blood samples of people of different age groups were collected. “The overall seroprevalence is a little over 56%. In some districts, the value is higher, and others have a lower value,” the Delhi government official said. A second official also confirmed the development. The Delhi government is yet to make the results of the survey public. When a larger part of the population develops antibodies and becomes immune to the virus, the chain of transmission is broken, and this reduces the spread of the disease and this is called herd immunity. So, a higher value of seroprevalence is favourable. As per experts, when the result of the serological survey has to be about 50-60%, to attain herd immunity. So, the current result shows that Delhi might be close to herd immunity, depending upon the quality of the sample selection. But according to experts, different parts of even the same city attain herd immunity at different times. The first such survey done in the city in June-July had shown that 23.4% of people surveyed have developed antibodies against the virus. Similar surveys in August showed that 29.1% of people have antibodies, 25.1% in September, and 25.5% in October. A positive result would imply that the person has developed antibodies against the virus. This means that the person was infected at some point by the virus and developed immunity against it. On the other hand, 7,893 healthcare workers took the COVID-19 vaccination in the city on Monday, said Delhi government spokesperson. There were 15 Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI). Of the 15 AEFI, 10 were from using Covishield and five were from Covaxin. The government has planned to increase the number of vaccination sites to 183 from 106 from Tuesday, said an official. “Of the 77 new sites, 52 will be using Covishield and 25 Covaxin. The 183 sites will be set up in 114 hospitals, with some hospitals having multiple vaccination sites,” the official said, adding that the sites are being increased as frontline workers, including police and teachers, are expected to start getting vaccinated later this week following Centre’s directions. The departments concerned are updating the list of frontline workers and the process is still under way. Each vaccination site has a target of 100 healthcare workers each, so the total target also increased to 10,600 from 8,100. The government plans to increase the number of vaccination sites to 1,000 in a phased manner. 121 new cases, 3 deaths The city saw 121 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 6,35,217, stated a health bulletin released by the government on Monday. Also, three more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 10,856.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sero-survey-shows-56-with-antibodies/article33722960.ece
02 February 2021||new delhi,||6 days on, officials unable to trace leopard spotted near Najafgarh||Search and rescue operation for a leopard spotted in southwest Delhi’s Najafgarh last week continued for the sixth day on Monday without much success, forest department officials said. The presence of the feline in the area had prompted the forest department to issue an alert on Thursday, asking residents not to step out alone, especially at night. Children were asked to remain inside homes. “The leopard remains untraced. It was last sighted near the Najafgarh drain on January 29. No pugmarks were found in the last three days,” Deputy Conservator of Forest, Delhi (West) Navneet Shrivastava said. Cage with live bait The search and rescue operation is likely to be called off if the animal remains untraced for the next one or two days, he added. However, people have been asked to keep their guard up. A cage with a live bait remains in place in the area to catch the feline. Mr. Srivastava had earlier said the leopard may have crossed into Haryana. A senior official of the department said the leopard was first caught on CCTV camera on January 27. Later, a forest officer confirmed its presence in the area. “It was sighted again in Ghumanhera village on January 28 and near the Najafgarh drain on January 29,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/6-days-on-officials-unable-to-trace-leopard-spotted-near-najafgarh/article33722953.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Back to campus: DU students relieved but teachers complain||The Delhi University on Monday reopened college campuses for its staff members. Final-year students will be permitted to visit their respective campuses to access laboratories and libraries among other facilities. However, theory classes will continue to be held in the online format. In a notification on January 29, DU said: “It is notified that all colleges, centres and departments shall be functional and therefore all teaching staff must attend to their work place with effect from February 1. Only final-year students, in small batches, are allowed to visit their respective colleges...” The students, who visited their respective college campuses after almost a year, said they were looking forward to returning to classrooms soon as online classes had proved to be difficult. Priyanka, a political science student of Deshbandhu College, said: “It was very difficult to follow online classes. Every semester has new professors and all of them have their own methods of teaching. During online classes, most people choose to remain quiet...We really want the colleges to reopen soon for classes as well.” Zakir, another student of Deshbandhu college, said: “I came to college today to issue a few books from the library...There is a lot of excitement among my batchmates to finally be able to return to campus after almost a year.” However, professors said the university should have prepared a proper SOP before announcing the reopening of campuses. ‘No proper SOP’ Tanvir Aeijaz, professor at Ramjas College, said: “It is definitely not a well thought decision. How can you reopen campuses without a proper SOP? Unfortunately, students are not considered as stakeholders in the entire process. While the intent is to start offline classes there should be some deliberations and consultation. There are so many students who are not in the city. The university should have given at least 10-15 days time to students before reopening.” The Delhi University Teachers’ Association said teachers had to “struggle to find places to teach” as Internet was unavailable in several colleges. “No proper mechanism was put in place to ensure no disruption to the teaching-learning process before issuance of the order,” said the association.  Teachers had to struggle to find appropriate places to teach as Internet was unavailable in several colleges Delhi University Teachers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/back-to-campus-du-students-relieved-but-teachers-complain/article33722955.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police gets Rs. 8,644 cr. in Budget||Delhi Police has been allocated Rs. 8,644.12 crore in the 2021-22 Budget out of which about Rs. 10 crore has been set aside for the Nirbhaya fund. A total of Rs. 8,100.20 crore has been earmarked for establishment-related expenditure, while Rs. 237.92 crore has been set aside for upgradation and expansion of communication infrastructure, modernisation of equipment, installation of traffic signals, upgradation of training, and procurement of policing vehicles. A total of Rs. 306 crore has been earmarked for police infrastructure for construction of office and residential buildings, and development of the new police HQ. In addition to the Rs. 10.14 crore for safety of women (financed from the Nirbhaya fund), funds have been set aside for construction of a building for the Special Police Unit for Women and Children, Special Police Unit for North Eastern Region, as well as events to promote gender sensitisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/delhi-police-gets-rs-8644-cr-in-budget/article33722952.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||HC asks prosecution to reply to JMI student’s bail plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response of the prosecution on a bail plea by Jamia Millia Islamia student — Asif Iqbal Tanha — arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with a case related to riots here in February last. A Bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice A.J. Bhambhani asked the prosecution to submit its response to the bail plea within three weeks and listed the case for hearing on March 12. Mr. Tanha has challenged a trial court’s October 26, 2020 order which rejected his bail plea on the ground that he allegedly played an active role in the entire conspiracy and that there were reasonable grounds for believing that the allegations against him were prima facie true. Mr. Tanha was arrested in May last for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in the riots. Mr. Tanha’s counsel had before the trial court claimed that he was not present in Delhi during the riots and did not visit any of the protest sites where rioting and violence occurred. The counsel had contended that there was no physical evidence connecting Tanha to the riots and no allegations with respect to any funds being received by him for terrorist activities. The prosecutor had opposed the bail plea saying there were statements of protected witnesses in the case which clearly showed the alleged role of Mr. Tanha in the conspiracy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-asks-prosecution-to-reply-to-jmi-students-bail-plea/article33722948.ece
02 February 2021||New delhi,||JNU to allow some students on campus from Feb. 8||Jawaharlal Nehru University on Monday said fourth-semester MPhil and MTech students, final-semester MBA students, and those who have to submit their dissertation or thesis before June 30, can enter the campus from February 8. The relaxations are part of the seventh phase of JNU’s reopening plan. The university also announced partial resumption of services at B.R. Ambedkar Central Library. The facility, however, can only be availed 24 hours after sending an email to the librarian.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jnu-to-allow-some-students-on-campus-from-feb-8/article33722950.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||Air quality of Delhi in ‘very poor’ category||The air quality of Delhi and Noida was in the “very poor” category and Gurugram’s “poor” on Monday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The national capital’s air quality is expected to slightly deteriorate on Tuesday. “The AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate but within the high end of the ‘very poor category for the next two days. AQI is forecasted to marginally improve and in the middle-end of the ‘very poor category on February 4,” said government-run monitoring agency, SAFAR. The speed of surface-level winds was “low”, which aided in the accumulation of pollutants near the surface.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/air-quality-of-delhi-in-very-poor-category/article33722958.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||brf-15||Starting this year, Indian Oil Corporation Limited (Delhi Division) is organising ‘Retail Outlet Talk’ events at prominent petrol pumps across the city for interaction and brand mileage. The interface is aimed at spreading consumer awareness, promoting conservation of petroleum and energy, and reducing excessive dependence on oil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/brf-15/article33722954.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||Rashtrapati Bhavan to re-open for visitors from Saturday||The Rashtrapati Bhavan on Monday said it would reopen for visitors from February 6. Public viewing has been closed due to COVID-19 since March 13, 2020. Visitors can book their time slots online A maximum of 25 visitors will be allowed per slot. During the tour, visitors will have to follow COVID-19 protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rashtrapati-bhavan-to-re-open-for-visitors-from-saturday/article33722957.ece
02 February 2021||Pune,||Farmer outfits in Maharashtra term it ‘pro-corporate’ Budget||Major farmer leaders and pro-farmer outfits across Maharashtra on Monday censured the Union Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while saying that it favoured only the corporate sector and envisioned making the agrarian class wholly dependent on corporate caprice in the future. Speaking to The Hindu , Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti said that the Budget only served to underscore the Modi government’s attitude of general apathy towards India’s farmers. “Given the alarming surge in rural unemployment due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, the Centre should have taken the plight of unorganised farm labour into consideration. Instead, it has slashed the Budget for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) by 35%,” Mr. Shetti, a former two-time MP from Hatkanangale in Kolhapur district, said. The MGNREGA, besides providing employment to daily wage labourers in villages, had been vital in the development of basic infrastructure in the rural hinterland, the SSS leader said. “Instead, the Centre has made no provision for developing rural infrastructure while it has completely ignored the food processing industry as well as the dairy industry. The Modi regime’s only objective appears to make farmers dependent on their favourite industrialists — Ambani and Adani,” Mr. Shetti alleged. Describing the Budget as one which plunged farmers, agricultural labourers, and workers into an “abyss of economic deprivation”, Ajit Nawale, Maharashtra general secretary of the Left-affiliated All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), said that increased investment in the agrarian sector in order to meet the challenges of the post-COVID-19 economy was the least that farmers had hoped for from the Centre. “The Budget has dashed hopes of farmers, and is especially regrettable given that the National Economic Survey report had acknowledged the key role played by the agricultural sector in shaping the country’s economy during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Instead, numerous provisions made in the Budget make it amply clear that corporate concerns and the industrial sector are the Centre’s ‘priorities’,” Mr. Nawale said. Hitting out as Ms. Sitharaman, the AIKS leader rubbished her claims of the Modi government doing well in the field of agricultural procurement. “The Finance Minister has given ‘evidence’ that the Centre has spent huge sums of money on wheat, paddy, pulses and cotton. She has tried to create an impression that the Modi government has given these funds to farmers as ‘grants’. In fact, of this amount spent on government procurement of agricultural commodities, the Centre has only had to bear the difference between the base price and the market price of agricultural commodities,” Mr. Nawale said. In the wake of the ongoing agitation by farmers at Delhi borders, he said that it was hoped that the Budget would provide a substantial provision for the protection of the minimum support price to farmers across the country. “Unfortunately, that has not happened. Furthermore, the government was expected to invest heavily in agricultural production, transportation, cold storage, processing and sales. Instead, the government has adopted a policy of letting corporate houses invest in the agrarian sector and allow them to make huge profits in return,” Mr. Nawale said. Both Mr. Shetti and Mr. Nawale pointed out that the Centre’s ‘withdrawal’ from investment in agriculture was proof of its pro-corporate policies. “Owing to the pandemic and the lockdown, both supply and demand have now collapsed. In such a scenario, it was imperative to work out a balance between supply and demand in the Budget. The government, however, has ignored the demand side while strengthening the supply side,” Mr. Nawale said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/farmer-outfits-in-maharashtra-term-it-pro-corporate-budget/article33722964.ece
02 February 2021||Pune,||After a spike, Maharashtra sees decline in fresh cases||After three consecutive days of cases exceeding recoveries, Maharashtra witnessed a heartening reverse trend as 1,948 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Monday as opposed to 3,289 patients being discharged. The active case tally, which last week had surged past the 45,000-mark, has again dipped to 43,701 while the total cases have reached 20,28,347. As many as 27 fatalities saw the death toll climb to 51,109. However, the low surge is attributable to the lower samples tested than usual — less than 40,000 in the last 24 hours. The cumulative recoveries stand at 19,32,294 while the State’s recovery rate has marginally dropped to 95.26%. “Of a total 1,46,56,223 laboratory samples tested thus far, 20,28,347 (with the case positivity rate down to 13.84%) have returned positive with over 39,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality stood at 2.52%. Pune recorded more than 250 fresh cases to take its total case tally to 3,88,766. As per the State Health Department figures, just a single death was reported to take the toll to 7,968. According to the district administration, however, the death toll has crossed the 9,000-mark. The district’s active case tally stands at 5,232 with a recovery rate of 96.26%. Mumbai city reported 328 new cases to take its total tally to 3,09,303 of whom just 5,658 are active. Nine fatalities saw the city’s death count touch 11,361. Nagpur district in Vidarbha registered 251 fresh cases, taking the district’s total cases to 1,36,135 of whom 3,544 are active. Just one death saw the toll go up to 3,361.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/after-a-spike-maharashtra-sees-decline-in-fresh-cases/article33722962.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Court to pronounce judgment in Akbar-Ramani case on Feb. 10||A Delhi court on Monday said it will pronounce its judgment in former Union Minister M.J. Akbar’s criminal defamation complaint against journalist Priya Ramani for her tweets accusing him of sexual harassment on February 10. The criminal defamation case filed Mr. Akbar in October 2018 against Ms. Ramani has been closely watched for it implications from the legal point of view and to the #MeToo movement. Mr. Akbar has claimed that Ms. Ramani’s tweet and her article accusing him of sexual harassment were defamatory, and lowered his reputation. He has also said Ms. Ramani didn’t produce any evidence to prove her story. However, Ms. Ramani said her tweet and subsequent article on Vogue magazine alleging Mr. Akbar of sexual harassment during his previous role as newspaper editor was made in “good faith” and for public good. Senior advocate Rebecca John, appearing for Ms. Ramani, had earlier argued that, “the court will have to come to a conclusion that although an imputation was made, no case for defamation is made out”. Ms. John had highlighted exceptions in Section 499 IPCon defamation, which says: “it is not defamation to impute anything which is true concerning any person, if it be for the public good that the imputation should be made or published”. Whether or not the imputation is for the public good the court has to decide, Ms. John had argued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/court-to-pronounce-judgment-in-akbar-ramani-case-on-feb-10/article33722947.ece
02 February 2021||COLOMBO,||No Indian role in developing ECT in Colombo||Reneging on a 2019 agreement with India and Japan, Sri Lanka has decided to develop the strategic East Container Terminal (ECT) at the Colombo Port on its own. The Sri Lankan government would instead offer the West Container Terminal to India for possible investments, a senior government source told The Hindu . The decision was taken at Monday’s Cabinet meeting helmed by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, when members “unanimously” agreed to proposals submitted by the Minister of Ports and Shipping, the source said. It comes amid mounting pressure from Port union workers against any foreign role or investment in the ECT project, where nearly 70% of the transhipment business is linked to India. Asked about the development, a senior Indian source said: “We would hope that Sri Lanka does not unilaterally decide on this matter, as there is a tripartite agreement on it.” For New Delhi, the strategic ECT project in Colombo has been high on priority. It has figured in talks at the highest levels, including when External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar visited in January. A week after his visit, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa told agitating Port worker unions that the Adani Group — Government of India’s nominee — would invest in the terminal, and that the Terminal would not be “sold or leased” to any foreign entity, signalling that his government was taking forward the 2019 memorandum of cooperation (MOC). The Sri Lanka Ports Authority (SLPA) was to hold a 51% stake in the operations, while India and Japan together would hold 49%, as per the MOC, which was signed by the former Maithripala Sirisena-Ranil Wickremesinghe administration. Port workers’ resistance However, amid growing resistance from port workers since, the Rajapaksa government’s position appears to have shifted. The first indication that Sri Lanka might keep India and Japan out of the deal came earlier on Monday, when Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa told union representatives that the operation of the terminal would be “100%” with the SLPA, because the “foreign company” did not agree to the proposals made by a committee appointed by the subject minister. The PM’s remarks seem to have shocked the Indian side, as there has been no communication from Colombo that ongoing negotiations — held in person and virtually — had ended, according to sources. The remarks prompted a media statement from the Indian High Commission for the first time since the controversy heightened. A spokesman of the Indian mission on Monday reiterated “the expectation of the Government of India for expeditious implementation” of the trilateral MOC signed among Sri Lanka, India and Japan in May 2019, for the development of ECT with participation from the three countries. “The commitment of the Government of Sri Lanka in this regard has been conveyed several times in the recent past, including at the leadership level…all sides should continue to abide by the existing understandings and commitment,” the statement had said, hours before the Cabinet decided otherwise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-indian-role-in-developing-ect-in-colombo/article33722727.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||For New Delhi, the tightrope on Myanmar is back||For India, the return to military rule by Myanmar’s Tatmadaw (Army) and the detention of Aung San Suu Kyi and the political leadership of the National League of Democracy (NLD) are a repeat of events 30 years ago, but the Modi government’s reaction is likely to be starkly different to India’s strong public criticism of the junta’s actions in 1989-90. “India does care about democracy in Myanmar, but that’s a luxury it knows it will not be able to afford for the time being. The only option will be to engage, building on its outreach in recent years via the security and defence establishment,” said Constantino Xavier, an analyst of India’s neighbourhood policy at the Centre for Social and Economic Progress, when asked about India’s statement of “deep concern” over developments in Myanmar. One important reason for the change is that India’s security relationship with the Myanmar military has become extremely close, and it would be difficult to “burn bridges” with them given their assistance in securing the North East frontiers from insurgent groups. In a joint visit to Naypyidaw in October 2020, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and Army Chief Gen. Manoj Mukund Naravane met with both State Councillor Suu Kyi and Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, making it clear that New Delhi saw both relationships at par. Another reason for the change is Ms. Suu Kyi herself, whose image as a democracy icon and Nobel peace laureate has been damaged by her time in office, where she failed to push back the military, and even defended the Army’s pogrom against Rohingya in Rakhine State in 2015. China factor Officials also say a harsh reaction from India, on the lines of that from the U.S., which has threatened action against those responsible for the “coup” unless they revoke the military’s takeover, would only benefit China. Apart from strategic concerns, India has cultivated several infrastructure and development projects with Myanmar, which it sees as the “gateway to the East” and ASEAN countries. These include the India-Myanmar-Thailand trilateral highway and the Kaladan multi-modal transit transport network, as well as a plan for a Special Economic Zone at the Sittwe deep-water port. Finally, India still hopes to help resolve the issue of Rohingya refugees that fled to Bangladesh, while some still live in India, and will want to continue to engage the Myanmar government on that. Another reason for the shift is the change within India, say diplomats. “In 1989, there was a public clamour for India to take a strong stand against the military’s actions and to stand up for Aung San Suu Kyi. I don’t see a loud pro-democracy discourse going out from India this time around,” says former Ambassador to Myanmar, Gautam Mukhopadhyaya, referring to street protests and fierce speeches in Parliament that took place in India at the time, calling on then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, who had visited Myanmar in 1987, to deal strictly with the junta. In 1989, after the SPDC military government arrested Ms. Suu Kyi, then External Affairs Minister Narasimha Rao had reportedly told a parliamentary panel that not only would the government provide financial support to the democracy movement, no Burmese (Myanmarese) refugees seeking shelter in India would be turned away. Subsequently, however, the government took a more pragmatic approach, engaging the military, while pushing for more freedoms in Myanmar. In the past decade, the balance between engaging Myanmar’s civil and military establishment became easier, once Ms. Suu Kyi was released and the NLD was allowed to form the government in 2015. “The arrangement between them suited India, as our approach was to smoothen the relationship on both sides. With Monday’s developments, our capacity to play both sides in now diminished,” explained a former senior official who dealt with the bilateral ties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/for-new-delhi-the-tightrope-on-myanmar-is-back/article33722724.ece
02 February 2021||Washington,||As trial looms, Trump names defence lawyers||Former U.S. President Donald Trump announced on Sunday he had picked two lawyers to head his defence team days before his historic second impeachment trial, as Republicans braced for a battle over the future of their party. Mr. Trump’s Senate trial is due to start on February 9, but he had reportedly parted ways with several members of his initial legal team just a day ago. His lead lawyers, David Schoen and Bruce L. Castor, Jr, are “highly respected trial lawyers” with backgrounds in criminal law and defence, according to a statement from Mr. Trump. Mr. Schoen has represented Mr. Trump’s ally Roger Stone, and said he was in discussions to join the legal team for Jeffrey Epstein in 2019 days before the disgraced U.S. financier killed himself while in jail on allegations of trafficking underage girls for sex.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-trial-looms-trump-names-defence-lawyers/article33722730.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Path to salvation||Salvation is the ultimate goal of human existence. While there is no physical or tangible path in sight for anyone to reach this goal, the Charama sloka in the Gita is explicit in this regard. The Lord’s magnanimity is prominent in His promise to relieve the jiva of all sins and thereby make him eligible to attain mukti if he gives up all else and seeks refuge at His feet alone. This cue is taken by all azhwars in their hymns and interpreters read a direct reference to the Charama sloka in many verses of the Nanmukan Tiruvandadi of Tirumazhisai Azhwar, pointed out Sri A. K. Sundarrajan in a discourse. Azhwar hails the glories of the Lord. He is the Supreme and Absolute Being, who is the essence of Jnana, Shakti, Poornatva and so on. He is the ultimate goal and refuge for all. To the jiva who is full of faults and feels that there is no reprieve except to be caught in the endless cycle, Azhwar shows that it is the good fortune and blessing for all that the Lord’s inherent swabhava and abiding nature is His boundless compassion. His innumerable auspicious qualities such as Saushilya, Saulabhya, Swamitva, Vatsalya, etc, are extended to the jivas. He is the embodiment of Dharma and He alone can absolve the jiva of all sins and grant salvation. No ills will befall one who has faith in the Lord as He will guide the jiva in the right path. So, Azhwar urges the jiva to seek surrender at the feet of the Lord who reclines in Parkadal. Just as the Lord helps Brahma, Indra and others when they are in difficulties, Azhwar refers to the deity residing in the temple at Kapisthala on the banks of the River Kaveri as always being ready to help the erring jivatmas to get out of samsara. Is this not what everyone wants ultimately?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/path-to-salvation/article33722722.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||India monitors situation with ‘deep concern’||India on Monday expressed “deep concern” over reports of an unfolding military coup in Myanmar. India’s official response came hours after the Myanmar military declared a state of emergency for one year and detained State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. “We have noted the developments in Myanmar with deep concern. India has always been steadfast in its support to the process of democratic transition in Myanmar. We believe that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld. We are monitoring the situation closely,” a press statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-monitors-situation-with-deep-concern/article33722728.ece
02 February 2021||Kampala,||Ugandan opposition leader files election challenge in court||Lawyers for Ugandan opposition leader Bobi Wine filed a challenge in the Supreme Court on Monday against President Yoweri Museveni’s victory in last month’s election, claiming the poll was rigged. The 38-year-old singer-turned-lawmaker came a distant second behind Mr. Museveni, a 76-year-old former rebel leader who has ruled the country since 1986. Mr. Museveni won a sixth term with 58.4% of the vote while Mr. Wine secured 35.1% in the election, according to the latest count from the Electoral Commission.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ugandan-opposition-leader-files-election-challenge-in-court/article33722732.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||A Budget that fails to address the hunger pandemic||While the country continues to grapple with the health and economic crisis as a result of COVID-19, widespread hunger and food insecurity is a silent emergency that has not been getting sufficient attention. Unfortunately, the Union Budget also does not include any significant measures to address this. The partial National Family Health Survey-5 results released recently showed that child malnutrition levels in 2019 were higher than in 2016 in most States. The fall in incomes witnessed by most poor and working-class households in the last one year would have made this situation even worse. Recent field surveys conducted by Hunger Watch and the Azim Premji University between October 2020 and December 2020 found that for two-thirds of the respondents, food intake was still not back to pre-lockdown levels. Malnutrition has multiple determinants with access to food, health and care being the immediate. A global pandemic and an economic slowdown, which has come on the back of years of jobless growth and stagnant rural wages, has hit household food security hard. Data show that even before COVID-19, nutritious diets for most Indians were unaffordable. No greater allocation In this context, direct nutrition programmes such as the anganwadi programme and school mid-day meals make a crucial contribution to the diets of children and pregnant and lactating women. The 2020-21 revised estimates for anganwadi services is Rs. 17,252.3 crore, compared to a Budget estimate of Rs. 20,532.4 crore, which was itself less than the projected demand of Rs. 24,810 crore. This shows that the anganwadi services have been badly affected by the closure of anganwadi centres. There are large gaps in delivery of supplementary nutrition. It is not clear whether the revised estimates reflect a true picture, because data of the Controller General of Accounts show that the expenditure of the entire Ministry of Women and Child Development (which implements anganwadi services among other things) up to December 2020 was only Rs. 14,607.1 crore (49% of Budget estimates). In the current Budget, different schemes have been clubbed together and anganwadi services are now part of something called ‘Saksham Anganwadi and Poshan 2.0’ which has an allocated budget of Rs. 20,105 crore. The total budget allocation of the schemes that were included in Saksham in 2020 was higher at Rs. 24,557.4 crore. Two other important nutrition-related interventions of the Ministry of Women and Child Development also saw major underspending with the revised estimates for the national nutrition mission (Poshan) for 2020-21 being only Rs. 600 crore compared to a Budget estimate of Rs. 3,700 crore. For maternity benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (a cash transfer of Rs. 5,000 for pregnant women), the revised estimate is Rs. 1,300 core compared to the Budget estimate of Rs. 2,500 crore. This scheme is now part of Samarthya, along with other schemes such as Beti Bachao Beti Padhao and Mahila Shakti Kendra. These schemes have also seen a reduced allocation compared to last year (Rs. 2,522 crore vis-à-vis Rs. 2,828 crore). The allocation for the mid-day meal scheme for 2021-22 is Rs. 11,500 crore which is lower than the revised estimate of Rs. 12,900 crore for 2020-21. Nutrition schemes, which have been suffering from poor budgetary support for many years now, therefore do not see greater allocations despite the increasing prevalence of malnutrition. Other social protection programmes such as old age, widow and disability pensions, which could also contribute to better nutrition, also do not see any increase compared to last year. Even for migrant workers, other than setting up a portal, there is no announcement of any special measures. The One Nation, One Ration scheme has not taken off and is mired in complications. Food subsidy While the food subsidy seems to have increased by more than three times, it must be understood that this does not reflect higher distribution of subsidised grains. This only reflects a correction in the Budget books, where the government is paying back Food Corporation of India (FCI) arrears rather than forcing the FCI to take loans. The total FCI debt as on December 31, 2020 was Rs. 3.7 lakh crore (accumulated over the last few years because adequate amounts were not allocated for food subsidy), and the additional amount being shown in the revised estimate over last year’s Budget estimate is Rs. 3.1 lakh crore which matches the debt that FCI has with the National Social Security Fund. The food subsidy allocation for 2021-22 (Rs. 2.4 lakh crore), while much higher than last year’s Budget estimate, is more realistic in terms of what is required to meet the National Food Security Act entitlements. But it is clear that there is no provision for an expanded or universal PDS which many have been recommending. In fact, it is shocking that even the health budget has not been increased, with the allocation for health this year being lower than the revised estimate for 2020-21 (Rs. 74,602 crore versus Rs. 82,445 crore). The only increase here seems to be in the allocation for the COVID-19 vaccine which is a one-time expenditure and does not contribute to strengthening the health system. Missing the mark Overall, from the point of view of addressing hunger or providing a demand stimulus, this Budget misses the mark. The total expenditure of Rs. 34,83,236 crore is only Rs. 32,931 crore above last year’s revised estimates. While it is Rs. 4,00,000 crore more than previous year’s budgetary allocation, much of this difference is because of the correction in the food subsidy numbers. What we have been presented with in a year of economic slowdown and growing inequality is a stingy budget that fails to ensure the ‘bare necessities’ for all.  Nutrition schemes, which have been suffering from poor budgetary support for many years now, do not see greater allocations despite the increasing prevalence of malnutrition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-budget-that-fails-to-address-the-hunger-pandemic/article33722718.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||A promising Budget with a few disappointments||Besides impacting the disposable incomes of the people, the Union Budget is significant for three reasons. First, it delivers the balance sheet of the government and informs us about what happened in the past year and what is proposed to be done in the next year. Second, it shapes the macroeconomic environment of the country in terms of its proposed impact on macro economy due to decisions on raising resources and spending. Finally, it provides reform signals on which economic agents place their expectations. The Union Finance Minister has presented the 2021-22 Budget which, if effectively implemented, promises to revive the economy faster and take it on a higher growth trajectory. It not only addresses the immediate requirements to augment aggregate demand by increasing infrastructure spending, but also initiates reforms in critical areas to take the economy on a higher growth trajectory in the medium term. With people having navigated 2020 with considerable pain, there were expectations that the Budget would help revive the economy. Unlike in normal times, when the concern is on deficit and debt, the focus this year is on how the Budget helps in increasing aggregate demand, particularly by increasing investment expenditure, and more importantly, how it addresses several structural weaknesses which had reduced the growth potential. Reviving the economy In some ways, the Economic Survey had prepared the intellectual background for the Budget. It had reiterated the need to have counter-cyclical fiscal policy, focused on accelerating growth for ensuring debt sustainability, and emphasised the importance of public investment expenditure which have higher fiscal multipliers to ‘crowd in’ private investments. It had also argued that the rating agencies are biased and advocated increased borrowing for public investment spending by quoting Rabindranath Tagore. The market too hoped that the Finance Minister would keep the agenda for fiscal consolidation in abeyance and increase public investment expenditure to revive the economy. It was clear that the pandemic badly impacted the balance sheet, but it was important to know how bad the impact was. The estimated contraction in revenues in 2020-21 was almost 23% from the Budget estimates. The tax revenue shows a decline of 17.8% and non-tax revenues are lower by 45% from the Budget estimates. Despite this, contrary to expectations, the government has not compressed expenditure. Although until October, the expenditure incurred was lower than the corresponding period in the previous year, the revised estimate of public expenditure is higher than the Budget estimate by 13.4%. Both revenue and capital expenditure have gathered pace since October and the revised estimate for 2020-21 is higher than the Budget estimate by 14.5% and 6.1%, respectively. It is thus not surprising that the ratio of fiscal deficit to GDP for 2020-21 is estimated at 9.5%. The implication of this is that besides favourably impacting other sectors’ income generation, the GDP estimate for the third and fourth quarter from public administration, defence and other services is likely to turn positive from -14.9% witnessed in the first half of the year. The Budget shows a higher growth of revenue at 15%. The tax revenue is expected to be higher by 14.9% over the revised estimates of 2020-21 and non-tax revenue is expected to increase by 15.4%. The disinvestment proceeds are placed at Rs. 1,75,000 crore as against the estimate of Rs. 32,000 crore for the year. However, the budgeted increase in expenditure for the next year is just 0.95%. As a ratio of GDP, next year is likely to see lower expenditure by two percentage points. Interestingly, the revenue expenditure is expected to be compressed by 2.7% whereas capital expenditure budgeted is 26.2%. The increased revenues and disinvestment proceeds have helped to finance higher public expenditure and the fiscal deficit for 2021-22 remains elevated at 6.8% which is lower than the current year, but higher than the expectations. The decision to continue with higher spending to allow full economic recovery is on expected lines. Sectoral allocations In terms of sectoral allocations, it was expected that the health and defence sectors would get larger allocation this year. Health is a State subject and much of the increase has to come from the States. The Union Budget provides for a new centrally sponsored scheme, PM AtmaNirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, and announces that Rs. 64,180 crore will be spent in six years (the allocation for 2021-22 is not available). On defence, the declining trend in allocation continues. The Budget estimate of total expenditure (revenue plus capital excluding pensions) on defence services for 2021-22 is estimated at Rs. 4.05 lakh crore as against Rs. 4.01 lakh crore in 2020-21 and it works out to just 1.8% of the GDP. The most important part of the Budget is the reform signals it gives. Besides providing Rs. 20,000 crore for recapitalisation of public sector banks (PSB), an Asset Reconstruction Company and an Asset Management Company are to be set up to purchase the bad assets of banks. The decision to privatise two PSBs and a host of other companies such as Air India, Shipping Corporation of India, Pawan Hans and Containment Corporation of India, and the statement on disinvestment in strategic sectors, provides a clear signal. Increasing FDI in insurance, too, is on similar lines. Similarly, the creation of Alternate Investment Funds is important to avoid asset-liability mismatch in the banking sector. These are important announcements. However, there will be questions about the funding and governance of the new institutions. The disappointing thing about the Budget, however, is the continuation of the protectionist trend. In the name of self-reliance, we seem to be returning to the pre-1991 days. The Budget seeks to remove exemptions on a number of items and increases rates on some others, including some agricultural products such as cotton, raw silk and silk yarn. There is a broad-based infrastructure cess as well. This is surely retrograde in an otherwise promising Budget.  In the name of self-reliance, we seem to be returning to the pre-1991 days. The Budget seeks to remove exemptions on a number of items and increases rates on some others. There is a broad-based infrastructure cess as well. This is surely retrograde.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-promising-budget-with-a-few-disappointments/article33722721.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The Finance Minister has delivered, but the road ahead is long||The National Statistical Office estimates that our COVID-19-impacted economy will contract by 7.7% in the current fiscal year 2020-21 (FY21). While severe, this estimate likely does not incorporate the significantly higher distress amongst many of our micro, small and medium enterprises. Thankfully, there are silver linings. We have avoided a second wave of COVID-19, and the worst is hopefully well behind us. Economic activity is rebounding – witness the encouraging GST collections of a record Rs. 1.2 lakh crore for January 2021. But our economy, which was structurally weak even before COVID-19 hit us and has since suffered a body blow, needs to be nursed back to full health. Against this backdrop, the 2021 Budget can be evaluated on three parameters. First, on the credibility of the Budget math. Second, on its potential to deliver what India ultimately needs — adequate domestic output and jobs. And third, on how the Budget raises resources, and its impact on the economic recovery. The credibility of the math This Budget scores very high marks on credibility. For too long now, our Budgets have resorted to accounting smokescreens that masked the true extent of our fiscal imbalance. Thus, revised estimates of revenue receipts would invariably be unrealistically high, only to be brought down sharply later when the books were finalised. Likewise, under the cash accounting that our governments follow, expenditure would be brought down by simply not releasing payments. Instead, entities such as the Food Corporation of India would be ‘encouraged’ to borrow from elsewhere, in lieu of dues from the government. As a result, against the FY20 revised fiscal deficit estimate of 3.8% of the GDP presented in last year’s Budget, shorn of accounting jugglery, the true deficit is estimated at 5.4% of GDP. Adding borrowings of other central public sector enterprises, the Central Public Sector Borrowing Requirement stood at 7.2% of GDP, nearly twice the official headline central fiscal deficit. This year, the Finance Minister has largely come clean on the budget math. She has declared much higher than expected fiscal deficit numbers of 9.5% of the GDP and 6.8% of the GDP for FY21 and FY22, respectively. In doing so, she has put out realistic estimates of revenue receipts, and recognised ‘off balance sheet’ expenditures. She has also likely released pending government dues to both the public and private sectors. This truth augurs well on several fronts. First, with realistic revenue budgets, the pressure on tax authorities to engage in tax terrorism should subside. Second, the government can now release its payments and refunds on time, easing a financial bottleneck that has dogged us for a while. Third, a focus on the ‘real’ numbers should allow for a better-informed debate on ways to improve our fiscal balance. Hopefully, our State governments will also follow this example of providing credible budget math. The ‘true’ Centre and State combined fiscal deficit is likely around 15% of GDP, far higher than we have ever seen before. Domestic output and jobs There is one path for us to pay down this accumulating public debt, achieve durable growth, keep inflation in check, and ensure stable external balance – and that is by creating adequate domestic output and jobs. The Budget scores well on its potential to create domestic output and jobs. While expenditure for FY22 has been maintained at the elevated levels of FY21, there is a shift away from revenue expenditure – the regular payments towards items such as administration, interest, and subsidies, that are arguably less productive – and towards productive investments. Capital expenditure in FY22 is budgeted to increase by 26% over FY21, with focus on areas such as infrastructure, roads, and textile parks. Alongside a promise to deliver more on health, education, nutrition and urban infrastructure, these complement ongoing efforts to foster domestic jobs and output, including reform of labour laws, corporate tax rate cuts and production-linked incentives. There are also efforts to revive our stressed financial services ecosystem. The Finance Minister announced the creation of a government Asset Reconstruction Company, or ‘bad bank’, to warehouse some of the large non-performing assets that permeate the industry. She also announced the creation of a new development financial institution to facilitate and fund infrastructure investments. While in principle these are welcome ideas, much depends on how the modalities are structured and on their execution. We await clarity on this score. The Budget focuses on raising funds via disinvestment and asset sales, rather than via additional taxes. Again, I commend this choice – while the wealthy can perhaps pay more to fund our deficit, we should avoid endangering our fragile economic recovery from COVID-19 with any additional tax burdens.  The long road ahead While the Budget has delivered on truth and held out some potential for the creation of domestic output and jobs, there is still much more to be done. Several sectors of the economy are still reeling under chronic stresses – including pockets of financial services, power, real estate, telecom, airlines and shipping, contact-based services and micro, small and medium enterprises. Any path to a recovery in domestic output and jobs will have to solve for many of these stresses. Likewise, it would be a mistake to assume that a revival in consumption and government spending would automatically result in durable growth. After the global financial crisis in 2008, we saw a strong revival in consumption, government spending and investments. However, we failed to deliver adequate growth in domestic output and jobs. The result was any central bank’s worst nightmare – high inflation, high imports and external imbalance, inadequate real growth, inequity and fiscal imbalance. All this finally culminated in financial instability, when the Federal Reserve taper tantrum hit us in mid-2013. The onus is now on the real economy and the government to avoid a repeat of history, to focus on execution, and to deliver on adequate domestic output and jobs. The road ahead will be long and hard, but for now at least, the Finance Minister has delivered.  The Finance Minister has largely come clean on the budget math. She has declared much higher than expected fiscal deficit numbers of 9.5% of the GDP and 6.8% of the GDP for FY21 and FY22, respectively. In doing so, she has put out realistic estimates of revenue receipts, and recognised ‘off balance sheet’ expenditures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-finance-minister-has-delivered-but-the-road-ahead-is-long/article33722715.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Carrying over fiscal conservatism||Bruised by the COVID-19 pandemic, Indians, like their counterparts elsewhere in the world, are looking for renewal. So, even granting that an annual budget is not a corrective for all ills, evidence of a change in course was expected in Budget 2021. Change also seemed possible. With the worst of COVID-19 and the lockdown-triggered contraction behind it, the government could intensify efforts to not just accelerate recovery but also turn its attention to the neglected health sector and redress the damage inflicted on the poor by the novel coronavirus pandemic. Conflicting signals Official signals were, however, conflicting. Coming at the end of a year of the pandemic, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman claimed that the Budget would be one “like never before”. But experience did not give cause for confidence. Additional expenditure by the Centre incorporated in multiple packages over the last year have been estimated as amounting to only around 1.5% of GDP. Yet, there were statements to the effect that much had already been done before the Budget. The multiple stimulus packages were identified as several mini-Budget-like interventions, and the Budget, it was argued, had to be seen as just one more event in that series. Overall, the Budget seems to carry over the fiscal conservatism witnessed during 2020-21. In that fiscal year, when the crisis called for hugely enhanced spending, total central government expenditure increased by just 13.4%, relative to what had been originally budgeted, when the pandemic had not been factored in. Since expenditure on the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) programme and on food subsidies had to be increased as minimal support measures in the context of the economic disruption, spending elsewhere had clearly been reduced. Despite the extraordinary crisis, falling revenues had led to the government holding back on its aggregate spending to rein in the fiscal deficit and its debt. Revenue base erosion Tax concessions, such as the sharp reduction in corporate tax rates in September 2019, and the misconceived Goods and Services Tax regime, underlie the erosion of the revenue base. Though presented before the COVID-19 pandemic was officially acknowledged, the Budget for 2020-21 had projected only a modest increase in the revenue receipts of the Centre, from Rs. 16.8-lakh crore in 2019-20 to Rs. 20.2-lakh crore. The revised estimates suggest that revenue receipts actually fell to Rs. 15.6-lakh crore. Moreover, the government’s ambitious disinvestment agenda that was expected to pull in Rs. 2.1-lakh crore of non-debt capital receipts seems to have been completely derailed. The sum garnered was just Rs. 32,000 crore. In the event, if spending had to be hiked significantly, deficit concerns had to be dropped. The government was clearly not willing to go in that direction, keeping expenditure growth low relative to requirement. That conservatism seems to persist. Total expenditure is projected to rise by just 0.95% in 2021-22 relative to revised estimates for 2020-21, even if 14.5% relative to the Budget estimate for 2020-21. Unwinding support measures With fiscal conservatism persisting, the government is set to wind down even the limited support it afforded to those hit hard by the pandemic. During the current fiscal, expenditure on the MGNREGA programme touched an estimated Rs. 1,11,500 crore (RE) as compared with a budgeted Rs. 61,500 crore and an actual expenditure of Rs. 71,687 crore in 2019-20. Many deprived of jobs and livelihoods were supported by the programme. There is no reason to believe that all of them can now return to their erstwhile occupations, since the economy is still performing poorly. Yet, allocations for the MGNREGA programme are, going by Budget figures, to be drastically curtailed, from the Rs. 1,11,500 crore spent in 2020-21 to Rs. 73,300 crore in 2021-22. The picture is the same with food subsidies, which are to be reduced from as much as Rs. 4,22,618 crore in 2020-21 to Rs. 2,42,836 crore in 2021-22. Clearly, in the government’s perception, the case for support is over, and the time has come to unwind even the limited support measures that the pandemic forced it to undertake. What then makes the Finance Minister declare this Budget as being one “like never before”? Amid the multiple claims made in Part A of the Budget speech, two claims seem to be specially geared to creating the image of a never before Budget. One is a declaration that the Budget incorporates a package for “health and well being” that would take spending on its constituent items from a budgeted Rs. 94,452 crore in 2020-21 to Rs. 2,23,846 crore in 2021-22. An increase in health spending, of 137%,  is presumably influenced by the lessons from the pandemic. The other is a multi-faceted infrastructural investment thrust supported with a claimed 35% increase in capital spending, from Rs. 4.12-lakh crore budgeted in 2020-21 to Rs. 5.54-lakh crore in the Budget for 2021-22. Explaining health spending However, these claims lose force when subjected to scrutiny. To generate the huge increase in health spending, the Budget speech resorts to a rather expansive definition of what can be considered health. In fact, allocations for the Department of Health and Family Welfare do not reveal any significant increase. Budget 2020 provided for around Rs. 65,000 crore for the Department of Health. Compared to that figure, the Budget estimate for 2021, of Rs. 71,269 crore, points to a not-too-spectacular 9.6% increase. What is more, the Budget estimate for 2021-22 is 9.6% lower than the revised estimate of expenditure of the Department of Health and Family Welfare in 2020-21, of Rs. 78,866 crore. To generate the impressive increase in the allocation to “health and well being”, the Budget speech includes in the figure expenditure on the Jal Jeevan Mission aimed at providing safe and adequate drinking water through individual household tap connections. That component of the “health and well being” Budget rises from Rs. 10,905.50 crore in the revised estimate for 2020-21 to Rs. 49,757.75 crore in the Budget estimate for 2021-22, being favoured by a Rs. 50,000 crore allocation from the cess-financed Central Road and Infrastructure Fund originally created to finance roads and highways. Drinking water matters and must be provided but cannot be a substitute for core health facilities. Wishful thinking In the case of the infrastructural push described in the speech, the budgetary funding provided hardly seems adequate. What emerges is that the intention is to experiment with diverting resources garnered from the sale of existing assets of the public sector to part finance new investments in infrastructure. Besides disinvestment of equity, strategic sale, and privatisation of the public financial sector, expected to yield Rs. 1.75-lakh crore in 2021-22, there is much stress on “monetising idle assets”, especially land, available with public agencies. As the failed experiment with an overambitious disinvestment agenda included in Budget 2021 suggests, this effort to strip public units of their assets to support private-led infrastructural expansion may be more in the nature of wishful thinking. The pandemic notwithstanding, Budget 2021-22 suggests that there is no change in the neoliberal fiscal stance of the current government. A lenient tax regime that favours private capital, restrained debt-financed spending, and excessive reliance on disposing of public assets to finance limited expenditures remain the principal elements of that stance. The pandemic may have forced increased spending in a couple of areas. But even before it recedes, the government seems bent on restoring the old normal. C.P. Chandrasekhar is an economist and columnist based in New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/carrying-over-fiscal-conservatism/article33722710.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Despite some hits, the Budget has crucial misses||The Budget, at its simplest, is the government’s tentative income and expenditure statement. Like all financial statements, the devil lies in the fine print. At its broadest, the Budget is a pious statement of the government’s policy and ideological intentions. It is also the government’s statement of how it seeks to tackle the immediate political (electoral) and economic challenges. Hence, any quick assessment of the Budget has to be preliminary. So how is the Budget likely to affect the lives of citizens immediately, and economic aggregates such as investment, output, employment and income distribution in the medium term? India’s meagre response Domestic output or GDP, net of inflation, is expected to decline by 7.7% in the current financial year (FY2020-21), compared to the previous year (FY2019-20). The decline in per capita income is by 8.7%. The contraction is one of the worst among the world’s major countries. The novel coronavirus pandemic and the resultant lockdown led to massive job and livelihood losses (https://bit.ly/3r8KUcu). Unlike most advanced countries and emerging market economies, India’s response to address the distress of the masses has been meagre. The government’s additional public spending to cope with the unprecedented crisis has been a little over 1% of GDP. As is widely known, the output (GDP) contraction in 2020-21 has come on top of a slowdown in GDP growth over much of the previous decade (the 2010s), fall in employment, the decline in real wages, rise in the number of people in poverty, and, hence, an expected rise in the proportion of undernourished children. Much of the decline in the growth rate is on account of an unprecedented fall in fixed investment rate as a ratio of GDP, especially in infrastructure sectors. Capital expenditure proposal Given the context, the present Budget’s focus on stepping up public investment by 34.5% in the coming fiscal year (compared to the current year) is a welcome sign. The Finance Minister’s speech said the government will borrow an additional Rs. 80,000 crore for the purpose in the next two months. The estimated fiscal deficit for FY2021-22 is 6.8% of GDP for the central government. And S tates are allowed a higher fiscal deficit, if the expenditure is on capital investment. These figures certainly look impressive. Realisation of these investments would crucially depend on tax revenue realisations, disinvestment proceeds, sale of rail and road assets and the government’s ability to raise resources from the market, without raising interest rates for the private sector. There is no mention of the government’s recourse to debt monetisation. While the investment intentions are evident, its financing efforts seem to have too many loose ends. The proposed Development Finance Institution (DFI) is also welcome. One of the reasons for poor industrial and infrastructure investment during the last decade was a lack of long-term credit for infrastructure, which by definition yields low rates of return spread over a long period of time. Commercial banks, whose deposits are for short to medium term, find it difficult to lend for long term (more than five years) for the fear of maturity mismatch. Moreover, as banks were laden with rising non-performing assets on account of poor corporate sector performance during the last decade, their ability to make fresh loans was adversely affected. Further, contemporary experience shows that most successful industrialising economies have relied on DFIs for providing long-term credit (https://bit.ly/3j5cqVs). While the renewal of the idea of DFI is welcome, many caveats are in order. Its Achilles heel is in securing stable long-term, low cost sources of finance. The Finance Minister’s speech mentioned that the proposed DFI will be financed by foreign portfolio investments (FPI), which is a cause for concern. By definition, FPI represents short term inflows with exchange rate risks, while infrastructure investment is for long term whose revenues will be mostly in rupees. Such an investment will inevitably lead to currency and maturity miss-match, raising cost of capital. Hence, there is a need to consider alternative long-term sources, preferably from domestic sources, or international development agencies. Health and employment The first of the “6 pillars” that the Finance Minister described in her speech deals with health infrastructure — rightly so. If the announcement made represents a substantial annual fixed investment in improving urban sanitation, drinking water and sewage facilities, it is indeed a welcome step. There are lessons to be learnt from rural Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, however. As the recent National Family Health Survey data for 2019-20 for select States showed, just constructing toilets in household premises is of little use without adequate access to water and sewage facilities, which are public goods in nature (best provided by local governments). Unless these complementary facilities are constructed in a coordinated manner, the effectiveness of such investments would be minimal. The Budget has very little to say about employment. Surely, the proposed step-up in infrastructure would create labour demand. It bears repetition that the 2010s were a decade of job loss growth, as in official National Sample survey estimates. The pandemic has rubbed salt into the country’s wound, leading to the migration crisis, which is still with us (as the report cited above shows). Unfortunately, there is very little acknowledgement and response to the crisis in the Budget. Inequality glossed over There is no mention of the stupendous rise in economic inequality during just the last year. While the poor lost their jobs and livelihoods in 2020, corporate India’s profits zoomed. The rank of the richest Indian has moved up to the 11th spot on the Bloomberg Billionaire Index. Why could not the Budget consider a special tax on the super-rich — as many countries are now mooting? The Budget does not seem to reckon with such a rise in inequality, let alone seek to redress it.  In summary, if the capital expenditure plan outlined in the Budget speech is credible, and implemented with assured financial backing, it could revive the investment cycle. The proposed development bank for term lending for infrastructure is welcome, provided its sources of finance are cheap, long term and mostly domestic. Investments in urban public health infrastructure — sanitation, water supply and sewage — are in the right direction if implemented in a coordinated manner. That there is no targeted employment programme to alleviate the immediate crisis is a matter of concern. Government apathy towards those who lost jobs and livelihoods due to the health and economic shocks last year seems galling. R. Nagaraj is with the Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvanathapuram, Kerala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/despite-some-hits-the-budget-has-crucial-misses/article33722712.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting back on track||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman made a brave effort to make good use of the lessons learnt from the unprecedented global health crisis and ensuing economic setback to put lives and livelihoods back on track. There is greater spending on health care and some fiscal push to undergird the struggling demand in the pandemic-hit economy. But this is no transformative budget that lives up to the heightened expectations of a weary population waiting for manna from the government. A lot more could have been done to address the chronic underinvestment in India’s public health infrastructure by appreciably raising expenditure. The Union Budget for 2021-2022 presented to Parliament on Monday, instead reveals an estimated health outlay of Rs. 74,602 crore, almost 10% lower than the revised estimate of Rs. 82,445 crore earmarked for health spending in the current fiscal year. The Minister, however, has claimed a 137% increase in the budgetary outlay on ‘health and well-being’ by including a one-time expenditure of Rs. 35,000 crore set aside for the COVID-19 vaccination programme, Rs. 60,030 crore budgeted for the department of drinking water and sanitation, as well as the Finance Commission’s grants for both water and sanitation and health totalling to almost Rs. 50,000 crore. While it is an inarguable fact that the availability of vaccines, ensuring universal access to safe drinking water and proper sanitation and adequate nutrition are all key in determining a population’s well-being, an abiding thrust on creating and maintaining a sizeably more extensive public health infrastructure needed a substantially higher outlay on the standalone head. In fact, the Economic Survey had eloquently made the case for providing a massive boost to health spending, which it reasoned would serve as a direct means to raising overall economic output by reducing the economic burden of illnesses. To her credit, the Minister did announce that the government intends to introduce a new centrally sponsored scheme, ‘PM Atma Nirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana’, to develop primary, secondary, and tertiary care capacities over the next six years, at an estimated cost of Rs. 64,180 crore. How exactly this scheme pans out in terms of strengthening the beleaguered public health infrastructure in the remote and far-flung corners could well determine how prepared India is for the next unforeseen health emergency. A sizeable fiscal stimulus to reinvigorate consumption demand could have gone a long way in completing the recovery. While the revised estimates for the current financial year project a fiscal deficit of 9.5% of GDP on account of expenditure surging to Rs. 34.50-lakh crore, the Minister has opted for a mere Rs. 33,000 crore increase in the overall expenditure outlay in her Budget estimates for the next fiscal. Here again, she has pointed to the Rs. 5.54-lakh crore set aside for capital expenditure to contend a 34.5% increase in outlay over the current year’s Budget estimate. Far from being an expansionary Budget, Ms. Sitharaman has opted to contain overall spending so as to rein in the fiscal deficit to 6.8% in the coming fiscal itself. The country cannot afford a premature scaling down of fiscal support at a time of rising inequality. Strapped as the government is for funds in the wake of this year’s economic contraction denting its revenue receipts, the Budget does make bold to set out a few avenues for resource mobilisation. With the Minister announcing her resolve to complete the pandemic-delayed strategic stake sale in several state-owned companies in the coming fiscal, the Budget has accounted for Rs. 1.75-lakh crore in capital receipts from disinvestment. She also proposes to privatise two more public sector banks and a general insurer in 2021-22 and has committed to ensuring that the necessary legislative amendments to enable the LIC’s IPO are introduced in the current session of Parliament. The Budget also throws open the doors for increased FDI in insurance — the foreign ownership limit would be raised to 74% after amendments to the Insurance Act, 1938. Still, it remains to be seen how eager overseas insurers may be to raise their stakes, given the government’s intention to make its proposal politically acceptable by including safeguards such as mandating that a majority of board positions and key management personnel be restricted to resident Indians and requiring the companies to set aside a specified percentage of profits as general reserve. Also on the block for possible sale or lease through concessions are state-owned undertakings’ land assets that the government intends to monetise. In finding the capital for its National Infrastructure Pipeline, the Budget proposes an asset monetisation pipeline that would include highways, airports and ports. The aggressive stance on privatisation notwithstanding, the government is still likely to face an uphill task in achieving its ambitious disinvestment goal given that private investment is still anaemic. Ms. Sitharaman has also embarked on creating a ‘bad bank’ for dealing with the pile of stressed and bad bank loans. The Budget proposes establishing both an Asset Reconstruction Company and an Asset Management Company that would consolidate and take over existing stressed debt and then help dispose of the assets. It is these plans to privatise two state-run banks and also undertake a clean up of the stressed assets that have prompted the Minister to set aside just Rs. 20,000 crore to recapitalise the remaining public banks. Ultimately though, given its effort to mobilise resources without tweaking direct taxes at a time when several States are headed to the polls, the government has had little option but to tap the market for debt. With the Budget positing a gross market borrowing of Rs. 12-lakh crore, the government will end up getting 36 paise of every rupee it nets from borrowings and other liabilities, an 80% increase. Given these challenges, the Budget can only be the starting point for a year that calls for deft stewardship of the economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/getting-back-on-track/article33722706.ece
02 February 2021||Chennai,||First Test likely to remain behind closed doors||After a day of fast developments involving the three stakeholders — BCCI, ECB and host association TNCA — it seems likely that the first Test, beginning here on February 5, will be a “closed door” affair. It appears that the TNCA’s announcement allowing 180 member associations, which amounts to just 360 tickets, and the media for the opening game has not gone down well with the ECB and England team. The agreement One of the pre-conditions for the tour was ‘closed door’ Tests and the Englishmen, it is learnt, are not budging from that agreement. Sources indicate that if the first Test takes place without any incident, and the Englishmen are reassured about the safety measures, then a limited crowd and media could be allowed for the second Test. It may be recalled that when England hosted Tests last summer, against the West Indies and Pakistan, at the height of the pandemic, the media was allowed to cover the matches. Earlier in the day, indications were that a limited number of spectators and the media will be allowed for the first Test and as much as 50% of the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium could be filled by the spectators for the second. Indeed, the TNCA officials had a busy Monday, first holding a meeting among themselves and then engaging in deliberations with the BCCI. The trigger The Tamil Nadu Government’s decision to allow 50% spectators in the stadium for all sporting events had opened up the issue. TNCA secretary R.S. Ramasaamy had said to The Hindu , “For the first Test, since we don’t have time to prepare and all along our mindset was ‘Tests without crowds,’ we will issue tickets only to 180 member clubs, each of whom will get two tickets for the game. “For the second Test, we have decided, along with the BCCI, that we would have 50% of the stands full. But the spectators would not be seated anywhere near the pavilion.” The press box, he had said, would be open to the media for both the Tests here. However, an England team spokesperson said, “We are not going to comment on speculation. We are still waiting to hear from the BCCI, in terms of their protocols for the forthcoming Test series.” The tone of the reaction suggested that the Englishmen were not happy with the developing situation. Now we appear to be moving back towards square one. Would we see crowds at least in the second Test? Or would it be a ‘closed door’ affair at Chepauk? With things happening at a hectic speed, Tuesday could throw us another surprise.  Both teams clear COVID-19 tests The India and England players have returned three negative tests for COVID-19 during their six-day quarantine, clearing the way for their first net session on Tuesday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/first-test-likely-to-remain-behind-closed-doors/article33722791.ece
02 February 2021||MELBOURNE,||Nagal loses season opener||India’s Sumit Nagal began his 2021 season with an opening round defeat at the Murray River Open, losing 2-6, 2-6 to Ricardas Berankis in the run-up to the Australian Open on Monday. The Indian, ranked 139th in the world, couldn’t convert the two break opportunities he had. He also dropped serve four times against the World No. 72 from Lithuania. At the WTA Yarra Valley Classic, Serena Williams stepped up preparations for another tilt at a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam title with a 6-1, 6-4 win over Daria Gavrilova. “I felt that I was composed and in the zone. Just trying to do the things that I’ve been working on,” said the 39-year-old Serena in an on-court interview. Earlier, Coco Gauff didn't make it easy on herself. The 16-year-old American looked ready for straight-set win until Jil Teichmann won the second-set tiebreaker. The players then went to a deciding-set tiebreaker before Gauff won 6-3, 6-7 (6), 7-6 (5) at the WTA's Gippsland Trophy.  Important results: ATP Murray River Open (first round): Ricardas Berankis bt Sumit Nagal 6-2, 6-2; Jeremy Chardy bt Marin Cilic 2-6, 6-3, 7-6(8); Mackenzie McDonald bt Richard Gasquet 7-6(2), 7-5; Albert Ramos-Vinolas bt Blake Mott 6-2, 6-4.   Great Ocean Road Open (first round): Aljaz Bedene bt Yasutaka Uchiyama 7-6(5), 7-6(5); Kevin Anderson bt Feliciano Lopez 6-4, 7-5.   WTA Yarra Valley Classic (first round): Petra Martic bt Vera Lapko 4-6, 6-3, 6-2; Karolina Pliskova bt Elisabetta Cocciaretto 6-3, 6-2; Marketa Vondrousova bt Varvara Gracheva 6-4, 6-0; Serena Williams bt Daria Gavrilova 6-1, 6-4.   WTA Gippsland Trophy: Second round: Elina Svitolina bt Andrea Petkovic 6-1, 6-4; Simona Halep bt Anastasia Potapova 6-4, 6-4; First round: Coco Gauff bt Jil Teichmann 6-3, 6-7(6), 7-6(5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagal-loses-season-opener/article33722803.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,||A dramatic turnaround for Jagadeesan||After a tough domestic season in 2019-20, N. Jagadeesan turned it around this year as he played a crucial role in helping Tamil Nadu clinch the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 tournament in Ahmedabad on Sunday. The wicketkeeper-batsman finished as the highest scorer with 364 runs at a strike rate of 141.08. Last year, he made his IPL debut for Chennai Super Kings, playing five matches, and called it an important breakthrough.   “It was a great boost because when you are warming up the benches for two seasons, you start to doubt yourself,” said Jagadeesan. “Once I made my debut, I knew I could handle the best bowlers in the best competition and it helped me going into this tournament.” On what he learnt from the IPL, Jagadeesan said: “I did some technical adjustment but more than that there was a mental change. “The way I prepare for a game has evolved and it has helped me with things like when to take on a bowler and my shot selection,” added the 25-year-old. Hussey’s role He scored four consecutive half-centuries in the group stage and credited the role played by Mike Hussey at CSK. “I worked a lot with Hussey and he gave me tips on how to approach an innings. When someone of that stature supports you, I just took that and tried to implement,” said the player from Coimbatore. Satisfying On the Mushtaq Ali triumph — he was the vice-captain since the knockout stages — Jagadeesan said: “I was coming off a poor season last year and I wanted to do well. To finish as the leading run-scorer and win the tournament is very satisfying. “We had a lot of youngsters and someone stepped up whenever needed. The way Dinesh Karthik managed the whole side, it was fantastic.”  I worked a lot with Hussey and he gave me tips on how to approach an innings||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-dramatic-turnaround-for-jagadeesan/article33722798.ece
02 February 2021||BARCELONA,||Barcelona moves to second||Lionel Messi and Antoine Griezmann fired Barcelona to a 2-1 win at home to Athletic Bilbao in LaLiga on Sunday, avenging the recent defeat to the Basque side in the Spanish Super Cup final. The fifth straight Liga victory helped Ronald Koeman’s side move above Real Madrid on goal difference into second place on 40 points, 10 behind leader Atletico Madrid which has a game in hand. Messi curled in a free kick after 20 minutes for his 650th Barca goal on the day the club pledged to sue Spanish newspaper El Mundo for publishing full details of the Argentine’s contract. The host missed more opportunities before Athletic levelled in the 49th through a Jordi Alba own goal but Griezmann, who scored twice in the 3-2 Super Cup final defeat, restored the lead in the 74th. Brighton sinks Spurs In the Premier League, Brighton & Hove Albion claimed its first home win of the season as Leandro Trossard’s first-half goal proved enough for a 1-0 victory over Tottenham Hotspur.  The results: LaLiga: Granada 0 drew with Celta Vigo 0; Barcelona 2 (Messi 20, Griezmann 74) bt Athletic Bilbao 1 (Alba 49-og).   Premier League: Brighton 1 (Trossard 17) bt Tottenham 0.   Serie A: Napoli 2 (Elmas 32, Politano 82) bt Parma 0; Roma 3 (Mancini 20, Mkhitaryan 22, Mayoral 29) bt Hellas Verona 1 (Colley 62).   Bundesliga: Wolfsburg 3 (Brooks 21, Weghorst 39, Gerhardt 85) bt SC Freiburg 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/barcelona-moves-to-second/article33722793.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Reduced allocation for sports||Notwithstanding the impact of COVID-19 in the past year, the Sports Authority of India (SAI) and the National Sports Federations (NSFs) gained in varying degrees even as the Union budget reduced the allocation for sports by Rs. 230.78 crore for the financial year 2021-22. In the next financial year, the fund allocated is Rs. 2,596.14 crore, down by 8.16% when compared to the last budget. The Sports Ministry’s ambitious ‘Khelo India’ schemes has taken a hit of Rs. 232.71 crore, with its allocation slashed to Rs. 657.71 from Rs. 890.42 crore. On the brighter side, SAI’s allocation stood at Rs. 660.41 crore up from Rs. 500 crore, while the assistance for NSFs saw a spike of Rs. 35 crore (Rs. 245 crore to Rs. 280 crore). Increase in incentives There has been a slight increase in the allocation for incentives for sportspersons. The fund now stands at Rs. 70 crore, up by Rs. 17 crore from last year. Likewise, the contribution to The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) will now be Rs. 2.5 crore, up Rs. 50 lakh. The downside is the fund allocated for renovation and maintenance of the infrastructure built for the 2010 Commonwealth Games is cut by over 50% and now stands at Rs. 30 crore. Similarly, the budget for the National Sports Development Fund (NSDF) is down to Rs. 25 crore from Rs. 50 crore. In addition, there has been no change in the allocation of Rs. 50 crore for the development of sports facilities in Jammu and Kashmir besides Rs. 55 crore set aside for Lakshmibai National Institute of Physical Education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/union-budget-reduced-allocation-for-sports/article33722794.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Advantage India||Despite its rich history, Indian tennis does not have the literature to inspire the young generation and drive it forward. It was thus no surprise when Mahesh Bhupathi, Somdev Devvarman and Enrico Piperno were overwhelmed by the bundle of history on Indian tennis that author Anindya Dutta has brought out in the form of the book Advantage India . “Fantastic job, capturing history and staying away from the politics,” said Devvarman, during the live interaction, introducing the book. “Great effort, very important step in educating everyone about Indian tennis,” said Bhupathi. Fascinated by the many stories recalling the rich past, much before the entry of Ramanathan Krishnan, Piperno said that the book was a “fantastic read” and an eye-opener. With the Singapore-based Dutta, known for his cricket books, recalling how he spent two years working on the book, helped by the British archives, it was a revelation for the best-known names of Indian tennis that India had figured in the Davis Cup semifinals in 1921! Devvarman was impressed that India had world-class athletes more than 100 years ago, competing regularly at Wimbledon. Apart from going through many rare books, the author had also talked to Vijay Amritraj, Ramanathan Krishnan in getting a lot of insight.  Looking at some of the historic achievements during his playing career, Bhupathi said that Leander Paes winning the Olympic medal in Atlanta 1996 was one of the biggest stories of world sport. Piperno, coach of the Davis Cup and Fed Cup teams for many years, recalled how Paes had played incredible tennis for three days to help India beat France in Frejus in 1993 in Davis Cup. Television expert Digvijay Singh Deo anchored the discussion, getting the best out of everyone. Devvarman was candid in summing up his praise for the book, by suggesting that there should be a second volume, delving deeper into the recent past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/advantage-india/article33723216.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Samarth named skipper for Hazare Trophy||R. Samarth has been named the captain of the Karnataka team for the Vijay Hazare 50-over Trophy. Samarth takes over from Karun Nair, who has been struggling for runs. Regular captain Manish Pandey will miss the tournament due to an injury. Surprise elevation Samarth’s elevation has come as a surprise, given that he was not picked for the previous edition of the Vijay Hazare Trophy. A patient top-order batsman, Samarth did not feature in the recent Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy either. Karnataka chief selector Fazal Khaleel, however, backed Samarth to come good. “Samarth has the experience; he has been with the State side for 6-7 years now. He is calm, collected, experienced — qualities you look for in a captain. “We did not do very well in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy (Karnataka lost in the quarterfinals), so we believe that Samarth will bring fresh ideas,” Khaleel said. On Samarth’s recent absence from domestic white-ball tournaments, Khaleel said, “A player of his class can overcome that with a few knocks in the nets.” “I will request (former India and Karnataka captain) Rahul Dravid to spend time with Karun to help him out,” Khaleel said. All-rounder K. Gowtham, who is currently with the Indian Test team as a net bowler, has been named in the squad. “We hope that the BCCI will release Gowtham to join the Karnataka team for the Vijay Hazare Trophy. We will have clarity on Gowtham’s availability in a few days,” Khaleel said. Karnataka will miss the services of K.L. Rahul and Mayank Agarwal, who are part of the Indian Test team which takes on England.  The squad: R. Samarth (Capt.), Devdutt Padikkal, Rohan Kadam, D. Nischal, Karun Nair, K.L. Shrijith, B.R. Sharath, S. Rakshith, Anirudha Joshi, K.V. Siddharth, Nikin Jose, Shreyas Gopal, K. Gowtham, J. Suchith, Aditya Somanna, Shubhang Hegde, A. Mithun, Prasidh Krishna, Ronit More, Vyshak Kumar, Manoj Bhandage, and M.B. Darshan. Coach: Yere Goud. Bowling coach: S. Arvind .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/samarth-named-skipper-for-hazare-trophy/article33723214.ece
02 February 2021||Wijk aan Zee,||van Foreest bests Giri to triumph; Harikrishna finishes seventh||P. Harikrishna finished seventh before 21-year-old Jorden van Foreest upstaged his Dutch compatriot Anish Giri in the title-deciding Armageddon game in the Tata Steel Masters chess tournament here on Sunday. Harikrishna (6.5 points) drew the 13th and final round with Poland’s Jan Krysztof Duda. World No. 1 Magnus Carlsen (7.5) finished sixth for his worst finish in a premier event since he ended up joint-last as a 16-year-old in 2007.  The results: Round 13: Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol) drew with P. Harikrishna; David Anton Gujar (Esp) drew with Anish Giri (Ned); Jorden van Foreest (Ned) bt Nils Grandelius (Swe); Alexander Donchenko (Ger) lost to Andrey Esipenko (Rus); Aryan Tari (Nor) drew with Fabiano Caruana (USA); Alireza Firouzja (FIDE) drew with Radoslaw Wojtaszek (Pol); Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra).   Final standings: 1-2. Foreest, Giri (8.5 each), Foreest bt Giri in deciding Armageddon game); 3-5 Esipenko, Caruana, Firouzja (8 each); 6. Carlsen (7.5); 7. Hari (6.5); 8-9 Tari, Grandelius (6 each); 10. Duda (5.5); 11-13 Anton, Wojtaszek, Vachier (5 each); 14. Donchenko (3.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/van-foreest-wins-hari-seventh/article33722786.ece
02 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kovalam FC to launch membership drive||The city-based professional football club, Kovalam FC (KFC), will soon launch a membership drive to garner funds for its developmental activities. The club, which has its own stadium and runs a residential academy on the outskirts of the city, will sell premium club membership to the public. The members will gain access to properties owned by the club at Kovalam, Poovar and Karaingal and will also enjoy exclusive benefits decided by the club. “The intention to open the club membership is to raise funds for our football development and activities. The income from our properties at the three tourist centres will be used for maintaining our team. The board members have decided on an one-time membership fee and those who take it will enjoy exclusive benefits at our resorts. “We already have a football stadium from where we are running our residential football academy. Our efforts are to construct a bigger stadium with galleries and make Kovalam FC one of the best football clubs in the country. “We will officially launch our membership drive and want genuine supporters to be our members,” said the president of KFC T.J.S. Mathew. KFC has also entered into a five year tie-up with Nilgiri College of Arts and Science, Thaloor, for football development. KFC will provide technical help to develop the college team and also give opportunities to talented players. At present two players from the college are on the club’s roster. The club, which played a few pre-season friendlies with the college team, has identified it as one of its feeder units. The club is now gearing up for participation in the Kerala Premier League (KPL) and has started preparing in earnest. It is also on the lookout for promising goalkeepers and will conduct an open trials at the KFC stadium between February 6 and 15, said KFC coach Ebin Rose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kovalam-fc-to-launch-membership-drive/article33722916.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Mobashir helps JFC get back on track||After a run of five matches without a win, Jamshedpur FC (JFC) registered a 1-0 victory over Odisha FC in the Indian Super League (ISL) in Bambolim on Monday. Mobashir Rahman’s maiden ISL goal lifted JFC to sixth and within three points of the top four, while Odisha remained rooted to the bottom.  The result: Jamshedpur FC 1 (Mobashir Rahman 41) bt Odisha FC 0.   Tuesday’s match: SC East Bengal vs Bengaluru FC, 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jfc-back-on-track/article33722796.ece
02 February 2021||Chennai,||We’d love to play in front of crowds soon: Leach||Among the biggest challenges for a visiting team to be playing in India is coping with the pressures of playing in front of huge crowds. With the host association trying its best to allow 50% crowd at least for the second Test, England left-arm spinner Jack Leach, in an interactive chat here on Monday, was guarded with his response. “We all want to play in front of crowds. Obviously it needs to be safe, and we don’t want to be adding to a problem (COVID-19) that’s affecting the whole world,” he said. “So if it’s safe and if it’s good, then great. We’d love to play in front of crowds as soon as possible.” Asked about England’s spectacular Test series triumph in India, 2012, and left-arm spinner Monty Panesar’s successful strategy of being quicker through the air, Leach responded, “Monty bowled very well, but everyone has a different optimum speed and mine is different. And you got to be yourself when you bowl.” The bespectacled Leach appears more an accomplished professor than a cricketer but beneath his soft exterior lies a hardened competitor. He battled life-threatening sepsis in New Zealand (2020), had to fly back home and be off the game till he recovered completely. He kept the faith going and rewards awaited his belief and resilience. Leach scalped five and four in the second innings of the first and second Tests at Galle recently, bringing his subtle variations to the fore. “Playing in Sri Lanka was excellent preparation before taking on India.” Calling India a quality side, Leach observed, “I feel like it’s just a great chance for all of us to test ourselves against what on paper is probably the best side in the world. But they have right-handers and I may have a role to play.” On the challenges of COVID-19 and days of quarantine that eats into practise, Leach quipped, “I have been bowling a few in the mirror.” Leach has 44 wickets in 12 Tests but will be remembered for the most precious one not out in Test history. No. 11 Leach battled 60 minutes as an inspired Ben Stokes powered England to an incredible win, adding 73 for the last wicket in the Ashes Test at Leeds, 2019. This Leach is tough. Appearances can be deceptive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wed-love-to-play-in-front-of-crowds-soon-leach/article33722799.ece
02 February 2021||BENGALURU:,||Nikhil Raj scores hat-trick||M. Nikhil Raj scored a hat-trick as Kickstart FC blanked ADE FC 7-0 in the BDFA Super Division League on Monday.  The results:   Kickstart 7 (M. Nikhil Raj 3, 61, 74, Vignesh 31, Uzochi Emmannel Echebiri 45+1, 54, Karthik 71) bt ADE 0.   Bangalore Dream United 1 (Dorjee 11) bt ASC & Center 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nikhil-raj-scores-hat-trick/article33723215.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 08:36 IST,||Sudoku — February 2, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-february-2-2021/article33723594.ece
02 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Tax slabs remain unchanged||Without making any changes to the personal income tax slab, the Union Budget 2021-22 has provided relief to senior citizens in the filing of I-T returns; reduced the time limit for I-T proceedings; announced the setting-up of a Dispute Resolution Committee and faceless Income Tax Appellate Tribunal proceedings; provided relaxations for Non-Resident Indians (NRI); offered an increase in the exemption limit from audit; and accounted for relief for dividend income. To reduce the compliance burden on senior citizens aged 75 years or above, such taxpayers with only pension and interest income will be exempted from filing an I-T return — the paying bank will deduct the necessary tax on their income. Easing complexity In her Budget speech, Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Nirmala Sitharaman committed to reduce the complexity that NRIs face, on their return to India, on the issue of accrued incomes in their foreign retirement account. The Budget proposes to notify rules governing it. The Minister, while presenting the Budget, also announced steps to attract foreign investment into infrastructure; relief for affordable housing and rental housing; tax incentives to the International Financial Services Centre (IFSC); relief to small charitable trusts; and steps for incentivising start-ups in the country. The Budget has proposed to make dividend payments to REIT (Real Estate Investment Trusts) / InvIT (Infrastructure Investment Trusts) exempt from TDS (tax deducted at source). For Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPI), the Budget has proposed the deduction of tax on dividend income at a lower treaty rate. As per the proposal, advanced tax liability on dividend income will arise only after the declaration or payment of dividend. Affordable housing Towards housing for all, the FM has proposed to extend the eligibility period for claim of additional deduction for interest of Rs. 1.5 lakh on loan taken for the purchase of an affordable house to March 31, 2022. For increasing the supply of affordable houses, she also announced the extension of an eligibility period for claiming a tax holiday for affordable housing projects by one more year to March 31, 2022. To promote supply of affordable rental housing for the migrant workers, the FM announced a new tax exemption for notified affordable rental housing projects. “Amid the prolonged pandemic scenario, this extension was needed to support the latent housing demand in the country,” said Shishir Baijal, CMD, Knight Frank India. “Further, the relaxation on tax compliance for REIT investors will further improve the marketability of such products, considering we are likely to witness new REITs this year.” To reduce litigation in the system, a Dispute Resolution Committee for small taxpayers facing litigation is to be set up. “Anyone with a taxable income up to Rs. 50 lakh and disputed income up to Rs. 10 lakh shall be eligible to approach the committee, which will be faceless to ensure efficiency, transparency and accountability,” the Minister said. She also announced the setting up of a National Faceless Income Tax Appellate Tribunal Centre. Zero coupon bonds The Budget has proposed to make notified infrastructure debt funds eligible to raise funds by issuing tax-efficient zero coupon bonds. To promote the IFSC in GIFT City (Gujarat International Finance Tec-City), the Budget has proposed more tax incentives, which include a tax holiday for capital gains from the incomes of aircraft leasing companies; tax exemption for aircraft lease rentals paid to foreign lessors; tax incentives for relocating foreign funds in the IFSC; and to allow tax exemption for the investment divisions of foreign banks located in IFSC. Tushar Sachade, partner-deals tax, PwC India, said these measures would ‘definitely give wings to create a sustainable ecosystem for operations’ in the aircraft leasing and financing sector. For ease filing of returns, the Budget has proposed that details of capital gains from listed securities, dividend income, and interest from banks and post offices, will also be pre-filled in returns.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tax-slabs-remain-unchanged/article33722633.ece
02 February 2021||MUMBAI,||Centre to amalgamate market laws into single code||The Centre on Monday announced setting up of a Single Security Market Code by consolidating the provisions of SEBI Act, 1992, Depositories Act, 1996, Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and Government Securities Act, 2007. This was announced by Union Minister for Finance and Corporate Affairs Nirmala Sitharaman, while presenting the Union Budget 2021-22 in Parliament. According to analysts, this move will improve ease of doing business in the country’s financial markets, cut down compliances, reduce cost and do away with friction between various stakeholders. In order to instil confidence among participants in the corporate bond market during times of stress and to generally enhance secondary market liquidity, the Budget has proposed to create a permanent institutional framework. The proposed body would purchase investment grade debt securities both in stressed and normal times and help in the development of the bond market, the Finance Minister said. “While further details on the modus operandi for such a framework is awaited, it will clearly help to deepen the corporate bond market which continues to face liquidity challenges,” Suman Chowdhury, chief analytical officer, Acuité Ratings & Research said. “In our opinion, this will be fairly positive for debt mutual funds particularly credit funds which had witnessed significant outflows last year due to poor liquidity in certain corporate papers,” he added. “This will also help to reduce the volatility in secondary market yields of relatively lower rated bonds in the AA and A category,” Mr. Chowdhury said. The government also announced establishing a system of regulated gold exchanges in the country. For this purpose, SEBI will be notified as the regulator and the Warehousing Development and Regulatory Authority will be strengthened to set up a commodity market ecosystem with arrangements including vaulting, assaying and logistics in addition to warehousing. To provide protection to investors, the Finance Minister has proposed to introduce an investor charter as a right of all financial investors across all financial products. “A significant change, the impact of which would be felt across industries, is the proposed introduction of the securities market code. Also an important proposal, on expected lines, has been the introduction of certain dispute resolution mechanisms – reduction of the limitation period to 3 years should help in bringing certainty to taxpayers,” said Rajeev Dimri, partner and head of Tax, KPMG India.  The move will also help to reduce the volatility in secondary market yields of relatively lower rated bonds in the AA and A category Suman Chowdhury, chief analytical officer, Acuité Ratings & Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centre-to-amalgamate-market-laws-into-single-code/article33722636.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Consumers will not be burdened by farm cess’||Pointing at an immediate need to improve agricultural infrastructure in the country, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced an Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) on select items such as petrol, diesel, apples and alcohol. However, she stressed that this will not lead to an additional burden on the consumers. During the post-Budget interaction with the media, the FM said basic Customs Duty rates have been reduced on most items where AIDC is being imposed, so as to not put a burden on the end consumer. She added that this would ensure enhanced remuneration for the farmers. “It is just a restructuring we’ve done. We reduced the Customs Duty and we levied a disproportionate amount of cess. So, it was not the exact amount of reduction in Customs Duty that we levied in the form of cess. For example, 10% was brought down for Customs, we have only added 5-6% [in AIDC], so the price for the end consumer has been reduced or in some cases has remained the same,” she said. She added that this has been done only to make sure that there is a dedicated amount coming out to the Budget to improve agricultural infrastructure.  Additionally, AIDC of Rs. 2.5 per litre has been levied on petrol and Rs. 4 per litre on diesel. However, the Basic Excise duty and Special Additional Excise Duty rates on them have been reduced so that there is no additional cost to the consumer. Siraj Hussain, former Agriculture Secretary, noted the Customs Duty was shared with the States, while the cess would go entirely to the Centre. It would have an impact on sharing of resources between the Centre and the States, and more clarity would emerge once the fine print of the Budget documents was fully understood. Meanwhile, asked about the farmers’ protest, the Finance Minister said she believed that dialogue was the way forward. “We understand that farmers are sitting at the borders... If they have any questions, the Agriculture Minister has never shied from sitting with them for a discussion... how many ever rounds it may take, and has said that we are ready for a clause-by-clause discussion with farmers.” Tto a query on how confident the government is about containing the fiscal deficit at 6.8% as per BE 2021-2022, Tarun Bajaj, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, said, “If you notice, our revenue figures for this time, if anything, are understated and not overstated. “We have taken on nominal GDP at 14.4% and the revenue at 16.7%. So, the buoyancy is only 1.16%. We are hopeful we will be able to get more than this and achieve more in the other areas of non-tax revenue under disinvestment. “We will definitely be within 6.8% and could be lower also,” he said. Ms. Sitharaman said, “our fiscal deficit, which started at 3.5% during February, has gone to 9.5% of the GDP. So, we have spent, spent and spent. Otherwise, fiscal deficit would not have reached this number. We’ve also given a clear glide path for deficit management and bringing it down.” She added that there were two important features to the Budget. “It is that we chose to spend big on infrastructure, which spans roads, bridges, ports, power generation, and so on and, to also attend to the needs of the health sector. “Capacity building in health has taken a very big place in the Budget.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/consumers-will-not-be-burdened-by-farm-cess/article33722644.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. hopes to cut fiscal deficit to 4.5% by FY26||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has pegged the fiscal deficit for 2021-22 at 6.8% of the GDP and aims to bring it back below the 4.5% mark by 2025-26. The original fiscal deficit target for 2020-21 was 3.5%. However, in reality, the deficit has shot up to a high of 9.5% of the GDP due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic — low revenue flows due to the lockdown and negative economic growth clubbed with high government spending to provide relief to vulnerable sections of society, as well as a stimulus package to revive demand. The government also took the opportunity to bring the food subsidy bill back on the budget books, which includes a one-time payment of more than Rs. 2 lakh crore to the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to deal with its accumulated loan from the National Small Savings Fund. The Centre proposes to make amendments to the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, 2003, to reflect these changes to the fiscal consolidation road map, Ms. Sitharaman said. She added that the Centre hopes to return to the path of fiscal consolidation by higher tax buoyancy through improved compliance on the one hand, and increased monetisation of its assets, including public sector enterprises and land, on the other. She also proposed to augment the Contingency Fund of India from Rs. 500 crore to Rs. 30,000 crore. More market borrowings This year’s fiscal deficit has been funded through government borrowings, multilateral borrowings, small saving funds and short-term borrowings. “We would need another Rs. 80,000 crore, for which we would be approaching the markets in these two months,” the Minister said in the Lok Sabha. In 2021-22, the government proposes to spend a total of Rs. 34.83 lakh crore, higher than the budget estimate of Rs. 30.42 lakh crore in the previous year, as well as the actual expenditure of Rs. 34.5 lakh crore. The coming year’s spending plan includes Rs. 5.54 lakh crore as capital expenditure, an increase of 34.5% over the current year’s budget estimates. The gross borrowing from the market for the next year would be around Rs. 12 lakh crore, said Ms. Sitharaman. The States are being allowed a net borrowing ceiling of 4% of GSDP in 2021-22, and will be expected to consolidate their fiscal deficits to 3% of GSDP by 2021-22, as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. “The target numbers seem realistic,” said economist Pronab Sen, former Chief Statistician of India. “A large chunk of the deficit involves cleaning up of the FCI’s balance sheet. So if the government hasn’t been paying FCI and making FCI borrow, they are just taking the opportunity to clean that up,” he said, adding that the accumulated loan from the NSSF to FCI, which is over Rs. 2 lakh crore would account for 1% of the 9.5% deficit. Although this is a one-time expenditure, going forward, with the NSSF loan being discontinued, the budget will take on the burden of payments to the FCI. “The government has indicated it is willing to borrow significantly more than FRBM targets currently allow. There are no additional taxes or funding mechanisms, so the government expects this will be financed through normal growth of the GDP. The only other revenues expected are from the monetisation of assets and disinvestment,” said D.K. Srivastava, chief policy adviser at EY India and a member of the Advisory Council to the 15th Finance Commission. “If the economy normalises, this path should be feasible,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-hopes-to-cut-fiscal-deficit-to-45-by-fy26/article33722655.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||LAC stand-off factored in for defence outlay||Against the backdrop of the stand-off with China and an impetus for military modernisation, the allocation for capital expenditure in the defence budget saw an increase of Rs. 21,326 crore, or 18.75%, from the Budget estimates of 2020-21. This is the highest increase in capital outlay for defence in the past 15 years, a release said. Budget data also show that the armed forces got an additional allocation of Rs. 20,776 crore under capital expenditure in 2020-21 for emergency procurements in the face of massive mobilisation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The total allocation for defence in the Union Budget at Rs. 4.78 lakh crore, including for defence pensions, saw a marginal increase of 1.48% from the Rs. 4.71 lakh crore last year. The allocation for 2021-22 stands at Rs. 3.62 lakh crore, excluding defence pensions, which stood at Rs. 1.16 lakh crore. Excluding defence pensions, the increase is about 7.34%, up from Rs. 3.37 lakh crore to Rs. 3.62 lakh crore. Pension dip However, data show that defence pensions have gone down significantly from the Budget estimates of 2020-21. The capital allocation for 2020-21 was Rs. 1.13 lakh crore, which went up to Rs. 1.35 lakh crore for 2021-22. Budget data show that in 2020-21, the armed forces got an additional allocation of Rs. 20,776 crore under capital expenditure in the revised estimates, largely to cater to emergency procurements due to the LAC stand-off. As the stand-off began with China in May last year, the Army deployed 50,000 troops and equipment along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Air Force (IAF), too, forward-deployed its frontline fighters. The services also went in for a series of emergency procurements, including equipment and extreme weather clothing for the troops deployed in the high-altitude areas in peak winter. Last month, the Chief of the Army Staff, Gen. Manoj Naravane, said that 38 deals, estimated at Rs. 5,000 crore, were made last year through the “emergency and fast track” route and in addition, capital procurements for Rs. 13,000 crore were concluded. The defence pensions saw a significant dip from Rs. 1.34 lakh crore in the Budget estimate of 2020-21 to Rs. 1.25 lakh crore in the revised estimate and further to Rs. 1.15 lakh crore allocated for 2021-22. From 2020-21 to 2021-22, this represents a decrease of Rs. 17,775 crore or about 13.4%. The 15th Finance Commission observed it its report that the expenditure on defence services as a proportion of GDP declined from 2% in 2011-12 to 1.5% in 2018-19 and to 1.4% in 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lac-stand-off-factored-in-for-defence-outlay/article33722668.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||137% increase in health and well-being spend||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her Budget speech that the government expected to spend Rs. 2,23,846 crore in the coming year on “health and well being... a 137% increase (from last year).” This includes a Rs. 60,030-crore outlay on drinking water and sanitation, a Rs. 2,700-crore outlay on nutrition — both of these are handled by separate Ministries — nearly Rs. 49,000 crore as Finance Commission grants and Rs. 35,000 crore toward vaccination. The Health Ministry expects to spend Rs. 71,269 crore in 2021-22, an increase of roughly 9% from the budget estimates of last year. But this will be less than what the Ministry actually spent last year. The ‘revised estimates’ in the Budget documents show the Ministry spent Rs. 78,886 crore in the last financial year, about 20% up from the budgeted Rs. 65,012 crore. Last year, the Department of Health Research (DHR), which funds organisations such as the Indian Council of Medical Research, had budgeted Rs. 2,100 crore for FY-2020-21. However, they are expected to spend up to Rs. 4,062 crore by March and for the coming financial year have budgeted Rs. 2,663 crore. The allocations in health also include spends by the Ministry of Ayush — about Rs. 2,970 crore — which is more than what’s apportioned for the DHR. Responding to the allocations, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said, “Investment on health infrastructure in Budget 2021 has increased... the focus on strengthening three areas — preventive health, curative health and well-being... will be of immense help to the country at this critical juncture.” New scheme Ms. Sitharaman also announced a new Centrally sponsored scheme, PM Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, that would be launched on an outlay of about Rs. 64,180 crore over 6 years to improve primary, secondary, and tertiary care health systems, strengthen national institutions, create new institutions to cater to detection and cure of new and emerging diseases. This scheme aims to support 17,788 rural and 11,024 urban Health and Wellness Centres, establish integrated public health labs in all districts, strengthen the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), its five regional branches and 20 metropolitan health surveillance units, establish nine Bio-Safety Level III laboratories and four regional National Institutes of Virology. “The Finance Minister’s emphasis on healthcare spending and immunisation, especially on COVID-19 and pneumococcal vaccines, will help India rapidly recover from the pandemic,” said Adar Poonawalla, CEO, Serum Institute of India.  Suchitra Ella, joint managing director, Bharat Biotech, said, “The new health infra schemes with a significantly higher outlay of Rs. 35,000 crore for Bharat’s mega COVID-19 vaccination drive is a huge fiscal medicine to contain the pandemic, reduce disease burden for the population, and the economy.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/137-increase-in-health-and-well-being-spend/article33722694.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rural India’s lifeline missing in Budget speech||The scheme that has been described as the lifeline of rural India during the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown was completely missing from the Finance Minister’s Budget speech on Monday. Unmentioned in the speech, the Budget documents showed that the allocations for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme stood at Rs. 73,000 crore in 2021-22, higher than the budget estimates for the previous year, but lower than the revised estimates. Activists supporting MGNREGA workers warned that rural distress provoked by the pandemic was still continuing, and would require additional funding for the rural jobs scheme. The importance of MGNREGA this year can be seen from the fact that the revised expenditure estimates for the demand-driven scheme stand at Rs. 1.11 lakh crore in 2020-21, sharply higher than the budget estimates of just Rs. 61,500 crore. Faced with a mass exodus of migrant workers from the cities back to their villages during the lockdown, the Centre added a substantial extra allocation as part of COVID-19 relief to ensure that some employment could be provided to this newly jobless population. The 2021-22 allocation, however, returns MGNREGA funding to the levels of actual expenditure in 2019-20, indicating that the Centre feels the crisis is over. “Considering the unemployment scenario in rural India, which was at 9% even in December 2020, according to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, it is inexcusable that the Finance Minister’s speech did not have a single mention of MGNREGS,” said Hannan Mollah, general secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha. “The Budget was a good opportunity for the government to raise the number of days of employment through MGNREGS to 150 days,” he added. “This undermines the NREGA and shows utter disdain for one of the most important programmes that provided a modicum of protection to the rural poor. The government has shown neither commitment to nor an understanding of the situation of those who suffered most through the pandemic,” said Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan activist Nikhil Dey. The budgetary allocations for pensions for senior citizens, widows and the disabled in the coming year have been held at the exact same level as the original budget estimates during 2020-21. The actual expenditure on these schemes was much higher owing to the additional pension amounts distributed as part of the COVID-19 relief package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rural-indias-lifeline-missing-in-budget-speech/article33722705.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||More tractors arrive at Singhu border||Over 500 tractors from Haryana made their way to the Singhu border protest site on Monday in an attempt to reassure farmers that the stir will continue to intensify. Amarjeet Dayanand, 25, a resident of Haryana’s Sonipat, said that members of Saroha khap from 12 villages had come to the Delhi border with their tractors. “We gathered at 9 a.m. and started from Sonipat. The over 500 tractors led to a jam around 10 km long. This is a show of the power of farmers and that this stir is not going to end,” he said. Sudhir Saroha, 20, said that a few people had tarnished the purpose of the protest on January 26 and farmers have to now correct it. Members of one village will stay here every day for the next 12 days, he added. “When our leader Rakesh Tikait cried, we all were moved. We will take this struggle to the end,” said Billo Rani, 50, from atop a tractor in which she was joined by 100 other women. Measures are being taken both in Punjab and Haryana to increase the crowd at all border protest sites. Turn up or pay fine Back in villages in Punjab, Bharat Kisan Union (BKU) office-bearers said that committees have been set up to ensure people turn up for the protest in Delhi. “Committees have been formed with the people’s support and it has been decided that one person from every family will come for the protest and if they don’t, they will have to pay a fine which will be decided depending on their financial position,” said Amreek Singh, district pradhan, BKU, Jalandhar (Kadian). He added that people should know that if they do not turn up for the stir then their own future is bleak. Similarly, in some Haryana villages, rules have been drawn up to ensure people participate in the agitation. Baljinder Singh, 32, from Karnal, said that in his village of Rattak the same rule of one person per family has been decided, in addition to one tractor. “There is a fine of Rs. 1,000 per day if the person doesn’t come for the protest, and a penalty of Rs. 5,000 if the tractor does not come,” he said, adding that they have prepared a list of people and tractors in their village. Collecting data Mr. Baljinder alleged that the police in their village are collecting details of people who have turned up for the protest. “Officers from the station took details of my father — the sarpanch — and the tractors that have come for the protest. They want to intimidate us but we will not be scared,” he said. Dilbagh Singh from Karnal said that people in two trolleys will come for the protest and stay for four days till the next two trolleys arrive. On Monday, the Delhi police instaled spikes at the Tikri border and put another layer of security by filling cement between two layers of barricades. Also, Twitter accounts of the Kisan Ekta Morcha and other handles supporting the farmers’ protest were “withheld in India in response to a legal demand”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-tractors-arrive-at-singhu-border/article33723288.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Budget sends mixed signals on farm sector||The Union Budget sent mixed signals to the tens of thousands of farmers who have been protesting on Delhi’s borders for the last two months, and the wider agricultural community. On the one hand, the budget allocation for the Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare was slashed 8.5% in 2021-22. The flagship PM-KISAN scheme, meant to provide income support to farmers, saw a 13% drop in its budget, which is Rs. 10,000 crore lower than last year’s initial allocation. On the other hand, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s speech emphasised the government’s track record in paying minimum support prices (MSP) to farmers and the decision to allow State-run Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) to access the Rs. 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF). Protesting farm unions are demanding a repeal of the three agrarian reform laws that they fear will lead to the collapse of the APMCs and weaken the system of government procurement at MSP rates, leaving small farmers at the mercy of corporate players. This Budget should clear all doubts with regard to the three laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in a statement which spelt out Ms. Sitharaman’s message to farmers. “In this Budget, the government has made a provision to empower APMC mandis along with its commitment to MSP. Originally, these were the two main doubts regarding the agricultural bills,” he said, adding that he hoped farm unions would now consider the laws positively. The AIF was created last year, as part of a COVID-19 stimulus package to develop cold chain storage and other post-harvest management infrastructure. Now Ms. Sitharaman has announced that APMCs will also be able to access these funds. “It can be seen as a sign of support to the APMC system. If they are making APMCs eligible to borrow from this fund, and thus strengthen their infrastructure, the government seems to be sending a message that they are not going to be killed,” said Siraj Hussain, former Agriculture Secretary and currently a fellow at the Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations. Unlike in recent years, when agriculture announcements hogged top billing in Budget speeches, Ms. Sitharaman only touched on the sector after the first hour of her speech on Monday. Agriculture Cess She also announced an Agriculture Infrastructure Development Cess to be levied on petrol, diesel, gold and other imports, to improve facilities for production, conservation and processing of farm produce and thus “ensure enhanced remuneration for our farmers”. However, farm advocates were not impressed, noting that schemes to provide a remunerative price for farm produce, such as PM AASHA and the Price Support Scheme have seen budget cuts of 20-25%. PM KISAN, which gives each landowning farm family Rs. 6,000 of annual income support, has reduced its budget to match last year’s revised estimates which reached 9 crore households, rather than trying to reach out to its original target of 14.5 crore households. With regard to the AIF, Kiran Vissa, a Telangana-based leader of the Rythu Swarajya Vedika, said, “If you introduce laws to weaken the APMC system, then what is the point of giving APMC mandis access to an Agriculture Infrastructure Fund.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/apmcs-can-now-tap-into-agri-infrastructure-fund/article33722674.ece
02 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||BJP faces farmers’ anger in western U.P.||The surge of farmers at the Ghazipur border has begun to show its socio-political impact in western Uttar Pradesh with banners coming up in villages of Bijnor, Shamli, and Ghaziabad wherein locals have shown their ire against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and supporters. In Banthla village of Loni, a banner says the village boycotts Loni MLA Nand Kishore Gurjar. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) had alleged that Mr. Gurjar was present at the Ghazipur protest site on the evening of January 28 with his supporters and would have beaten up farmers had their leader Rakesh Tikait didn’t stand firm. In Bijnor’s Rashidpur Garhi, the banner takes a more threatening tone. The banners have come up after an oblique appeal was made at the panchayats in Muzaffarnagar and Baghpat that people should boycott those who were against farmers. In the Bajna panchayat in Mathura, Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Jayant Chaudhary made a similar appeal to socially ostracise people who were against farmers. Sources in the BJP agree what Mr. Gurjar’s actions did hurt party’s image in the sugarcane belt but add that the MLA has a tendency to comment on every issue and loves to court controversies “He is a ‘bayan bahadur’ (quote warrior) who loves to court controversies. What he did was in his individual capacity and a clear deviation from the party line,” said a BJP member from Loni requesting anonymity. Local sources say Mr. Gurjar has a running feud with the municipality chairman Ranjeeta Dhama, whose husband was a contender for the party ticket from Loni. The banner might be a ploy to ruin his prospects for the future.  Move neutralised After the incidents of January 28, Mr. Gurjar tried to present himself as a community leader but the BKU was quick to neutralise it with Madan Bhaiya, a Gurjar heavyweight and a four-time MLA who unsuccessfully fought the 2017 Assembly election against Mr. Kishore on an RLD ticket, coming in support of protesting farmers. A Jat BJP leader agreed there is anger but it is more of an “emotional issue” about the “dignity of the community” rather than mass opposition of farm laws. “Anyway, now we have something to defend in elections rather just praising our achievements,” he chuckled, underlining how people in the region had been donating huge amounts for the construction of the Ram Temple. Surya Mani Raghuvanshi, editor of an eveninger in Bijnor, said banners might get or have already been removed by the administration but the resentment against the ruling party is palpable. “However, its result would be clear only after the Panchayat elections.” Naseer Shah, a senior advocate in Mathura who raises issues of farmers, said anger was brewing in the region but it found an expression after the emotional outburst of Mr. Tikait. “After the mahapanchayat in Bajna, several small panchayats are being organised in various parts of the district. On Monday, a meeting was organised in Baldev area where about 1000 farmers participated. This is significant because earlier even if there was a call not more than 100 turned up for such panchayats,” he said.  ‘We didn’t put banners’ Yudhvir Singh, general secretary of BKU, said the banners were not put up by the outfit. “We don’t have the budget to put posters nor do we target supporters of any particular party. Our job is to raise issues of farmers irrespective of the government in power. It might be the doing of the locals.” Mr. Singh reminded the Ram Temple issue was also an “emotional” one. “We are a country of emotional people. The government promised to double the income of farmers. That remains a tempting jumla. It has yet to come up with a formula to make it a reality,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-faces-farmers-anger-in-western-up/article33722936.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,||Kerala industry sees a mixed bag||The Union Budget has set aside Rs. 15,700 crore for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) across the country, which is a positive step. However, the MSMEs had expected that the government would come out with relief measures or another package for their revival in the wake of the devastation caused by COVID-19, said M. Khalid of the Kerala State Small Industries Association here on Monday. He said there are around 6.35 crore MSMEs across India. They account for 11 crore jobs, contribute 48% to the export volume and constitute 30% of the GDP. Hence, the MSMEs should have been supported more generously, he said. At the same time, the allocations for National Highway development in Kerala and the provision of nearly Rs. 2,000 crore for the Kochi metro extension will liven up the market, he added. Hospitality industry veteran Jose Dominic said the sector, which is looking to recover, had expected some bold new steps in the post-COVID-19 period. However, that has not happened in the Budget. It was hoped that there would be a GST holiday for at least a year for the hospitality and travel industry, considering their role in the revival of the economy, he said. Mr. Dominic, however, said the steps proposed in the Budget such as proper handling of waste through more intense urban Swachh Bharat campaign and Jal Jeevan Mission for water supply would improve the ground facilities, which in turn would give a big boost to the travel industry. Health sector happy Azad Moopen, founder chairman and managing director, Aster DM Healthcare, said the Budget had seen a “phenomenal increase in outlay for the health-care sector” with focus on key issues. “We are glad that the total outlay for health and well-being has increased by 137%, standing at Rs. 2,23,846 crore,” he said. India has fared well in keeping the COVID-19 death rate down and active case rate one of the lowest in the world. India is also emerging as a supplier of vaccines to many countries. With provisions for vaccination being made available to the population at large at the earliest, the country can move beyond the pandemic to focus on the future, Dr. Moopen added. The Budget will help propel Indian economy even amidst the global pandemic, said Yusuffali M.A., NRI businessman and chairman of the Lulu Group. The health sector has substantial allocation. The spending on vaccination is a big morale booster for the country, he added. He also welcomed, as a Non-Resident Indian businessman, “some very specific steps being taken to tap NRI investments”. Announcement of “One Person Companies” or OPCs in India is going to be a game changer especially for the start-up sector and new-gen businesses, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kerala-industry-sees-a-mixed-bag/article33722974.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Culture Ministry suffers a 15% cut||The Culture Ministry’s expenditure budget for 2021-22 was cut by nearly 15% from the Budget estimates (BE) for 2020-21, according to the Budget documents tabled by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Parliament on Monday. The Ministry has been allocated Rs. 2,687.99 crore. It was Rs. 3,149.86 crore in the previous financial year, though the actual expenditure was Rs. 2,211.85 crore, according to the revised estimates (RE) for the year. The bulk of the expenditure in the BE for 2021-22 was under the developmental head of “art and culture”; Rs. 2,513.01 crore was allocated for it. The remaining amount was allocated for “secretariat-social services” (Rs. 50.7 crore), “capital outlay on education, sports, art and culture” (Rs. 78.76 crore) and “North-Eastern areas” (Rs. 45.52 crore). The Archaeological Survey of India, which is responsible for the upkeep of over 3,000 Centrally protected monuments, saw its budget cut from Rs. 1,246.7 crore in the 2020-2021 BE to Rs. 1,042.63 crore in the 2021-2022 BE. However, the expenditure budget for ASI was revised to Rs. 860.8 crore in the RE for 2020-2021. “The Museum on Prime Ministers of India, which is going to be inaugurated in the next financial year, has been allocated Rs. 77.78 crore. As India is going to celebrate the 75th anniversary of freedom and the 125th birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose, the budget of the Centenary and Anniversary Celebration scheme has been enhanced by 38.5% and Rs. 144.64 crore has been allocated,” a Culture Ministry statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/culture-ministry-suffers-a-15-cut/article33722664.ece
02 February 2021||CHENNAI,||Auto sector welcomes vehicle scrappage policy||Leading players in the automotive sector have welcomed the Centre’s announcement on the voluntary vehicle scrappage policy to phase out old and unfit vehicles. While tabling the Union Budget for 2021-22, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the policy would help in encouraging fuel-efficient, environment-friendly vehicles, thereby reducing vehicular pollution and the oil import bill. Vehicles would undergo fitness tests after 20 years in automated fitness centres in the case of personal vehicles (PV), and after 15 years in the case of commercial vehicles (CV). ‘Good intent’ Kenichi Ayukawa, president, Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), “the vehicle scrappage scheme has a good intent and the auto industry would be keen to work with the government on suggestions for maximising benefits to environment and society.” Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations president Vinkesh Gulati said, “If we take 1990 as the base year, there are approximately 37 lakh CVs and 52 lakh PVs eligible for voluntarily scrappage. “As an estimate, 10% of CVs and 5% of PVs may still be plying on the road.” Vipin Sondhi, MD & CEO, Ashok Leyland Ltd., said the policy is good for the environment and for setting in motion a circular economy. “However, we await further details of the policy as the industry had requested an incentive-based scrappage policy for it to be effective, Mr. Sondhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/auto-sector-welcomes-vehicle-scrappage-policy/article33722651.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||ACs, phones to turn costlier; gold and silver to be cheaper||A large number of commonly used items, including refrigerators, air conditioners, LED lights and mobile phones, will become more expensive due to a hike in customs duty on imported parts, as proposed by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Union Budget for 2021-22. However, gold and silver will become cheaper as a result of rationalisation in customs duty on imports of these precious metals. Imported items that will become costlier are compressors for refrigerators and air conditioners; LED lamps; parts and spares such as printed circuit board; raw silk and cotton; solar inverters and lanterns; automobile parts such as safety and toughened glass; windscreen wipers; signalling equipment; mobile phone parts such as printed circuit board assembly, camera module, connectors, back cover, side keys, charger components; inputs or raw materials for lithium-ion batteries; ink cartridges and ink spray nozzles; finished leather products; nylon fibre and yarn; plastic builder wares and cut and polished synthetic stones, including cubic zirconia. Imported items that will become cheaper are gold and gold dore; silver and silver dore; other precious metals like platinum and palladium and medical devices imported by international organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/acs-phones-to-turn-costlier-gold-and-silver-to-be-cheaper/article33722662.ece
02 February 2021||Bengaluru,||Start-ups to get tax holiday till March 2022||The Union Budget proposes to extend tax holiday for start-ups until March-end next year. It also proposes to extend the capital gains exemption for investment in start-ups by another year to encourage funding in the sector. “I propose to extend the eligibility for claiming tax holiday for start-ups by one more year. Further, to incentivise funding of the start-ups, the Budget proposes to extend the capital gains exemption for investment in start-ups by one more year,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman said while presenting the Union Budget on Monday. The Budget also proposes to incentivise one-person companies (OPCs) by allowing them to grow without any restrictions on paid-up capital and turnover. OPCs will also be allowed to change the ‘type’ of the company at any time. Also, the residency limit has been brought down to 120 days from 182 days, making investments in India more convenient to NRIs. Ashish Aggarwal, senior director and head, policy advocacy at Nasscom, said most of these start-up announcements were only incremental and not inclusive in nature. ‘Limited scope’ “For example, the proposed one-year tax holiday will be available only to some 400 start-ups in the country, that are recognised as well as certified by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade [DPIIT]. However, we have over 40,000 start-ups which are recognised but not certified and therefore won’t benefit from this tax relief,” he said. The apex body had, in fact, recommended to the Finance Ministry to include DPIIT-certified companies under this benefit, but the Vudget doesn’t reflect that. Increasing the paid-up capital limit from Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 2 crore and turnover from Rs. 2 crore to Rs. 20 crore would certainly help start-ups in terms of easing pressure on reporting compliance, Mr. Aggarwal added. Rajesh Nambiar, chairman and managing director-India, Cognizant, said reducing the time limit for reopening of assessment to three years, setting up a faceless income tax appellate tribunal, and strengthening the NCLT with e-courts and a conciliation mechanism for contractual disputes would increase investor confidence in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/start-ups-to-get-tax-holiday-till-march-2022/article33722669.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||5 fishing harbours to be modernised||Five major fishing harbours will see substantial investments for modernisation and development, according to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget speech on Monday. “To start with, five major fishing harbours — Kochi, Chennai, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Petuaghat — will be developed as hubs of economic activity,” she said. “We will also develop inland fishing harbours and fish-landing centres along the banks of rivers and waterways,” she added. Emerging sector Ms. Sitharaman also announced measures to promote seaweed cultivation. “Seaweed farming is an emerging sector with potential to transform the lives of coastal communities. It will provide large scale employment and additional incomes,” she said. “To promote seaweed cultivation, I propose a Multipurpose Seaweed Park to be established in Tamil Nadu,” she added. Overall, the Fisheries Department saw an increase in budget allocations from Rs. 825 crore in 2020-21 to Rs. 1,220 crore in 2021-22. The Blue Revolution centrally sponsored schemes saw their budget allocations double, with the new Pradhan Mantri Matsya Samada Yojana alone getting a Rs. 1,000 crore allocation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/5-fishing-harbours-to-be-modernised/article33722676.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||Healthcare providers hail the boost||Healthcare providers have hailed the Budget, saying it provides the much-needed fillip to the health sector and is a testimony to the commitment to not only fight back the pandemic but also to build a stronger and resilient health system. Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO South-East Asia Region, said one of the greatest lessons this pandemic has taught the world is that health needs to be a priority. “The thrust and focus on health in the budget announcement is a testimony to the commitment to not just fight back the COVID-19 pandemic, but to build a stronger and resilient health system. India has been demonstrating this,” she said. According to Professor K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), the Budget provides a much-needed fillip to health, sanitation, nutrition and pollution control. These are key elements in promoting the health and well-being of the population in a holistic manner, he said. Dr. Prathap C Reddy, chairman of Apollo Hospitals Group, said, “Today, the Finance Minister said health was her first pillar and her announcements to develop primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare systems greatly gladdened my heart. This ground-breaking focus on health will provide access to medical care for all in our country, fuel job creation and boost economic momentum.” Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, managing director and CEO of Fortis Healthcare, said, “The 137% increase is notable. Further, an infusion of Rs. 35,000 crore for vaccine development and distribution, ensuring preventive and frontline health and allied workers’ skills building, along with surveillance on infectious building, reinforces the government’s assurance on public health programmes...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/healthcare-providers-hail-the-boost/article33722684.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||New scheme for public buses: Minister||In a boost to urban transport, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget speech on Monday announced a new scheme for public buses, and the expansion of and new Metro networks in Kochi, Chennai, Bengaluru, Nagpur and Nashik. “We will work towards raising the share of public transport in urban areas through the expansion of Metro Rail networks and the augmentation of city bus services. A new scheme will be launched at a cost of Rs. 18,000 crore to support the augmentation of public bus transport services. The scheme will facilitate the deployment of innovative public-private partnership [PPP] models to enable private sector players to finance, acquire, operate and maintain over 20,000 buses,” she said. A total of 702 km of conventional Metro lines were in operation, and 1,016 km of Metro and Regional Rapid Transit System lines were under construction in 27 cities. Two new Metro technologies — MetroLite and MetroNeo — would be used in tier-2 cities and the peripheral parts of tier-1 cities to provide connectivity at a lower cost compared to conventional Metro systems. The Centre would provide counterpart funding for the Kochi Metro Phase-II at a cost of Rs. 1,957.05 crore, the Chennai Metro Phase-II at a cost of Rs. 63,246 crore, the Bengaluru Metro Phase 2A and 2B at a cost of Rs. 14,788 crore, the Nagpur Metro Phase-II at a cost of Rs. 5,975 crore and the Nashik Metro at a cost of Rs. 2,092 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-scheme-for-public-buses-minister/article33722696.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central varsity to come up in Ladakh||With Ladakh now being recognised as a separate Union Territory, the Centre proposes to set up a new Central university in Leh, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday. The Education Ministry intends to introduce the Central University of Ladakh Bill in the second half of the current Budget session of Parliament itself, Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare told The Hindu . The Finance Minister also said an announcement she made two years ago in her Budget speech 2019-20 would come to fruition this year as the Centre plans to introduce legislation to establish a new regulatory body, the Higher Education Commission of India. Both the School Department and the Higher Education Department have seen their budget allocation fall for 2021-22. However, Mr. Khare said this is partly because all research funding, which used to come through the erstwhile Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), is now being rerouted through the new National Research Foundation (NRF) instead. “The NRF is a very important step towards implementation of the National Education Policy. Earlier, MHRD’s research funding would go only to Central universities. However, State universities and even private universities can now access research grants through NRF on a competitive basis. The Education Ministry is working closely with the Office of the Principal Scientific Advisor for implementation of the NRF,” he said. In nine cities that are hubs of higher education, a new grant is being offered to create formal umbrella structures that would maximise research synergies, while also retaining internal autonomy. Allocations for school education have been reduced from a budget estimate of almost Rs. 60,000 crore in 2020-21 to a budget estimate of almost Rs. 55,000 crore in 2021-22. “The allocations are nowhere close to the required amount needed to undo the adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Ambarish Rai, convener of the Right to Education Forum. Ms. Sitharaman made no mention of the impact of the pandemic on school education, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/central-varsity-to-come-up-in-ladakh/article33722703.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Telecom revenue estimate cut steeply||The government has lowered revenue estimates from the telecom sector while pegging expected receipts at Rs. 53,986 crore in the next financial year, according to the Budget documents presented in Parliament. The Finance Ministry, in the Budget for 2020-21, had projected a revenue of Rs. 1.33 lakh crore from the telecom sector, which was slashed steeply to Rs. 33,737 crore in the revised estimates presented on Monday. “Receipts under ‘Other Communication Services’ mainly relate to the licence fees from telecom operators and receipts on account of spectrum usage charges. Department of Telecom collects recurring licence fees from various telecom service providers licensed by it,” the document said. Licence fee The licence fee is levied at 8% of the adjusted gross revenue (AGR) — which is considered as income from sale of telecom services. The lowering of revenue estimate comes at a time when the government has set the ball rolling for the spectrum auction in which radiowaves valued at Rs. 3.92 lakh crore will be put on the block. The auction in seven spectrum bands for mobile services is scheduled to start from March 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/telecom-revenue-estimate-cut-steeply/article33722649.ece
02 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan local body election results put Congress in front||The results for elections to 90 urban local bodies in Rajasthan’s 20 districts have put the ruling Congress in a position of advantage, as the party expects to form the governing boards in over 50 municipal bodies with the support of Independents. The Congress has secured 1,194 of the 3,034 wards, while the BJP won 1,146 and Independent candidates bagged 631. Though the Congress has got a clear majority in 19 municipal bodies, against BJP’s majority in 23, the Independents who will be a deciding factor in 37 urban bodies are likely to extend support to the Congress. The voting for electing chairpersons of municipal bodies will take place on February 7. The Congress suffered a setback in the Ajmer Municipal Corporation, which was the only municipal corporation going to polls. Of the 80 wards in Ajmer, the Congress won 18 and the BJP 48. The urban local bodies for which the polling was held on January 28 included nine municipal councils and 80 municipalities. Among other parties, the Nationalist Congress Party won 46, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party 13, CPI(M) 3 and Bahujan Samaj Party one ward. The NCP was the surprise winner in two municipal councils — Niwai in Tonk district and Nokha in Bikaner district. Of the five municipal bodies in the four State Assembly constituencies where by-elections are due, the Congress and the BJP won one each and the Independents obtained majority in three. While Rajsamand went to Congress and Bhilawara district’s Sahara to the BJP, the Independent candidates won in Udaipur district’s Bhinder and Churu district’s Sujangarh and Bidasar. ‘People supported us’ Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra said here on Monday that the people in the State had supported the ruling party in the middle of the farmers’ agitation. He said the Congress would form the boards in more than 50 local bodies, as it had not allotted its symbols and extended support to Independents in several municipal councils and municipalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-local-body-election-results-put-congress-in-front/article33722940.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Commuters face traffic snarls due to farmers’ agitation||Commuters faced heavy traffic jams as the Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed at several points on Monday due to the farmers’ agitation. The roads at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders were cordoned off by the Delhi police and have been dug up to cut off any road link. The police has plastered huge nails onto it to stop entry of tractors to prevent the Republic Day-like scene in Delhi. Obstruction points Around 100 companies of security personnel have been deployed at borders and various obstruction points have been made to ensure the farmers do not cross the border and jump into the national capital. The farmers have continued to camp borders amid heavy security deployment for over two months now. The Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the affected areas and suggested alternative routes. “Traffic will remain affected on Road no. 56 from ISBT Anand Vihar to Ghazipur due to closing of border,” it tweeted. The suggested diversion points include Akshardham Setu towards Akshardham, NH-9, Max Hospital cut NH-24 towards Hassanpur depot, Ghazipur roundabout towards Anand Vihar, Paper market towards Mayur Vihar Phase-3 to avoid Murga Mandi, Kondli Pul towards Ghazipur roundabout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/commuters-face-traffic-snarls-as-farmers-intensify-agitation/article33723294.ece
02 February 2021||COIMBATORE,||Budget proposes 10% customs duty on import of cotton||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced in the Union Budget a levy of 10% customs duty on cotton and an increase in the customs duty on raw silk and silk yarn from 10% to 15% to benefit farmers. Also, in a move to rationalise duties on raw material inputs for man-made textiles, the Budget proposed to bring nylon chain on a par with polyester and other man-made fibres by reducing the basic customs duty on caprolactam, nylon chips, nylon fibre and yarn to 5%. The Minister further announced that in addition to the Production Linked Incentive Scheme, Mega Investment Textile Parks would be set up with plug and play facilities. As many as seven parks would be established over three years. These would enable the industry to become globally competitive. Union Textiles Minister Smriti Irani tweeted that the textile park scheme would be a game changer for the Indian textile industry. With the emphasis on state-of-the-art infrastructure, the scheme would create a level-playing field for domestic manufacturers in the international market. The textile sector will have a total budget outlay of Rs. 3,631 crore for 2021-2022. Some areas that will see a hike in allocation are the Amended Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme, handloom development and textile infrastructure. The industry pointed out that Indian textile mills imported 10 lakh to 12 lakh bales of cotton a year, mainly extra long staple and organic cotton. Manoj Patodia, chairman of the Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council, said the levy on raw cotton imports would increase domestic cotton prices and thus have an adverse impact on the entire value addition chain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/budget-proposes-10-customs-duty-on-import-of-cotton/article33722672.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Food subsidy budget set at almost Rs. 2.43 lakh crore||The food subsidy bill spiked sharply this year, from Rs. 1.15 lakh crore in the 2020-21 budget estimates to Rs. 4.22 lakh crore in the revised estimates, reflecting the additional cost of free foodgrain distribution in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the government’s decision to pay the Food Corporation of India’s burgeoning loans and return to budgetary transfers to fund the food subsidy bill. In 2021-22, the food subsidy budget has been set at almost Rs. 2.43 lakh crore. Economists welcomed the Centre’s move, saying it would help clean up the government’s accounts and improve the financial health of the FCI. “I propose to discontinue the NSSF [National Small Savings Fund] loan to FCI for food subsidy and accordingly Budget provisions have been made in RE 2020-21 and BE 2021-22,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her budget speech. FCI procures grains from farmers at an economic cost of almost Rs. 27 a kg for wheat and Rs. 37 for rice, and then provides it to 80 crore poor people through the public distribution system (PDS) at subsidised rates of Rs. 2 a kg for wheat and Rs. 3 for rice. However, for several years, the budgetary allocation for PDS has not been sufficient to cover FCI’s subsidy costs, forcing it to borrow from the NSSF at a rate of about 8%. Its outstanding loans are now well over Rs. 2 lakh crore. Over the last year, the COVID-19 relief measure to provide additional free grains under the PDS for 8 months, plus free grains for migrants without ration cards, has only increased FCI’s borrowings. “This is a move to increase transparency, bringing a subsidy expenditure back on the government’s books. It’s an accounting adjustment that will help reflect the government’s debts and current financial state more accurately,” said D.K Srivastava, chief policy adviser at EY and a member of the Advisory Council to the Fifteenth Finance Commission. Outstanding claims “Between this year and next year, the budgetary allocation will take care of most of FCI’s outstanding claims,” said former Food and Agriculture Secretary T. Nanda Kumar. “The economic cost of procuring and distributing wheat and rice will go down, because the interest burden will be lower. FCI will also be left in better financial shape to face future challenges,” he added. Subsidies to aid the sugar industry and cane farmers have also shot up for the coming year. A Rs. 2,000 crore allocation has been made for a new scheme to encourage sugar exports by helping sugar mills meet the marketing costs. A scheme to maintain a buffer stock of 40 lakh metric tonnes has seen its budget allocation jump from Rs. 200 crore to Rs. 600 crore. Another scheme to help sugar mills convert surplus sugar into ethanol has also been expanded from Rs. 50 crore to Rs. 300 crore in the coming year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/food-subsidy-budget-set-at-almost-rs-243-lakh-crore/article33722678.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Budget for Women and Child Development shrinks||The Budget allocated for the Ministry of Women and Child Development shrank to 0.7% of the Budget announced on Monday, according to leading economists. The Ministry received Rs. 24,430 crore for fiscal 2022, which was 0.7% of the Budget. In last year’s announcement, it received Rs. 30,007 crore, which was 0.98% of the Budget, analyses Ritu Dewan, vice-president, Indian Society for Labour Economics and co-convener of Feminist Policy Collective. This figure went down in the revised estimate for the current fiscal, which at Rs. 23,165 crore was 0.61% of the Budget. Several schemes under the Ministry have been re-grouped and renamed, such as Saksham Anganwadi and POSHAN 2.0 for nutrition programmes, Mission SHAKTI for schemes on women empowerment and Mission Vatsalya for schemes on protection of children. “But what is worrying is that there are no adequate increments in allocations for the schemes,” says Sona Mitra, principal economist, IWWAGE (Initiative for What Works to Advance Women and Girls in the Economy). “Anganwadi services have been clubbed with other schemes under Saksham yet the Saksham budget in 2021-22 of Rs. 20,105 crore is less than the anganwadi budget in 2020-21 of Rs. 20,532 crore. Similarly, the Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY) has now been clubbed with other schemes under Samarthya, yet the allocation in 2021-22 is similar to the allocation for PMMVY alone in 2020-21,” says Professor Reetika Khera, a social scientist. “Women’s safety and prevention of violence has not seen any major announcements though the pandemic resulted in a surge in cases of violence against women,” says Sona Mitra. On nutrition, the Finance Minister said, “To strengthen nutritional content, delivery and outcome, we will merge the supplementary nutrition programme and the Poshan Abhiyaan and launch Mission POSHAN 2.0. We shall adopt an intensified strategy to improve nutritional outcomes in 112 aspirational dsitricts.” But the allocation for Poshan Abhiyan was slashed by 27%, which went from Rs. 3,700 crore last year to Rs. 2,700 crore this time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/budget-for-women-and-child-development-shrinks/article33722687.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Water supply, Swachh Bharat 2.0 missions for urban areas||The government would launch a mission to provide universal water supply to areas under all the 4,378 urban local bodies and the next phase of the Swachh Bharat Mission focusing on management of sludge, waste water and construction and demolition waste in cities, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced in her Budget speech. “The World Health Organization has repeatedly stressed the importance of clean water, sanitation, and clean environment as a prerequisite to achieving universal health. The Jal Jeevan Mission (Urban) will be launched. It aims at universal water supply in all 4,378 Urban Local Bodies with 2.86 crore household tap connections, as well as liquid waste management in 500 AMRUT cities,” she said. This mission would be implemented over five years with an expenditure of Rs. 2.87 lakh crore. Second round The Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban), which is being implemented by the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, would get a second round. “For further swachhta [cleanliness] of urban India, we intend to focus on complete faecal sludge management and waste water treatment, source segregation of garbage, reduction in single-use plastic, reduction in air pollution by effectively managing waste from construction and demolition activities and bioremediation of all legacy dump sites,” she said. The Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) 2.0 would be implemented over five years — from 2021 to 2026 — on an outlay of Rs. 1.41 lakh crore, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/water-supply-swachh-bharat-20-missions-for-urban-areas/article33722689.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks Centre’s reply on pleas over ‘misreporting’ of R-Day rally||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre to respond to two petitions which alleged that Aaj Tak news channel has “unleashed an offensive and potentially fatal communal attack” on the “Sikh” community by circulating unverified videos of farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, the Press Council of India (PCI), News Broadcaster Association (NBA) and Aaj Tak news channel, seeking their stand on the two similar petitions by February 26, the next date of hearing. Viral video The petitions filed by Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and Delhi resident Manjit Singh G.K. have stated that the Aaj Tak news channel ran a video alleging the protesters were involved in desecrating the ‘Shikhara’ of the ‘tableaus’ of Uttar Pradesh which is symbolic of the “Ram Janmabhoomi Temple” being constructed in Ayodhya. Social media The petitions filed separately through advocates B.S. Bagga and Parminder Singh Goindi, contended that the said video is being widely circulated in various social and digital medial platforms, including YouTube. It said that the campaign directed against a particular community, especially at a time when public sentiments are flared up could result in disastrous consequences for the community, including endangering the lives, property and liberty of the people belonging to the “Sikh” community.  ‘Infiltration of protests’ The pleas also claimed that “due to infiltration of the protests by certain anti-social and ill-motivated elements, the tractor rally was met by severe and brutal assaults by the police authorities and the anti-social and ill-motivated elements utilised the said opportunity to create ruckus amongst the public with the object of delegitimising the protests”. The pleas have sought direction to constitute a Committee for the fake-news on various social handles.  Anti-social and ill-motivated elements utilised the said opportunity to create ruckus amongst the public with the object of delegitimising the protests Plea in HC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-seeks-centres-reply-on-pleas-over-misreporting-of-r-day-rally/article33723282.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Protester arrested for attacking CISF officer||The Delhi police on Monday arrested a protester who attacked and injured a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel during the Red Fort violence, said a senior officer. The officer said that the CISF personnel was deployed at the Red Fort and he tried to stop the accused who was part of the mob that entered the fort. The accused who attacked the officer with a sword was identified as Aakash Preet from Punjab. Detention rumours The police has appealed to the people to not believe in rumours about illegal detention of farmers protesting against the new laws and asserted that the investigation is being carried out in a fair and transparent manner. Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said 44 FIRs have been registered and 122 people arrested till now. The information about the cases concerned has been updated on the official website of the Delhi Police as per guidelines of the Supreme Court to facilitate the public, he said. The kin of those arrested can also seek information from the police stations concerned. “We appeal to the public to not believe in rumours. Investigation carried out by the Delhi Police is transparent and fair,” Mr. Singhal said. According to the police, 394 police personnel were injured while 30 police vehicles were damaged in the violence during the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi police said, “There are various rumours being spread about illegal detention and missing of many farmers post January 26 violence. Delhi Police has registered 44 cases and arrested 122 persons so far.”“Their details are available on Delhi Police website. No one has been illegally detained by the police,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/protester-arrested-for-attacking-cisf-officer/article33723284.ece
02 February 2021||HYDERABAD,||ULIPs tax exemption linked to premium||Tax exemption on maturity proceeds of unit-linked insurance plans (ULIPs) offering components of both life insurance and investment, in debt and equity, will be available only if the annual premium paid is up to Rs. 2.5 lakh. The proposal will apply to ULIPs purchased on or after February 1. However, the amount received on death, by nominee, will continue to remain exempt without any limit on the annual premium. “The Budget endeavours to selectively bring in taxation parity between life insurance companies and mutual funds,” said Rushabh Gandhi, deputy CEO, IndiaFirst Life Insurance. Under existing provisions of the Income Tax Act, there is no cap on the amount of annual premium paid by any person during the term of the policy. Stating this, the Budget documents said “High net worth individuals are claiming exemption under this clause by investing in ULIP with huge premium. Allowing such exemption in policy/policies with huge premium defeats the legislative intent... to provide benefit to small and genuine cases of life insurance.” Now, ULIPs for which the annual premium paid is over Rs. 2.5 lakh would be treated as equity-oriented funds. The rate of tax will depend on period of holding. Another announcement significance was the proposal to raise the foreign direct investment limit from 49% to 74% in insurance firms. “Under the new structure, the majority of directors on the board and key management persons would be resident Indians, with at least 50% of directors being independent directors, and specified percentage of profits being retained as general reserve,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ulips-tax-exemption-linked-to-premium/article33722624.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police initiative to get iron batons draws ire||Delhi Police personnel of Shahdara district were given iron batons and arm protector to keep themselves safe from attacks by sharp-edged weapons in case of violence. The move, however, drew sharp criticism on social media and the initiative was withdrawn with immediate effect, the police said on Monday. The step was taken by Station House Officers (SHOs) of all 11 police stations falling under the jurisdiction of Shahdara district. Each police station distributed around 12 iron batons to its personnel. “The aim is to protect our personnel from attacks by any sword or sharp-edged weapons. It is for their self defence. This initiative was taken by SHOs of the respective police stations of Shahdara district,” a senior police officer said. On Friday, Delhi Police SHO (Alipur) was attacked with a sword by one of the protesters when he was trying to pacify a fight between ‘locals’ and protesters at the Singhu border. R-Day violence The move comes following violence during the Republic Day tractor rally organised by farmers protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws. The rally had descended into anarchy as protesters deviated from the pre-decided routes, allegedly attacked the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-initiative-to-get-iron-batons-faces-flak/article33723290.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Need to connect with all ranks over retirement rumours: Delhi Police||After rumours were spread on social media regarding policemen applying for voluntary retirement as they were disturbed with the Republic Day violence, the Delhi police ordered officers to take care of the injured fellow mates. Taking swift action into the alarming circulation of fake news regarding resignation of police personnel, the Delhi police on Monday arrested Om Prakash Dhetarwal from Bharatpur in Rajasthan, who posted an old video from September 2020 of Home Guards of another State and portrayed it as that of Delhi Police. A senior police officer said that there was no such thing and it is just a rumour. The letter of voluntarily retirement of a policeman circulating on WhatsApp was because of health issues. All ACPs and SHOs have been ordered to look after policemen who got injured in the January 26 violence. There is a need to connect with all ranks personally and to suitably brief the staff for not falling prey to such rumours and stay focussed towards work. Relief announced The Delhi police on Monday announced Rs. 25,000 compensation for its personnel grievously injured during the tractor parade violence and Rs. 10,000 for those seriously injured. As many as 394 personnel of the force were injured while 30 police vehicles were damaged during the violent protests on that day, the Delhi Police has said. Aid extended In appreciation of their efforts, the Commissioner of Police has approved grant of financial assistance from the Delhi Police Welfare Society Fund. A sum of Rs. 25,000 has been approved for grievously injured personnel and Rs. 10,000 for those with serious injuries, it stated, adding the District Commissioners of Police can propose enhanced financial assistance in special cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/acps-shos-told-to-connect-with-all-ranks-to-scotch-retirement-rumours/article33723292.ece
02 February 2021||Chandigarh,||Budget shows Centre’s total apathy towards common man: Punjab CM||Rejecting the Union Budget as being reflective of the BJP-led Central government’s total apathy towards the common man, the middle class and the farmers, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Monday that even the vital defence sector had not been adequately addressed despite the growing border threat from China and Pakistan, while Health allocation was actually down amid the COVID-19 crisis. Trashing the Centre’s claim that the health sector allotment had been increased by 35%, the Chief Minister said the fact was that numbers had been effectively fudged to project a hike by including the Rs. 35000 crore COVID-19 vaccine allotment and the amount set aside for sanitation and cleanliness under the health head. Actually, the budget for health was down 10%, he added. Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the entire North India had been ignored again in the Budget he termed ‘poll-bound States-centric’. “The Union Budget’s politicisation has now reached unprecedented levels,” he said. Both agriculture and defence get a nominal increase, he said. “All northern States are focused on agriculture and defence, and the idea of Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan has been consistently ignored by the NDA government. The Budget is silent on agriculture, it is silent on unemployment, it is silent on agricultural unrest, it is silent on MSP, it is silent on revenue generation, it is silent on the middle classes, and it is silent on Discoms,” he said. BJP’s former ally, Shiromani Akali Dal said the budget was anti-farmer, anti-poor and anti common man, and the sole focus of the BJP-led Central government was on selling off national assets to its corporate friends. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the Budget had also punished Punjabis for supporting the peaceful agitation against the three agricultural laws, as nothing was earmarked for the State.  Anti-Punjab budget: AAP Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) termed the Budget anti-people and anti-Punjab. Senior leader of the party and Leader of the Opposition in the Punjab Assembly, Harpal Singh Cheema, said the Budget would only increase the problems of the common man, along with inflation. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja said the Budget had disappointed every section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/budget-shows-centres-total-apathy-towards-common-man-punjab-cm/article33722938.ece
02 February 2021||Ghaziabad,||Farmers throng Bijnor panchayat||On Monday morning, BKU general secretary Yudhvir Singh tweeted a video of a villager announcing the call for a panchayat by beating the drum attached to the carrier of his bicycle. “Can the suspension of internet service stop this as well?” asked Mr. Singh. He was proved right as thousands of farmers turned up for the panchayat in Bijnor despite pressure from the administration. “You can’t stop the flood of people. The administration tried it in Baraut on Sunday but had to regret eventually,” said Mr. Singh. “It is just a start. We will expose the laws across the country.” The panchayat was attended by RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary and Gaurav Tikait, son of BKU president Naresh Tikait. Mr. Chaudhary said the panchayats have shown light after darkness enveloped every farmer’s house after the Ghazipur incident on Thursday. “Ajit Singh (RLD president) made a start and today’s show of strength is its example.” The good thing, he said, was people were reaching these panchayats on their own accord after spending their money on travel. “The farmers in western U.P. have woken up and they want the government to accept their demands.” He said the government should accede to people’s demands as it is expected in a democracy. “I appeal to the Prime Minister to step back and give up on his adamant stance.” Mr. Singh said there was nothing in the Budget that can explain the government’s promise of doubling farmers’ income. “There is no concrete plan to improve the condition of farmers when the cost of farming keeps rising. Most of the provisions go to agro-industries,” he said. Earlier, the Bijnor administration made massive arrangements for the panchayat with four ASPs, eight DSPs, 22 SHOs and 600 constables on the ground, besides fours companies of the PAC were pressed into service. Ramit Sharma, IG Moradabad, also camped in Bijnor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-throng-bijnor-panchayat/article33722944.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. agrees to maintain States’ share in the divisible pool of taxes||The government has accepted the Fifteenth Finance Commission’s recommendation to maintain the States’ share in the divisible pool of taxes to 41% for the five-year period starting 2021-22, and given an ‘in-principle’ nod to the panel’s suggestion to set up a separate non-lapsable fund for defence and internal security modernisation. The Fourteenth Finance Commission had raised States’ share to 42% of divisible revenues, but the Fifteenth Finance panel had reduced the share to 41% in its interim report for 2020-21, citing the conversion of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh into Union Territories. The Commission’s report, which was submitted to the President in November but tabled in Parliament on Monday with the government’s action taken report on its suggestions, has recommended additional revenue deficit grants of Rs. 2.94 lakh crore for 17 States over the next five years. The government has accepted this recommendation as well as the panel’s suggestion to enhance State’s borrowing ceilings in 2021-22. “I have provided, on the Commission’s recommendation, Rs. 1,18,452 crore as Revenue Deficit Grant to 17 States in 2021-2022, as against Rs. 74,340 crore to 14 States in 2020-2021,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her Budget speech for 2021-22, terming the government’s acceptance of the 41% vertical share for States recommended by the Commission as a sign of its commitment to fiscal federalism. “In accordance with the views of the 15th Finance Commission, we are allowing a normal ceiling of net borrowing for the States at 4% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) for the year 2021-2022. A portion of this ceiling will be earmarked to be spent on incremental capital expenditure,” she added. An additional borrowing ceiling of 0.5% of GSDP will also be provided based on meeting specified reforms in the power sector. States are expected to reach a fiscal deficit of 3% of GSDP by 2023-24, and maintain that level till 2025-26, as per the Commission’s report. The Centre has accepted ‘in-principle’ this quantum of net borrowing ceilings for the States, as per the action taken report. While the Commission has suggested the additional ceiling for power sector reforms be offered up to 2024-25, the government has said it will examine recommendations related to States’ fiscal road map separately. Similarly, the Commission’s recommendation to overhaul the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management law to ensure legislations are in sync with fiscal sustainability frameworks, will be examined separately, the government said. The Commission, headed by N.K. Singh, has recommended creating a separate non-lapsable fund for modernisation of defence and internal security, a term of reference the Centre had sought its views on. To bridge the gap between defence budget allocations and the projected budgetary requirements, the panel has mooted a fund of Rs. 2.38 lakh crore for the coming five-year period. It has recommended that Rs. 1.54 lakh crore of this fund be transferred from the Consolidated Fund of India, partially using receipts from the disinvestment of defence public sector enterprises and land monetisation. The government has said the modalities and sources of funding will be examined in due course. The Commission has sought to assuage the fears of southern States about losing some share in tax transfers due to the reliance on the 2011 Census data instead of the 1971 census, which could penalise States that did better on managing demographics. It has done so by giving a 12.5% weightage for demographic performance in its tax-transfer calculations. “The revenue deficit grants proposed for Andhra Pradesh and Kerala are far higher than the previous Commission’s period, while Tamil Nadu has also been earmarked for marginally higher grant on this front,” an official said.  The revenue deficit grants proposed for Andhra Pradesh and Kerala are far higher than the previous Commission’s period||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-agrees-to-maintain-states-share-in-the-divisible-pool-of-taxes/article33722629.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Government to privatise seven major ports, says Sitharaman||Seven major ports, worth Rs. 2,000 crore, will see their operations privatised in the year 2021-2022, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said while presenting the Union Budget 2021-22. The Finance Minister also announced a subsidy scheme of Rs. 1,624 crore for a period of five years for Indian shipping companies to encourage more merchant ships with Indian flags. “This initiative will enable greater training and employment opportunities for Indian seafarers,” Ms. Sitharaman added. The Budget also envisages boosting the recycling of ships at Alang in Gujarat. The Minister said the capacity of recycling shipyards would be doubled from 4.5 million light displacement tonne by 2024. India has enacted Recycling of Ships Act, 2019 and acceded to the Hong Kong International Convention (HKC). She said post-enactment of the law, about 90 ship recycling yards at Alang had already achieved HKC-compliant certificates. India has 12 major ports under the control of the Centre. These major ports handle about 60% of its total cargo traffic. Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had recently said India aspired to grab at least 50% of the global ship-recycling business. The country's share in the ship recycling business is around 30% at present.           (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/government-to-privatise-seven-major-ports-says-sitharaman/article33722653.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Portal to collect data on gig workers: govt.||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced the launch of a portal to collect information on gig, building and construction workers to formulate welfare schemes for migrant workers. “We have launched the One Nation One Ration Card scheme, through which beneficiaries can claim their rations anywhere in the country. Migrant workers, in particular, benefit from this scheme — those staying away from their families can partially claim their rations where they are stationed, while their families in their native places can claim the rest,” she said. The Minister said the scheme was being implemented by 32 States and Union Territories with 69 crore people, which is 86% of the beneficiaries. The remaining four States and UTs would implement the scheme in the next few months, she added. “I propose to launch a portal that will collect relevant information on gig, building, and construction workers, among others. This will help formulate health, housing, skill, insurance, credit and food schemes for migrant workers,” she said. On the four labour codes passed by Parliament in 2019 and 2020, and expected to be implemented soon, she said the process that began 20 years ago would be concluded now. “For the first time globally, social security benefits will extend to gig and platform workers. Minimum wages will apply to all categories of workers and they will all be covered by the Employees State Insurance Corporation... At the same time, compliance burden on employers will be reduced with a single registration and licensing and online returns,” she said. The Minister reiterated that employers who do not deposit the employees’ contribution towards the Employees Provident Fund (EPF) on time would not be allowed to show it as a deduction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/portal-to-collect-data-on-gig-workers-govt/article33722698.ece
02 February 2021||Kozhikode,||Proposals will better basic facilities: MCC||The Malabar Chamber of Commerce (MCC) has hailed the Union Budget saying that the proposals are aimed at bettering basic facilities in the country. The budgetary allocations focussing on health, education and farm sectors came against the background of the COVID-19 pandemic that devastated the economy. For Kerala, the budget allotted funds for the development of national highway and metro rail, MCC president K.V. Haseeb Ahamed and secretary M.A. Mehaboob said here. They said the budget had proposals promoting two-tier cities for the development of airports and seaports. The proposals aimed at skill training partnerships with countries like Japan would be beneficial, they said. However, the MCC said that the increasing deficit would further lead to a debt trap. Even then the proposal for raising the capital base of micro, small, and medium enterprises from Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 2 crore would be beneficial for the sector. However, more proposals were expected in the sector, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mcc-hails-budget/article33722928.ece
02 February 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha will be hit by reduction in Central taxes: CM Patnaik||Odisha would be hit by the “drastic” reduction in its share in Central taxes, said Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik in his reaction to the 15th Finance Commission recommendations on Monday. Mr. Patnaik, however, found many positives from the national perspective in the first Budget in the post-COVID-19 scenario. “Odisha would be hit by a drastic reduction of its share in Central taxes, by about Rs. 10,840 crore for the current year, and as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission, the [State’s] horizontal share will decrease from 4.629% to 4.528% for the coming five years. This will seriously impact the State,” Mr. Patnaik said. He pointed out that capital investments were very much required in Odisha, both in the Railways and highways sectors, as they had been planned for other States. The Chief Minister expressed satisfaction over the focus on women’s empowerment as ‘Mission Shakti’ was mentioned in the Union Budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-will-be-hit-by-reduction-in-central-taxes-cm-patnaik/article33722941.ece
02 February 2021||Kozhikode,||A boost for innovation, research: IIM-K Director||Debashis Chatterjee, Director, Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode, (IIM-K), has said the Union Budget has accorded the much-needed importance to the research and innovation ecosystem of India with a budget outlay of Rs. 50,000 crore to be spent over a period of five years. He said here on Monday that it was heartening to learn that the Finance Minister emphasised on ‘Innovation, Research and Development ’ as one of the six important pillars of the Budget. “It will not only help rejuvenate the existing infrastructure but also ensure that the overall research ecosystem of the country is strengthened with focus on identified national priority thrust areas,” he said. Post New Education Policy, 2020 plans to set up an Higher Education Commission of India and improve digital infrastructure and collaboration with foreign institutions along with the announcement for skill training partnerships with countries such as Japan and the UAE are signs of the government’s renewed focus and commitment on reinvigorating the country’s human capital for sustainable economic growth through education and skill development sector restructuring, Prof. Chatterjee said. He said the launch of the investment clearance cell and the proposal to incentivise the incorporation of One Person Companies (OPC) will also encourage individuals and start-ups with entrepreneurial potential. The post-COVID-19 boost to the health sector infrastructure is also a much needed shot in the arm along with the strong push for infrastructure creation, which will be a major step towards a self-reliant India, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-boost-for-innovation-research-iim-k-director/article33723343.ece
02 February 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Transformative, says CII||The Union government has made yet another successful attempt through the Budget to rejuvenate a pandemic-ravaged economy, the Confederation of Indian Industry, Kerala, has said. It has termed the Union Budget transformative. The bold measures for all critical sectors of the economy are expected to galvanise the recovery process that has been set in motion, Thomas John Muthoot, Chairman, CII Kerala, has said. The 65,000 crore allocated for the development of 1,100 km of National Highways in Kerala will be a huge boost to infrastructure. The Rs. 1,967 crore set aside for the second phase of the Kochi metro will ease traffic congestion in the business hub of Kerala. Export potential will get a boost with the plan to develop the Cochin fishing harbour into a commercial hub. States will benefit from the 41% share of taxes as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission, he said on Monday. The announcement of a Development Financial Institution (DFI) which will play a critical role in channelising investments in infrastructure and other key sectors is in line with CII’s recommendations. More resources “The proposed National Asset Monetisation Pipeline is likely to boost sentiment and generate additional resources. This is something the CII has been strongly advocating,” he said. The CII welcomed the proposal to consolidate provisions of the SEBI Act, Depositories Act, Securities Contracts Regulation Act, and Government Securities Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/transformative-says-cii/article33722971.ece
02 February 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pro-Kerala Budget: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran on Monday said the Union Budget has given a leg-up to Kerala's developmental aspirations. It has lifted the State out of neglect at the hands of successive Congress governments at the Centre and nudged it in the direction of progress and economic growth. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac should show integrity and congratulate the BJP government, he said. The Union Budget had allocated Rs. 65,000 crore for NH development. The Mumbai-Kanyakumari corridor that passed through Kerala (600 km) would open up the hinterlands for development. Dr. Isaac’s aspersions about the Budget had proved groundless, he said. Clear message The Centre has sent a clear message. It wanted to place Kerala on the global map. It aspired to fast-track the State's development. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) had claimed credit for Centre-financed projects. The Centre had funded the construction of 2.5 lakh houses for the poor. But the State made no mention of the Centre's support, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pro-kerala-budget-bjp/article33722973.ece
02 February 2021||KOCHI,||It’s a let’s-move-forward Budget, says Chamber||Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Akshay Agarwal on Monday said the Union Budget 2021-22 was a “let’s move forward” budget with a “lavish sprinkling of social, health and infra spending”. The Union Finance Minister had sprung a pleasant surprise by not introducing any new cess or surcharge despite the current constraints, he said in a statement issued here on Monday. Positive features Big ticket disinvestment, large allocations for new roads and record spending on railways are positive features of the Budget. Hike in agriculture loans and rural infrastructure spending will boost the rural economy. With almost 1,100 km of new roads, infrastructure in Kerala would get a boost too, he added. Digital economy The big push to digital economy will make things much faster and transparent. Doing away with IT returns for senior citizens above 75 years of age, who depend only on pension and interest, is a very thoughtful move. While the fiscal deficit was a matter of worry, the laid path to fiscal discipline and the buoyant growth numbers were comfortable cushions, he said. The Budget was truly a transformative one and the effort to rejuvenate a pandemic-ravaged economy was clearly visible, said Thomas John Muthoot, chairman of CII Kerala, at a Budget viewing session organised by the Kerala branch of the Confederation of Indian Industry. The bold measures encompassed almost all critical sectors of the economy and they would help the recovery process that had been set in motion, he added. Sreenath Vishnu, vice chairman of CII Kerala, said it was encouraging to note that the Finance Minister had chosen to expand government spending with a focus on capital expenditure. He welcomed the 34.5% rise in capex spending for FY22 mainly targeted at major infrastructure expansion initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/its-a-lets-move-forward-budget-says-chamber/article33723357.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. allocates ‘record’ Rs. 1.10 lakh cr. for railways||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday proposed a ‘record’ allocation of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore for the Indian Railways in the Budget, with a total capital expenditure outlay of Rs. 2.15 lakh crore for the upcoming financial year. With a 33% increase in total capital expenditure for 2021-22 over Rs. 1.61 lakh crore (revised estimates) for 2020-21, the Railways said funds would be utilised to boost ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission’ and towards completion of vital infrastructure projects, capacity building, passenger amenities and safety enhancement. Special loan According to Budget documents, during the year, the Railways was provided Rs. 79,398 crore as ‘Special Loan for COVID-related resource gap’ and towards liquidating the adverse balance that occurred in Public Account in 2019-2020.  In the upcoming year, the government expects its revenue receipts from Railways, including passenger, goods and other coaching, sundry other heads, to be about Rs. 2.17 lakh crore as against Rs. 1.46 lakh crore in 2020-21 (revised estimate). The Railways, which was hit badly by the pandemic, had earlier estimated 2020-21 revenue to be over Rs. 2.25 lakh crore. While the passenger earnings for 2020-21 have been revised to Rs. 15,000 crore as against Rs. 61,000 crore, revised estimate for goods earnings is about Rs. 1.24 lakh crore as against Budget estimate of Rs. 1.37 lakh crore. For the next financial year, the Railways has kept the revenue estimates the same as for 2020-21. The Finance Minister also announced that the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) and Eastern DFC are expected to be commissioned by June 2022 and the Railways will monetise DFC assets for operations and maintenance, after commissioning. “The Sonnagar — Gomoh Section (263.7 km) of Eastern DFC will be taken up in PPP mode in 2021-22. Gomoh—Dankuni section of 274.3 km will also be taken up in short succession,” she said in her speech. Additionally, she proposed that future dedicated freight corridor projects — East Coast corridor from Kharagpur to Vijayawada, East-West Corridor from Bhusaval to Kharagpur to Dankuni and North-South corridor from Itarsi to Vijayawada would be undertaken. She also said 100% electrification of broad-gauge routes would be completed by December 2023.  In the upcoming year, the government expects its revenue receipts from Railways to be about Rs. 2.17 lakh crore as against Rs. 1.46 lakh crore in 2020-21 (revised estimate)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-allocates-record-rs-110-lakh-cr-for-railways/article33722645.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||Stake sale expected to fetch Rs. 1.75 lakh crore||The government on Monday budgeted Rs. 1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, including two PSU banks and one general insurance company, in the next fiscal year beginning April 1. The amount is lower than the record Rs. 2.10 lakh crore which was budgeted to be raised from CPSE disinvestment in the current fiscal year. Impact of pandemic However, the COVID-19 pandemic impacted the government’s CPSE stake sale programme, and the target has been lowered to Rs. 32,000 crore in the Revised Estimates. So far this fiscal year, the government has mopped up Rs. 19,499 crore from CPSE stake sale and share buyback. For FY22, out of the total Rs. 1.75 lakh crore, Rs. 1 lakh crore is to come from selling government stake in public sector banks and financial institutions. About Rs. 75,000 crore would come as CPSE disinvestment receipts. Unveiling the Disinvestment/Strategic Disinvestment Policy, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said four sectors — Atomic energy, Space and Defence; Transport and Telecommunications; Power, Petroleum, Coal and other minerals; and Banking, Insurance and financial services — would be strategic sectors. In strategic sectors, there will be bare minimum presence of the public sector enterprises. The remaining CPSEs in the strategic sectors will be privatised or merged or subsidiarised with other CPSEs or closed. In non-strategic sectors, CPSEs will be privatised, otherwise shall be closed. In her 2021-22 Budget speech, she said strategic disinvestment of BPCL, Air India, Shipping Corporation of India, Container Corporation of India, IDBI Bank, BEML, Pawan Hans, Neelachal Ispat Nigam Ltd, among others would be completed in 2021-22. “Other than IDBI Bank, we propose to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company in the year 2021-22. This would require legislative amendments and I propose to introduce the amendments in this session itself,” she said. Also the legislative amendments required for launching the IPO of LIC would be brought in in the ongoing session of Parliament. To fast-track the disinvestment policy, NITI Aayog would work out on the next list of central public sector companies that would be taken up for strategic disinvestment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stake-sale-expected-to-fetch-rs-175-lakh-crore/article33722626.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||A Budget to boost economic recovery||We should thank our Finance Minister and congratulate every Indian for this excellent Budget, as it is good for everyone and a step in the right direction. The best part of the budget is that there is no taxation announcement such as COVID-tax, long-term capital gains tax, or wealth tax as was expected by the market. On the Finance Minister’s part, this was a masterstroke as she ensured that the sentiment is not affected as it is essential to raise money for disinvestment as well as for privatisation. There were important announcements on the infrastructure front such as the establishment of a Development Finance Institution (DFI) to boost long-term financing for the country’s infrastructure sector, allow Foreign Portfolio Investors to debt finance REITs and InvITs after necessary amendments to the law. The budget has allocated Rs. 20,000 crore for the DFI, with an ambition for the lender to have a portfolio of Rs. 5 lakh crore in three years. Another positive is the 34.5% increase in the capital expenditure target in this year’s Budget to Rs. 5.54 lakh crore for financial year 2021-22. The Finance Minister also announced Rs. 2 lakh crore for States and autonomous bodies. This is very good because in the last few years we had seen that the government’s capital expenditure declined to 16% from 18% earlier. This is important as it will boost investment, create jobs and aid economic recovery. The Rs. 1.75 lakh crore divestment target, which includes divestment of two PSBs and one general insurer, is achievable. FDI in insurance will be increased to 74%. These are decisive moves and will go a long way in pushing economic growth to a higher trajectory.  The increase in capex is important as it will boost investments, create jobs and will aid economic recovery||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-budget-to-boost-economic-recovery/article33722638.ece
02 February 2021||Mumbai,||Sensex skyrockets 2,315 points on Budget cheer||Markets roared back to life on Monday after six days of deep declines as Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented an expansionary Union Budget for 2021-22 which sought to pull the economy out of the COVID-19 pandemic-induced slump through increased spending on infrastructure, healthcare and farm sectors without resorting to higher taxation. The 30-share BSE Sensex zoomed 2,314.84 points, or 5%, to close at 48,600.61. This was its second-biggest single-day jump in absolute terms and the best day in almost 10 months. On similar lines, the broader NSE Nifty soared 646.60 points, or 4.74%, to close at 14,281.20. Across-the-board buying The benchmarks were propelled by across-the-board buying, with banking and finance stocks leading the charge. IndusInd Bank topped the Sensex gainers’ chart with a jump of 14.75%, followed by ICICI Bank, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, L&T and HDFC. Only three index components closed in the red — Dr. Reddy’s, Tech Mahindra and HUL — shedding up to 3.70%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sensex-skyrockets-2315-points-on-budget-cheer/article33722639.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Unmatched times, extraordinary Budget||It is an unprecedented time; an extraordinary Budget was expected to put the economy back on track quickly with health and livelihood of people as the priority. The Finance Minister deserves to be complimented on presenting the best of what can be done under the circumstances. At the same time, situations as this serve as an opportunity for high-impact reforms, and we hope to see more of it coming during the year. The Finance Minister has presented a holistic, integrated and interconnected approach to health, livelihood and economic development without losing sight of making India a $5-trillion economy. The experience of handling COVID-19 successfully has given the Modi government high confidence to do all the right things to help the economy recover, even by keeping the deficit levels high for a short window of time. The COVID-19 situation has taught us and the rest of the world to being self-reliant in essential technologies and production capacities. So, building an Atmanirbhar Bharat is a logical next step. India has the potential to be the factory for the world. Manufacturing and the logistics infrastructure like warehousing, roads, rail network and the ports need to move to global standards of scale and efficiency. Manufacturing and infrastructure can bring millions of jobs to our people. The Budget has addressed several enablers in this direction, like, specialised manufacturing parks, infrastructure as in highways, railways and ports, reforms in the power sector and affordable housing on rent for migrant workers. Railways could move large amount of goods and people in a very cost-effective and environmentally-friendly manner. A relook at railways as the backbone of the country is certainly going to be beneficial. Boost for auto Voluntary vehicle scrappage policy is a well-deserved boost for the auto industry. This has been a long-pending demand from the environmentalists. The need to improve urban infrastructure is recognised with allocations to water supply, cleanliness initiatives and metro rails. Enhancement in public bus transportation on a PPP model will go a long way in reducing pollution in cities and is a boost to bus manufacturers. The proposal for the new Development Finance Institution is a welcome and we hope to see it operate at high standards and be able to attract global investors with ease. Opening the insurance sector to 74% along with various other planned reforms as the single securities markets code, Gift City fintech hub, framework for corporate bond market, investor charter, company matters are a strong signal to the global investor community that we are moving ahead with reforms despite tough times. The bold BFSI reforms announced for creating an ARC to have a pathway for transferring NPAs from PSB balance sheets will spur the lending sector. So, we are on the right track. Need to push the pedal harder and faster as much as we can.     Voluntary vehicle scrappage policy is a well-deserved boost for the auto industry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/unmatched-times-extraordinary-budget/article33722642.ece
02 February 2021||new delh,||Govt. mulls Rs. 3 lakh-crore plan to revive discoms||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman proposed a Rs. 3.05 lakh-crore scheme, spread over five years, to revive discoms and a framework to provide electricity consumers an option to choose from service providers. The announcements are aimed at ensuring 24-hour power for all as envisaged by the Central government. Last year, the government had enforced consumer rules for the power sector to ensure delivery of services. But loss-making and cash-strapped discoms — which are mostly owned and run by States — are unable to buy sufficient power from generation firms to provide round-the-clock supply. Total outstanding dues of the discoms towards power-generating firms stood at over Rs. 1.35 lakh crore as of December. In her Budget speech, Ms. Sitharaman said, “The viability of distribution companies is a serious concern. A revamped, reforms-based, result-linked power distribution sector scheme will be launched with an outlay of Rs. 3,05,984 crore over five years.” Government assistance The Minister said the scheme will provide assistance to discoms from infrastructure creation to financial improvements. The Centre had in November 2015 introduced UDAY (Ujjwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana) scheme for the revival of the debt-laden discoms. Under the scheme, discoms were envisaged to turn around financially within three years from signing agreements. In September 2019, Power Minister R.K. Singh had said the Ministry of Power was working on the UDAY 2.0 scheme. There were expectations the scheme would be announced in the Budget for 2020-21. But, no such schemes were announced.  Ms. Sitharaman, in the Budget 2021, said, “The distribution companies across the country are monopolies, either government or private. There is a need to provide choice to consumers by promoting competition. A framework will be put in place to give consumers alternatives to choose from among more than one distribution company”.  She also said during the last six years, 139 GW of power-generation capacity has been added and 2.8 crore households provided electricity connection.  The Minister also announced a proposal to introduce a National Hydrogen Energy Mission in the next financial year for generating hydrogen from green power sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-mulls-rs-3-lakh-crore-plan-to-revive-discoms/article33723205.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Highways Ministry gets Rs. 1,18,101 crore outlay||The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways received Rs. 1,18,101 crore in the Union Budget, of which Rs. 1,08,230 crore is for capital expenditure. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said this was the highest-ever outlay for the sector. The Finance Minister informed Parliament that under the Bharatmala Project, more than 13,000 km of roads had been awarded, and that by March next year, another 8,500 km would be awarded for construction. The government also announced National Highway projects for the poll-bound States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal and Assam. Ms. Sitharaman said Tamil Nadu would get National Highway works totalling 3,500 km at Rs. 1.03 lakh crore. These would include the Madurai-Kollam and Chittoor-Thatchur corridors, where construction would begin next year. Kerala will get National Highway works of 1,100 km at an outlay of Rs. 6,500 crore, including the Mumbai-Kanyakumari corridor. National Highway projects totalling 675 km will be built in West Bengal at a cost of Rs. 25,000 crore, including upgrading the existing road from Kolkata to Siliguri. Assam currently has National Highway works of Rs. 19,000 crore under way and will see an investment of additional Rs. 34,000 crore in the coming three years for building 1,300 km of roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/highways-ministry-gets-rs-118101-crore-outlay/article33722657.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||A vision statement for the country||Over the years, we have seen bold budgets, pragmatic budgets, reformist budgets and workmanlike budgets. But Budget 2021 goes far beyond. This is the vision statement of a country on the cusp of real economic change. The Budget is built around the government’s credo of minimum government and maximum governance. It lays out an action plan to deliver on the Prime Minister’s clarion call for an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. The Budget talks to the economic and business realities of the post-COVID world and gives primacy to reviving growth. The expansionary fiscal stance that enabled this growth push does not come as a surprise. The fiscal deficit target of 6.8% for FY 22 is reasonable and acknowledges the changed global economic landscape. The medium-term glide path of bringing down the fiscal deficit to 4.5% of the GDP by FY26 is realistic and creates the fiscal space for more growth-enhancing measures. More importantly, the government has not been reckless in using this fiscal space. It is commendable that the Budget has targeted to reduce revenue expenditure in FY22 vis-à-vis the current year, even while boosting the capex significantly. This marks an improved quality of government expenditure. The increased capital expenditure is expected to be spread across key pillars of infrastructure. The Budget has aptly focused on strengthening the roadways, railways, including metro rail, port development, micro irrigation and much-needed distribution infrastructure for gas connectivity. There seems to be a well-thought-out package to galvanise the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) — by incentivising States to provide more capex, creating a mechanism for monetising brownfield infrastructure assets, instituting a Development Financial Institution, allowing tax-free infrastructure bonds and removing the impediments for sovereign wealth funds’ investment in infrastructure projects. Beyond the admirable and much-needed infrastructure push, the Budget also reflects the government’s conviction on privatisation. The Finance Minister called it the asset monetisation programme which has been ongoing, and will now be accelerated. That means that several public sector entities will be opened up for this investment or privatisation, including two prominent public sector banks as well as a general insurance company owned by the government. The government intends to get out of all non-strategic sectors, leaving them to the creative energy and innovation of the private sector. Banking & power reforms There are two announcements in this Budget that are particularly important for addressing legacy issues for the economy. The setting up of an asset reconstruction company and asset management company to take over stressed assets of the banking sector is another attempt at cleaning up the NPA issue. One hopes that this new initiative will be comprehensive and effective enough to dilute the overhang of NPAs on credit growth. On the other issue of outstanding losses of the power distribution sector, the Budget has announced a new scheme with a substantial outlay of over Rs. 3 lakh crores over the next five years. The scheme will promote reforms in the power distribution sector. Both these announcements reflect a recognition that these legacy issues have weighed upon economic growth. Inclusive growth As in the previous years, the social sector and vulnerable sections of the economy received a lot of attention in the Budget, which demonstrates the government’s intent to balance growth with inclusivity. In the aftermath of the pandemic, new schemes have been announced in the healthcare sector and also for migrant workers. Social security benefits are being extended to gig economy workers. With the new initiatives for capacity building in the healthcare sector, the provision for health and well-being in the budget has been increased by 137%, which is remarkable. In many ways, health and education can be said to be soft infrastructure which builds human capital, which is what leads to sustainable growth of the future knowledge economy. All in all, this is a far-sighted, ambitious and bold Budget with a realistic fiscal glide path that lays the foundation for long-term growth. India is poised for a take-off.     Beyond the admirable and much-needed infrastructure push, the Budget also reflects the government’s conviction on privatisation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-vision-statement-for-the-country/article33722660.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Non-lapsable fund for modernisation mooted||The 15th Finance Commission has recommended the constitution of a dedicated non-lapsable Modernisation Fund for Defence and Internal Security (MFDIS) to bridge the gap between projected budgetary requirements and the allocation for defence and internal security. The indicative size of the MFDIS for 2021 to 2026 is Rs. 2,38,354 crore and the maximum recommended is Rs. 51,000 crore a year, the Commission said in its report. However, the unutilised amount from the normal budgetary allocations to the Defence Ministry and the Home Ministry for capital expenditure shall not be part of the fund. The Defence Ministry has for long been demanding a non-lapsable fund, keeping in view the long trajectory of military modernisation. In the action-taken report tabled in Parliament, the government said it had “in principle” accepted the creation of the fund in the Public Account of India. The Commission said the fund will have four specific sources of incremental funding, which include transfers from the Consolidated Fund of India, disinvestment proceeds of defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs), proceeds from the monetisation of surplus defence land, including realisation of arrears of payment for defence land used by the State governments and for public projects and cost recovered from encroached land and proceeds of receipts from defence land. The proceeds will be utilised for capital investment for modernisation of the defence services, capital investment for the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and modernisation of State police forces as projected by the Home Ministry and a small component as welfare fund for soldiers and paramilitary personnel. “The Defence Ministry would have exclusive rights over the use of the amounts deposited in the fund from the specified sources of revenue. The Home Ministry will only be permitted to use what is earmarked for it from the source of revenue,” the Commission said. The amount proposed for capital expenditure towards internal security for the five years is Rs. 50,000 crore, of which the Home Ministry will allocate Rs. 500 crore for redeveloping and improving the residential facilities for police personnel in Delhi. This would be augmented by Rs. 100 crore a year for improved communication systems and technology upgrade for the police. The Commission said the fund may be operated by a high-power committee notified by the Union government and may be headed by the Cabinet Secretary with the Secretaries of Defence, Home and Expenditure and the Chief of the Defence Staff as members.   The MoD would have exclusive rights over the use of the amounts deposited in the fund from the specified sources of revenue||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/non-lapsable-fund-for-modernisation-mooted/article33722666.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||An expansionist and bold Budget||Public anticipation towards Union Budget 2021-22 has been extraordinarily high this year especially when the Indian economy and the world is grappling with COVID-19 pandemic. Hon’ble Finance Minister Ms. Nirmala Sitharaman presented the first ever paperless Budget, which focused on nation building, job creation, demand creation and as promised a budget ‘like never before’. The Union Budget proposals rest on six pillars viz., health and well-being, physical and financial capital and infrastructure, inclusive development for an aspirational India, reinvigorating human capital, innovation and R&D, minimum government and maximum governance. The easy way out for the Finance Minister would have been to introduce a COVID-related cess, which was widely expected, but she has chosen the route of asset monetisation and to reinvest the proceeds in infrastructure, thus leading to a virtuous cycle, which is very similar to people expecting a draw at Gabba but it getting converted into a victory. We must ensure the execution will also happen the way Pant and team demonstrated. As the Prime Minister rightly said, it is a budget of “Vikas Ka Vishwas”. The Budget provides the confidence to all of us to work towards a better India. Continuing the focus on the government’s vision of ‘Housing For All’, the Finance Minister announced tax exemption, i.e. additional deduction of interest amounting to Rs. 1.5 lakh for loans taken to purchase an affordable house for one additional year, i.e., till March 2022. With an aim to addressing the need of affordable housing for migrant workers, the Finance Minister announced tax exemption for notified Affordable Rental Housing Projects. This push for the real estate sector, especially affordable housing, will boost the recent momentum in housing demand and help in creating jobs. Housing is one of the largest employment generators in the economy with linkages to nearly 300 industries — both in terms of direct jobs and the jobs it creates in ancillary industries such as cement, steel, power, etc. The proposal to divest two PSU banks and recapitalisation scheme of Rs. 20,000 crore will give a strong boost to PSU banks to improve credit growth. The Finance Minister announced that a Bill would be introduced for the setting up of a new development finance institution, called the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development, with a capital base of Rs. 20,000 crore and proposed lending target of Rs. 5 lakh crore within three years. This will act as an enabler for infrastructure financing for critical infrastructure projects. The Finance Minister announced a bold and new age Budget. With a number of new ideas suggested, execution of these ideas is key. With the real GDP growth pegged at 11% in FY22 as per Economic Survey 2020, GST collection touching a record high of Rs. 1.19 trillion in January 2021, and the distribution of vaccines happening at a decent pace, I expect the Indian economy to back on track sooner than later.  The push for affordable housing will boost the recent momentum in housing demand and help in creating jobs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/an-expansionist-and-bold-budget/article33722671.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Aiming for growth of better quality||The pronouncements in the Union Budget for the next fiscal is growth-centric and expansionary. It pushes many right buttons, while focusing on improving India’s mid-term growth trajectory. Spending will continue despite limited new tax revenue, and the focus is clearly on stimulating growth after a once-in-a-century shock. While this implies higher-than-anticipated fiscal deficit and borrowings, and therefore adds an upside risk to interest rates, the quality of spending will improve, which is crucial. The compound annual growth rate in capital expenditure versus fiscal 2020 is a praiseworthy 28%, while revenue expenditure growth is contained at 12%. Segments such as roads, railways and power stand out in terms of allocations for next fiscal. Reduced dependence on internal and extra budgetary resources — essentially off balance sheet financing done through public sector and government entities such as the National Highways Authority of India — for funding capex is also salutary. There are also other noteworthy and progressive steps for the financial sector, including the plan to privatise some public sector banks, transfer bad loans to a ‘bad bank’, adequate allocation for recapitalisation, and increase in foreign direct investment limit in insurance. Privatisation of public sector banks and a general insurance company through stake sale will help reduce the burden of recapitalisation on the government, and increase competition in the banking and insurance sector. On the other hand, setting up of an asset reconstruction company (ARC) and an asset management company would help consolidate and take over existing stressed debt, and also manage and dispose of the assets to alternate investment funds and other potential investors for eventual value realisation. With the establishment of ARC, impaired loans can move from the books of lenders, else it would have required higher provisioning from banks. This will help banks and non-banks to focus on fresh lending, leading to higher credit growth. The government has also increased the existing National Infrastructure Pipeline from 6,835 to 7,400 projects — involving a cumulative spending of Rs. 132 lakh crore till fiscal 2025. The thrust on domestic manufacturing is evident in higher customs duty for the Production-Linked Incentive scheme segments. One area where more could have been done is the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) segment. That’s because the better-than-expected corporate recovery seen in the past few months has passed them by. A few facilitations would have gone a long way in supporting a sector that is critical for jobs and exports. Of course, these could be done outside of the Budget, too. Lastly, the Budget assumes a sharp recovery in consumption segments without direct interventions. While there is no increase in income tax or new cess, the recovery curve will need monitoring, just to see if the private capex cycle is getting triggered finally. Till then, the heavy lifting remit will continue to be on the government’s rather broad shoulders.  The focus is clearly on stimulating growth after a once-in-a-century shock||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aiming-for-growth-of-better-quality/article33722680.ece
02 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers dismiss FinMin claims on MSP hike||Several farmer outfits dismissed Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s assertion in the Budget speech on Monday that there has been a sea change in the minimum support price (MSP) regime to ensure at least 1.5 times the cost of production across all commodities, besides a steady increase in the procurement of crops. The farmer groups termed the claim an “eyewash”. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), one of the largest farmer unions in Punjab, said ensuring 1.5 times the cost of production on crops does not help in addressing farmers’ plight as it does not provide a remunerative price. Farmers have been demanding the MSP based on the Swaminathan Commission’s formula of C2 plus 50%, the BKU faction said. “The BJP failed to implement the Swaminathan Commission recommendation of fixing MSP according to the formula C2 plus 50%, which was promised by them during the 2014 parliamentary polls. They have betrayed farmers. By claiming that ensuring 1.5 times the cost of production is helping farmers is a ‘hollow and misleading’ notion,” BKU(U) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Korikalan said. “As far as the rise in procurement is concerned, the government has been procuring crops such as wheat and paddy in Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh only because farmers have been protesting there. In other parts of the country, the government’s procurement is minimal. Also, once the new farm laws get implemented and private markets start to come up, the government procurement will fall down eventually,” he said. Sarvan Singh Pandher of Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Samiti said the reason for the rise in procurement of wheat and paddy is on account of private traders buying the foodgrain in States that lack Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) mandis ; the traders then sell the crop in mandis of Punjab and Haryana. “Private traders purchase wheat-paddy from farmers at a lower price than the MSP in neighbouring States and then sell it in mandis of Punjab and Haryana at MSP,” alleged Mr. Pandher. The government should make MSP a statutory right of the farmers as the price of 1.5 times the cost of production is merely an “eyewash”, he added. BKU (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh echoed the view that the rise in procurement was due to private traders buying at a lower price from farmers and then selling it in APMC mandis at the MSP.  Govt. is procuring wheat, paddy in Punjab, Haryana only because of farmers’ protests Sukhdev Singh Korikalan  BKU(U) general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-dismiss-finmin-claims-on-msp-hike/article33722681.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Atmanirbhar healthcare||Coming on the back of the COVID-19 pandemic, our Hon’ble Finance Minister’s vision to make health of citizens as the foremost pillar for inclusive progress is greatly commendable. The outlay of Rs. 2,83,846 crore for health and wellness marking a 138% increase over the previous year, the Union Budget has taken the realm of care to an all-new orbit. Also, the allocation of Rs. 64,180 crore under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Swasth Bharat Yojana to develop primary, secondary and tertiary healthcare systems, in addition to the National Health Mission, will make medical care much more accessible to all in our country. The roll-out of the vaccines heralded the end of the pandemic and it was a leap forward in making India self-reliant in indigenous vaccine development. The announcement of Rs. 35,000 crore for COVID-19 vaccines will go a long way in making this a reality and also making India self-reliant in this critical aspect of medicine. Also, this Budget has turned the spotlight upon development of public health and health infrastructure in tier 2 and tier 3 cities, remote districts, which together will leave no stone unturned in making healthcare accessible to all. Further, with advancements in telemedicine and digital health infrastructure, we can be assured that India’s vision for Universal Health Coverage will be realised before the end of this decade. Healthcare can be a very powerful engine for job creation, which would provide gainful employment to millions. Budget 2021 addressed training and job creation in healthcare through the setting up of the National Commission for Allied Healthcare Professionals and the National Nursing and Midwifery Commission. This initiative will go a long way in streamlining the skilling of allied healthcare workers, who form the foundation of our health infrastructure. It was heartening to note the continued focus on cleanliness with the launch of Swachh Bharat 2.0 on an outlay of Rs. 1.42 lakh crore over 5 years and Jal Jeevan Mission for clean water on an outlay of Rs. 2.87 lakh crore for 4,378 urban local bodies. This will go a long way in preventing several diseases. Moreover, the proposals for infrastructure to boost sectors including railways, power, shipping and ports will all work to fuel productivity growth and wealth creation and ensure that the economy is back on the fast track to growth.  Budget has turned the spotlight upon development of public health and health infrastructure in tier 2 and tier 3 cities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/atmanirbhar-healthcare/article33722683.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 50,000 cr. for National Research Foundation||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman earmarked Rs. 50,000 crore over five years for the creation of a National Research Foundation (NRF) — an umbrella body that is expected to fund research across a range of disciplines, from science and technology to humanities. Ms. Sitharaman had first announced such a foundation in her 2019 Budget speech after it was proposed in a draft of India’s New Education Policy (NEP). “It [NRF] will ensure that the overall research ecosystem in the country is strengthened with a focus on identified national priority thrust areas.” Mentoring mechanism The NRF will also seed and build research capacity at universities and colleges through a formal mechanism of mentoring. It will also catalyse research at universities and colleges that have until now not been big players in research. The NRF will also help build the capacity to do research through an institutionalised mentoring mechanism, involving expert researchers from premier institutions of the country, the NEP document notes. The NRF would be an autonomous body and represented by all major research and education bodies, said Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science and Technology. “This would be cross-disciplinary and also ensure that research — already being funded by Science Ministries, for instance — wouldn’t be duplicated,” he told The Hindu .  Cuts in allocation The budget allocations for key science departments saw cuts, though most are expected to spend — until March — below what was apportioned last financial year.  For instance, the Ministry of Earth Sciences was given a budget Rs. 2,074 crore for 2020-21, but is expected to spend only Rs. 1,304 crore. This year it has been allotted Rs. 1,901 crore. The Department of Science and Technology was given a budget of Rs. 6,313 crore last year, but will likely spend Rs. 5,012 crore. It has been allotted Rs. 6,071 crore this year. The Department of Scientific and Industrial Research was given Rs. 5,385 crore but its expenses are likely to be Rs. 4,251 crore. It has been given Rs. 5,241 crore. The Department of Biotechnology has seen a hike in allotment and been given Rs. 3,502 crore. Last year, it spent Rs. 2,300 crore and was budgeted Rs. 2,786 crore.  This would be cross-disciplinary and ensure that research — already being funded by Science Ministries, for instance — wouldn’t be duplicated Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science and Technology||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rs-50000-cr-for-national-research-foundation/article33722692.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Spending increases on schemes for SCs||Allocation for schemes for the welfare of the Scheduled Castes (SCs) by all Ministries went up by over 50% in Budget 2021-2022 compared to the previous year, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thawarchand Gehlot said on Monday. Mr. Gehlot said the allocation increased by 51.65%, from Rs. 83,256.62 crore in 2020-2021 to Rs. 1,26,259.2 crore in 2021-2022. This, he said, proved the government’s mantra of “ sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas ” was working. In her Budget speech, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Post Matric Scholarship Scheme for SC students had been revamped. “I have also enhanced the Central assistance in this regard. We are allotting Rs. 35,219 crore for six years till 2025-2026, to benefit 4 crore SC students,” she added. The Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry was allocated Rs. 11,689.39 crore for 2021-2022, of which Rs. 10,517.62 crore was for the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment and Rs. 11,71.77 crore for the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/spending-increases-on-schemes-for-scs/article33722702.ece
02 February 2021||JAIPUR,||Budget focused on poll-bound States only, says Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said the Union Budget, which was focused on the five election-bound States, did not contain any concrete measures to address the issue of unemployment caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. “The Budget is anti-poor, anti-farmer and disappointing. It lacks any direction,” he said. “The entire focus of the Budget is on the States of West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, which are going to polls. It seems to be more a five electoral States’ Budget rather than the Union Budget,” Mr. Gehlot said in his reaction to the Budget speech of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Mr. Gehlot said the middle-class taxpayers had hoped that the Narendra Modi government would give some relief by changing the income tax slab, but this did not happen. Every section of the society had been left “completely disappointed,” he said.  ‘Discrimination against State’ The Chief Minister said the State government was expecting a national project status for the Eastern Rajasthan Canal Project and the special State status in the Har Ghar Nal Yojana for piped water supply. The Centre had discriminated against Rajasthan, Mr. Gehlot said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/budget-focused-on-poll-bound-states-only-says-rajasthan-cm/article33722942.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||Tax revenue may grow 16.7%||The government on Monday projected a 16.67% growth in gross tax revenue in the next fiscal beginning April 1, at over Rs. 22.17 lakh crore. The revised estimates of gross tax revenue for the current fiscal has been pegged at Rs. 19 lakh crore, lower than the Rs. 24.23 lakh crore budgeted earlier. Economic Affairs Secretary Tarun Bajaj said, “our revenue figure is under-stated not overstated. We have taken nominal GDP at 14.4% and revenue growth at 16.7%. So the buoyancy is only 1.16. We are hopeful we will get more than this”. In FY22, while the corporate tax collection is expected to grow 22.65% at Rs. 5.47 lakh crore, personal income tax is estimated to grow 22% to Rs. 5.61 lakh crore. Customs collection is projected to grow 21.43% to Rs. 1.36 lakh crore in the next fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tax-revenue-may-grow-167/article33722627.ece
02 February 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab helpline for persons missing since tractor parade||Amid growing concerns over more than 100 persons from Punjab reportedly missing in the Delhi-Haryana region since Republic Day tractor parades, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday announced a helpline number, 112, to report all such instances. The Chief Minister said his Cabinet colleagues had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and he (Capt. Amarinder) would personally take up the cases with the Ministry of Home Affairs. “Our hearts are with those fighting for their rights at the Delhi borders,” said the Chief Minister. “We are trying to get details and will ensure that they return to their homes,” said Capt. Amarinder during a virtual event, attended by sarpanches of various villages. Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced that the party had established a control room along with a helpline at Gurdwara Rakab Ganj Sahib in Delhi to provide assistance, including legal aid, to farmer families whose members were reported missing since January 26 or had been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-helpline-for-persons-missing-since-tractor-parade/article33722945.ece
02 February 2021||New Delhi,||High Court rejects plea on action against agencies||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed a petition which sought action against the police and intelligence officials, claiming that their alleged failure in “anticipating and controlling” the farmers’ protest on Republic Day led to their forced entry into the Red Fort. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh rejected the petition saying it was too early for the court to interfere as the police has already registered FIRs in relation to the January 26 incident. The NGO, Delhi Citizen Forum for Civil Rights, in its petition had claimed that the incident occurred due to major lapses in the security set-up and also violated the national honour as instead of the national flag a religious one was hoisted at the Red Fort. The petition stated that the “violent turn of a peaceful protest/rally, especially on the Republic Day casts a huge doubt on the security agencies”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hight-court-rejects-plea-on-action-against-agencies/article33723280.ece
02 February 2021||NEW DELHI,||Desk set up to track ‘missing persons’||An information desk has been set up at the Singhu border protest site to track the details of persons believed to be missing after the violence on January 26. A team of advocates will work on the cases. Advocate Simranjeet Kaur Gill, who is among several lawyers that joined together to start the project, said they have been told that there are over 450 missing persons, however, they had collected information of only 250 persons by Monday afternoon. “Announcements are also being made about informing farmer leaders, or at the stage, about missing people. We already have a list of people who have been arrested. We believe there are people who have been illegally detained,” she added.  A team of 150 lawyers will work on the cases and look for these people in police stations and will track court proceedings after their arrest. Police refute allegations The Delhi police have refuted allegations of “illegal detention”. “There are rumours being spread about illegal detention and missing farmers after the January 26 violence. The police have registered 44 cases and arrested 122 persons so far,” Delhi Police public relations officer Eish Singhal said, adding that details of these persons are available online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/protesters-set-up-desk-to-track-missing-persons/article33723291.ece
02 February 2021||Coimbatore,||Jump in allocation for MSME sector||The Union Budget has doubled the allocation to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to Rs. 15,700 crore for the next financial year from Rs. 7,572 crore in 2020-2021. A majority of the allocation for 2021-22 is for the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme. The Centre had announced the scheme to revive MSMEs when the lockdown restrictions were relaxed and several MSMEs benefited from it, say industry sources. According to the Federation of Indian Micro and Small & Medium Enterprises, a reduction in customs duties on steel and ferrous and non-ferrous scrap will help bring down the raw material prices. The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association said the plan to strengthen the NCLT framework, implement e-courts system and introduce alternate methods of debt resolution and special framework for MSMEs were significant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jump-in-allocation-for-msme-sector/article33722658.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||POCKET ravikanth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pocket-ravikanth/article33722631.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||POCKET ravikanth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pocket-ravikanth/article33722647.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||POCKET ravikanth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pocket-ravikanth/article33722691.ece
02 February 2021||February 02 2021 00:00 IST,||POCKET ravikanth||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pocket-ravikanth/article33722700.ece
